this is jacopo cast number one hundred with echale and me jackwell badening echo in evening and we have a guest with us to night who is in
large part responsible for this pot cast existing in the first place who has provided masses support behind prey much everything of done
including books and podcast in events and all the southern stuff that i been getting after for the last couple years since i departed the
shadows and stepped into the normal world in fact of his the person that pole me from the shadows into the normal world mister tim paratime
come to the shell thankyou can we have you not an interesting state right now as you do because you just got done with a ten day silent
retreat and a five day fast in bedded in their somewhere ran a did as my first ten day you know we don't my notes weren't here after i said
that my notes are due question mark like deteriorationist mesaunter tokay tells about it a little bit i know you bracori unslated you all
it was interest probably layering a few to many things on top of one another but it was my first meditation or treat also my first silent
retreat combined and consisted of ten days of wignacourt and passaporte that part i i ginning i know sleeping and bierstadt at five thirty
had woke it up with the stars and wile and then sitting for forty five minutes meditation walking for forty five minutes in meditation and
doing that in tilling pim with the exception of meals but as you mentioned i fasted for the first five days out of ten because i wanted to
see the affected my state and i sat during meals effectively meaning meditated during those times as well and it was a an intense
unexpectedly intense experience because it unlayered sache in a fashion if i hadn't experienced before since you have no distractions
you're not permitted to read there's no music there's no talking you're discouraged from any writing there no devices and that means
there's no real escape from whatever is ricocheting inside your own head and i as you go through the passing days you drop into deeper
layers of your personality and the stories that you constructed for yourself as well as direct experience in memories that you have an
thought of and in my case twenty twenty five years thirty years thirty five years in some cases these very vivid intense memories a come
back and so people have a very difficult time at points and the teachers are there every other day to interact on a one o one basis to
insure that people don't have a complete psychotic break as poseur random causing it would you hear people like crying again there rooms or
whatever her people crying ah definitely heard people crying ah people went through a lot of pain and there were sublime experiences will
in moments of deep clarity or ah alleviation of suffering but i i i think that anna as actually a just a looking forward to describing the
experience to our mutual friend a doc peter t who may be the most like sir reera intense impatient anaitean at every net who degree that
even i find hilarious which is difficult to even this in this world in this life and his level of the session and persevaring on different
uncontent endlessly i makes me want to do a second retribution he not allowed to tell me is feeling because i think the more you have run
your life through your prefrontal cortex the harder you fall and ah i would not recommend it from us people ermeneus i would have left the
retreat three or four times probably were it not for one particular teacher who had decades of experience with tens of thousands of
retreatants because i felt like i was going to leave in worship that i came in that i had regressed to a very reactive emotional state and
that it was going to be a huge handicap when i left i felt like i was redressing tremendously and he was able to write the ship a little
bit a long way but if if he had not been there and i had left even on dania remember as like people are supposed to be in this deep state
of bliss or at least that was my perception i feel like i just been rubbed wrong all these nerves that i've numbed from difficult
experiences in childhood and so on had just been exposed to the surface as i think it so i think it requires a high level of supervision
and this may not be the the forum for discussing about to say but for those people who have the experience it might make some sense it had
the characteristics of a very a very strong psychedelic experience but laid out over ten days where there is a no asaph sainted of ripping
off the band and you are being exposed to fast it of your life and character that perhaps you have not faced in decades so ye it was
fontenelle it all when you deny get to leave apposition which i'm gone through some significant sleep departin you know you have those kind
of um you know you take a trip without leaving the farm type situations and for me it was nothing nothing crazy or anything you know i
remember seeing stop signs in the ocean and a traffic whites in the ocean and and in stuff like that on a tradewell i can gravely montano
it wasn't some psychological sort of unpacking where lie was meeting my former self for anything like that um but yet you definitely that
that when i hear because i've never tried psychedelic drugs and when i would be bleak about him to me it does not sound fun to me because i
i think that were i think that where i would end up would not be a happy place yet and and an old really needed an out there very much in i
should i shall suscitat i don't in the case of the sale retreat or in the case of psychedelic duet for fun and in i've had a few people ask
me did you enjoy your experience i had a few staffers after its like a didencher treat in a like i found it valuable i wouldn't use the
word enjoy her tether well you you obviously you're goin to pack this thing and i'm sure you'll do all some episode talking about it as you
look back on it right now your brains as it still irrelevent per cent there and they told this at the gain which i thought was very
propriate because it applied to so many things they said he or one of the teachers said your you you think your normal right now in your
not you very hypersensitive your retreat is half tongue so till take ten days the equivalent amount of time to re integrate and get record
and emertine i have tuckabatchee out have ten days time gingerly walk my way back to real out ah then the less i steer so much renaming it
if you have a book and your book is ninety percent done im right hold o a more seasoned writer when i was running my second book as a
mighty per cent done they said on congratulations only fifty per cent haaeste trim work just like building a house as the tremor that all
that little stuff that takes longer than you think it's going to take well so did you set the stage a little bit um number one you are on
his poncaser which was an awesome episode and you talk about some of your heart experiences grow growing up and going through college and
actually having suicidal thoughts and beyond that suicidal plans that was pot cast number fifty and it really it lopepe i got an immense
amount of great feet back from people and so thank you for doing that and on that pond cast we also briefly discussed a novel called lusace
and it is this credible book that you'd read nied and the ending of the book is just full on epic and it also thousander and it takes the
the whole that the the abbe any of the book is literally the last page and half so that's it you have to read a thousand pages to get the
fan this ending and we decided on that part as we do you that book for pocasse one hundred so here we are and are going to talk about the
book musashi by g a s calypso and i'm dusting to accept the fact that i will be getting my japanese pronunciation corrected all day we hunt
won't corrected unless you want me the crowell maybe after i get done with something you could tell me escaso that's all there is to him
now the book so i reading about it me moto miss ashe gray japanese swordsman and he wrote the book the book of firings um and i actually
covered that book on pocas number eighty to a few heaven listened to fifty and a few even listened to eighty goes ethos two and it'll do me
some background which i don't want to spend a bunch of time on their contended bunch of time on it in that part cast but here's the basic
understanding of whom we saw she was born into a samaritan around fifteen eighty four fought his first duel at the age of thirteen against
a grown man who he killed by throwing him to ground and beating him with a bocan packin book and bolanden taiarboo yell wooden with a
wooden sort tesselated wooden sword yet we were a good attain that in an intrusive he travelled and he did all kinds of things and he
fought sixty sword duels i used to think that they were all to the death but they actually weren't right there some of them were just like
if i ave could submit to you know the ponetcong just say yet you want and you could agree beforehand what the rules of engaged they can
have a discussion and determine the extent to which you can inflict damage on the other person so they were all to the death they could
have a biscuit gentleman agreement like let's not kill each other to day i only do this one too broken bones and handicapping how do you
you got to do got a that's a hard core um conversation shabono do you come off not lookin like the the wise don't at beyrout say hey let's
take bones tail watch this break bones he now you be like no work go to the deaf that's it that's weird ah but yes so what a bunch of them
word of the death illanoon him order the death and again um that then he got done with that all that fighting and he wrote the book
fieriness wrote a book or up like steps called ducoo close a japanese has this this stutter constantino people who were undering why i the
thelenie conciliar it's it's because i have lived in japan my first trip overseas ever ah from fifteen to sixteen as an exchange student
where i was the only not as one american in a a five thousand person japanese high school where i also wore uniform and did you do and live
to the japanesily for an entire year that is why am commences to gold to gold or dog is a long pole is to walk let's say boys wages is the
same dull from judea i keep to which his way so it's the way of walking alone yes and i i should a said that that's the reason why i
thought to be as some have you on your because you do have this knowledge not only the language but of the culture and you did this you
you've done a bunch of weird stowaways in japanese horse back archer in right and which by the way also pretty dangerous turns out yeyes
that's what that's why wanted to have you on here because you've got a man matrimoni knowledge that i don't have so again in that that too
close enough re goin with it orastes is covered in part cast a is well and also this is a spoiler alert and i guess i should do this every
time i do a book cause i do books on her a lot and i always tell what's going to happen but for this one this is a spoiler alert because
the book it does have the most applicating i think it most be it might be the the most applicating of any book i i honestly think that it
might be that and we are going to cover it so if you want to read this book then and we gave you about a year i read it if you have read a
yet maybe you're not going to read it you should just listen but if you do onderneat of it then stop right now and then to read musaean
other year to re out a welhausen paces long and and then come back and less ness so can i say one thing gadabout all right this book and we
we can get back in some of the history but i bought this book i have a paper back burson decades ago in tokyo at a bookstore called cinaqua
in shindig bookstores for once at least four floors maybe six or seven and i carried it around getting myself schoolese years and years so
so intimidated by just saying it's a bit a few inches thick the the paper is like onion skin a sacha i can't every time i pick it up it a
can't get into this one i started i could not put it down and i finished it in in a couple of days i made it it's that good so it's don't
be intimidated by the by the size it's not it's not as much of a a slag as you expect no once you get into it you just get something and
there the writing is beautiful it's very coming very clean righting and the story is that another thing i should say to us there so there's
a bunch of intertwining narratives in there about a bunch of different people and characters and the age they all are interesting and
impact and and they all add to the story obviously for a couple our pot cast we can't get in all those in a really will begining like this
this the the main plot wine i guess but there's all these other things that are that are going on that were just don't have find a touch on
it that er that are really great to read about anderson many if this guy would have been a screen writer only go yea the dialogue alone
this the book workite it's it's just a a great book and that's that um i guess we might as well get into it a little bit and when we did
when i did pagasae with a book firing i started with the beginning of this book and i said when i did that that when we do this book
a'reading it again cause it's so agitato he rego tackie are puck is or can his old taceo lay among the corpses there were thousands of them
the whole world's gone crazy he thought dimly a man might as well be a dead leaf floating in the autumn breeze he himself looked like one
of the lifeless body surrounding him he tried to raise his head but could only lifted a few inches from the ground he couldn't remember
ever feeling so weak how long have i been here he wondered flies came buzzing around his head he wanted to brush them away but could even
muster the energy to raise his arm it was stiff almost brittle like the rest of his body i must have been out for quite a while he thought
wiggling one finger to time little dey know he was wounded with two bullets lodged firmly in his tie low dark clouds shifted ominously
across the sky the night before some time between midnight and dawn a blinding ray had drenched the plain of sedgemoor it was now past noon
on the fifteenth of the night month of sixteen hundred the the typhoon had passed now and then fresh torrents of rain would fall on the
corpses on the pickers up turned face each time he came he opened and closed his mouth like a fish trying to drink in the droplets it's
like the water lay wipe a dying man's lips with he reflected savoring each bit of moisture his head was numb his thoughts the fleeting
shadows of delirium his side had lost he knew that much how the ark supposedly an ally had been secretly in league with the eastern army
and when it turned on its anarchos at twilight the tied the battle turned to he then attacked the armies of the other commanders you keepa
she monuana and the collapse of the western army was complete in only half a day's fighting the question of who would henceforth rule a
country was settled it was to goa as the powerful edie diamond images of his sister and the old villagers floated before his eyes i'm dying
he thought without a tinge of sadness is this what it's really like he felt drawn to the piece of death like a child mesmerized by a flame
so that's how the book kind of kicks off and this guy was just born on the battle field basically and his fighting in these savage battles
as a as as a kid as a kit um and i i think it's interesting that you start to book were a guy's about the die you know and i think that's
there's something significant to that and it's not the only time in the book where he's about the die he he faces these bad situations over
an over again and um again this we just have to fast forward through massive junks of this book and i was just going to make one behind his
salute for those people who are wondering why we're saying tulistis a talk is all is it is representative two characters i can also be read
as misuse so there are different readings for characters and japanese depending on if they are adapted chinese reading or native japanese
riding some with sassi is the wool the lequinio the japanese reading and cockie same two characters would be the chinese reading basically
im in the chinese origin reading which scaldinoes the same person howison then musacaae in chinese characters related linguistic lad they
are very very similar said the e a the japanese took chinese characters which they call cunjin they converted them into two water for to a
syllabary seven alphabet a b c d we have ousanon dents in japanese they have water called syllabaries meaning they har syllables instead of
individual letters sego cockcanary kumamoto sheets sestiad ah which parlerions have so much trouble the most every language the canagorie
when like the gods were handing out sounds a faithie with a lot of languages including wish but none the less a those were simple of fid
versions of the character superintend the character for a the could say representative in chinese which is in so efferent like a sea the
word and chinese would be untransposed in a china as well in japanese unsettles very similar and then the character for on is as a roof and
then a woman under a roof and that represent piece the that was then modified into the sound o the vowel ah and at their fur strokes in
that so that some of the framework for the japanese writing systems to syllabaries and then the chinese characters of these the the
languages are not mutually intelligible though are they not at all another or certain words that are not terribly close but may be a what
you find samteen portuguese in spanish in reference dance so you had have a word like a telephone which is literally a lectric talk which
is and even electricity as cloud and a dragon under ether is got a coal but anyway the that's delineates yea and mandrin and then joe wince
because the lot of the words in cree were also borrowed from the chinese characters about beyant that the grammar everything else is
completely completely different and will fatherly in our cover where i gets ready comes up at the new name or when he decides to take the
new name ye so that guide the pocket on the beginning of time pointing out that is to ashestiel pocketpicking it's a talkie thet ol is a
long o satalia's old packers the regattas musaceae and you'll find that out surely for those people who are watching the video that is
talisain misuse those two characters in carina what or what is that what is the rest i think i say it the book mark would is this suggests
is the rapping oh that was put around the cover of this book in the english section in iniquiters so the people could figure out what the
content was without without having to read the back jacket in english so this is you know musailimah coconino noose on and so forth and
then memotas and then you shikata here and that a little description of the back are there just copies of this every every one read this
andabates i i may be mister remembering this but i remember at the time looking at this book and reading about the as they would call it on
back over the best selling sanariapo in somewhere reading that this book has sold something absurd like twenty million plus copies in a
country of a whatever might be hondrith billette that seems now that i've been through the purposes petines like it cannot be true that he
it is a very very very famous book intimate everybody's going to know who they would save me automachy would give a last neighbors every
one has got to know who this guy is and they have poniards of comic books and so on historical comic books fictional common books that have
been written about with use ye in this thing at riginally came out in a series i think in um nineteen thirty nine or nineteen thirty three
or nineteen thirty five or something like that and it originally came out as a serious i think it like a magazine or something etherically
i could be the case i don't know i'm pretty sure so we'll go with it all right now we are going to get to a point where again re fastor in
it and at this point moones been accused of murder and he's been hung up from a tree and talk one tuckanuck in as a on this sort of this
kind of traveling priest on any sort of counselling in an advising and ease counting in advising loaches at this point and he's kind of
wandering around as meshach's now been accused of murdered hung up to up in this tree where they're going to eventually kill him and he re
irreboot book pack one save me packets cry for help was loud and plantive the branch was beginning to tremble as though it as though the
whole tree were weeping i want to be a better man i realized how important it is what a privilege it is to be born the human i'm almost
dead but i understand what it means to be alive and now that i know my whole life will consist of being tied to this tree i can't undo what
i've done your finely coming to your senses for the first time in your life your talking like a human being i don't want to die taccaze
cried i want to live i want to go out try again do everything right this time his body convulsed with his sobbing toon please help me hold
me the monkshood his head sorry to aelis out of my hands at is the law of nature you can't do things over again that's life everything in
it is for keeps everything you can't put your head back on after the enemy's cut it off that's the way it is of course i feel sorry for you
but i can't undo that rope because it wasn't me who tied it it was you all i can do is give you some advice faced death bravely and quietly
say a prayer and hope some someone bothers to listen and for the sake of your ancestors tacazze have the decency to die with a peaceful
look on your face the clatter of talons sandel's faded into the distance he was gone and tackard no more following the spirit of the monks
advice he shut the eyes that had just experienced a great awakening and forgot everything he forgot about living and dying and under the
myriad of tiny stars lay perfectly still as the night breeze sighed through the tree he was cold very cold but i mean obviously wrote a
book all the stream ownership were you responsible for your actions and you need to take responsibility for things in your life but this
thing where he says i can't untie the rope because it wasn't me that was that idea was you you put yourself in this position and that
that's the way it is once your head is caught off you can't put it back on musashi or pack dips he just crazy stuff to right he siong and
he does crazy things and one of the crazy things he does his his sisters in some kind of jar something and he is like a tacit and any loss
and neither gets arrested and i get put in prison for three years and at this point he's getting released from jail after he's been in jail
for three years and again obviously am the justice three years of this guy's jail him which actually is pretty short in the book of the
dalesmen a lot of time in jail ah but he's been jaltor three years he gets out and here we eases having a conversation and he regatao
smiled silently i won a wander about on my own for a while and then talk on whose back he got to his omelet ion with sorry he has you
should make change your first name to talk anatinidae why not read the chinese characters of your name as musashi instead of palaeonophis
your name is the same as before it's only fitting that everything should begin a new on this day of your rebirth meamei it's a good name a
very good name we should drink to it the following day they both left the castle we saw she was talking masarwas taking his first steps
into a new life a life of the supplementing in the martial art during his three year incarceration he had resolved to master the art of war
explained the the first the first last name think me motors that at a place right or is it is in this case in many cases a it refers to
originally a place so i understanding as that miotis to whether it's a town or a billygoat province he would be smaller were his family
originated from and sat always the case but even if you look at englishness the right civic could have been in english and then in a lot of
languages at often relates to an early vocation so fares for instance come from paris seferovich iron because way back in the day at some
point my family work with metals and that's where the name comes from a is me most the first name of the last night mottoes the last name
so similarly the authors of this the author this book agent you'll she caltahcota the last name and why do i say me almost to misuse the
japanese always say the last thing for stan on kate said the family name first except for a disguise he g wood the sothis is the bane
husain intreating yeh that makes sense making some progress or instance in a very slow programmatical capability magical roles in in in
japan for instance even as a young kid when you're talking to your friends you you would never i i can't recall even once saying some one's
first name you just say ah boy you i'm a mole polacca like you xarayes yes you don't mean well i case because paris was sikou not confusing
but they knew i was american and him like timotheus ah was shorter so they just got me to nepash you get that the military to where
everyone can a gets introduced by your last day men everyone for a while every one just kind of calls each other you know willing fares or
also know right so up to be that's how they address each other bring or may oh yeah the line yes with the exception of saying my host
family where i'm dealing with everybody who has the same last napier cases that i talebearers ness shack she all right now this book does
have a romantic interest in it i ate to inform every one and it so it's it's absolutely worth come covering because it's the the the way it
gets handled throughout is just freaking ape so his romantic interest is a woman named oats ultomato and he's again i recant come from all
story but this is his romantic interest and we will ease he's eenamost ry and in emain point is that even though he is desire sir and wants
to be with her athisme time there's something that's more important to him and that is the way of the sword so here we go back to the bock
musache covered her small white hand which was resting on the railing with his own listen he said plaintively i beg of you just stop and
think what's there to think about i told you i'll just become a new man i stayed in that musty hole for three years i read books i thought
i screamed and cried then suddenly the light dawned i understood what it means to be human i have a new name nearmost a masai i want to
dedicate myself to training and disappoint i want to spend every moment of every day working to improve myself i now know how far i have to
go if you choose to bind your life to mind you'll never be happy there will be nothing but hardship and it won't get it any easier i as i
goes along it'll get more and more difficult when you talk like that i feel closer to that to you than ever now i'm convinced i was right i
found the best man i could ever find even if i searched for the rest of my life he saw you was just making things worse i'm sorry i just
can't take you with me well then i'll just follow along as long as i don't interfere with your training what harm would it do you won't
even know all around lusace could find no answer i won't bother you i promise he remained silent they all right then isn't it just wait
here abbe back in a second and i'll be furious if you try and sneak away oh so ran off towards the basket weaving shop lusace thought of
ignoring everything and running too in the opposite direction though the will was there his feet couldn't move out to looked back and
called remembered don't try to sneak off she smiled showing her dimples and he saw she inadvertently nodded satisfied by this gesture she
disappeared into the shop if he was going to escape it this was the time this heart told him so but his body was still shackled by oath
osprey dimples and pleading eyes how sweet she was it was certain no one in the world would save his sister to save his sister loved him so
much and it wasn't as though he disliked her he looked at the sky he looked into the water desperately gripped the railing troubled and
confused soon tiny bits of wood began floating from the bridge into the flowing stream oats we re appeared on the bridge in new straw
sandals light yellow leggings and a large travelling hat tied under the chin with a crimson ribbon she'd never looked more beautiful but
musache was nowhere to be seen with a cry of shock she burst into tears then her eyes fell upon the spot on the railing from which the
chips of wooded fallen there carved with the point of a dagger was the clearly inscribed a message forgive me forgive me loome asured his
emotions are in the precise clearly did not dislike her i have that withers like i love you and no insists it is but ye that is the that is
e nightmare senario for women rather go that is it that a handiness as he ran and having spent um you know quite some time in in the seal
teams they test this visit real thank you know guy they have to choose between this gurl and their job and of course some guys can wake at
work and babbling i do previous job of making a work but i i'm telling you to harder ninety percent divorce rate is holden in the military
time so this is a real choice the guys had to make in it it can be really hard in that just a nightmare senario that and and honestly with
jackets at the guaranty trying to do right thing there actually trying the they look in at a girl same look you don't want to sign up for
this but this is not going to be fun and you know of course people follow in laws and they goes emotion start to take over ridiculously and
and you know it's it's one of those things but that's a nightmare scenario a forger yes and for a guy i think this is the weird thing that
no no i can't speak gigi can't speak for girls cause i'm not one but for most guys they read that and they kindeslied a ileuge it i mean a
d i i echo a softly i i have i've been drinking this the japan and say here i coolly for so long and i'm such a gee i bet if we had you
know little ome like meeters were people can vote yet four or like the is like on the presidential to bath where things would be like
people really agree with this thing if you had that right there and males between the ages of eighteen and thirty five were hearing that
they're like air the talk away in de teretere at the afor the seems that's the total normal culture oh yeah broke you got these to teams
beestings first you know are you didn't you don't want to you don't want to put her through this so that's kind of mussed up but if the
reality sorry well especially in asinity your intention is to go dollop to the death repeatedly only the the odds are not in your favor yea
eventually come in going to be better than you we was that do you have that section market you were reading about how he felt to about
people that had got the upper hand of him casetas pretty attic ah find it so and that where people don't have to listen to a bad japanese
promethean or harrigate adversaries he had done not goin to do is go a job of reading as jack of his bees well races plus he has the audio
book boy subjacent adversaries he had defeated even the ones he had killed her half killed always disappeared from his mind like so much
froth but he couldn't forget any one who got the better of him in any way or for that matter any one in whom he sensed an overpowering
presence that was the line i underline any one in whom he said an overpowering presence men like that dwelt in his mind like living spirits
and he thought constantly of how one day he might be able to overshadow them yeah that's that's that deep right there drive that is also
evelius clearly only those of people are hard to deal with and when i and unless you recognize that is your own eagle that causing these
problems cause a lot of people are so intimidated by ave seen that many times where you know you get like a young seal that a real bad as
when he's coming up and there some of the some of the senior seals may be that are also bad asked you to basically get to alphabets in a
room and it can be problematic and unless one them realiste old guy realizes usually at the old guy he realizes he is young buck coming up
when i should do is trying to help him instead of trying keeping down cause i'm jealous and that's what we saw his as that attitude of you
know he has even care about the people that are that he beats yea he is like to steve jobs of sarasate actually i was thinking about this
um on your pot cast it would be awesome if you did like if you if you did like the jobs book and you seared parts of it and you thought
about it i thought anerley you know i i've i've i've considered it because i've lived listened to you a lot of your episodes a as you're
going through books and i have all my highlights furthermore and you saw the earlier i showed you my index that i created for your book
vilmain also have i noticed this is what i was looking at his your reading my own index at the beginning of musashi with the page numbers
and things that i found interesting so i have everything locked and loaded and ready to go rooral these books i have read i think be also
especially because like frinstance you know i do books about war primarily because that's what i can relate to them the most but you know
if you were reading business books and and you were talking about you know what these people went through and and that you could relate it
to what you did and how you noostile i like and i later yede of my onorata's i i recently not to digress too far but i interviewed walter
isaacson who i know actually who wrote the job book and because he just finished a new book on divinites spectacular and i i i actually
noticed that book on bostoning my book what i hear heather was just tarwater organ to go off the rails per second but so every year or
every time i have a book come out there's eagan who writes cookbooks barefoot contessa who for whatever reason always comes out in the same
week and then is just like lining the wall she has her own wall in the bookstores in life how my going to compete against walls i'm trying
to get encalada also on zan every time i've a book come out literally every time i took a screens of it a couple of weeks ago and i said
man this book is so hard core it's so undefeatable giracea the children's book are you inditin is it is always just slaying beatius on
alizon fortunately not the same category for the best automata yes i ographies and ah and going through those to tie and pieces witlerine
as i could i could compare my mind sat in state at my development at the time that i made the highlights with my observations now a hanaper
think again i think it would be idolator people get all out of it because you got something out of it and then you get to look back on it
you get three perspective you get the persons respected perspective you get your old perspective and you get your current perspective as
pretty legit ye that's a lot of growth and knowledge coming from you know pretty quick statement so i just blotto read one more in dealin
it's right across from when i just read the any one in whom he sensed an overpowering presence i don't have the full contact here become
i'm just looking at independent high lights but it it appears in the ashes been approached by several men and in some environment and there
are asking questions a small talk message wondered why they were taking up their time and his with their small talk it became apparent that
he would not find out unless he asked so the next time there was a break in the conversation he said presumably you came because you have
some business with me if give thy lageloff yeah i they feign surprise at the very idea but soon admitted that they had come on what they
regarded as a very important mission and negus on and on year heyst many good lines in there so many good lancers a good years a good part
move in a long in in the story here he is throughout this thing it's the oh when when i was a kid and he remedy watch what was that
saturday morning or one day they have come fruittree and was actually called confused yes and on confierais always the no my school a
conser school and and and you know you had that that seems neat but that's real like that stuff really happened and he had despues with
various schools of martial arts like you seem cong foothead and in this particular one he had gone an kind o wiped up on this one school
and then but like the leader wasn't there and so he writes a letter and here's the letter that musagetes which is to you she oasthouse that
is in yoshikawa is your seeing your siesta look at sam i i i i don't recall of him a yoshida you see this yer she that you she now ya all
that sanehat and this is your cheek so here's a message rise letter as i am told that you and your disciples are searching for me as it
happens i am all in the i am now on the yamato high road my intention being to travel around in general are of eagen i say for about a year
to continue my study of swords on ship i do not wish to change my plans at this time but since i regret as much as you do that i was unable
to meet you during my previous visit to your school i should like to inform you that i shall certainly be back in the capital by the first
or second months of next year between now and then i expect to improve my technique considerably i trust that you yourself will not neglect
your practice it would be a great shame if you sheeka campos flourishing school or to suffer a second defeat like the one at sustained last
time i was there in closing i send my respectful wishes for your continued to help you must recite seven i love the little jabs your
flourishing school winona it's so jacked off but that's old school talking smack right respect with a kind what they do in the british
parliament all hamilton if he see the play same thing i haven't seen like with kindest regards after you busily say i want to meet you and
do you and shooing the fisheries regards and wishes for your continued help don't we've lost that there's something to that isn't there you
know like can't you just have a feed and still be respectful to someone you i respect your intellect and your capacities and yet i will
stop it nothing betides so this is another of dogo storm which again this is a modern term that i think you gioberti and i don't know did
you ever use the term hignett her that before i never heard to jostler her oh oh touaregs when you take your judicous and you go to another
and this happen it again in san diego san iago where we live is is it's gone through the face already of all the sculls being all all oh a
tattling against each other and and really the battle there's both reasons one of them is because the back in the day before you to oculata
ly have moved that you could keep contained in your school and you could say a look don't show any one that's cause were no use is in the
next tournament and we want a which is exactly what happened japan too by the way so it was the school with these schools so you have
secret moves will now honestly with you too and every competitions on you to enuch anybody from any school and you can see what moves there
doing and there's all this all mine so so basically there's no more secret school can knowledge any more the other thing is economically at
one time it it was don't leave my schools your my student you're give me hundred fifty bucks a month and said uncle onoocool and what that
did unitia a worked you could keep your students but people realize that if you want to get good you have to get out and trinette people
sometimes and so if you weren't going to let me go and train it other school sometimes i'm not going to try to your school and so they were
at in a losing students by trying to keep his stunt so i think that's what kind of level sand diego out and other areas that are high
concentration jujitsu because ye it's because now as you know people will come and go and train at different schools and everyone's cool
and it is just so much more mellow atmosphere lanoline in you thousand on i first moved to the bay area and was training and giton i walked
into the school to take my first class and they had it wasn't very well written from a legal standpoint but they hadn't india and non
disclosure ramatha they had people signed to they would not teach the the interworkings and technique of said school ye exactly at his at
used to be a lot tightened you too pretty much as the thing that destroyed that ah but but back in the day the dooson would take place
which was we would go from one school and go to another school that was let's say a scholis saying no will be disguise we have better git a
really got better i do go hello how you doing where here to see ye suitors better and it's the doorman show up and and you you know
everything is determinate map that a beautiful thing about the disease this is old school don't you storming and this is the against was
the way alone the sea how it smelt h o z o i n t woon that's right um here you for dogstar and he's he's he's showing up their kind of
looking for where the school is his kind o like a little bit lost look at around for where the actual school is and there's a priest at his
work and wet when he reappeared the priest handed him a registry and ink box sang right down your name and where you studied and what style
you use he spoke as downstroking a child the title on the registry was list of persons visiting this temple to study steward of the horizon
reshapen the book and glanced over the names each less under the date on which the cameriere suit in it called following the style of the
last entry he wrote down the required information omitting the name of his teacher the priest of course was especially interested in that
musa's answer was essentially the one he'd given at the ohio school he had practised that use of the truncheon under his father without
working very hard at it since making up in his mind to study in earnest he had taken as his teacher everything in the universe as well as
the example set by his predecessors throughout the country he ended up by saying i'm still in the process of learning learning m you
probably know this already but since the time of our first master the hoon has been celebrated everywhere for its land techniques the
fighting that goes on here is rough and there are no exceptions before you go on perhaps you better read with written at the beginning of
the register musashi picked up the book opened it and read the stipulation which he had skipped over before it said having come here for
the purpose of study i absolved the temple of all responsibility in the event that i suffer bodily injury or i am killed i agree to that
said misamis a slight grin it amounted to no more than common sense for any one committed to becoming a warrior all right this way so that
the introduction of a nat'ally colt that notes will guttering when you come in for the the other thing it happens challenge matches in out
of of he seen piteous from the old school gracy galeot the challenge matches allies but those guys are comin in sign a waverley if you die
where it rowena liesthere old the like gray market black market copy over copy veesiter cancion you hear ready we had my my old teacher
fabio santos and he had videos of himself do in grace challenge matches at degrees up in torrents and he would play in force and is a same
thing kept sinuate you're going to get your own broken hip side away sis a puteolani you menikes in this point he goes into the scroll and
there some baases not the head of the school but he's like their best guyed he's up there kicking everyone's pass he said next and he
rusticiana his ottine rushkin and finding no one else on to fight and here we gild this guy's name is ugone a g o n a go yes i do and with
them an usual he's the guy that's been rough and everyone up visitor is there no one else belled agone now holding his practice landwards
on to le the brownie steward was comparing his registry with the faces of the waiting men he poured at one no not to day i'll come again
some other time how about you no i don't feel quite up to it to day and one by one they back out until we saw mussasa the finger pointing
at him how about you if you please if you please what's that supposed to me it means i'd like to fight on oh yes and so kit he's going to
go and and how to pull a couple of high lights out of this thing but but but the this guy if you live please so this guy a gone he he
immediately does like a practice run it some board that he puts his lance right through and it sort of like an intimidation taggerty oh you
want to train go watch his screams me putasset through the theatre through the thing and is actually there's a there's a the old guy that
had brought him into that he brought an esau's looking at him and saying ha um don't be a fool you look stupid that's not a board or about
to take on being like he just killed the board the piece of wood but that's this guy is not just a board um but extend it that he very lean
and i am oppapago to ask in they don't move for that is also said many many times m mosaide says after he does this you know like this
crazy scream and puts his lance through the wood he says are you ready now back to the book otiosity drove i go on while his muscles were
like steel when he jumped he did so with awesome lightness his feet seemed to be on the floor and in the air the same time quivering like
the moonlight on of ocean waves we saw she stood perfectly still or so it seemed there was nothing unusual about his stance he held his
sword straight out with both hands but being slightly smaller than his opponent and not so conspicuously muscular he left almost casual the
greatest difference was in their eyes usages were sharp as a bird their pupils a cook clear quarrel tinted with blood a god shook his head
propped to shake off the streams of sweat pouring down from his forehead perhaps to shake off the old man the warning words had they
lingered on was he attempting to cast him out of his mind whatever the reason he was extremely agitated he repeatedly shifted his position
trying to draw how musashi but musache remained motionless at gonong was accompanied by a piercing scream in the split second that decided
the encounter we sausipata attack what happened a gone fellow precactly ran over and craved around him in a black circle in the general
confusion some trip over his practice lance and went sprawling a prie stood up his hands and chest smeared with blood shouting medicine
bring the medicine click you won't need any medicine it was the old man who had come in the front unresonant quickly assessed the situation
his face turned sour if i thought medicine would save him i wouldn't have tried to stop him in the first place so as it resonant shot one
kill takes the due out and foam the interesting the hears the advice of that guy that had taken him in is the actual master and he says ah
is your name be montesone that's correct under whom did you study the martial art i've had no teacher in the ordinary sense my father told
me how to use the changing when i was young since then i picked up a number of points from the older samblancai in various provinces i've
also spent some time travelling about the country side learning from the mountains and the rivers i regard them too as teachers you seem to
have the right attitude but your so strong much too strong believing he was being praised rosaceus and said oh no i'm still a mature i'm
always making blunders that is not what i mean your strength is your problem you must learn to control it become weaker with also fun to
die and i'm thinking about doing this i when i re read this book in full again is to spend some time on you to watching a high level can
documentation to see how fast it is there just again idea the how much can transpire in the blink of an eye is there a referee he calls it
as a kill shot how does it owe get scored there are of their are referees side chance to ah to train in kendal when i went back to open
about eight years ago some like that either ten years ago and i trained at this place called a coma come and i still have the armour still
have everything and i you you have too much like calling your shots and pool you have to call your target a splitsecond before you hit it
or as you hit it ensign is head a doll is abdomen hope is the gauntlet or the arm and then keep is a jab to the throat which is pretty
nasty ah and you line up in such a wit the sword is the tip of the sores busily pointing at your points throat as you track them and you
can see a there are refreezing cases of any type of their definite reveries in case of any dispute their very rarely disputes but it's so
subtle and the the the misses are so close much like really may be hot really really high up a boxing man yet in some one parries it's not
like its travelling a foot to the side of their dead it's just grazing the siller head and then they counterpunching see it and endowed the
movements just faster such really wild to see it your bell rung when you get hit i expected because i saw the armor in the in the arm or
seems pretty hard that you don't you absolutely get your bell rung especially i remember my first class and i you bigger than a lot of
japanese guy's not all in the service of big japanese guides a and i was more heavily muscled nor like oh kay and there is as most of the
japonais is been my experience in japanese schools whether it's jujutsu can no otherwise spent some time way back in the day with the
pankration soon before in a merely came to the u s it is generally speaking every one's pretty cool ache was a astretto than there just one
or two guys relied for nearing my school okay i want a ring your bell and go there is one guy there he wanted to wanteth it's like okay
because i figured like my reflexes are pretty good but the reflexes of head movement and canda bad idea you always want to have the sword
in between a you an your punetero ect the central line soester moving your head or your shoulders in such a way that you might say in a vat
punch you really expose yourself so i ended up getting a waxed not just on the top of the head but behind the armor because your back is
open and the back your head is open and so i leeting backed like on the upper traps and neck with these she neither dame with swords which
her i nose this absolute will ring your bell so a you feel it you familiar the dog brothers right i am yea the earing it is that reely
breathe that there also i have nothing but respect for the dog raving i know what they are eating check em on on you too but they do full
contact simulated knife and stick and i think it started with stick fighting starlit as there with a scream and hentoun der standing as
they have the gathering i wants i was watching these views of the same demeaning gracing action there the oran i remember like how people
were just learning what a triangle choke was psychotically as i erotic and i urmsing this video of i think it was the gathering where you
have salted dog and so on and the participants who come just after mutually agree on which weapons are acceptable see atargata the garden
hose and then another gay with like i can do sword with like the tip cut off or played open and then they would go at it and i remember at
this one point i saw this sky pole guard you know the act people just go nuts some people have looked cross helmets on i mentitus nobones
mad max and these two guys are going to eat it and once clearly restored takes the guy down and gets caught in a trying i my go i guess
that's it es like no that's not it the guy took his his a screamer stick and took the end of it and to shove it right in between the
cattegat weight to break the trying alternity then just in and just proceeded beat the living shot out of him but the stick on the ground
that's not on don't like that try have fantaisie at at all amine getting into another just just good he eaout to meet up with these more
more of these join guise for some battle all the priests carried lances black sleeves talked up they were ready for action apparently set
upon a vengeance death of agon and restoring the temples one they looked grotesque like so many demons from hell the roan informed
dosimeter so they could watch the show and to the same time keepin russaie from escaping the this precaution however proved unnecessary
from resai showed no sign of either running or backing down in fact he was walking steadily and directly toward them solepa by pace he
advanced looking as if he might pounce at any moment for a moment there was an ominous silence as both sides contemplated approaching deaf
who saw his face face went deadly white and threw his eyes stared the eyes of the god of vengeance glittering with venom he was selecting
his prey neither the ronin nor the priest were as tense as musagetes numbers gave him confidence and her optimism was unshakable still
known wanted to be attacked wanted to be the first attack a preathe end of the column of the lancers gave a signal and without breaking
formation they rushed around to her sauces right rosa i am insane shouted the same priest on told you came while i was away alway and
killed a gone that you let her publicly insulted the honour of the hoon that you mocked us by having posters put up all over town is this
true no shouted mesai if you are a priest you should know better than to trust only what you see and hear you should consider things with
your mind and spirit it was like pointing pouring oil on the flames ignoring their leader the priest began to shout saying talk was cheap
it was time to fight they were enthusiastically seconded by the role in who had grouped themselves in close formation it was sauces left
screaming cursing and waving their swords in the air they egged the priests it on into action we saw she convinced at the road and were all
mouth and no fight suddenly turned to them and shouted all right which one of you wants to come forward all but two or three fell back a
plate pace each sure that we saw she's evil eye was upon him to the two or three brave one stood ready swords outstretched in issuing at
the challenge in the wink of an eye resaws on on one of them like a fighting cock there was a sound of a popping cork and the ground turned
red then came a chilling noise not a battle cried not a curse but a truly but blood curdling howl we saw she soared screeched back and
forth through the air a reverberation in its own body in his own body telling him when he connected with human bone blood and brain
spattered from his blade fingers and arms futteh air most of the time we saw she wasn't really conscious of what he was doing he was in a
sort of trance a murderous dream in which body and soul were concentrated in this three foot sword unconsciously his whole life experience
the knowledge his father had beaten into him what he had learned at the second jar the theories he had heard at the various schools of
swordsmanship the lessons taught to him by the mountains and trees everything came into play in the rapid movements of his body he became a
disembody to world wind mowing down the hero of rome and who by their stone bewilderment left themselves wide open to his sword on trito
think of why these particular passes but one of the things of this disembodiment which i talk about all time being able to be deep detach
from what's happening is so important as a person as a leader and as a you know immortel arhat do too if you're getting so wrapped up
around the fought of what's happening you you won't make good decisions but this actually goes beyond it this this is like getting in the
zone at this is you know when you are not thinking any more and i was anguished thinking about your next moods too late to persons already
doing something to you but that idea of being disembodying to being detached and not thinking about what you're doing but just doing it is
is atic if you can do it and we were we chatting a little bit ago i before we started recording about marcello sea in new york and i spent
some time with more marcello and rolled it marcello i am not i by any stretch a i would say good at you get but none elastica ce to to
spend some time on the mount and then a handful of the guys sweetest ever imagine people who don't know the name suppose it's part to say
that michael jordan might taenarus of jet rondino one he is he's just a kind of like cabecera after which the commers named so who was a
very famous judicial so really good if you get too fought halligay people in japan us to say before keraunon humor after crime after
camerano cumara like a nonagenarian and a marsellais i mean got to be close to the man he is he's really good and one of the things that
you observe with marcello and josh waits kinnecot the school to his very close friend of mine also considered a chest prodigy he was the
basis for searching for bobby fishery says that no marcella's in nickname in the i think the king of the scramble but he doesn't view it as
a scramble ah and what a what joses telling me is it marcello can basically see a move in and movement in general and more frame persicos
were most people see position a transition that is kind of undefined to position be hey thirty positions between a and b and you see that
when i if you if he blearily see some wild supping and check out just look up the marcelline oh is his brand of gilitin which is really a
eats it's so technical for something that can be so sloppy ah when people don't know what there is so tactical and he can catch people and
a gilitin from it any conceivable position that most people would even consider a position i i've seen him accent him catch people agility
and people who way like three hundred pounds and not that three hundred like big big big people and then they try to come round his legs in
the sand north opposition and he gets them to tap when they appeared to have him in a north oposition hum but he seems to be all to access
of this same type of mind state at will yer mean obviously that's due with you stringing all the time and all the time and young malls as i
have an austere is my off and his bodies work and without him i been he i bet you if you hooked up like brain scan and you see what he
talked thinking about his probably thinking about like chicken yeditorial over just not there and it that's how i feel when i have good
when i could do good teutoric off the mat and i'll soon say hey what was that movie to me an have no idea what i did did you know i design
idea we want to know it happened and and sometimes if you thinking about something you'd be might remember bits and pieces but that's what
he talked about not section is like hey it's not even your not even there in it's all the training there be things you've been instructed
the practice as you've done that's what's there not affecting the the movements to beautiful place to be whenever people talk asking me
about meditation i do you meditate on on the gad do gigito you know i grow yet i then earn ye mean it it's just present state awareness and
not endlessly thinking about whatever it is that my occupy and distract you otherwise the a g gives you that i actually somebody asked me
that the other day oh that was due one vent that guy says you know how do you how do you reach charge your batteries like just seems like
your going hard all the time how do you reach ardour batters and my initial i i actually responded i said look i don't to be honed reaney
recharge o'going and there's this and then as i thought about it i said i should know i'm wrong i reared all the time on gasaiatanne yeah
i'm so on i sighed i am with myself to get energies right i'd like to wind up watch or whatever but no the reality is is i reach charge
myself um the physical activity that's where i retarded myself is by serving introduce in working out that's the reach arch still i just to
build on that exciting it's really important people think of recharging as as his covers but a lot if any one has really gone through very
very stressful period in their lives whether that the death of a loved one or break up anything that you obsessively think about you can
not move from us of the day and you like you run five marathons so by getting out of your head and inharmony sangita or serving you are
taking a break from these letters that we can repay that are what drained battery fire yes i think it's i i you know again i luckily the
guy asked me that question and i realized as i was answer you first i sounded like an arranger i was like to it almost on you don't atoned
no reach are not that's not true actually if i go days without training or out workin out i start to feel like crap and i and how i reach
or i get home and my others by scotland or there's the mate can get on it and train so you its toltecan due one quick story but marcella
which it also makes me eating tell marcella tenterden tingeing it out and the tashi it is ah he steams for being hard to find when he gets
called to the mat when it's his turn to compete even at a world championship level and he is almost always found as joses had to track him
down a few times but sleep like in between the bleachers and let were so or selling to go school and here like get up and stretch and
literally walk fifty feet like seven seconds later on to the mat for the finals of the world championships and just turn it on and then to
strike people and that colton i i don't know if i had in the book but that's a resident of his other ten is a rosaceous show up late he
dove duels in each shelf our late fifteen minutes i twentymile and have that person getting all frustrated it that it's in inhabits i was
thinking about this exit i i was ah i remember this about miseranda strange think of how to explain in a culture like japan in that period
what showing up an hour late might acquate to in the u s a we eilie coming over to me it so on at their house shaking their hands sitting
down to dinner table than like getting up on the dinner table and taking a ship ran on their fate and i catiline asking them to clean it up
to smells bad to you one reviewed that rude so of course and it also to be think of this book i think it's old winning ugly it's about
tennis but it relates to this form of psychological warfare and like taking too much time like in between serbs and making erpon unnerved
so that even if they are technically superior you can end up beating them it so esaias the simplest trick in the book but you'd show up la
la he and these people lose their minds and i in ten if there like as ow shows up late in any shop three hours early and scout the whole
place out in the kill everybody a good ah this is an interesting piece etherean other weapon and he's working with this guy who designs
weapons and it's called the chain ball sickle so like the sick o and in a chain and then a balagin this is reminds me of confreres when i
was a kid but he seen this and here this guy's name is bacon b e i k e n bien bien did you just time in over there a caterer why is that o
casteou not on many giveing good you usually caperers of bayonetlike little bit i inside like the idea of hauling in face and thoinatai
might nannini this pronunciation arise year by him liking by in insisted you said you wanted to hear more about this chain ball sick i'll
tell you everything i know but let's have a few drinks while we're talking when eve returned with the socky biking poured some into a
heading jar put it on the fire and talked a great langeot the chain ball sickle and waited to use it to advantage in actual combat the best
thing about it he told him sache was that on like a sword i gave the enemy no time to defend himself also before attacking the enemy
directly was possible to snatch his weapon away from him with the chain a skilful fled the chain a sharp yank and the enemy had no sword
still seated taken demon bien demonstrated a stance you see you hold the sickle in your left hand and the ball in your right if the enemy
comes at you take him with take him on with the blade then hurled the ball at his face that's one way change positions he went on now and
this case when there's some space between you and the enemy you take his weapon away with the chain it doesn't make any difference what
kind of weapon is a sword lance wooden staff or whatever liking went on and on telling me say about the ways of growing the ball about the
ten or more oral traditions concerning the weapon about how the chain was like a snake about how it was possible by cleverly alternating
movements of the chain and sickle to create optical lusions and cause the enemies defence to work to his own detriment about all the secret
ways of using the weapon masasas fascinated when he heard talk like this he listened with his whole body eager to absorb every detail the
chain the sickle to hands as he listened the seeds of other foxholed in his mind the sword can be used with one hand but a man has two
hands and that's where he gets his idea for using two swords when he fights and i'm sure you know more about that than matoes he originated
this style that has many different names ah i think i there there pedient of a pianette incorrect but this like nine the thing is one way
to say it ah but the before with having one long sword and then the equivalent of say i imagine in the military of of a sidearm i anna
iapis see have your primary in the utah you are whatever might be ye a watlington or whatever and typically sane rouse their primary and
then failing that if it broke or if it was i they were disarmed then they would use their shorter or and he would in some cases utilized
both simultaneous aches very very highly highly unusual and requires a completely different method of fighting because the grip on the sort
is very very particular when you look at a candor and how its position a if you ay if you have then two swords it requires a completely
different repertorium and i don't know i don't recall offhand if they get into it in this book but we saw she was also an expert in in
weaponry throwing seed there were instances in i would live loved to have seen this and i'm sure there's a bidon you to be so much
tryingness but he would routinely row his shorter sword and also later on because he was in it on a skippered but he would also instruct in
the use of shoot again which are the throwing stars so he was an expert at throwing weapons as well as wielding the sword and i it it's a
completely different school of training that some people still use in kanda the highest level to haven't seen it very much because i think
there aren't as many teacher is an leg it is legal as far as i can tell ye there were people who i've seen demonstrated and you can find
some video not much but a little bit of idea of using one short and one long ah and it's it's there not a degree of difference there
different species or not together that's where sometimes when i'm rolling jugend you get sweaty enough and slept or enough and its edits a
little bit of a different sport all felt in you know like it's a you are not going to be able to do this to me right now an i tulip and and
sam with genegenheid you know of course i was to people like genoa they are different but there the same and and then it's a goes one
degree further call you get sis super slippery no gee it's it's about the difference between the nogay not quite as much at another
marcello stir ye can't resist so i trained with the day tamara for a period of time who is one of my favorite hum being saisset heart of
guy and a halloo imperandi also a high level judo fit and so when he computed and judicious be bordered terrified of his stand up and there
to kick their hips back and then he would do a flying or bar and routinely used flying our mutineer one who used with total beast competes
be i i was on the concamerations circuit around the same time as him and some of the gasometer leer and they get they were killers said
dave went to new york and trained with marcello for period of time and to me in a day is a high looperior like i i've never seen dave
thrown around anything like that and ah so you telling me that his experience and his friends will herself but the experience of a rolling
no get in is like a hat makes i suppose that makes sense i put so much about marcella but once you put on the gait with different game i
assume because of all your spirits of june an he's like noise was even worse yet i find that would be new on my body do is you know a world
champion multiple times with no gee and everyone thinks i will you put the guion maybe you can now toises nell it's worse because you can't
move at all and any know like he doesn't know yet with k he's savage is there some one's really good but it gives him more control and they
already have control over you now they have even more controlling other of handles yeno una do you got one to you and read you know a ya i
wouldn't distese or these are things of a high lidded when i was really just coming into the professional world and felt like i needed you
offen myself on a number of different levels an this is one that i hidleness from fairly early in the book which means it's like the end of
a normal bookery in the book in his talking about a period of his travelling and he says or i stay it reads stopped along the way to look
at several well known to temples and at each of them he bowed and said two prayers one was pleased protect my sister from harm the other
was pleased test the lowly missaguash hardship let him become the greatest swordsmen in the land or let him die we used to ask the lowly
message with hardship that's what he's praying for and not what you think when you were getting into the professional word you're like all
right bring it for you were scared you can you were scared about what was going to happen i knew that i had relatively high pain hollands
and ah i could handle a lot of work load so i would i was preparing myself for several years of being lowest on the total pole and
suffering but making up for a lack of experience by just absorbing more punishment in the form of de working on her hours at a card doing
more always doing more and a certain well the time gone that dear for buck anyways i exactly and then when i dissent a great and self
employed i am not if her book ah go it this is another one an now it's referring to i believe messages writing and says well his writing
has a certain childish quality but there's an apeling what can i say directness about it if i had a swordsman in mind i would say it shows
spiritual breath the boy may eventually be somebody i just liked that the childish directness the yehoodee and again that's that's what you
were thinking about yourself like a at that time you were the young swordsman coming up in the business world that're having to make things
happen pom there's a there's another fight ten ear he called him fight sensational that sounds like a movie a compromise not that is any
wrong with confreres cause some come from movies are awesome but some of marlotes arab the remove professional there echoed that he don't
think he'd be called the fine if it's in a book or gerald i don't know if it's honest ifted a bock gave a could be we could use it in they
read like a scream said firescreen play we could call it a bet or a scene i think here's a here's the scene after an inter this is a fight
with a guid name then she hero after an interval of two or three breath denton cheroot musashi he was well aware that the man standing
several feet above him was in a very advantageous position not only we do perfectly safe from the rear but anyone trying to attack him
either from the writer left but first after climb up to his level he was thus free to devote his entire attention to the enemy before him
so he's about the fight this guy and as you said earlier sometimes you shows up late sometimes shows up a lyin this case he showed up early
negotiate position then so his enemy defensare is sitting there looking gone of the socks i'm below him and he's protected from the back
and am left and right and then loans are you ready rosaeque tion was calm but trencher falling like so much ice water on his opponents
feverish excitement then one care now got his first good look at message so this is the bastard he thought his hatred was total he resented
the meaning of his brother he was vexed at being compared with messasebe the common people and he had an ingrained contempt for what he
regarded as a country upstart posing as a samurai who you ask are you ready it is well past the hour of nine in i say i'd be her exactly at
nine don't make excuses i've been waiting a long time as you can see i'm fully prepared now come down from there he did not under estimate
his opponent in the extent of daring attack daring to attack from his present position in a minute answered resait a slight laugh there was
a difference between the sashes idea of preparation and as i ponent thence shiro though physically prepared had only begun to pull himself
together spiritually whereas musashi had istate fighting long before he presented himself to his enemy for him the battle was now entering
its second and central face at the guinsheim he had seen the footprints in the snow and at that moment his fighting instinct had been
aroused knowing that the shadow of the man following him was no longer there he had boldly entered the gate and made a quick approach to
the kitchen having awakened the priest he struck up a conversation subtly questioning the man as to what had been going on earlier in the
evening dion short disregarding the fact that he was a little late he had he had had some tea and warm himself up then when he made his
appearance it was abrupt and from relative safety of the veranda he had seized the initiative so i disordering in the section he he hasn't
showlthers up late but he like gets to an advantageous position without the other guy realizing it which is just as co did you find one
i'll get so that i ilanthus on this one the soon good because it high lights how profound is may be too strong oward but a deep some of the
characters in the book are besides musashi because there are quite a few characterise and this is a teacher consisteing between is as far
as i can tell keimos one of the teachers or a papescent ive teacher and musashi and musashi has brought a letter that he wants it is i
wonder read which is some type of request for instruction and kiss among is a goring both musashi and the letter and says but just please
for i letter i don't want to just please me the letter now not in read it letter and he is please re the letter i don't need to and then
mitosis what's the matter can't you read cause i am on snorted then missays well if you can read read it and in vises what he says you're a
tricky brat the reason i said i don't need to read it as that i already know what it says messages even so win it be more polite to read it
and this is how the teacher responds student warriors swarm here like mosquitoes in maggots if i took tony polite to all of them i wouldn't
be able to do anything else and he continues i feel sorry for you however so i'll tell you what the letter says all right this peace right
er ah is just good is is the the continuation of the that that fight seeing which actually goes on for multiple pages his technique is
better than mine masanath ught candidly he had the same feeling of inferiority at call you guaslen he had been encircled by for leading
swordsmen of the yang school it was always this way we faced swordsmen of the north of the orthodox schools for his own technique was
without form or reason nothing more really than a doer timeth searing it decanther o he saw that the style you she was you she atempted and
spent his life had both simply simplicity and complex complexity was well ordered and systematic and was not to be overcome by brute
strength or spirit alone resaws cautious about making any unnecessary movements his primitive tactics refused to come into play to an
extent that surprised him his arms rebelled against being extended the best he could do was maintained a conservative defensive stance and
weight his eyes grew red searching for an opening he prayed to hutcheon for victory and then they go through an insisted silence snow
accumulated on rosa's hair and then he kind o breaks him down manly um desenchante forward at the tip of his sword has will power quivered
toward the start of a movement to lives expired with two strokes of a single sword first who sagittae to his rear so guide snuck up behind
him who ashakin then kills it just another netheravon ethe eyes natality eyes caught a bit an bookend i'll come back to kano where you
experience something is very uncommon in japanese culture which is really intense direct i contact doesn't happen a whole lot in japanese
culture even in the marshal arts in jo's more varela gazes in life come out first and there semelier that quite a bit i don't know if
notabas do it but in japan or ousagara people compete or competing myself and eat nearest and after they bowed they let out a bit of a
scream but then it's then it's down to bisness and in candy hear a lot more vocalization and really intense i contact are you trained to
look at their eyes yea ocas in wit he where do you look in wrestling ah in wrestling and i issay i mean i was i was a decent high school
restoration competitive record but ah i wouldn't consider myself any or i could be one resartus molefur with man ah but i would typically
have kind of more a soft ah i can't tie a i mean i always looking at people's chests in every yagorlik in kind o like naval and chest i
usually in a watch at the hips in wrestling eh but in campeachy look at the eyes incendiary and now the teacher looked the eyes enter
looking for like to see what they're going to do that's where you're going to see their movement in no there isn't any explicit instruction
and why i'll fight you can munication with your eyes and i see in talisso one intimidated you can tell it some one angry he can tell a you
can also throw people off so for instance i mean you have men though cold they have all this stuff you have the targets right and what i
realized pretty quickly is that much like and say motion hiking on the oldest trick in the book which is really really unpleasant if you
happen to get caught with it is particularly since i i aglauros i got caught with it when i went to japan es i wanted to also cross train
in striking and so i went to a number of schools including place called sado kikon in conlatis is at the end of a like color con this this
con whatever it is that sort of place of practice right and a first time i spare some one and in the crate schools in japan like giein and
so on they don't have head contact with the fists but it's bare fisted so your punching each other in the chest and body and so on in this
guy was wailing on my legs whose just like hitting me with these these rousselets and i'd never in sin like ex before as i was punching him
right in the chest like just below his collar bone and rip los throat and then punching him in the stomach and he was kicked me a leg a w
like her brow like all dough this all day long and so touched the chest and i had to skip school in negation sideribus the trick in my tie
that you see a lot is like look at the leg lock look at the leg local ok at the leg locate look at the leg locatin still reintree starts
hook hurt and then look at the leg had gian you see a lot of people get knocked out that way so i can do you can do something very similar
where i your subteltie to liberately with your eyes and going for a certain target you get pared that for five times and then you
telegraphed the same way and go for a different partibus yet the the iconastos it's really it's really intense and if you watch candle
won't say you two and imagine what the eye contact is like if their eyes are a wide open staring at each other it adds another layer of
flavor to the entire experience and amenaide passage like this in your life oh god i can see him and as obsitae you don't really look at
the prime it ruffoli the little unwritten rule like billoora tingeing lovingly into somebody's eye as were i own one or you i like purpose
we went on to intirely mass with someone you know i asooker at him but then shake my head very suddenly and you probably noticed that they
never really look at you unless you do it super deliberately like if you turron when you rosanette noticed were there looking it's almost
like they're just blackhaired blank i just ate that's weird thing too it's the what you just here you don't even have to use your eyes by a
e i used to know how't notice it so much in more i used to know her some one is in a good position on the out actually closed my eyes i
started veinlike others not i was wasn't smart like i was doing it to relax myself in some gets a good distant just to close my eyes
because you'd be you know where they are they're freaking is on your back or there across the side do you know exactly where they are but i
would disclose my host kind of lac i don't do it any more because it seems like a bad idea right where did you close your eyes that the
stupid it burns a lot energy though i remember doing training with a lead hamilton who is one of the most famous big waves servers of all
time yo anyone hasn't seen the documentary riding giants all my god go see that the invention of tonsure holy god and he lears beast i mean
he's one of the most incredible physical specimens of ever seen his in his fifties and dis wipes the floor with a first round draft picks
routinely ah in terms of work out and he likes to do a lot of under water training with weights and he devised all the original exercises
like an there's one called amabores where you hold that dumaliso fifty pound on belts chest and then swims across the surface of the pool
or just slightly submerged with one arm and then does all manner of different exercises and his wife gabby gabby re who is also a world
claathes of room right said to me relax your eyes because under water when a holding like two fifty pound dumb bells understandably my eyes
are buggy at my head and she's like your burning too much energy she's like try relaxing your eyes and i could hold my breath for another
ten fifteen seconds just by relaxing my eyes ah and just just another side note that's related and i think related to a lot in this book
also not just jujitsu is in a ntango making it a point to bring a tannery time in talk howdacious mounts being on any white best female
dancers very frequently closed their eyes because if they try to read the males movement in order to respond its already too late if they
tried to do visually it too late and i think that with a lot of martial art certainly that in particular with grappling of in your body as
alison to send it before your eyes can interpret in an atlas do oordinary no much like the female taenarum gregg have drill or you'd start
back to back and i got to close her on his inarus get a clothes eyes and then grapple and i remember doing it think of not that much harder
it's like as long as you already got acted with the a it's not that much arter no so speaking of tango dancing and women here's a e he
again otto is in and out of the book in a this point he is having to a battle the order against him and otto wants to go in with him and
jeswunt to die if he dies and so he's aminger sation with her and he re go don't be a fool o two he suddenly blurted there's no reason why
you should die the strengthen his own voice in the depth of his feeling surprised even him this one thing for me to die fighting against
the yoshioka not only is it right for a man who lives by the sword to die by the sword i have a duty to remind those cowards of the way of
the samurai your willingness to follow me to death as deeply touching but what good would it do no more the than the pitiful death of an
insect seeing her burst into tears he regretted the brutality of his words now i understand how for the years i've lied to you and of lie
to myself i didn't intend to deceive you and we ran away from the bridge from the village or when i saw you at hunnard but i did by
pretending to be cold and indifferent that wasn't the way i really felt in a little while i'll be dead what i'm tryin whereabout to say is
the truth i love you out so i threw everything to the four winds and live out my life with you if only after a moment's pause he continued
in the more forceful vein you must believe every word i say because i'll never have another chance to tell you this i speak with neither
pride nor pretence there have been days when i couldn't concentrate for thinking about you nights i couldn't sleep for dreaming of you hot
passionate dreams oh to dreams that nearly drove me mad often of hugged my pallet pretending it was you but even when i felt like that if i
took out my sword and looked at it the madness of that berated and my blood cooled her face turned toward him tearful boat as radiant as
the morning glory she started to speak seeing the fervor in his eyes her words caught in her throat and she looked again at the ground the
sword is my refuge and he time my passion threatened to overcome me i force myself back into the world of swordsmanship this is my fate
otto i'm torn between love and self discipline i seem to be travelling on to pass at once yet when the past averge i invariably managed to
keep myself on the right one i know myself better than any one does i neither genius nor a great man he became silent again despite his
desires to express his feelings honestly his words seemed to be concealing the truth his heart told him to be even more candid that the
kind of man i am what else can i say i think of my sword and you disappear into some dark corner of my mind no disappear altogether leaving
no trace at times like that i'm happiest and most satisfied with my life do you understand all this time you've suffered you risk your body
and soul on a man who loves his sword more than he loves you i'll die to vindicate my sword but i wouldn't die for the love of a woman not
even you as so much as i'd like to fall on my knees and beg forgiveness i can't a another speech you other scene that most women would
rather not go through yea and canotidan i know i don't we relate to every normal person at all in very little way oliwer i resent i'm
always era'wa i'm talking about and i don't been married for twenty years you would also women and ah but yeah when i hear that i just
think you that's how you do it right they look every time i would felting about you by just looking my rifle and belonged i will is owenite
one that is not cronological yes well you were out where it or not he would out of sink aloive it iolanthe ones that i underlined tend to
be universally i think universally applicable some ways yet so to the forward this is a and the apparently a discussion about some type of
battle and there going back and forth ah it's a this is miss ashe then what else can i do but challenge him i realized of course that even
if i do he'll probably refuse to come out of retirement some challenging this whole castle to a battle and steadable corse the fire ah and
then i egesias his arms still held by cosimo and debutantes looked up at the sky there was a flapping sound as an egil flew towards them
from the blackness and elping melts like a giant shroud it siloti the stars from view before a glided noisily down to the roof of the rice
store out in and missus the part that i highlighted to the four werters the word battle sounded so melodramatic as to be laughable but to
miss sahiba ly sufficed to express his concept of what was to come a yeyes this part though so we are said had this another clan another
group that he's been a battling with and the the senior guy in the family the senior guide from the school died or is yes died and this
thirteen year old boy is now the senior kind of family his name is agin judo and he shows up to his challenges of again he cannes all these
people to fight and he shows up an deyship and he gets there it by some tree and of course it starts off musaceae cried a horse for
anterior to a shot in my dinner title yes many took encouragement from usances deck declaration that he was alone believing it was a trick
they started looking around for fantom seconds a loud twang off to one side a loud was followed a split second later by the glint of
musahar flashing through the air o zonshoven eronte arrow aimed at his face broke half falling behind his shoulder the other half the other
half near the tip of his lowered sort a rather where his sword had just been from usage was already on the move his hair bristling like a
lion's mane he was bounding toward the shadowy form behind the spreading pine kinjuro hugged the tree trunk screaming help um scared gaze
man jumped forward howling as though the blow had struck him but it was too late musaceae sliced a two foot strip of bark off the trunk it
fell to the ground by conjures blood covered head it was the act of a ferocious demon musashi ignoring the others had made straight for the
boy and it seemed he had had this in mind from the beginning the assault was of a savagery beyond conception dangerous death did not reduce
the you shepes your shepis fighting capacity in the slightest what had been nervous excitement rose to a level of murderous frenzy and to
let how he kicks off the battle there's the thirteen year old boy and he goes right for him and cut off his head so am i this is the first
time he starts using a both swords i think this is the first time all lookers who had a clear view of him covered their eyes and a horror
this is as this battle continues most more ghastly still with the sight of the dead and wounded left in his wake as he continued his task a
retreat up the path he reached a patch of open land where his pursuers served forward in a mass attack in a matter of seconds four or five
men had been cut down they lay scattered over a wide area more intestine to the speed with which we say struck and moved on he seemed to be
everywhere at once but for all his agile shifts and dodges mustache come to one basic strategy he never attacked a group from the front or
the side always obliquely and an exposed corner whenever a battery of samarra hed him head on he somehow contrived to shift like lightning
to a quarter of their formation from which could confront only one or two of them at a time in this way he managed to keep them essentially
in the same position but eventually mesachie was bound to be worn down eventually to his opponent seemed to be seen bound to find a way to
fort his method of attack to do this they would need to form themselves into two large forces before and behind him then he would be in the
in even greater danger it took all moose's resourcefulness to stop that from happening at some point usage is smaller sword and started a
fight with both hands while the large short in his right hand was smeared with blood up to the hail and the fist that held it the small
sword in his left hand was clean and though it picked up a bit of flesh the first time it was used it continued to sparkle trevior blood
rosabell was not fully aware that he had drawn it even though he was wheeling it with the same deafness as the larger sword so is dis
getting after with de swords medeena brown ground crieth usan voices you fighting by yourself round run while you can he discusses every
one bathes another weapon that i don't know it's talbot this book that he was quite a depth that using as i understand it for he began
fighting with two swords and a goes by a number of different names and english sometimes it called juts or a gate j t t e n japanese its
getreten pan hands literally and yet was a button basically if you get a magine this'll make sense in a moment if you get imagine a half
inch thick iron rod that about eighteen inches long or twelve inches long the then has what looks like the clip of a sad ballpoint pen ah
that is a little that is pulled away from that a rod said that you have a space in between this hook effectively and the rot palace guards
and so on would use these as the equivalent of a police badge because they were forbidden from having swords in certain quarters speaks it
could be used to assassinate higher ranking officials and so on and you could use that and combination of the sword to a effectively parry
or catch the belied in between those two prongs and the corselet wasted away or just use it to temporarily a rest to the use of that blade
and then pull your own long sword and cut some one down and wissows very adept as i stand it at using the gefe he started using two sorts
you go also just use the edenlike claps of the niothesia nigheth i'm sure it say what it was used for now as the story progresses you know
he matures and and start moving into a a little bit of a different phase and this is kind of were for the first time he starts he's behaved
wounded in these traveling and eventually he lays up for the night after they had said good night musashi went to his room where he lay
awake in the dark his eyes glistening the way of the samurai he concentrated on this concept as it applied to himself and to his sword
suddenly he saw the truth the techniques of the swordsmen were not his goal he saw the all embracing way of the sword the sword was to be
far more than a simple weapon it had to be an answer to life's questions the way of usui kenshin and date mount museae was too narrowly
military too high bound it would be up to him to add to it its human aspect to give it greater profundity greater loftiness for the first
time he asked whether as possible for insignificant human to become one with the universe sirrett to a like i said mature do you got one ye
have one which i think is those ohiyesa and brings back one of the characters that you read about earlier ah and a refers to have less in
that he learns from headlarn from tacklin and heresies it wasn't that he that masai had forgotten the lesson talking him the truly in that
is the truly brave man is one who loves life cherishing it as a treasure that once forfeited can never be recovered he well knew that to
live was more than to merely survive that the one that i ilated the problem was how to imbue this life with meaning how to insure that it
that his day would cast a bright ray of light into the future even if it became necessary to give up that life for a cause it see if he
succeeded doing this the length of his life twenty years or seventy made little difference a lifetime was only an insignificant interval in
the endless flow of time i think i heard you say that coleford like a notises living is not an arriving that's kind of wild naois her i got
me the high do think i heard you say a coterie think of her now say that concept before yet i have and maybe i i this is where incepted me
twenty years ago and was ashen she ends a m with a gindares of a student of his and there living in the mountains and again i think this is
this is as as they as he starting to mature and grow in this area where he's going to where he is the mountnessing pan and too ambition
it's got eminently buffer you for mountains and incredible yet beautiful even right outside of tokyo for people who are ever thinking of
going this place called megalith is an i co in the o his long but negotiator temples and mountains that is where i did japanese were
spectres just as a as a side not on the japanese worse by artrys great so there are there are not as you would imagine many schools for
horseback archery but one of the one of the families one of the clans that still exists the ogasawara so the ogasawara as the family and in
due like riis the school and that that view comes up a lot in with sashes life if you look at the history like such and such view such and
such a deliket the school of whatever and ogasawara reduan horseback archery is what ended up studying wison of the members of the ogata
and we did it in nikosiring place to train and up just as a lalotte libitina on what exactly this mean suit the ceremonial version of the
of japes horseback archery and tails a straight away that is marked off in in the in my case with a metal rod like a re bars you you
affectedly have these stakes in the ground that are about three feet high ribarer five feet two parallel lines running let's call it three
hundred or five hundred feet and you get on a horse at the very beginning of this track and there three targets laid out a equally distance
over that five hundred foot pace now the first reprooved at about a hundred meters and near about the size of a big dinner plate and you
are on the horse the saddle's wood see hotion it are you do you squat above it and you have copiolites lit socks you don't have shoes on in
these ah stirrups that actually do not enclose the foot around iwate don't circle before they you stick it in kind like a slipper and you
have a really wide stance and then you've a bow which is about six feet long he might hisself hand and you be bottom of the bow you keep
inside your thigh and then you have arrows that are stuck into your belt on your lower back and your first arrows knocked and then you pull
the line slightly and lock it down with your index fingers so that there's tension on and and and then you have the reins and you you take
off at a full gallop and then you throw the reins down and you fly with you gallop with no control borsen these rear that are set every
five feet keep the horse galloping in a straight direction and you fire the first arrow the first target and then you have to reload your
arrow by reaching to your back pulling there out and there's really techenie somewhat complicated way of knocking arrow very very quickly
while you're riding a horse and then you intend to hit the next to targets while you're yelling her certain things you're supposed to yell
as you should it your target and ah it's it's an incredible incredible demonstration and they do this at the temple in neale which to me is
what comes to mind than terms of imagery when we're talking about his experience in this nowis regions and a ya lessonto part you do not
want to fall off a people do fall open as if to fall off your horse you get trampled by the horse and you had the rebarbatif reason i
brought this up in that ah every one has seen restaurants say that say a establishment en forty six established nineteen eighty seven
stablished whatever and the sun pretty young guiniad thirties really strong the bow i shot had may be akasita pound or sixty five pound
tension which is surprisingly difficult for people who have not done much archery to hold that at full extension for a period of time a
especially on a horse its sexitizer quite legit on all along tograid he was pulling a bow that was a hundred and twenty pounds like nothing
and his jacket he had what what might look like a servish like nineteen as by break dancing jackets kind of little looked like with like
the theath elastic tobers on the rest i and on the back it said oh baaaa jobwise established eleven fifty centinela yes this goaconcheleras
at the very end it did ye you got em that because you know shooting from vehicle is really is is really hard chiton from beales i mean it's
just hard i can't i eritage dated titolata on a wooden saddle yet so sterile different thing i i was very surprised that i actually ended
up hitting targets but ah ye at the grand how long did you train it for then other thing i would not recommend i i crammed into a week and
a week to drain and autorita horse before i had some experience in a horiable stern and western style for people don't know if you think
rodier your your your effectively seated in the saddle kindlike the harley david seneff horse ran frank your feet are out front o your you
hear your heels or drop you don't post and a japanese is somewhere between it's it's it's closer to english where you'd be a more elevated
and the position of the are very different our our effectively in almost a susan like your your very much abducted like your your groans
very very open so is extremely safel like i was doing like suspend it squareface for hours as a days after a few days of that ah pretty
uncomfortable and we've lost three days on to say to rain on wewe couldn't be as too dangerous to the tethers es and humans to train doing
anything in this conditions so we had about four at a four days of real training so speaking of rain there up there a musashi and erie are
up there and well he were going to the buckadawin the insect wastes faded indecile leaves withered and fell musahars their cabin cause they
built a cabin and addressed themselves the task of making the land ready for planting one day while surveying the land was not she sell me
found himself thinking it was like a diagram of the social unrest has it lasted for a century after the old in war such thoughts aside it
was not an encouraging picture unknown to sahih how do how otinga had over the centuries been buried many times by volcanic ash from mouth
food and the tone river had repeatedly flooded the flat lands whenever when the weather was fair and the land bone dry but whenever there
was heavy rains the water carved out new channels tearing great quanties of dirt and rock along with it there was no principle stream into
which smaller ones flowed naturally the nearest thing to this being a wide basin that locks sufficiently sufficient capacity are desolate
sufficient opacity to either water or drain the area as a whole the most urgent need was obvious to bring the water under control to get
this big piece of land anything of amiternum he doesn't really know that there's no pathway for the streams that when the water comes down
out of the mountains when i ranged esn't know that there's nowhere for to go it doesn't make sense to the water so just kind of floods
everything um m still the more he looked the more he had question why the area was under the undeveloped they won't be easy he thought
excited by the challenge posed to joining the water and earth to creep productive fields was not much different than leading men and women
in such a way that civilization might bloom to massoni it seemed that his goal was in complete agreement with his ideals of swordsmanship
he come to see the way of the sword and a new light a year or two earlier he had wanted only to conquer all rivals but now the idea that
the sort existed for the purpose of giving him power over other people was unsatisfying to cut people down to triumph over them to display
the limits of one strength seemed increasingly vain he wanted to conquer himself to make life itself submit to him to cause people to live
rather than die the way of the sword should not be used merely for his own perfection it should be a source of strength for governing
governing people and leading them to peace and happiness you realized his grand ideals were no more than dreams and would remain so as long
as he lacked a political forty to implement them but here in this waste land he needed neither rank nor power he plunged into the struggle
with joy and enthusiasm dayanand out stumps were uprooted gravel sifted land level soil and rocks made into dikes rosaceo e worked from
before dawn until after the stars were shining bright in the sky now as his doing this the villagers keep coming by and they say what they
think they're doing in how do they think they can live in the place like that and you're wasting your time that's what all the villagers
are saying to the eye seen us for mounsen a levenand her wherever they see this place get flooded and he keeps going he keeps you know
trying and every time he makes them progress he the all ran and everything is washed away or i'll get flooded and then he thinks he do no
can his big snow in mountain overthink survive but then it falls in everlooked down again so he goes on he keeps working the land he keeps
trying to make it work back to the book musashi carried on in his stubborn struggle throughout the winter into the second month of the new
year it took several weeks of strenuous labor to dig ditches drain the water off piled dirt for a dicendome it with heavy rocks three weeks
later everything was again washed away look ye or i said were wasting our energy on something impossible it is that the way of the sort the
question struck close to the bone but musashi would not give in only a month passed before the next disaster a heavy snow fall followed by
a quick for ore on his return trips from the temple for food inevitably wore a long face for the people there rode him mercilessly about
musa's failure and finally mosaical began to lose heart for two full days and on into a third he sat silently brooding and staring at his
field then it dawned on him suddenly unconsciously he had been trying to create a neat square field like those common in other parts of the
plain but this was not what the koran called for here despite the general flatness there were slight variations in the lay of the land and
the quality of the soil that argued for an irregular shape what a fool i've been he exclaimed aloud i tried to make the water flow where i
thought it should and forced the dirt to stay where i thought it ought to be but it didn't work how could it waters water dirt dirt i can't
change nature what i've got to do is learn to be a servant to the water and a protector of the land in his own way he had submitted to the
attitude of the peasants on that day he became nature's man servant he ceased trying to impose his will on nature and let nature lead the
way while at the same time seeking out possibilities beyond the grasp of other inhabitants of the plain the snow came again and another fog
the muddy water oosoever the plain but wisand had time to work out his new approach and his full remained intact the same rule must apply
to governing people he said to himself in his note book he wrote do not attempt to oppose the way of the universe but first make sure you
know the way of the universe as i was a telling where my tilbody's about this we were talking about that you can't you can't ozias a leader
a lot of times people want a change people you want to change them and you you just you can't change people right i mean you can shift them
and they can change themselves but when you try impose change on someone you try to make some one to what you want them to be it's a very
difficult to do if not impossible is talking about this one and a guide tis teapot and he had potential right but he had some floss you
know he was a bowed mouth in that kind of thing and in distant like to bring him along and try everything beatings um counselings um you
know befriending um more beatings did every ten and you know he would like make slight adjustments for a little while and then you go back
to disentery was and events as it oinment we have to that's the way he is that's way this person is and you know how do we work with him to
his work and within an the confines of things that he can do and do the acceptably but hiding people get caught on the idea that they're
going to change people and it's really hard and yes see this especially with people getting involved in relationships with people that they
think they're going to be able to change and you not maybe able to do it i question for he agoin our own life experience how do you
separate the way of the universe meaning in you personally the things that are just that you shouldn't try to change versus the things that
you should try to improve the i think that they are there is the temptation for a lot of people to say well as just the way i am but it's
it absolves them of the responsibility to of doing the work i i i asked a similar question and it'll into it in gushby a o'work with a
company to the day and the yase you don't if i've got a guide that's really good at something but a person that's not really good ship shed
i just give up on trying to get the person that's not good at that job give up on them and just let the person that's good at it do it and
i said well yes and no i mean if we have somebody that is a really good shot like ease sniper but we had got as not a good shot okay so
we're going to give us nyora the goodness and he's going to go to all the top shots okay yeah that makes sense that doesn't mean we just
let the other guy never learn how to shoot no we actually continued to train him and make him better and i think it's the same thing with
your er your individual self right if i've got weaknesses i don't just say well misgivin being in those areas where i'm weak i'm going to
actually go and try and get better at them now i'm not on to make that the folks in my life right i'm not going to try and become a
ballerina right when i like to be more flexible absolutely do any to work on that absolutely but i'm not trying to become a bowriahs on
that because it would be a significant waste of my time and of my entire life in a very fruitless situation fought that doesn't mean i
shouldn't try to be more flexible right so i i think you you you still apply some time to to try to prove it but you don't waste you know
you don't waste a valuable energy you'd still look at what you're good at and say in a i'm better at a dongeon better at whatever can i
tell you one of the thoughts that for whatever reason consumed my mind for about ah an hour and a half during my solemnities i was thinking
about grasscannon this book the this demon slayer that crushes me on amazon always mollie five spots when i watch a book and i start
thinking about how incredible it would be to take jocko the cartoon character as seen in the jacare logo on your tea and to have a party of
that book called jackanapes with like thought all the older that your thinking throughout the bocan any case for whatever reason that is
what my mind decided to settle on and so sorry a so confession over confession concerned you find that yourself that you say like all
knockered or do you find yourself getting focus cosetta about what we saw she wept what they derive horsas you in his earlier which is i
only worry about things that are beating me right i only rear about the ponte just like the only book you think about is this book to rest
can't dancehouses and kinnoull worout his other busticate also just like talking that it the case i love the fact that it called deraskie
and it kicks you have satins you think you get focused on things at her that you shouldn't be focused on or that you wasting time on ah i i
you kind o know what you're good at i i do i think that i become better at working on or distinguishing between low level weaknesses and
high level weaknesses and what i mean by that is if you imagine say a a at the people seem like a champagne pyramid before sometimes belt
at weddings where you estatuas these chainlocker into one or could be any type of glass in it casion into the others a reyten of it through
a domino analogy i i i use is an elegy to lot looking at leadoo like what can i do if i have a task list let's say which of these five
tasks will make all of the others easier or relevant than that'll help me sequence things in the right order so that a not wasting energy i
if i've tenu the energy i'd rather focus on identifying at least to begin with the lead dominoes and so a high level weakness would be a
week eight lead domino something that has down the stream negative effects on many different areas even that can compromise your strength
my ah sefere for instance i think for very long time i viewed a i only viewed impatience through the the lands of the benefits of agression
because having a good offenses always been my model ever since i became a fascinated by gifting who is about as close to a hundred per cent
offense leiser wrestling a competitor and coach a man ilustre is but daniel a credible credible guy but add i would i realized unless for
years for instance is at their aloof a weaknesses let's say i am not a programmer ah i am not good at a b c d or e skill that is more a a
technician craft i will not spend time on those things if i can delegate it rounders it but if there are corphal traits that are higher
order that can negatively impact other things than i realized a for the long hall i i do want to at least experiment with developing his
capacities what i think has help me a lot is i am always and i was a when i was in iselin's was always looking at other people i was as
looking at their leadership is looking at what they're doing else looking at why they weren't getting along i was looking at was wrong with
the button and as i would sit there and watch these people i would learn from because it and i'd say you know i see two people letting
alone and i say i i don't come my kamptschatkean once wrong with him and i'd watch him and i'd see that ye now this one i has a ginerous
the other guy and instead of one of them is army the other guys ego they they both can't figure that out until they're just battling and
it's youno got that in inside of a septenaries thing and and so as i'd watch him in allowed me that then i could see to myself where i i
would see oh i like if i've got frustrated with someone i'd say or i'd get i have a negative thought about some one i think we don't have
that negative for about that person that's actually a bad as for it seems like a a really strong personality or a strong presence right
wide i have that oh i have that cause that's my ego and it's the same thing with when i see people getting excited um i don't think
excitements usually a pause if thing i mean it's not i not a negative thing but sometimes people are immediant immediately has an opinion
that and and i think and i watched their their opinion fall apart because they didn't listen long enough that didn't assess things long
enough and so i i hear them stake their opinion and they state it with vigor and with with conviction and then you listen to it and almost
on tattee can't help but look bad because what they initially fall was wrong and i probably had the same thought as i set to my kept my
mouth shut and i listened and and so i see people do that i say you know what when you're to meeting and there's people talk about things
you don't need to say anything you don't need to appear stupid when it whereas better to appear stupid then open your mouth and romadour
right this is just but i would learn these things about people which i think were were helpful to me just by watching in and seeing people
and being really a really kind of jerk in my own mind like i i i watch people like a jerk like why would you do that what's wrong with you
very accusatory tone in my own head but then it was really easy for me to flip that back of myself all the time and say well issacaro do
that to wait a second he make the same mistake so i think that from a psychological perspective life think what to give an me am a good
perspective of my own psychology is watching other people intently in closely with the with the goal of actually helping them correct that
of bill on up the guns a he man this is a regover us at iego and arter going to one o you is going to have to disarm the other one or your
goes never got to go wrong and this never to be forward and as i think that really helped me out a lot i'll sure it did and i i have found
certainly that the many benefits in my case of being a soul oratione so speak a being unemployed sachel employed for decades now but the
one of the clear down sides that i don't have that in person pure group to observe or superascendant observe a with the rare exception of a
handful of employes now but thee what i ended up doing for myself to try to improve because i didn't have i assumed that i think this is
good for a lopepe to assume that you you may not have sufficient self awareness to accurately self diagnose your weakness is in strength so
i would seek out environment that made it very obvious and the way i did that nothing wisacoda alludes to this ah is if you say or on the
battle field in mesahchee strengths and weaknesses or at least your weaknesses tend to be come clearer or magnified so if i could put
myself into a really intense training environment like a a an sanjos a lot of professional there it that the time came blasser of others
and a training with dates and a headlock i could watch my response to increase in levels of stress and how did i respond to extreme heat
what was the self talk when i wanted to quit did i ah at what point was i inclined to try to find some one easy to roll with like how many
rounds to betake and wasn't and ahednego uld i then i i would not that and i would actually take notes i bring my note book since i've no
poseter here and i would note the not just the technical learning and what i wanted to approve but the the the decisions in the self talk
that i made that i wanted to prove upon and experientheth so i used the physical arena as a way to try to identify the high level
weaknesses that i could work on because ah everybody has a plan till they get pinched in the face or isatis all great and theoretically
academically beautiful to sit down and try to self analyzer new journaling in the morning which i also do but it's quite another thing to
be like a katou ye anandale where the wind would that long explanation i just gave it looking all these people i didn't go i wasn't
consciously thinking as it was he in consciously thinking about it from a psychological prospectors thinking of from a pragmatic years too
guides wide don't they get along it and then when i would see myself though i go oh you're you're like you you're doing the same stupid
stuff it wasn't like this um you know this idea of i was looking at myself in the i was just doing what i had to do right i guess there's
always the the sub conscious feeling of what trying to do better and try to sell and prove but i'm not a person that has the the consent
like a i'm trying to sell for proof i think it's a it's just a natural thing like them trying to get better of course but that's not i
don't think about it that's a guess that's my point up i don't think about em out focused on it i'm just doing it i'm just doing it and
living it yet i think it in your case and i i have well we have some mutual friends i mean from the seal but also a fore recon and a number
of friends who have a binding at very high levels in a tyrangs within the military and i think that in my experience thus far a most in
them have whether it's by virtue of the faltering that there careers imposed on them renominated people start at step one having make it to
step a hunted that they stay self select in our selected to have a high degree of what i would consider or we could consider mindfulness
which is usually associated with like hippy's and afranio degrees and burning then and so on i abused there but i think of the ability to
detach in that way comes naturally to you and to many people i know who also have made it to step one hundred they are seen in a military
contact you don't have that you and certainly you can get killed or get washed out for many different reasons but i think it for one of
them seems to be if you have no soffaire you just you get broken or you get disqualified at some point you ossaroo or you you get as good
as the machine can make you and i think that that's the real difference you get as good as a machine in sin's going to make you good right
but you the only person i can take you pass what the machine can make as you randof you're not self aware if you can't if you can't figure
that out he can't look in the mercy like things that you can correct then you're you're just going to be with a machine made you which is a
high quality i i mean you know the military is filled with some high quality guys the great guys fabulous guides that perform out standing
but then there's like this one more little level of gustate you you look at many gomaire good will why is that that's cause that guide the
machine got to be here and ease within herself going workin i do better he's got that detachment and that's definitely definitely important
i got i introduce somebody in this book now um that there's his name is sosoku euro gun rue tatoshes part yet he got the first you and our
you got de yet a outmantle hard to say and weolcome as some one going whyteleafes guy and he dances in and out see out the book but this is
musashi ah arrive the other swords men that's got this crenellation only he's middle little bit more he says on the scene more music's
going in trying to farm and do another thing and this guy's kanoon the scene and there's there's one part where these elderly gentlemen are
talking about cures they the best sorts of an slash samory in japan and here we go to the book as he compared the two he had to admit that
the most dimonstration dimidio would prefer could your he came from a good family and he had started the arm of war thoroughly despite his
youth he had developed a form of all style of his own and he gained considerable fame as a fighter the story of his brilliant defeat of men
from the obata academy on the banks of the sumida river and again at the dike on the condorier was already well known nothing had been
heard from resais time his victory had insolito had made his reputation but that had been years ago and soon afterward had spread the story
that the story was exaggerated that we saw she was a seeker of after fame who had trumped up the fight made a flashy attack and then fled
to mount he every time we saw she did something praise worthy a spate of room or followed denigration his character and ability it had
reached the point where even the mention of his name usually met with critical remarks or or else people ignored him entirely as the son of
a nameless warrior in the mountains of mimasaka his lineage was insignificant so a kind of faded and he does some dumbstricken dumb things
a he's a young i ebident come from or from the the rank that of people that were counselling in the keep in line he did dunstable have
battles akins hole castitat deep or he was kind o crazy right and so his reputation and then of course you know this is like a i guess the
ancient social media right there is rumors named post signs about people and they would do these things to denigrate peoples reputations in
such a laddonia considerably to mason's thinking it out how labor intensified as though a spreading posters like two hand create piles of
posters that you then go post to denigrate someone like the equivalent of a sweet with your sitting down for a week than hand making
posters the outer ante and they do it in atrocities they go on both sides people right in hoosier people too it's um yes it it's crazy
we're getting to canticles corrosion dering in the mountains and here we go back to the book that time he was so tortured with his sword it
seemed like a weapon that turned against him among the possibilities he considered was choosing the easy way if he could bring himself to
live in a comfortable ordinary way with oaths so life would be simple almost any five would be willing to pay him enough to live on perhaps
five hundred two thousand bushels but when he put it but when he put it to himself in the form of a question the answer was always no
uneasy existence imposed restrictions he could not submit to them to get me at the idea a actuaries to get a good job make a hundred caear
will call it good he doesn't like that to antaeas pass as restrictions it is the discipline he provides freedom errantly from musaicisti as
a contemporary example of one of my okaseri teachers early become a friend but a political originally at least we came to the u s a polish
political refugee and jersey gregorics now in his sixties lives in wood sidali fornia and he a world champion an old record holder in an
the gatliffe as is his wife a you you has a good potatoes he's office salty and to give people over the back of the first time i met him i
shut the time suffering from among laze in a general fatigue with the hypersensitivity of the berea her and i walked in to meet him for the
first time to get incessament and we sat down and we drank marcopoli black tea it so only totty drinks and raise a cavasses sit down or
talking he said askeaton thou my athletic background passed injuries you sitting the cross me's easiness in the sixties he it he can still
do well who as an example i've seen him on an indoor you know those arms and balanced boards like a wabble board on top of a solider with a
loaded barbets holding a loaded barbel in a position like a hand clean on and into a board a he in a sixties throw it up you know like a
hundred fifty two hundred pounds and land enough full as tiles snatch a man alianora and die so she reached the cross sitting tea and then
the he stopped mid mid thought and reached across and sippican my right it and just said you ought to fathers i just love this guy like
after that i was like yes and we are going to work together but his one of his montres that he uses for everything is zechines hard life
hard choices easy life ere this wenigstens that's also that is awesome did you like get on the program with him i did for quite a period of
time he then will you will you traveling down i mean how did dureon his hutchinson coaching me i traveled down regularly and made excellent
progress it's very dooly what lifting the way that jersey would want you to do it a and which is the way i would want to do it you really
need hand on instruction it's a new highly highly highly technical and also you need a logical progression because most people you just
want to do weakened course and figure out the snatch they do not have any of the ankle or shoulder will bility thratemint to even perform
the right movement it regardless of tithing structor is they could have a five hundred time rold champion teaching them in doing video
recording but they had done at the mobility of their scheresse so i went down regularly and then ah when i was travelling with sent him
video and he re reply with video commentary a great experience of men niceties think the jersey style relatively narrow stands asked to the
grass ah overhead squat one of the best movements were how i disagree does a testatur so herdlike it wider grip a bit he can nervious
people can look about jersey gregore g r e c o r e k ah there videos one of the most flexible mobile humans at ever seen his strong as an
onorate can with his feet together ah holding a safe thirty five pound plate overhead with his hands flat underneath it let holding up
dinner platter go down into a perfect squat with his chest up asked to his heels holding that overhead with his fingers basically touching
your which powell my sail i could do that trust me can i riolanus me you cannot do so no also so we're getting to towards the end her this
again this sum rivalry is brewing and finally there is a speaking of social media there is a command issued by the castle and here's wanted
says on the thirteenth day of this month at eight o'clock in the morning on funish shema in the negatory of bein so cocky gediegene a
samurai have this fife well at his lordship's bidding fight about with me motomachi marana a ronin from the province of mimasaka it is
strictly forbidden for supporters of either swordsmen to go to his aid or set for from the water between the mainland and fusinata and
furiously until ten o'clock on the morning of the thirteenth no sight seeing vessels passenger ships and fishing boats will be permitted to
enter the straits sixteen twelve at that that that document writ that so there you it's all they're going to fight and for people wondering
what ronins that is a masterless warrior as is a samurai out a lord floating floating person minus person and ah you could think of them in
some cases i mean they they would either be free lance self directed learners and autodidact like sacher they'd be mercenaries so ronan
were also sorts brier negative commutation to it negative connotation gone i would say for sure a negative connotation that simply because
aveline and association in juana's culture so important that if he if you don't have a a master or aticular thief that you associated with
a particularly you come from you are born of unknown origin or from a no name of warrior it is so very much a cat important class
distinction and the sock also as i understand it this may come up later but used to slightly different sword there a an yes and ah we can
get to it now all to no no it's it's cale he uses as a sword called the drying pole and for years until i was actually prapping for this
pot cast i thought that that was a bad ass name for a sort of course but what i thought i was thought etoff that means like dries you of
your belot that's for my fathomed it dries you of his of your blood and enos researching for this boast its actually in correct me if i'm
wrong well from what i found there is a method of clot of drying your clothes one stick a long stick and his sword was longer than most
sorts and so the full name of it was the closed drawing sword it i get all that right o that part o that sure of it makes sense to me a
endearment when i was in japan a number of using i i go back and as often as i possibly can and i'm still in close contact my espally i've
been to my brother's weddings and so on its dispensation i went back and i went to a japanese sword museum which was incredibly hard
defiant and it was empty and the indecent at a still decent at reading japanese but it's been a law to and been almost twenty years more
than twenty years since i formally studied at the self given there a thousands of characters one gets a little rusty and i went into this
japanese sourdement displays and everything you can imagine mayhan things are clean meticulous and i went in it was just walls and walls of
displays with different sorts from different arts so i mean sores were talking about swords from the these arrows are there preserved and
they look brand new and as walking around and there was a gentleman who is cleaning and i asked him a question at one point about how to
pronounce a character and he proceeded to pause his cleaning and walked me through the entire museum explaining how echo them was used and
one of them or one hipi should say which i believe is what socoured is it is long and it called doiting it's dutchy and the difference of
the most remarkable difference is a yes it's very long and it is curved and it would be used very often by horsemen and it was cured so
that they could strike down a therapne without getting the blade stuck in their bodies excite have a straight blade a relatively straight
blade like a catanaise almost like having a straight bladed hatchet that you swing into the tree like tocantins stocked well you a
horseback outoi problem you lose your sword you're in a very bad position and so they with it would be more of a slicing motion as a post
to a shopping motion and the datchas very effective for that reason also another reason that it tended to be longer there citified ing from
on top of horsetracks down ye partly they are saying that this sword was about nine to twelve inches long green the normal sword and they
gave it the name the drawing pole which sir gen i was thought was about a tree my mind works at hoaton we laughing often turned out is
trying every logger where out ionomagnetic is cooler in my brain that noah otto who by the way this whole time that she's been in an out
she's she's deed never actually like gotten together as as whatever made sore as permanent pears right it's always just been this kind of
thing very japanese ye um oh is that verace i would say so just this a very what we would consider sir awkward tension that never has a
resolution rioterra exactly what this is it naterally where they been for nine hundred and six mantises of acari awkward tension for nine
hundred and sixty two paces and god blesses she still like saying hey i'm here for you even in evehood her i love my sword and not you well
now to be fair he said at love my sort more than i look you no he said i don't dislike you thatwith in misasi's like i will love you till
my dying then atratus she is going to take a bite o because there's you know this is this is a tiamat where some one is going to die and
it's i guess i'm looking at it so little but the older guy that is been out of practice against the young stud that's in the game fully so
it seems like people are thinking disagrees going to die so he have in that final conversation with her oats so please forgive me i may
seem harmless but on not not where you are concerned i i know that do you truly yes but i beg you say one word for me just one word tell me
that i'm your wife it would spoil it if i told you what you know already but but she was sobbing with her whole body but with a burst of
strength she seized his hand and cried to say it sam your wife throughout this life he nodded slowly silently then one by one he pulled her
delicate fingers from his arm and stood erect a samoris wife must not weep and go to pieces when he goes off to war last from me out to
send me away with a smile this may be your husband's last departure both knew the time had come for a brief moment he looked at her and he
mild then he said until then yes until then she wanted to return his smile but only men to hold back the tears farewell he turned and walk
with finstre towards the water's edge a parting word rose to her throat but refused to be uttered the tears welled up irrepressibly she
could no longer see him the strong salty wind ruffled we say side burns his common a flapped briskly suzuki bring the boat a little closer
though he'd been waiting for over two hours and now mysa she was on the beach succesfully kept his eyes averted now he looked at lisa and
said right away sir for the few song rapid movements he pulled the boat in when it touched the shore musaeum ped lightly into the prow and
they moved out to sea oh to stop be south the show was to toronto guy that's there on the scene ottowas running straight toward the water
he raced after her startled goose and seceded the chase o so stop what are you doing don't be foolish reaching her simultaneously they
threw her arms around her and held her back no no she protested shaking her at transloy you don't understand what what are you trying to do
let me sit down by myself her voice was calm when they released her and she walked with dignity a spot a few yards away where she knelt on
the say and seemingly exhausted but she had found her strength she straightened her collar smoothed her hair and bowed her head towards
rosa's little craft go without regret she said that you do it right there so again it was mentioned or she if i did explain it while of
this battle is going to take place on a little island in the middle of the stream and on the straight the ears straight what's the
different funesto ah well i see the great question in the way i set this out it is fun again a good novel like this is created in your own
head right is an active experience of creating it so in my head i may be i don't know what a strait is but the way i in vision to straight
was almost like a ah small or extended in a long but narrow sand bank in the middle of say a river oka error a but a wide river like
mississippi alternate riposo wid a wide wide river that has a a little uninhabited sort of strip of land in the rental yet exact that's
what i picture that's what you picture to soreness we created the same thing so he's in this boat and he had it obviously is running late
and as proses for usual and here we go to the book so susuki may have this what is it this broken oar in the bottom of the boat i don't
need it why do you want it it's about the right size usagi cryptically he held the slightly water log or out with one hand and squinted
down it to see if it was straight one edge of the blade was split off he placed the oran as ne and tooboe began carving with his short
sword susuki cast backward glances toward she more seceshener times but mesas oblivious of the people he left behind was this the way a
sanariapo ached a life and death battle through townsmen like sicuti it was cold and heartless so is important he picked up this old water
logged or from the bottom boat as can i have this hegiarah starts carving it sisuriwong more and more nervous with each stroke of the skull
he had broken out in a cold sweat his heart was palpitating how could a man going into battle be so calm it would be a fight to the death
no question about that would he be taking a passenger back to the main land later or a cruelly maimed corpse there was no way of knowing
musashi thought useri was like a white cloud floating across the sky this was not a pose on rosa's part for in fact he was thinking of
nothing at all he was if anything a little borg he looked over the side of the boat at the storling blue water it was deep here infinitely
deep in a live with what seemed to be a ternal life but water had no fixed the termined for was it not because man had a fixed a termine
form that he can not possess eternal life does not true life begin only when tangible form has been lost to misames eyes life and death
seemed like so much froth he felt goose temple thought a skin not from the cold water but because his body felt a premonition through
though his mind had risen above life and death body and mind were not in accord when every pore of his body as well as mind forgot there
would remain nothing inside but being inside his being but the water and the clouds the you goin into a full on like transparent skipping
ahead a little bit here they arrived at the island go straight in rosanoff the cloak and coat the bow advanced at a very restrained pace
says you could could not bring himself to stroke with vigor his arms moved only slightly exerting little force the sound of bulbosity air
susuki yes sir it shallow enough here there's no need to get close you don't want to damage your boat besides it's about time for the tide
to turn silently susuki fixed his eyes on a tall thin pine tree standing alone underneath it the wind was playing with a brilliant red
cloak susuki started to point but realized that musahar i seen his opponent keeping his eyes on gonoessa took a russet hand towel from his
ob folded it in four lengthwise and tied it around his wind blown hair then he shifted his sword short sword to the fun of his obi taking
off his long sword he laid it in the bottom of the boat and covered it with a reed mat in his right hand he held the wooden sword he had
made from the broken oar this is far enough he said to haue so is going to fight the best swordsman in the world he carves a wooden sword
out of an oar on the way leaves his long sword in the boat and there is sad this is a novel but there is also some historic presides said
he would routinely use wooden swords when duelling with poets who are using life plates how cabac the book at that moment musae his hakama
which is a pantherlike japanese kilt luke very very long usually comes down to the ankles as you coma hitched high on both sides jumped
lightly into the sea landing so lightly he fairly made a splash he strode rapidly toward the water line his wooden sword cutting through
the spray five steps ten steps susuki abandoning his skull washed in wonderment unconscious of where he was what he was doing as gunroom
streaked away from the pine like a red streamer has polished scabbard caught the glint of the sun musagetes his feet resolutely in the sand
on willing to give up an inch sae stopped and stood still exposed to the water in the wind by a hint of a grin appeared on his face could
zero he said quietly there was an unearthly fierceness in his eyes a force pulling so irresistibly it threatened him draw a geroine corey
into the peril and destruction the waves washed his wooden sword gonswart eyes that shot fire the blood thirsty flame burned in his pupils
like the rainbows of fierce and tensity seeking to terrify and debilitate musashi no answer mosaic rumbled ominously in the distance the
tide lapped and murmured at the two men's feet you laid again an't you is at your strategy as far as i'm concerned it's a cowardly poy it's
two hours past the appointed time i was here to athothis promised i've been waiting usaid not reply you did this at each jog and before
that at the renan your method seems to be the foyer point off by deliberately making him wait that trickle did you know where with
gunrunner your spirit and come forward bravely so future generations won't laugh at you come ahead in fighting rosie the end of his
scabbard rose high behind him as he drew the great drying pole but his left hand he slid off the scabbard and threw it into the water
waiting just won the nough for a wave to strike the reef and retreat musashi suddenly said in a quiet voice you've lost cogeret gone
ruissen in to the core the fights been fought i say you've been defeated what are you talking about if you were going to win you wouldn't
throw your scabbard away you've cast away your future your life quarantine to bad kagura ready to fall you want to get it over with fast
come come for you bastard oh musae cry in the sound of the water rose to cicendeletes stepping into the water the drying pole position high
above his head gonfaroni's squarely a line of white foam streaked across the surface as message ran up on shore to gun rose left godwin
pursued mosaide left a water and touch the sand at almost the same instant that gone we soared his whole body heard all that and like a
fine fish when we saw she sensed that the drying poles coming toward him his body was still at the end of the motion that it taken him out
of the water leaning slightly forward he held the wooden sword with both hands extended out to the right behind him and partially hidden
satisfied with his position he half grunted and almost noiseless sound that wafted before goners face the drying pole had appeared to be on
the verge of a downward slide but it wavered slightly then stopped nine feet away from isaiah directions by leaping nimbly to the right the
two men stared at each other musashi two or three paces from the water had the sea to his back ganapati him his sword held high with both
hands their lives were totally absorbed in deadly combat and both were free from conscious thought the scene of battle was a perfect vacuum
but in the waiting stations and beyond the sound of the waves countless people held their breaths above gone hovered the prayers and the
hopes of those who believed in him and wanted him to live above message the prayers and hopes of others of sad and orion the island of otso
and osgood and goose on the beach of a came and made hot on their hill all their prayers were directed to heaven here hopes prayers and the
gods were of no assistance nor was chance there was only a vacuum in personal and perfectly impartial is this vacuums difficult of
achievement by one who has life a perfect expression of the mind that is risen above fought and transcended ideas the two men spoke without
speaking then to each came the unconscious realization of the other the pores of their bodies stood out like needles directed at the
adversary mussels flash nail hair even a y browallia elements that partake of life were united into a single force against the enemy the
fending the living ordinis of which they were part the mind alone was one with the universe clear untroubled like the reflection of the
moon in a pond amidst the ragings of a typhoon to reach the sublime a mobility is the supreme achievement the seemed like eons but the
interval was in fact short the time required for the waves to come in and received a half a dozen times then a great shout more than vocal
coming from the depths of being shattered the instant he came from gonrecourt by musashi the two cries like angry waves lashing a rocked
shore sent their spirit sky work the challenger sword raised so high that it seemed to threaten the sun streaked through the air like a
rainbow leaste his shoulder his left shoulder forward drew his right foot back and shifted his upper body into position a half facing his
opponent his wooden sword held in both hands swept through the air at the same moment that the tip of the drying pole came down directly
before his nose the breathing of the two combatants grew louder than the sound of the waves now the wooden sword was extended at a level
the drying pole high above its bearer's head gone reattuned about ten pieces away were you had the sea to one side though he had knocked
succeeded in injuring lusacius first attack he had put himself in a much better position had he remained where he was he with the sun
reflecting from the water into his eyes his vision would soon have faltered then the spirit and he would have been at musa's mercy with
renewed confidence gone ruegen in chingford keeping a sharp eye out for a chinkin usages defence and stealing his own spirit for a decisive
move moaned the unexpected instead of proceeding slowly and cautiously he strode bold boldly toward gone rue his sword projecting before
him ready to thrust into gonus eyes the artlessness of this approach brought on rue to a hole he almost lost sight of musashi the wooden
sword rose straight in the air with one great kick musache left pie and folding his legs reduced his six foot frame to four feet or last ye
gone sword scream through the space above him the stroke missed but the tip of the drimple cut through says head band which went flying
through the air gone row mistook it for his opponent's head and a smile flitted briefly across his face the next instant his skull broke
like gravel under the blow of misacted as gone rule with the sand met the grass his face betrayed no consciousness of defeat blood streamed
from his mouth but his lips from the smile of triumph on no gonrecourt himself you almouchico up and with him all his rine their faces
distorted with shock then they saw the godeau and ere sitting calmly and sedately on their benches shamed they somehow managed to keep from
running forward they tried to regain a degree of composure but there is no concealing their grief and delusion some swallowed hard refusing
to believe what they had seen and their minds to implant an instant the island was quiet and still as a deever been only the rustle of the
pines and the swaying grasses mocked the frailty and the impermanence of mankind musashi was watching a small cloud in the sky as he did
his soul returned to his body and it became possible for him to distinguish between the cloud and himself between his body and the universe
sosoy could duro gone rudi not return to the world of the living lying face down he still had a grip on his sword his tenacity was still
visible there was no sign of anguish on his face nothing but satisfaction at having fought a good fight not the faintest shadow of regret
the sight of his own head band lying on the ground said shivers up and down musashi never in this life he thought would he meet another
opponent like this a wave of admiration and respect follower him he was grateful to procure for what the man had given him in strength in
the will to fight he retired than musashi and it was because of this that musashi had been forced to excel and self what was it that it
enabled misacted cause she ceira skill the help of the gods while knowing it was neither of these we saw she was never able to express a
reason in words certainly he was something more important than either strength or godly providence odera put his confidence in the sword of
strength and skill musarus ed in the sword of spirit that was the only difference between them silently we say walked the ten paces to
cadro and knelt beside him he put his left hand near the mistris of cojero and found there was no trace of breath with the right treatment
he may recover masamoto himself and he wanted to believe this wanted to believe that this most bawling of all adversaries would be spared
but the battle was over it was time to go farewell he said to cairo then to the officials on their beat benches having bowed once to the
ground he ran to the reef and jumped into the boat there was not a drop of blood on his wooden sword the tiny craft moved out to see who is
to say where there is no record as to whether don rusper's on he coja attempted to take revenge people do not give up their loves and hates
as long as life lasts waves of feeling come and go with the passage of time throughout mesachie time there were those resented his victory
and criticized his conduct on that day he rushed away it was said because he feared reprisal he was confused he even neglected to
administer the coutera the world is always full of the sound of waves the little fishes a banding ning themselves to the waves dance and
sing and play but who knows the heart of the sea a hundred feet down who knows its depth the end that is so how the book finishes up who
knows the heart of the sea to know its depths and as i read that i will wonder to myself or we just a little fishes come bandoeng ourselves
to the waves to sing and dance and play zamore doing and i'm not saying don't have fun i'm not saying don't say in dance and play enjoy
life of course and relish the joy of life but i think you have to make sure you don't dance your life away don't be one of the little
fishes and in no odo that final writing of message before he died the last thing he wrote was never stray from the way and i think that
that's what this is about all the fun and the singing and the dancing and all the play it's okay it's good but all those things can be
distractions because there is a past there is a way and you know what thou way is you know what i should be doing an it's hard disdain that
path because it is the past of disaplining and you know that and it is that past that will otomite leadlea you really want to be so that
you can live and you can die without regret i think a lot of times people are trying to find the path then they're looking all around
different places and different people and different influences but man i think so often that path you know what the path is in people know
what they're supposed to be doing but they just don't get on the path and stay on the bath daggrett they felt when they were eight or
twelve and they teraveller the world or travel through life experiences trying to find the answer that was in front of them they talkiest
come back to see what they knew with different eyes and he recognized that they knew the path along which is something that ah i so enjoyed
about this book in the character both real and certainly presented by the author of isaias using his experiences in this domain of the
sword as a a means of somatic inter connectedness and so unlike a cogito at the end he is not just a technician with the sword although he
is a brilliant chicane he is tilling the soil he is constructing buildings which later he did quite a lot of ah in terms of architecture in
overseeing the building instead of destruction of things and finding at the highest levels of performance with the sword in felling
opponents the the principles of first principles that he can apply everywhere and that part of what fascinates me so much about musaean one
whose the best what they do is that it could be anything it could be pottery it could be sniping it could be colliery but like the best
they see the depth they seize the interwoven web that can expand from that one fine focus into everything that they do and i think of that
sorbettes is the path and maybe it's just coming off a silent treat that on a talk this way but it doesn't strike me as something that is
cleanly expressed in an instigates or quote necessarily it's it's more of a feeling like you know if you're sober and take a moment to sit
in the stillness and that by stillness i don't mean sitting on the mountain topic and just be five minutes of silence when you first get up
in the morning and observe your own amine and awheel like you know if you're on the path or not or at least you know when you're not at a
totally agree you know you know when you're not on it and i think that the feeling of being on it when you're on the path it has that
beauty of mindlessness or no mind as what they'd say on said zen the state of no mind and it sounds like unconscious but it's different not
unconscious not some conscious of something else or you feel that you are exactly where he should be doing exactly what you should be doing
you're not planning you just putting one foot from the other on this path that didn't have to find because in a way the path was seeking
you the whole time and it's just a feeling at a really it's a feeling i think that every one can have but they get so caught up we all get
caught up at one speak for you to find gentle speaker myself i it's easy to get caught up in the noise and the shinab and just like the
little fisher toned about earlier secolo see that lord to recognize it as a lure is seront first step and then to realize that when you
look past the lore or there's a lore sixteen inches in front of you and then you are in an ocean that has and let's fathom of death what a
journey a yeah i i the same that they do in that says the world is always filled with the sound of waves laatefos are going on and the
waves are out there and is fisission round in the waves asleep a you a youthink you experienced this type of that type of clarity in many
different contexts ah i have it served much but i have done a bit certainly not as regularly as you have but the feeling of when i've been
out in surf that suddenly exceeded my capacity which is also not necessarily something i recommend but i've had this harrowing experience
particularly so bad didn't learn swim until as in my thirties which is a whole separate thing that i think we covered in absence fifty i
have fear related to the ocean which i think is healthy on analogies and bliss when you're out there and suddenly sets come in that are
seventy per cent a hundred to present bigger than what you went in with the feeling of orisinn calmly on your board waiting for a set
looking out over the water be sensive insignificance that you feel is not a list i feel it's not a negative thing it's a very ah has he do
use the word but i can't find a better one spiritual experience feeling oh yeah not mail that common socialia can it be i may go to an
event that i re owrelay six months later don't want to go to who gives a fox like raunch monkeys on a spinning rock a the middle of this
hall thing whatever this whole thing in all that thing is singing in dancing in playing it at like compared to the depths of the ocean it
means nothing i think ye i say sir i just i love thee deceit of a despite his stupidity let be honest right where we talked about like he
medusafied decisions storming the jail on what he's put you think going to have and so on and so forth but it despite all that coming back
to what he knew one of the few things that he felt i shouldn't say no felt to be true to him which was this commitment to the way of the
sword it doesn't have to be a commitment to the way of the sword but i've always had a certain envy for people including yourself her from
a very very early age just felt i a been a for a direction that called me really lucky i hadn't cause really lucky and that as pearl you
need people i've met for instance lead him with the mention the burlier is i he stole serfs every day wakes up it for stoked the gloatin
and a he on the path of his on the path and i mean this is a guyot he was with neighs out there with large tiger shark with her routinely
out where he serves it why where he spent a good portion of the year and i've heard stories in this realise several hundred years later and
allegheri stories were some was bitten by a tiger short bleeding out he went back to a getchee had a took off at some piece of clothing he
had put in make shift turn i get on this guy whose bleeding in the water would tigership keep my dardanian the key has been lost to the
yetski hot wires the jets and brings a guy back and safe and and i say every few months he saved some one's life in the water and he's in
his fifties you're sitting in a in a steamer room at one point and a i i i in retrospect realized not a good idea to try to outlast larase
robot he was saying roughly along his lines like twenty one it's twenty feet you can start to have fun start to play round he goes twenty
to twenty to thirty ah you really hammon said thirty to forty you can definitely get into the zone he's like above fifty or not allowed to
fall and as his day and yes kids but as far as i can tell i gaberdine and credible in so many levels in her own right she understands i
this is his path he still chasing jeans and he's not going to stop how could i like that's part of whom he is would you think draws people
like in the wrong direction in their life think it just to leirtis as you talk about echoes actions little things that just pull you off a
think i think maybe people don't want to accept the fact like they know what the pathise wanted deny it for what are you forever reason but
i think that i think that ten be part of it ah the the distraction of the path of the wolsey for this below the erlike old forgot sake i i
don't know it my path is i can't define it i don't know if i can i think i say to some one with absolute conviction my path is ex but i can
tell when i've strayed if that makes sense there's a certain agitation there's a certain scattered defiling that i have and as to reasons
people get off the path and i think piecemeal multiple paths but you're gonna say thou as canosa cause if i been to i'm trying to formulate
what what we're talking about because i know exactly what you mean like like the passes that might not be like him when i do this thing
like there's something else and and i think i think the something else is the path is how you are going to live that that not necessarily a
destination that you could you could follow the same path and get to a bunch of different destinations but the path itself of how you're
goin to live how you're going to go through life how you're going to do things that's that's what i'm talking about and even the path that
i'm on crole other things and in my life and even othon the military for twenty years i'm not the military nor i'm still on the same path
like the path is the same of the way i'm trying to live my life that's the same and if i'm in point on a business the way the way i run my
business i'm trainon the same path it's so the past it's like the way your living your life more than if in elite dozen matter if you're in
college if you're starting to business if you're working for some one the are you on the path that your supposed to be an are you living
the way that you feel you're supposed to live that you know you're supposed to live i think people get off that they get off that dot
living the way that they know they should live regardless of circumstances you've been in horrible circumstance for we all will go to
situations were things just went sideways but and and you can either the stray off the path and turn into something that gernot or
something that you know you shouldn't be or you can stay on the path you can continue to do the things that you're supposed to do and do
and live the way that you on a live and really lately of been talking about cause ive been trying to explain this you know what the right
thing to do is right you know what you're supposed to do as a person as you you know what you're supposed to do you it you that think what
is that thing so you know you're supposed to live a certain way and and you don't live that way like you said this there's fritzing
understandin an there's disruption and it doesn't feel right and when you live the right way it's often harbor it often is less immediate
gratification but the but the internal gratification that you did from a living the way you're supposed to live is very satisfying and
another thing i need to absolutely point out is i am by no means sitting here thine to say that i've always maintained in the worst human
ever i'm horrible and and you was on with us with a guinicelli plum came on the poast and agin him jim jim uncle charley plan was a vietnam
a fighter pilot shot down spent six years in the hunaland another guy name jim concho was a fighter pilot in walwar two and and we one this
conversation like about not doing good and an these guys are just it will have as infinite levels above me as far as be good people and and
i can win along with the conversation almost as if i was born of their like had that level of goodness which i don't you know i mean i'm
trying but you orienti was a young seal some maniac you know i made me say look like a brilliant santissinia at the hazy maniac kid filled
with just may him in my brain and at all my friends we were all the same and we got after it and so believe me i am not trying to say that
but i will say that as i've grown up i've i've think i've got myself closer to living the way that i know him supposed to live with what i
believe to be the right way in the right path to be on and you know so i just wanted to make that quick cavia that anybody that's listening
that's like oh how jocka's really stood a saintly personal or i'm not head remote remaking that game um a but i am trying i'll give myself
at least that much tradition that every one is a work in progress and that the path so to speak is illustrated for me in this book and i'll
get into a couple of specific it might be helpful for people to think about early to be helpful to me as i think through what distinguishes
the relative lack of friction and the scattered nests and agitation verses states without those things because being on the path is not
necessarily for me a feeling of overwhelming joy and happiness per se it's it's a lack of excess agitation and distractedness and think
that what what i've found for myself is that as i get old over and feel more at peace with what i'm doing and how i behaving like you said
it's it's having certain first principles in mind that transcend any given project any given conversation any one relationship and early on
its as your hoping to define yourself or find yourself or builders you all very often succumb because how could you not to pursuing
shiniest after chinock and in the beginning i think that's fine and even for very long pretoire a lot against the wall to see what sticks
in to discover what your good at what you're terrible i were your weaknesses are we your strength are but over time whether you're looking
at some of the most successful investors in the world like redolere said seats a mentioned and sixty billion dollars at last count and i or
athletes like barseige who will not train a technique that he cannot use on a three hundred pound muscular ponent he just will not
trainsheds not he does not drolatic said he cannot apply to some one twice its size a and these are principles in whether it's safe and and
you can take principles from one domain and transplant that which is why i think this book is such an an excellent illustration of the
value of becoming exceptionally exceptionally good at something in a very very narrow band because when you do that the constitution and
the framework and the principles that you develop for yourself can tend apply everywhere in juice let to say and i'm talking at my assalita
i certainly don't feel qualified to speak to too much on judaea the table but if you take something like position before submission ankles
just say for what or whatever his udowat that's work gewelry you can apply that to a law right belonged a flat on to him a lot of things
and ah when you start to really think about precepts and principles in the dodona last a short book or treatise of messages is is in fact
of a bulletless of prices and pretty tough follow of aftermath same time by the way hereabout if you just have a few and that they can be
very plain very much plain speech unless you say it say what you mean me at meanes do what you say you are going to do on time and in very
simple raiment you have a restful you have an older them which is really just a step in a set of steps that pretty a given no one regaterm
and al come usually if you follow those you you can start to mold and define this path your way of moving through the world interacting
with the world but if you're stuck in say the weather patterns of the world instead of looking at sir the tectonic plate level and your
focus on these things a change of very very quickly like the new cycle like what your friends are saying on social meet at all times the
fear of missing out social expectations that are set that make you anchor because all your friends are putting high lights of their lives
on the internet which makes you feel like a failure because it's not all glamour shots those are all just shifting whether patterns they
mean nothing and you just you should let those pass as they say in this book comes up a lot as much as fragrancies up a lot in this ashe
and fly srath and flies and insects is passing phenomena verses thinking about in his case he is as the mountains and so on but the lower
levels that tend to be less there less sex they help move as quickly ah but if you understand the slower moving and spike tension to
timeless principles and you can use is to carve and form and fine rediscovered our own path than nothing i just gives you much greater
level of peace in parecas it give you much greater level of the agency you feel like you can graft your experience of life as opposed to
being tossed back and forth by the vagaries of fast changing factors gunoonoo over man well i suppose we can talk about this um
indefinitely or young too much and with all ready m echo speaking of the path do you have any recommendations of may be howel could stay on
the vasante you know maybe even support sure i love real quick you it is fastrunning goes when there is like a double consonant ye kind o
say in both of like like this docotahs do coogan's a little stuttering yeh yeh can sons like you got to finish the first kay and then start
the second key ye it's it's it's it's good oh yes kind of a i think it would be considered it with a with a collocation so i chalcidean
japan's actually hope it right right but if there is only one cat behechio that's right ye yesterday a long time to get just lean barras in
the beginning working on my pronunciation i i i had to say the word school lot i was going to school walking to school when you going to
school and it's got golisch as that little stutter it and men did i miss that up in for i certainly ought cast a broad apology to all of my
my my japanese friend is fattening crazy i am sorry if interesting that you care cause in in the wind language they put a it's actually
considered another letter it's it's called okenakan apostrophe ye and that you in odelettes go together on some when you want when you want
to do that little function to step right on me pestilente like like the word whole white ye all what either to eyes of then face a howe a
member you are asking the asako how do you say quite a quiet collecting of in technically it's coat eat corn what typically don't say
cataneo did that's all master very similar but similar deal rank similar denies with consonance straightened and in thick us two far feeled
that you e there are some weird similarities between japanese and other languages were there may have been trade routes established sereda
of man in weird places so you there are some commonalities and politian languages and then that you also find incredible commonalities with
turkish of all ages here merely identical grammar or maroosia linguistic classes and there were they would point out these weird weird
commonalities that you say while that's a like things that like the number of one things like the sun things that you know every one kind
of hale to have created a word for it and point others definitely some strings in africa what they are i didn't not hard enough ah how was
it on the path faithlessly enough but a lot of these languages like it you know even the pronunciation of like a is a you know japanese
hawaiian yet no palely soft as typically ye a eight ye old yes and then the eyes like e yes yes epines people can hand all spanish his
pride the closest that i've seen languish at the can handle any language that ends on cousin and sala is going to be so or my are all in
such tauthe add the you at the end yet have tedious and tinting ergaste say like beat or be it in over mc donald a smokelet of them ye ye
and then matutine a fit the end at in for this people wondering the reason they can't or have so much trouble distinguishing between ours
and else which many other asian people do not but in the case of japanese is because they have a blinded phone blended sound its agetation
of r l and so now i do thetis how is it so that dew that like sound is not clearly distinguished into multiple continence in japanese which
is why they've so much roars and elbe can teach them to fix that in a few minutes if you explain other tongues but such a and i remember at
one point give credit to you my first japanese teacher mister samanah was fantastic because we would hit a sticking point in class rough be
going over some concept it was really difficult for a native english peter's brain to rapiered like the a subject markers in the difference
stenoggin if it's known to the speaker so that i extent known to the speaker that he like a wanton and he could sense because so i got
transferred from a very weak school berat school on long island to every onhighly competitive school in new hampshire that had classes six
days a week mandatory seated meal like dead poets society mandatory sports classes from eight a m or so to about six p m and a japanese
classes of very often the class after sports apelike out hadn't a dinner and we be struggling in getting agitated with some aspect of
japanese neutel that we were we were we were losing it but we still had forty five minutes to go said sarah had really strong campanies
accent he belliere going to stop for it and i am going to attempt to say this word for you and you had writ squirrel inflation to talk
about a word i would be designed to be ripped a nice realisation so you an you an take a five minutes for just comediae affect it is to
scarboro re an idee that for like humanitie crack up and loosen up and realized oke everyone is learning to language as some type of
sticking point like this and then he be like okay clad in again now back to the earth is an excellent excellent teacher yet is megasea in a
hard stuff speak quick my brother's in love of her god to good i'll get it to more about your treaty can buck but that aryaman time when
take care of our joints or gin man dot com is a good a spot to get these joint supplements jocosities super crill dottrel clupe for a young
drill ye crisis actually won't there you go also not one called jac joint warfare so bland joint a degeneration warfare weapons check
technically also for illicitness gear for indicate in genteel ye have some in my ah my garage only the only distils a have rinato
confabulate i got im gramont yes what i call i go to gimli now but a yeah yes i'll go decillion yes especially the ones from allen by the
way where wolf gorilla big foot chimp from this listening no one i lit i felt the night you have me called me names out of her tryout your
name's ominpotence to the happy elaeothesium to delay artistic or autistic artisians messing with oayi don't think of her as i am aout they
are ill though he only might mean a year a regular ones i have the eye so word were sitting here in austin texas not too far from on an
echo and i actually bought two of the the standard issue a i honour like me yes just cut not i like or cut thin then decorations and his go
i genialising an art or that an tell they do yet a duck baderoon in storm to the beretani one cool yes i've seen it you got a kind o
admitted after a while you're like to her an me out of care i like he come to my house you my kettlewell heather don't but some people just
the like o you know you say hard corbinet admitted a more bouleverse but yeastcake this of you know a tonic doom they can they not other
stuff on their to em pretty much for any kind of work out other than what like your typical gem work out like the maces and what not so
near go the honeycomb the side not for people listening don't either a alright at had enough caffeine off cape pretend days simonlionel
right now a alcodote perfect be the enemy of good when it comes to work and gonorrhoea jim or anything like that don't say i can't start
because i don't have these seventies of a wiolent for to years when i had very little money and end with training in judicandus lived to
the bar which is stupidly expensive i had roommates and no space whatever i had one fifty three pound cavil i did everything with that
kinmont and i got into that combined with juita all had space forward one cataldi got into some of the best shape of my entire life ye no
count of the titucocha's nothing if i force you twenty pistols he fifty pound bateas you're done he anseline one recently clodpole can even
do one to so a sixty thornton hardbottle the goal as he thought in oliothanein cattle bills before but you don't only first kind of came on
the scene here yes and then people were like a kettle bells in the cuckoo we are you know how like when people do that you kind of build
this pen and natural a notleben but just it it's so wherein i inlighten an ear to little band lay as see what you're doing you know i'm
sick to this or and then find that got on the boat and i set a gun on that earlier may you had all else and you don't eat be i will say not
a doctor no play when on the internet but just to you to keep joe's liability insurance premiums low as if cattle bells don't get too fancy
kids with the cattle bells don't pick up a cattalo the first time and try to do snatches yes it's a good way to ah get reconstructive
shoulder surgery ye don't need to do a whole lot if you just you two handed katabasis properly which i would not in my book would not be
above the shoulder and you do less you say some turkish get ups even partial turkish ghettos and a hand full of other exercises in
particular to windmills and consequenses you really don't need much and you you don't have to do potentially dangerous ballistic movements
to get a lot out of kildonan i personally would even go further and say don't do much like forelle turkish get a snatch to like the answer
snashed yukoner yes your tremieres woodington paniculata and this was like obviously figure than the other anacaona in a very inelastic you
in my house i was over there too to every exteriorating at taltenian man fled man if you start doing you snatches or the man i had to
abiboo one that's ninety pounds ye am so i can i mean now i can boomplaats one hand i'll go like a goto this side that to this side the
toes at you know i do that and it wasn't i don't know if i wasn't warm why i just hated at the wrong angle i got it up to hear and then
when i pressed it up i think he was too far faisaient like when i pet you is weird you'll get on to where the big paying back there an so
when i pressed it up it's almost like it went backwards master my shoulder little did ye ye you will be able to press as well as you can
clean so if you cannot clean a wait extremely smoothly to your side do not try to press it yea and in be careful her startling estoit right
in a unless your jack drew i i masayang over her attitude of life to exigeante worse it is on this cotton yes that sure also ah if you
dullopatty of musashi yeah mollie on the website ah go to dol pocasse dot com go to the books section right there in the tapanuli on there
it'll be actually it's been on there it's been a nessino mended it spring he mister year yes ashe lived not all i read it yes i had a ready
at the top don't even have to scold down boom click on it graeculi adother book to thee be you can be inaequalia hunted thousand per cent a
lot of present i'm one ah still i the brine that a is out which jacob's part of an contentention of our our lifelong partnership a jocose
reappearance in tribe of mentors a which is i think the easiest to read books that i have yet put together it is upper and spank anew as a
hundred and thirty people all asked the same of leven questions that were most burning for me and a isaeus page book i ethicists than
messagin saying much it is ah about six hundred fifty pages each profile is ranges between two in ten pages and a number of the people who
came up in our homerton like dan gable who want a gold medal in the olympic for resting without having a single point scored on him
ridiculous it's like winning with borehaven a point coretti doesn't happen people ah and many many many others so covers every possible
face of human performance whether it's a physical training as expert meditators world class investors the founders of face looked whiter
sales force lincoln unam it if you want super super tactical negative advice including some from a good friend joliette torse i do die just
choose your adventure book that would be a nice non fiction compliment to our friend messasipi up there gray next to it to anoothe does the
click on i take the thought amazon bo and a bat was the woes the upset again for your book vinchucas dot com i think it might be slashdot
may be but these estou know the top men you may website but it's just a bottle from the pot from episode to what i am ye were on their
unquiet rough there and if you do in any other amazon shopping you know an carry on don't see stuff be there also subscribed to the potai
was just going to say they may have already a removed this a little glotch in the system but i used to be able to buy trap bars and so on
on amazon prime with no shipping trapper one so exarari very psychotic sixty pounds to a hundred pounds of metal a sale while taking up
your brain food you can pick up your body to all for nasally de yangees sheetiron yeh ansel's pretty good with their sheffield like
whatever the next day you know they're loristan is like four bucks i something osmanieh they got something right on now on an i also
plesiosaurian already on a tontine ditcher and golly and sporific sank real confident hahatonwan ever your listening to the fine cast on
booms subscribed also on you too if you have an already is more than just a pocasset exisence wentrup take away as or wondered at takes
from this i went arter some very fine ones in the evenement ne is the war but we were all laughing ieyes i think so in fact yes that's
exactly what i'm going to do we is one of the many reasons to subscribe to the too gentle in my opinion what is the to gentle jacopo cast
did your for that you begin as who narrower was spellin's bad up there a taim just a headwaiter guy he i guess tackily were chi one we say
so cried to the pocantico we are asking them to go on you to search for jaculata make sure it's the correct one you know sometimes i he'll
be like jo go i want as he oneasiness at him tongue on valley could just get you could get an essential up he published for probably if you
hours at least you guys could get a your like jocko subscribed dot com and then have it point to a page on your website where you have all
of the links where people can licoffre services to subscribe may wish i had somebody that work with me that like did computer type stuff
and stuff why that is a by they would have done that you are on the ateliers darted this left like the heating it of all these things is an
i'm goin to buy jocolpus tasted all the oncannall and will do this stuff and then m like your whole attitude you didn't tell me not to do
it i allim not blame in the sign you i'm just saying that that's what hus'led up to do but he's like no mametkul that's it foolisher simple
till my call yet atacoari there so like all those cool little benilo i won't no jackasses casanova if this fiochetto i sighters welling of
the eyes a enjouement i will say that a lot of people who try to start podcast or do act get caught with the eases on new tactics in the
above tactician in the mostrato principles and so if if your constantly focused on optimism for an additional one per cent with these tools
you get nowhere on the other hand if i would say like you guys have done with this podcast focus on exceptionally high quality that fixes a
lot of problems and then other people use tactics on your behalf and you don't have to be as concerned with the ebenen expiration date of
said to alstone's go time always in or your iolande market his grace only uncertain she and just to be clear when you relate that it wasn't
that you are like influencing me not to do it you just like the way you were with cool to me outside to cool somniferum to imperious me to
stare of ternoise you yeah i thought of that same thing i'm goin t have a fan and all have all the length of man it'll be great and near it
lirico ed at guess o califat you know at losing him so we let sir that other stuff go anyway you too decorous to juigalpa cast of her right
dealer low go black white letters boom that's it that's then that you want to scare to also joculators called jules safe that no bells no
whistle jack store dot com t shirts travel monks bumper stickers all that stuff to masha new asgard's podesti erate's i got pillarman the
brasses i have a ionically yes so into that to me at what about your ah your crop tops with the displays love and call them as a state but
are out of stock the roseate women stuff is back in stockington also for a while sir you know for the girls the ladies go back in the game
big time some patches and there and again the rash ardgour kid the deonhully tis another one aisarat hoard a pet gotteron his quisantes
cards i always assumed it because i'd never seen rashers and two home a few years into the juju game i guess or observing that i assume
that rascar became part of judicous brazilians also sir pilot and with hengest used them in the gym what is the function of the rasharken
quite understood that i know that because i let's say forses wearing a tight tatting a sweat wickings is well i mean it's not going to be a
type fitting as a rasadio rassad is a typanitic of garman can be and therefore your fingers won't get caught in at your telson ed yanyenge
in the way and that's that's why now what he could also so shirt less but when you go shirtless now you've got you know ring worm and yet
in all whatever other hanaford disease is that live on the mat and so that's an just kanou know deuises at one one separation of way from
pure nastiness when you're on with every one and when you logansha maybe of the only one with this issue that i always find i feel
constricted at the neck and hot in certain russat are all asgard but if there were one that gave some space to the neck now would be if
anointing some brand will have a wider neck wider now some brands laxly on purpose have like a higher neck ye right some people want a full
coverage in the gym they want they don't want to make human contact with enathaiti thereout sit larner be oakdaleites people that were a
little hood i not care said o ye emigravit like hair relocation here stuff they'll do that hood thing it's cool but i can yet see i ad you
whatever kind of rose or you want to lose that rasonable resteras cards when old one piece and i say to them when you glagolitico get me a
displacement for my reentering than the justine old paletot of over good just before i had at peperisti helmeted on his garments siegesthor
or come that's where you get em they're cool also psychology garter is in a note it's an album with tracks tempers that if you're on the
path down for we but you find them days are those moments whatever that may be you might want to get to store you feel like you're going to
choose to step off with pat that's what it's for really it's not like when you suddenly get the stracted it's like ameuti and i'm
distraction it up at five a m the sleep in listened to one of these tracks the less of it tracked though wake up an get a what's it compare
opinion for it wake up and get after it but it is is you play it and it's jocteleg you why you should wake up and get after it
pragmatically in his own jocular fighted this this track for everything though waking up slipping on the ditching the work up to a ball
that's not now for me interject here or actually diorite don't mind please because the psychological warfare try an album on a tone was a
number one spoken word album for about i think nine months straight and unfortunately good news and bad news it was just taken down for i
would just got beat out as the number one helen there is now a new number one outburst as is not rasuera out mon i do spoken word is
dispenced em feel manual now is number one is seratte forty every day so if you'd been looking for just planicosta feel manual in audie
form formula it's not an audible because then you couldn't put it in your alarm you couldn't listen to tracks and every wanted to that's
why we didn't do it that way we put it isn't as an album with tracks on amazon music gugley spatii a hertofore i'll let it be an ass a lace
shall deliver at me lexie boom you're there ah so that's out also names on jackie t most people think it's the best hetaere had and it's
guaranteed um an scientifically proven to him an increase your dead left cut a minimum but eight thousand pounds we have all backed up dat
all hattention colouration of rather books to get on him as on an we muddle put all these books on far website ah sir first tim tim
obviously for our work we four hour shift for our body towers of tightens those are all books awesome books as thinking about for our work
week and when i was thinking about for our work we that i think when i read it for the first time which was before i knew you what it did i
didn't follow anything in your book for i work riki didn't i follow one thing may be made out on now maybe there's two or three things in
there what it did though it is i made look at things in a different way cause you were saying look here is this and you looked at it from
over here and what it showed me was like i can look at things differently and you know like i said i brigand a couple of things from there
but the most important thing that it gave me was i o k you don't have to look at this the way everyone else is looking at it and that's the
adobes dam drill you can get from somebody or the best advice you can get somebody who's like don't look at things the same way every one
else is there's a whole other angle and once i saw what angle you will look in at it from i look to as our salon with look at it for my
ankle or is going look like from over here so that you know a great book and again the four hour shaft which isn't a about cooking by the
really about learning through gale for our body all kinds of a good experiments that you did on yourself you are similar to me in the fact
that i'm always chasing some different goal on either trying to do max collusitate to a max dead lift from trying to cut down my one mile
run time i has got some random thing that i'm trying to do and i and and i explain this am i that you explain when i was just on your
pocket a a a i'm not gonna get to a six hundred pound dead lift because my whole life would have to be different and i wouldn't be able to
do other things that i like to do so i get to an eighty per cent or eighty five per cent of what i am actually humanly capable of an
tantallon for that next goal because i'm not going to change my entire life a but what what the what what he for our bodies could fors
you've got a lot of different things that you can bounce from thing to thing in their allganer some aspects so i i thought that was awesome
to the tightens obviously um panovo good information from all allottee people and and now you got tribemen tours in its interesting because
we don't hanwel about for tony minutes or overlong we are talking about the path for while for people out there that are are saying like
well what what path and omitting her trying to explain its hard by i don't think i did a good job i i took a swing at it but what's coso
get a book like tribe of mentors and you can ask it i feel for what other people's paths are and how they stay on them and watty live their
lives and then you can at least at a minimum did a different perspective from the different people which just like for our work week for me
is very important to see different people's angles on the way they look at things it's it's like it's an eye opener adam animal yea the
lens i mean if you if you have a set of different lenses that you can look through to value it the world make decisions about it yourself
and make different decisions is it kicking really change your life in the lives of this renery equily and in the woods with ben fun about
putting the other in this contrive mentors as that i'm asking people to same eleven questions so for instance i might ask what do you do or
what do you tell yourself when you feel overwhelmed or get distracted to retaking about staying on the path and i asked it not was one of
the questions that i sent to everyone and people who rable to pick and choose their questions but when you see that across disciplinin have
every one from say david lynch were garnerage over a pad to bring credible directors a to the dan gables of the e kelly slater most
decorated seferal time a two artists and investors and so on there are commonality sea can spot patterns and then assemble our own tooked
of these first principles of a pentagon of for instance one that i've been applying their many that i've been applying myself from the book
a you may have met kilmaine before i know who you i have better rasool incredible did the congenital quadam that means these born without
arms or legs became a wrestler i mean my many other things i mean then came a wrestler lost every match as for a season and his is dad
supported him troutin all they were accused of child to busy caponetti and then he started whining in the same people who said it was
jalousie as now he is an unfair antashura his arms and legs was like really wow what a world and a just a fascinating guy who has done a
lot climbed to kilimanjaro in the use of first person ever do so a quiet empty without press that ex carried the ashes of a a a fallen a
member of our military to the top which was there at one of the dying wishes and he gave a piece of advice that he learned from a a
business icon which was you can't answer satan and with that refers to his any time you are reading fiorsen say how importance something is
or how much you want to do something on a scale of zerete you can't you seven your asking some of first each they can't you seven why
because all of a sudden now they can't choose what i realized after reading it is a safe comfortable nebulus number and as smallways seven
now you have to choose a six or is barely better than fifty per cent or an eight and a you you get to you accelerate your path to better
decisions almost immediately just by adopting that for the way that say daniel negroe fatrasies are two of the biggest winning poker
players of all time one in life in person turnaments the other on line and to look at their decision frameworks how they decide to how much
to bed how they stake other people these are all tools you can apply everywhere itsell cool stuff as yet riveted a very very fun book to
put the other defamatory been on the road but on your people sent it to me satietate for me my house i get back so i must stop on that one
and what you show me that foot through that skin of wi no sum going to be cool for people to get again fine fine fine the past find various
paths and and help them guide them towards theirs up also run it a blow the books on tom's called way the warrior kid did about a kid go
turns into a warrior kid fast book ever sir a extremes book about beatership combat leadership principles from war and how to apply them in
your business in life the dispinsed om feel manual um one canto every one that got this book including tim gestation it also the the book
because of your support it made the unnerneath fortes pretty awesome thank you ah every one thank you tim worse um that's awesome and an
you know the book it doesn't follow any formula really it's uh not normal it's kind of like this pocassett normal not do not everyone's
going to get it some people are going to turn in on this pocassett it i can listen to that that's okay same thing with a book that's okay
too i'm not here to write things that everyone likes a not here to record a pot cast every one list to want to listen to him okay with that
um the those that do get it thank you for forgetting it he fits view deceit why are you still listen here sicariae noonan yourself is this
the the imposing discipline on the pale i gave take it to his annoyance for another to any minute a leg i said the audivero is on mt
empetre platforms i've been as that five thousand times on social media of the everywhere butlers that's good if you need some leadership a
port for your team or for your business asnal in fond that's arlesin consulting company to me lay babuji done dave burk in fo at ashlan
front dark calm if you want to get it echo you got to going office that's it thanks him again ye thank you dilate i used the word gentleman
loosely if you want to keep this conversation going we are actually all the interweb fairly heavily vandewater integram apathy um echoes
attach rles i am at jackwell in and tim is at piperis to ours to asses on twitter on instigates to ours to aces on facebo tempers you got
to i miss anything else all right came and he goes in thoughts from you sir and closing thoughts all share one quotable like clothes that i
think relates well to a lot of what we talked about and certainly misamis is a quorum archilochus so by the sound of the name you might
guess it's very very old and it is we do not rise to the level of our expectations we fall to the level of our training hope is not a
strategy as james cameron would say train hard train the train or a tim as always thanks for everything i i literally would not be sitting
here right now if it wasn't for you um and what's cool as you help me out a lot but more important to you helped out all kinds of people
all over the world i think that's awesome the content that you put out the advice that you give to people and so thank you for what you've
done for me in thanks for what you do for all consiliere thank you let your preciated ah and while i'm thanking people to close this out on
one of thank the real warriors out there better in uniform all the front holding the line against evil thank you for what you do and those
of you that are back here in uniform at home police landforce men fire fighters paramedics rolleth first respondes thank you all for
keeping our home land safe and every one else that's listening disremember that the world is filled with the sound waves in the waves are
filled with little fishes let them play let them dance let them sing you you get on the past and stay on the path and keep getting after it
till next time this is dim farris and echo and jocko out
