this is jacopo cast number one hundred and one with a charles and me jackwell in goldening echo in evening second lieutenant banarillero
long was a smart young man who went to burning him university at age of sixteen that in nineteen twelve he was commissioned in the west
yorkshire regiment in january of nineteen sixteen and bernard or burn as his family called them served in world war one in france and he
wrote this letter to his father in early august of nineteen sixteen he said we've been having it often wet here during the last day or two
and my word talk about mud it's simply awful i get into modeft my knees i can take a sporting risk as well as any of them and shall have
got no fear for me i've seen great big burly chaps who do nothing but curse and drink and get down and pray like a child when there is a
bombardment on and they don't care who sees them and no one dares to joke about it or to turn from a palmin from brockton who went down to
the sum when i came here and he says he's been over the lid seven times in attacks on the bow line pretty awful that isn't it and i marvel
he's alive to tell the tale herunter letter to his mother on august eleventh nineteen seventeen i am all by an early train to morrow for
the rest billets behind the firing line where we shall be for a time to get to know our men et cetera i am going up with two poles and we
are all pleased i shall think of you all allamater and now you won't forgive me were fighting hard now and is a serious game where all
ready to lay down everything if need be and if god wills on ready sir good by and wish me luck in you loving son burn and second tenant
bernard wilful long was killed in action at age twenty one at the battle of landmark on august sixteenth nineteen seventeen four hundred
men from his battalion went into action all ten of the officers of from the battalion died along with two hundred and sixty four of the men
on september eleventh nineteen eighteen there's another young man sergeant david her an american dropped out of columbines ity to fight
world war one he sent a letter to his mother the day before the attack on san millrace he wrote to morrow the first to american drive
commences and it gives me inexpressible joy and pride to know that i shall be present to do my share should i go under therefore i want you
to know that i went without any terror of death and that my chief worry is the grief my death will bring to those so dear to me some having
found myself a merry there has been much to make life sweet and glorious but death while this tasteful is in no way terrible i feel
wonderfully strong to do my share well and for my sake you must try to drown your sorrow in the pride and satisfaction the knowledge that i
died well and so clean a cause as is ours should bring you remember how proud i have always been of your superb pluck keep elizabeth's
future in mind and don't permit my death a bow your head my personal belongings will all be sent to you your good taste will tell you which
to send to marry may god bless and keep you dear heart and be kind to little elizabeth and those others i loved so well david the end and
while the americans actually broke for the german lines in the attack they suffered seven thousand casualties in seventy two hours of
fighting and twenty year twenty year old david cur was among the dead and that attitude that attitude were des is not fear we to find
examples of it in so many different places a great example is from the american civil war from a man by the name of sullivan balu now after
the ballet for somethin in eighteen sixty one present lincoln called on the states to form a militia troops to put down the rebellion and
sullivan bale who was born in rhode island was one of those volunteers and he was commissioned a major in these second road island infantry
regiment i was there in command and the second rhode island infantry regiment moved to washington and joined the union army of northeastern
virginia and on the fourteenth of july eighteen sixty one from washington sullivan wrote his wife a letter that here are some excerpts from
that letter my very dear sarah the indications of very strong that we shall move in a few days perhaps to morrow lest i should not be able
to write you again i feel impelled to write lines that may fall under your eye when i shall be no more our movement may be one of a few
days duration and full of pleasure and it may be one of severe conflict and deaf to me not my will but thine o god be done if it is
necessary that i should fall on the battle field for my country i am ready i have no misgivings about or lack of confidence in the cause in
which i am engaged and my courage does not halt or falter i know how strong we american civilization now leans upon the triumph of a
government and how great a debt we owe to those who went before us through the blood and suffering of the revolution and i am willing
perfectly willing to lay down all my joys in this life to help maintain this government and to pay that debt but my dear wife when i know
that with my own joys i lay down nearly all of yours and replaced them in this life with cares and sorrows when after having eaten for long
years that better fruit of orphanage myself i must offer it as their only sustenance to my dear little children is it weak or dishonorable
while the banner of my purpose floats calmly and proudly in the breeze that my unbounded love for you my darling wife and children should
struggle in fierce though useless cocotes with my love of country i cannot describe to you my feelings on this calm some of night when two
thousand men are sleeping around me many of them enjoying their last perhaps before that of death and i suspicious that death is creeping
behind me with his fatal dark and communing with god my country and you care my love for you is deathless it seems to bind me to you with
mighty cables that nothing but the omnipotence could break then yet my love of country comes over me like a strong wind and bears me
irresistibly on with these chains to the battle field the memories of blissful moments i have spent with you come creeping over me and i've
feel most gratified to god and to you that i have enjoyed them so long and horrid is for me to give them up and burned to ashes the hopes
of future years when god willing we might still have lived and loved together and seen our sons grow up honourable to manhood around us i
have i know but few small claims upon divine providence but something whispers to me perhaps it is wafted perhaps it is a wafted prayer of
my little adder that i shall return to my loved ones unharmed if i do not my dear sarah never forget how much i love you and when my last
breath was cape me on the battle field it will whisper your name forgive my many faults and the many pains i have caused you how faultless
in foolish i have often times been how gladly would i wash out with my tears every little spot upon your happiness and struggle with all
the misfortune of this world to shield you in my children from harm but i cannot i must watch you from the spirit land and hover near you
while you buffet the storms with your precious little fright and wait with sad patience till we meet to part no more but o sarah if the
dead can come back to this earth and flit unseen around those they love i shall always be near you in the garrison in the darkest night a
mister happiest seeing this and gloomiest hours always always and if there be a soft breeze upon your cheek it shall be my breath or if
cool air fans your throbbing temple it shall be my spirit passing bye sarah did not mourn me dead think i am gone and wait for thee for we
shall meet again as from my little boys they will grow as i have done he never knew a father's love and care little willie is too young to
remember me long and my blue eyed edgar will keep my frolics with him amongst the dimmest memories of his childhood sarah i have unlimited
confidence in your maternal care and your development of their characters i call god's blessing upon them o sarah i wait for you there come
to me and lead thither my children sullivan and on july twenty first eighteen sixty one the regiment took part in the first battle of bull
run and as one of the sea erasers solvin went in front on horseback to direct his men and he was hit by a can and ball that tore off his
right leg and also killed his horse then he died from his wound a week after the battle while the prisoner of the confederate army had aged
thirty two again unindividual obviously prepared to make the at ultimate sacrifice then we know that the enemy can be equally prepared to
die and we saw that clearly from the comatose pilots from japan in world war two one of those young kamikaze pilot was named kirira and he
was a member of the seventy second shin boossa and he wrote this letter dear father and mother i trust you and my brothers are doing well
recently it has been decided that i will go at last to take part in the battle of okinawa as a member of the special attack forces m deeply
moved i only look forward to sinking a ship with a single blow when i look back i apologized for not being devoted to you in any way for
some ten years to this day through teaching by various senior officers after i entered the army i now devote myself to my country as a
special attack force member pretind pleasure in your desire for my loyalty to the emperor and devotion de parents i have no regrets i just
go forward on my path i asked that you teach my three brothers so they can serve our country as noble a man inculpe do take good care of
yourselves and make stringers efforts on the home front please give my regards to all my relatives and to every one in the neighborhood
association cionar you kill iraqi then he did indeed die at the age of seventeen in a suicide tack on american ships near ocanna twenty
seventh nineteen forty five and the japanese also imposed their willingness to die on their people and here is a description of that
burlington from american sailors from the journal of an american sailor named james vi who served on the u s s montpellier in the pacific
and the utiroa on november tenth nineteen forty three this afternoon we came across a raft with four live japson it as the destroyer spent
came close to the raft the japs opened up with machine gun at the destroyer the jap officer then put the gun and each man's mouth and fired
blowing out the back of each man's skull one of the japs did not want to die for the emperor and put up a struggle the others held him down
the officer was the laste die he also blew his brains out the spence went in to investigate all the bodies a disappearing to the water
there is nothing left but blood and an entirest swarms of sharks everywhere be sharp save well to day we went to battle stations and at ten
p m we were attacked by an implants later darkness descended in the rain came and just coming off the episode that we did with musaeo sly
overcame his fear of death and i got a book in the mail from japan and the book was called the hundred rules of war its from some one in
japan named eric eric shehan who turned out to be the actual translator of this book and ease translated a bunch of other japanese books on
martial arts and he asked me if this book the hundred rules of war if any of the the rules inside this book apply to moderator and i read
through the book and i read the book and came to a very clear answer that yes not only do many of the rules in the book applyin warfare
they also applied to life in general like many of the rules that i talk about and this book the hundred rules of war which by the way in
weasie y seven rules in it but the book was originally written by sukahiro bok woulden who lived from fourteen eighty nine to fifteen
seventy one that has actually before musagetes cause massacres born they say in fifteen eighty four so this this book pre dates musashi and
there's there's actually multiple revisions on this book it's interesting people would get it and add something to it over the years there
was a forward written to the book in the mid sixteen hundred by tackanash and then there was an after word written by one of the grand
children of boaden students and there is another section the first eight lines in the book that were added and those are attributed to show
gun you she won and he's a shoat rule the japan from seventeen sixteen until seventeen forty five so this book is very interesting and um
since eric who sent to me is obviously fun japanese all apologize of course from my bad japanese pronunciation but will go for it renown a
take you through some of the sections of this book that again i feel not only applied to combat a day but to life to day an interestingly
here is the will start off a little bit with the introduction and this is again written by what written after the riginal book came out and
this guy added this interruption to it and he is describing how great the book is so little that arrogance in this but it's okay cause he
said he he's not saying he wrote he say look as book as important and here we'd go to the book if you change at the people if you change
out the word if you change out the place is and if you change out every generation it is like the difference petrina do snow and is there
each formed by the same water that's interesting for i as thou art argiope then you can be different times different places different
different surroundings but it's like the difference between rain and dew and now i sit the same water saint people of the same back the
book les words should be read by any and every one who follows the way of the warrior speak them aloud to that you may hear them in your
ears and fail to heed them at your peril they are not simply words to revere and praise if you are attempting to acquate the teachings
within this scroll to any other work know that this is knowledge it can be found only after some boding the tallest peak of a mountain the
depth of the wisdom contained in these pages makes the sea seem shallow by comparison if you were to compare a person versed in these ideas
to a stone you would find the latter soft by comparison poubastit launching an arrow or poling a bowstring of launching an arrow raising
your whip encouraging your steed dawning your armour taking up your lands gaining fame and honour of becoming one who starts a great house
read this book listen to it understand the unmistakable truth he would be utterly foolish to not lock them in your mind in my opinion even
if you live through a hundred generations over a thousand years coming across another book like this would be like to a blind turtle who
comes to the surface once every hundred years climbing its way into a hole on a piece of driftwood i like that now as we jump into this
book there's one more thing i need to atisaya there's these additions kind o to the buck over time well one of the additions to the book i
mean is books written in the fifteen hundred but one of the additions to the book and this is something that that eric added that he found
a translation of the book by a researcher and a practitioner of the sword arts in the guise name was harry showed he and he produced the
text and he put little helpful interpretations kind of furthering the ideal little bit so i'll read those sometimes because it gives a
little bit of clear fication as to what's being talked about and these first eight lines are actually at o'live it up for these first a
lines of this book being in fairly epicerie again these were written by tokugawa shogun yoshimune and again he was the shelgunoff japan
from seventeen sixteen to seventeen forty five and hears what he added to the book and i think these are well here's the man you cannot
have pleasure without pain and you cannot have pain without pleasure your struggles now will be rewarded in the future so you must endure
right yes kanipe for itself does it not whiteface i think we call that dispensed omit be reverent towards the law be afraid of fire be
afraid of thoughtless delusional people and never forget to be reverent to those you owe a debt of gratitude to miss one of us things that
would we say now never for you re came from rentier frere your came from well don't forget those people that i got you there a cause where
you came from somebody help you along a way and so don't fergit about that next one you should think of greed and lost as the enemy concur
i think i like that one you should neither sleep late nor talk too long now i guess i'm kind of the doctor lana may be violated at of the
regular estates once a week on a bank haemi too sometimes actually you might violate anahita here's here's a guy don't sleep late and you
know i get this all every time i every time somebody talks me out sleeping and some one says welhaven shaft or well i work late and my my
kids and go to bed until midnight i can i get it my sing every one in the world has to wake up and for third if i wot i'm saying is it you
shouldn't sleep lay right yeah if you worked the night shift not sleeping late might be waking up at noon your ye didn't oversleep is my
point tethea just like a like a we all want to like stay cosinder ben and penetier time right here now becomes its idea for sure that's
what i get from him anyway but the man detoriated four thirty and if you don't wake up it for thirty year back he like some one some one um
i have pinioned on the interweb bright and liliastrum sure on the pole bar and he in the polyaemon some someone said he if if some one has
navonis they don't work out and then someone else said well what if you're on a marathon he still work out if and surpassant a you know if
it's the twenties gets off right ciganas watches and further than yes yes you get so all run aerates you can you know look at look at rob
jones you know she's rather one marearea the other standing some were not amusing him of not worked her lack of your ollesheimer there all
right next take care to organize even trivial things then if something major occurs it will not catch you off guard so that the little
things that matter to tencennial or we are going to military i joke about it they make you fold your underwear then like a four by four
inch square and that's the thing there to try to teach you attention to detail you cause as you as talking to a marine buddy mine i think
it was i want say was morgan yea and they were they landed their helot gunner whoever was in charge of the weapon cracked off a fifty cow
round even to the wall was the over fifty comorin the copter a dicated off around he if a weapon gets hot a condition ucatella it's called
cook off you've got a brown in the chamber and the walkinshaw and i can use make that round off from what the wet anything this weather
from hot if it's hot while you're shooting it okay with an eye i should thank you and you shoot etain and now i can hatter's a all wool a
hot round sitting in the chamber and i am minites by her you don't know him better how long it's going to be could be day could be five
minutes a but boom of a sudden just fire yes and this so before in this particular case i am not sure the weapon system it was a fifty
galgenhugel they had a mounted but any way he should have cleared it before he folded it up into the eloot do that and so he pulled the the
rounds out but there's one round sitting in the chamber ensuring the kopff lets a kind of thing when they're trying to get you to pay
attention to small details yet the trivial face ye see real things aren't too trivial ye d did they expedite exclaim that you like one when
you folding your underwear do they ascentional they do and i've talked about this before on the toast that my drone struck her in in
officer candidates school at the end of a caniche explained why on everything the end at the end tell it after me as i lay on the norse no
while you're doing it though they'll all be saying how can you you can't even fold yonward not right how could he trust you with a weapon
system in a dell say that kind of thing you but you don't really when you're well what i was going to brag of a boot camp with your just
transpired your mind is being transformed from civilian world to millinery also you're not you don't have good perspective yes you do as
you like weapon sist of man what i oftenest eofor not you can't see the big picture i mean i i couldn't i was too young or too dumb or a
little bit of both is but they do their saying ay how could you how can you talk you trust dapperling if you can even fold one of where
right may i oracling well they are maybe i shouldn't be whitewashed wherries so sir trying to teach you attention to detail and it is good
and it does apply to everything he now does a pie everything and you you do the little things right and that way the little things are in
order and that means to big things even if they catch you all off guard your least prepared for ye ye that that whole thing i mean i dig it
you know how they're talking is like that but that whole thing were how do you expect to do this when you can't even you know tie your
shoes right or whatever you know like a sore don't mind it that i do bawating you how are going to re i cause a lot of things is like a
false little equivalency there so something there's calling you to pay attention to lanigan antoinette i get that part of it for sure but
i'm playing like a essayeth are not explaining why i i and i could be wrong will there be lading wiehe doing it they are not doing or not
breaking it down ranitch teacher is rigalid cocales it be taounyawatha just it they're not there saying he initiated or so with a rifle if
he forenight yes o intendant and he would say there's maybe i didn't see his big picture but i saw the little picture will ye well that's
me the thing ultimately like um the one like and i mentioned mister me like un cried current kitten right where he's like wax on off you
know and he loosed it at the end he gets the picture you know but as he's doing it i mean he did say you know if you can't send the floor
are you going to put in the terminating like that but well he is teaching him some kinotah neque i'll let you right assentially what
they're doing as far as attention to detail their may you in julotta would make you there's nothing in tanderadei there a foot walk pieces
a wood he but that's pretty tinted like that an obvious translation in not like romaninov's like punching a punching bag you know painting
is to try jack all right go on excellent ninety per cent is not enough only one hundred per cent will keep disaster at that it's good show
of course many times i'll say hey eighty you got an a percentage to go right in a city will sit around the way for rioration now which is i
think that's a little bit different but this i think if you're talking about effort ye right the effort has to be one present yet not
getting a hundred percent satis as settling thing too right where you know the one i oleson like to sell you know it don't sell for name
per cent what road it mongooses required exactly for it it would hear that's the way get from it next to having good judgment also means
being able to endure endure take pain as not just pain it also been able to take just just other none i am come to it like dis comprende
how many people don't want to do a job just because it's it's just because it's growing in niponese me a lot of your halakanara now
currently oiseaurie that's my general attitude from for the most part sometimes what was the worst most menial job that you really hate it
a my worst job that are really hated was being a move an american hovers on a while in all for the summer would then you get a little bit
what like like a man going to move the king really fastened off it is like unearther heap all day like a news beds like thirteen hours a
day average there were constructed there were tatooer constructions and the first day on the job site date the guise came in to the windy i
worked at wendy sir in the guistiniani this old tinguian in looks metapontine parisianing ran he says you want to work here i should no sir
is you want work construction with me i said yes sir he said broodmare were over critter built the place right across his rairies so i
showed up there in the morning he therethrough come with a too concrete block to that the weregild be little foundation wall and they just
dumped it you know a hundred yards away all these concrete box you know and he says he your job to day if i move these blocks over to get
him over here near the foundation thinking as it were going a get some coffee and some donuts sir yes no not so i said yes sir and ye got
in to track with the guise right and i started moving these blocks i was running i was running yet inly running his fast second possibly do
it and i wasn't even do that as like a challenge to myself i was so happy to not be working at when deserta i would have i mean i just was
filled i haate clear i get always walk then into another guy was there who didn't go to get coffee on us and he can to give me a bed you
need to sew on yet and you know you're goin to make him a look that he and i go would just say hey i'm going pretty selestiall do whatever
you i'll be your job you can sit there in once yes but what eating i tell any of that you didn't get any i mean i don't propose will
challenge us to yourself yet ever to work creta's actually how i doubt by conical canine do you hear you at there's a way to get by you
should tell people because some people are stuck in job as they don't like right at this moment in time there listening for cast and there
working at wendy's ye and i worked at wanes brow yet anaitean if on it locker down in hard there worked at full out but did what we in like
it when they as diane back stalk of thousand stuff like that do now you won't find hymen on quite working to fill up with kind well when
you lock in black an that's gondoletta the raft uniform at all at a man when we that were in high school yistermorn out a ticists tediously
weird how your perspective changes yea i was thinking about that the other day when you were young team guy and you get like one i got my
first apartment i was i might as well and dollies to redicote will be there as if i was the man yes but then as you you know you settled it
that then you can wait winbolt house alight you got to be beat but weary of the greed that's true that's true but that's natural though
right it's like that i don't you get used to something it becomes the new standard you know that whole thing works right well okay then
what's a difference between to some one because you you and i both knowing we all know people there's people that get to the comfort zone
and then they're not what it iftiohar on a down and some of the kissableness all right i'm comfortable here but one more yeh wanna do more
maybe not want more because at implies a materialistic point but one as want more a yenter both like really like obviously prevalent and
like almost natural can get both soles personalities age but that i'm sure we're all like bear but of that i am sure everybody is not of
those things in one way or other you know like in oh ye you don't lie probable didn't like the comfort in big type as far as certain things
you know i don't know why i heartily you know i can't owe you don't want the oisting because if he take about it you see some one i got
seventy per cent body fat yea and you go do ye that dost seventy severest scot like like that socks like yes that person she moreno try and
get that time of dropped appetition fear but there's some one that's looking at me some guy that's obsessed with being lean as how he's a
on me like a kepple jocasta whatever ye to want he resented whatever my per cent body fat is yet he oothabakanda ones my comforts and now
not enough not to i am no no because it's not like you were getting after it looking up for your body percent levels and then you hear a
certain number and then you were like a who cares knothing on in that that's the way it went here's what have i not with you obsedant speak
you know as far as your comfort ones go but a typical one will say is that you know gudewill be working out and like getting their fresh
hair cut or whatever and then they'll get married and then they won't work out of him again due girls whatever oh you know and do that they
the colique let themselves go off to the give married like deckhand stuff but they might focus a lot more on their career and then they
might want more of that but then the you know it's like that kind of stuff the idear watch out for the comfort of yahia right next oh now
we've moved beyond those opening lines and now we get into the boat of the bill book which gain which is written by this book gain by and
here go it does not matter whether you are filing firing at an enemy near you or opponent some distance away you should be adapted
selecting the best arrow head and then the the amplification on that says the lesson here is that you need to strong arrow for an adversary
at close range but a lie one for aiding in a point of far away and i guess when i read this the point that i got out of it was you you need
to be able to let you toilsome the man and as a heider you need to be able to select think of all the tools we've talked about on this
pocasset you need to use as a leader in some gods got be a little bit harsh with a guy sometimes get a bigot a flake a guy sometimes got to
be directors all these different tools that you need to use a leader you got a bee depth at selecting the right tools and i gave a man a
for on her one time about about the how ahuli a woodworker cried this is actually what's interesting about the ward worker metafor is as a
leader you have to be like a word work or which means she need to learn all these different types of tolbod to learn how to use these
different tools on different types of wood and each one of these types of ward is willis individual piece of voice little bit different
than a long not in it a grain they get things so you you can't just learn him a canial skill he you have to learn to be a true raftsmen
with the tools and as to learn about what the different types of people they are and the yesterday each even a different type like this
person might have been a bit teetotler thing you will not be a little different grain a collie a barber you know the veritie clipper for ye
and ye but at the thing and it depends you know that's true like a barber or a guess would be sane type of craft and ate work with the
varying medium sure ye pretty much anybody really everybody you've watched the social network brought was that child on one or it's a one
you first that here i am yellacks above face book in jacobite first when you hear about the literatus brought that a good movie really good
movie anyway if it's a movie as though of his in show or move a movie or the topical network is awkward yeah yeah i shall it's really lay
over to his awkwardness you think abe may be up yet maybe an i don't really follow um sacabo know his awkwardness or whatever beerapore
call him to us he is up cause i like going tiridates a horse but he he's in as doing something is is breaking into the the college but or
main friede he's breaking into and he's canonading what he's doing is like i had to do this i do break out this is you know and he is on
the same thing to a really really part integrity he on ellis the noon cat of media could have on reyther because it is so trite these
rights all cold and you know so you care to solve this problem but then this problem comes up and then this will and has these specific
problems so you have to solve on but i can't just feel with a current toolhouse to norration when he was creating it of him of what it was
going to be well die feel that confident about miss essie did ease the whole vision or the like wake up one day and see hanging on to be
really on a it was the sad like a slow evolution into it because at first it was like he started with this thing called face smash which
was basically dis comparing the girls yet on campus like whose hotter n and then you click o she thought it many good of an excellent she's
a you know the hand that's called blooded ye and now's tubby part of it was like despoliatum stuff like that and then i just slowly ah no i
was a social network these guys is never wear or like what a cheater would do right oh i be time and i was they were trying to emphasize
two more like you just wanted to be like light by people on menotomy fog or on a mouth of be like a year all rod of a this is little
losada's there's some inconsistencies with it but now when where does it it would be weird to meet him would not do some to my c i to meet
you but to actually know him i guess yes with some one there in his pin people that i've kind o known that were a whatever so i semmy
famous or so or whatever the word is sure and and in real like on t they seem like they're not co people but in regular life there really
cool and then the obsita also seen worse some one is seen super cooleen you see their person one and in real life they are not go yes yes i
guess it'd be pretty commented cannot be inconsistent in that way or or had it been consist in as far as your expence with that person
seems like that be kind of comment on right because a lot of people if their famous or if their you know famous hope whatever ye a love him
did he kind o got a turn it on for the camera or in especially because you are essential up performer in one way or another whether the
actor or whoever you know even like business men you know like it's weird and it's not even the carlia thing it's more like for lochaber
are required saying you know so like my brother for example like if i know him but there went to hear him talking to like like out o know
he othersome tanor like game every one a while he'll be ill see you unlikely interview or something and i like like he this only cause i
know i know i won't it little trifling olivia joe roger either actually met grogan long time about when i was just deemed on a denstone an
you know you know how jorinde on me back to a super college this is saved i then when i was up on his pack as in the a sanehat that you
have a good durocher ottoman a dry and strangely enough i the exact same experience and this is in this old dissolute demon straight how
legitimated it right so sam exact seriously for the first time with them and my wife we want to we can a new red and ritson story so we
went to one of his shows we got to go to one of the shows and go talked on after which right soothers amaticlan super nice game is email
the heiligenstadt ialdabaoth and then so the next time i see him on when i went to ilegant to train one of ben la for in oposite side train
at legend so i go there and am he's there you rolling with her one and everything in notes like he's known there whatever you know like a
come just as another person there is first training of and in um so he's kind of cruising on the sight of some one to go at home to roll us
like a what i be i may you with de long time ago you know few years ago whatever is like he was a head a massive been a lot like he told me
dinner remember me you do not like i remember you so now i'm going to be cool to you i was a he did totally dinner remember me i was
probably one of many people and you still just as cool so he starts talking that you you know how like you there and here you had its small
talk before you get on and then a so that small talking start talk about current yes he stuff we didn't even roll you i just want to listen
to him talk about you said so he are all but same thing same exact danger and then and even when i went up to simier the meta mastiff ready
base taming he liked forgot inborn that was like a years ago and he was like all had it must have been long time the same exact to have a
galenicall i actually risked face the fact that disclaimer yet he fully yes he's a esas and played a game yet i actually met eighty million
people in utter we remember you but it's good to hang out with you right now again yes exactly i get that he and this man of course do you
go ivan is like this and it is people are like this in general that is just like i said that kind of like a now late miss tesselaris
indicator you know he didn't remember it so really since i dare member me for all intense purpose the laust another person and say
exactement just cool this normal on it wasn't like i mean you're you and there is his separation kind of the ontwell none of that or no
good way to be ireland atacama one you dropped your ain the name and we say salineville you know e gooin named of the proper all right next
your mount should be of normal strength and spirit horses with a strong urge to win or fearful and suscitated be rejected out of hand so i
thought this was interesting because we're talking about finding some one that's balanced right not not some one that's he is a normal
normal strengthen spirit don't want some one that's to pragerhut you don't want some to the week you want someone is in the middle and to
the amplification on it says horses without nerve or weak while a horse with a lot of spirit cannot be written by normal people in other
words a slightly strong somewhat plucky horse is best plucky by the way second time we were that word to day this is a sign to learn the
word do you know what an onion him now now the brave plucky means while reading brave as does indeed had looked at one up similar here as
long as a horse is strong is acceptable it is acceptable for it to have a certain inclination however never ride a horse with a tendency to
retreat so to get a strong horse he is it's basically can be this is as long as the thing is not in a turn tail if it's a little bit fictif
it's a little bit is little to that you can have a little bit different personal and when it waiteth missis as a leader wants again you're
going to get people with some tangoing on isn't mettle personality that ransome little like when you're putting ether sea then your hansom
guys titter got some idiosyncrasies right yes get a leakt sixteen guys is yet you've got thirty six guys in the task in it they are not all
the same by any stretch and some of them are to be even further outside the box of odious there now some kind of this idiosyncrasy we might
even call it in echo which is covered to work but on a regnart sure okay what this is saying is as long as they're not going to retreat and
run where are right now but if they're going to retreat rutha's there at your shingray canna ye you rid of em what do you call felbridge
houbraken do you break a big time all right next to was small horses may be easier to handle as well as dismount from those who prefer such
animals are are a bit dim waited so when i like my fistes if you are liars position you might want her surround yourself with people at her
just wet that the just do you say in their belinda my horses all just to fall mind and to get on it off and if i yellee don't bet on bark
back yet you want those people you want people that are a little bit harder to handle just a little bit harder handle they reinstated up to
you for hearsay don't to be routed a yemen you want to be surrounded by people that will question you to anaitis plan so that's kind of
horse as you want not not little plane we courses no an next you should know that a person wearing a new leaf for sword will invariably
blunder even if that sort catwell to basically isis eadach i now as little bit he lay fifth letitia it's it's you should know that a person
wearing a new ford sword will invariably blunder even if that sword cuts well okay that's so we got to watching you guys and hears the
implication on this one i swore that is not at least a hundred years old as one that you cannot rely on god to aganfik young people full of
vigor and energy the vitality of a young sword is not intirely staple you cannot rely on it hey you got a watch yet you got to watch
unproven unproven m got a watch him the mixens to me i not say there won't be bad as is yet i beg rent they might be i had new guys that
were boomlet bad asses but you don't know that i had no guyser you'd think they're going to be good werdenthal in elbury little bit lately
sure not friends few you have ideas on to make it through you you don't know but this mental ray you're a yanatas hermeneutical it's a
mental hand says ical hate can you get cut from buds just because you not like lee is there like he bain't know but you know at say there's
a run mum and you got a you know you do they are is there any circumstances that are this or some more of this work you got to make this
run and you know ten minutes whatever and if you don't make the ten minutes you are out yet but there is duffers absolutely there's a
there's actually the standard time should run had been in place since i went through into the same m a for the follicule for mile time run
you a formal time drawn in first face the time maximine you can take and is thirty two minutes the ray two minutes would you run in that
that stuff your your surprise because that's slow right four mile that the namrasit minute mile that's pretty far what prefet's three fast
that in second face to go down to thirty minutes brow you used to run a white of olio do it but it's not like that ye let me along let me
tell you that is not fast that on a in second face cause to thirty minutes in norate goes to twenty at missus to seven minute mile that is
not fast yes a year gannay like ten minute mile this is what this is what chips people up or gems people up as you like to say what she has
people up is when you do the run you're not fresh that the thing you're not gayeties you wear boots booth yolanda your on the soft hand on
the sand a yoannet sandlike part of it will be hard pack it but then like part of its going be soft you and and this has janette bit from
one i've been told when i went through destructors maybe that run was four point two miles is for point five hands agias liviston mouse
they they kind of estimate so if you didn't make it the time so when not when i went through if you didn't make the time for that at
ferrante add your name if you fail to gain your done oasis like menstrie yes i'll take out shall the interesting thing is if you fell to
run hinten you found the swim did you could still will you still be there is defiled the runners or on an you an ye if you fail to run and
a swim and you fall illocal course he'd still be there go shall want more time they call it beat on the bubastite that actually came from
altercantes school don't think we said the bubble there's new things that that that develop and bud here tacticos on the bubble play time
he and the bulblike a disherit odds or lets me in general no you're all as yet you have you a iolace ye so thanks okay so that that's a can
mean by its physical cause like ye the fiscal like if you don't eat you can fail yenisei telling people this lately i had to run as fast as
i could possibly run to astro for that for me i would thou be me to and the one time one time i pay to myself as a unslippable ingebor that
as manteufel like a serafino then on and had a body that was a cross country runner in a nice school or college or something and he's a hay
run with me and i yagonigonheten is hard as it and that's ireton every one ieron his heart as i could alfandega that ran across country
does browner joke for those guys benglieto big deal for i mean there's a lot of people that can run five minute miles ye that are doing
those runs and you know if a formaline twenty to twenty two minutes yet in the imagining that honorius that you thought that was fast i
think i'd just catch you off garden its slow due it might be slow even the way me my fastened in pendle my slow when i used to look like
run i outrun on the treadmill and i would run a seven men in a low cold be of a tradition no not part of my point you run on the tread me
run like a seven minute mile pace and i'd be like dan and but i only do like one mile and a bee like good that here i don't and i've i've
only run on a treadmill like the retinas it's a few years like if i i was on more ships i would run around the flight deck ye still that's
what i mean religion these guys are united in eight minutes might usually when i'd run like four miles or five miles on the treadmill it be
like ten like just hundred like a minute something on i don't even know how to turn pictured i nestle don't well i don't know how that
turns life yes so i would say it's like but a night in of mile is pathetic right that an that's well the piece old run my four miles and i
wouldn't be dead but i'd be that beast as there is a harder sonitui you want me to run an eight minute savein eight minute mile would boot
in the sand even some of the time you're crazy i would be notasine from hers what i'm hearing apparently ye i'll be going like you is as i
possibly can do an it jack day back to the book where while you should select a sword with a handle that is long and thin you should reject
any sort with one that is excessively long i like that a wad of these rules are balance there about balance that's if thereabout you want
it long and thin but drink of too long near you are a horse that's strong but not overly strong on your lathis is a walabout balance and
here's the amplification you are less likely to drop a sword with a thin handle however in cold weather you are liable to drop out sort
with a thick handle the most part went on horseback you should pass a string through the hand guard of your sword and tie it to your arm
once you drop it you by the picket up again have landed have a lane or on your weapon be leach had lord no that's different on an unmeaning
rest the finiteness or for dogs i don't see i i had my whole career cattleated all my pistol m only needed at one time tangoer of leaving
meet i only dropped my pistol one time o ye yes next a again to an it is good for the tip of your spirit to be long however if it is too
long you may find yourself in trouble amplication the blade on the end of your spirit should be long but not excessively so if it is to
have that you lose it valence gotta keep things balanced at even if you were able to fly up into the sky without feathers you have no
chance of victory with the spear you cannot wield with your own tailor to hand i like that one is that kind of like curls over packing for
a trip and making you carry their stuff i don't think it has anything to do with that kind of flat on you really think about it if but
oushe can't carry her yes i was all our stuff that she needs an she's goin to do well on the vacation for his comfort was whatever but she
can inferiority would have made it not about vacation but about a fool sambethe woods right like a scrape that you brought a whisper like
an extra food and all this other stuff and you can't carry it a year merely was talking o that i erotesis with arelaise twenty seven in
grand brigatine ready for welbore you are a as it was was the double duty was getting acclimated to being together hundred and twenty three
yet in hand getting acomat to running around the marine cord is out they been out there for months sprinting from order to corner the
evener and they've already met him minimise gear somewhat and lay shows up snot only easy a little heavy or maybe even a lot heavy i but
also he's getting acclimated to it a double it's it's a one to punchinelli this is a good one while the shaft of your spear should be long
ignored the ground that your peril refers read that like masooku is that made let me to go to ground here's the amplification he lengthwise
your spear as well as a weight lighter heavier should differ based on three factors you your enemy and the battle ground so even if your
spirochete not having an understanding of the deterents and feet to rain at what his tateens by ground a nor the ground at your peril and
this is something that's very difficult it's it's something that we don't talk about even even i've talked about it before this potassium
knowing tradita what that's what combat is combat is now in understanding the drain it's no understand the ground it's understandings
lanfeare and buildings and what angles produced in and where you patrol should go and wear a good ambush it would be that is all based on
knowing the ground the train is what we call it a copperated knowing derangers might creeture micro to rain with his little draw dead space
all these little things are so important so that rule absolutely applies to this day next samarin gorges themselves that banquet eating
twice a day is more than enough amplification sam remus train themselves to be able to withan hunger and to always be on their guard from
days past it was said that two meals a day is plenty it appears there were some people eating three times a day in this arasapha ill did
you eat three meals a day greenhouse sometimes to one of feeling in war your spirit is yet they iraca heard that i think hilaris the one
who told me what at the homeland i wasn't as much as it was the amount of meals the day i was a like the type of meals you know they would
be holothuria or or the yet they have a certain mary like an afore but racey in a few notice it is really like bananas in one combers and i
exaggerate that your very were we hate he met the smooth firm one time it was like terlake i'll say cream cheese and there with water
melinand but it was like interesting little max but it was good though but it was left in like a lot of the studio life because you for you
know when you get a lot of people coming in triacle you at the academie ayudante ple canonite be ready or to be ah so you can't be like oh
i just ate up you know i don't know i don't want her new york's lasterie to you what you meet the morning before you were out atratinus
annalise to before i traignel say all is to own a half i don't eat an hour and a half before i turned i don't even like to eat ye see our
idling rright be psychological imitateth that chicken to day not the lad all like if i don't eat now you might get angry to go then by the
time of training day i tankin i would have to eat when we are gone and almost sure forty five minutes to an hour and a man than that and i
don't like that he onstage rather nought eat we'll consider this were in the real general way of explaining it if you go on you eat
something your stomach got a work your swing muscles the ones move muscles as a post scaletta smooth moselikatse to work he didn't you know
it and and emson there all the stuff so whereaway from your what's akolouthia abloo low like a esoteric the resources of your body to going
to your stomach now and now you wanted demand some resources for the rest your body will on you go to train the stomach like what about us
resources fail from the stomach little bit stoffels upset you might throw up mum or feel like it and i almost put the other day yet all
right this same subject that's why i'm goin to write to it if i samarie preparing to step on the field of battle as wide to avoid is wise
to avoid eating anything other than hot water poured over risest one way to do it keep mapleton if you eat a lot and a bake with the for a
great battle the food will not have settled by the time the fighting starts echo charles called it if you then were have your head chopped
off all that food or come out it would save a great big mass food wilna passed down the throat of a coward it appears to you is not common
cardinet one something a samurai should never be without as the thing you used to shore and your blade a weppone next in sprayey you bring
your rings when you go in your going come then i go for multiple days if i go if i'm only an be gone for like two or three days i will
disease wotever nd and pull up or an find a maker ye but if i'm going for five days six days bring the rings ye that rings make a big
difference if you have rings yeanworthy could go just rang it when you think about it and i know this from experience it's it's in my car
it's harder to find something to do pull up son then what you expect you think i acted it like writewheh prohibatory you can entity can do
push up anywhere any part you can do you can climb bush up you go to ameliorate the incline push of any polite crazy squats and squaretoes
and jumps squat after a piece fair polter's why rings are like and what you have ranks it can also do ring gets you can ring push ups and
you can do like i sisos if you need him stumble do that but a lane martial and i you go mother the man he brought a man or her bragging and
out of it a lad every body wait square but hum but you can do everything what you have perrand you can usually find a place to do pops
somewhere parking her as they have little overhanging ledges they have i beams he can hang on to have i hate to say kindness going to
repent break it and spray water you were going a sprinkler sister and that's actually plumbing is a of my flight actually the cast iron
where they were the seed goes out of a building to use the big pine and its harbour when it's good tea i don't think that that's i think
that's the risk it there oh bralligan some sort of a a at the hotel were all in her don't tell my told you ye bring the ale bring their
lying eleanor on night nishi if you have your faults the text is unseen me for samrat be named with the flavour of food that is set down
before them his best that your meal be a soup made of boiled water poured over rise that's how they roll and if they're just like you know
what man eat rice with hot water port over it yes otherwise sad distraction do you think that that that sort of a sadism keeps keeps you
tougher come into yesday i e if it provided less distraction for mere gold cause i can in fitness and you know like working out vodyville a
lot of time like that's a factor bitin because you got a e a certain amount to maintain or gain weight and all this up and yomani certain
you know backs onotawah all this stuff so you can't just be from going to chase and yet wilder wherever you think you super delicious and
just eating and be like he is you you got to have like certain mona like lean stuff he yet had a bunch of sauces because there's extricates
her and all the stuff so ye if you if you can endure that kind the cantelopes it necessarily taste that good yet you see get through galway
better at about charlie palmetto balls of rice a day for six years yet i'm sure that in all that kind of help them how delay or what it's
like excepting of conditions a very well aye you know like you it's like if you if you're used to sleep on the floor with like now as on
the yever ye you know you can go sleep on some one's couch you kin go get rest pretty much anywhere in that's a good luxury if you is
social when you compare it to a situation where you don't you eat ill have that kind of tolerance you know you have amertone a certain like
softness and temperature and noyes level to own or petiole ye do in it some people now this fall right and while you're talking to miss
they want to cinating i can leave it to i i can see releasing on airplanes tetto i get little crouched up in a little ball soleleather with
the heat he actually said his the ample find information the profession of the samurai involved being in an extreme environment therefore
or made food of his is of no benefit to them you go do you think that people that just eat really really high and shoot all the time when
they go back to the king nor more food as it is it like are they suffering really a little bit a pea in on way depends all they regard it
you know is enoculation pony went as a kid we like it a lot of steak now sure when i was a kid we in need stake stay cost a lot of money
into and and when i was a kid we hamburgers sure all the loaves or in others much yes i didn't even like steak when i got in the navy at an
lecain like it i had to i didn't i do wasn't used to it you took me a couple of years before i started like an take ye usually you hit that
one stake that's like prepared perfectly and then in your mind you're like bang i love stake now and then even if you get it other tickest
for pared that perfect monterolier o don't reheaped to me yea only a eristic of i remember eating berges at wendy's theater she all right
next when entering a confrontation samoris should either look back on the path traveled nor what is off to left to right so the to me that
says poetizer and then he look at around you you see what you held your to you see what you got to do you an comfortin an you here's the
implication for the old that you should place yoursel place your full concentration on the battle and not allow your focus to last during
the course of the battle the most important aspect of the battle of the most important aspects of battle are the use of people and the use
of natural geography right ear leader you got to use our people correctly and as i just sacerdotal use it and actual geography those the
two most important things now can you get target fixation yes you can so you can get so focused that your violation on left and right you
might get flank me so you got to watch out for that one next samory should mind neither the kit of summer nor the cold of winter as they
raced on fields and over mountains exhausting their bodies bumstarara and he called her that welcome to the military you freeze and you
some wet that's the way it works a funny tony freddy in and you canna turn me on to just mentally it's more like putting your mind at a
certain inn certain way where a sure it'll be cold but it's not about how cold or not cold it is sure to be hit it's not about how hot or
not hot it is and you can't complain about that stuff and if you complain that's like that's the part that's going to jam you a home i
orario could not complain in the teams he heard his frontiers is funny i i do you can spin this real easily let's say you you and me are
out at the beach and it's warm but out here in california once a song as down a coorial quickly you don't have a sweat shirt with you give
it to i e he you've got a sweater a bagman i i have won any cause actually this is a contradiction cause if i don't bring one it is a man
well prepared her so a want in my bag rarities take it all you put her on her wait and now moise that and not even do that so even you
would not want us you just want to be tessalon as you can ye suck it up i don't want i don't want to you you see me putting on a sweat
shirt and an ye that i was called etonnement pamper myself happening what if i wasn't there pabouches alone it is a trade at eight the no
therese's no divine that a that so funny because before i thought like that out at thought that so dum like brulent or ruining your
experience or whatever you have to be with your watering or whatever one is actually happened yesterday rabelaisian test it and like the
clouds came in and i go cold yean my body mazovian to operate on and i was like a roisterer we both went gotteswillen he let him do it here
when he wasn't in the team still ye yes i wasn't just trying to cause it's only that little thing going on in the team i ask but i kind of
feel like thanking nera through just yes you know it fully like like get a rock in your shootin' theaters don't get it out in vitativeness
tell me like i would be the guy but i no cold you know i can't relate but after that for some reason i think i just morimond to like to bet
on your antipyrine see next as samurai you should take it upon yourself to spend time playing in water not doing so could well result in
disaster that's part one obviously i agree without an you got to be in the water part too sanrich as a matter of course engaged in contest
substract if you not then your muscles will become slack the obviously a support that one into this guy would you wanted me to read this
moyne that i was going to be i mean how could you not have as that novello everything i thought about all the time if lyone honor work out
here's what's funny about this u a he says that the peasant strengthened themselves with their day to day labordas test temselves by
lifting and carrying large stones in front of the local shrines and did push ups in order to build their muscles and thereby increased
their over all strength however beginning in the meira such feet and strength became began to be ridiculed and the use of rocks dwindled
thus it is hardly a surprise that the use of today weak ye iganasio like that now were like onotarse aqualung grown adult right it's
seenest rock and a that's colourit why eternise because i would say generally speaking that's kinda like all you that children you know
like what he goes on ooma fun of that yes tonaohgena stratiomys what do you think are the crossed fifth games are go ye have latinised
strongest man yes he a egrettes but totally agreed but i think if it's not like organized and then like presented in no kind of thing like
if men you were discresing that the beach and then i'm like oh fun we did mean menalee to australia right were like all cruising some down
time were filming this this you know the video and bride just turned into that well hundred petei was just mean so it will be went from
pusus he was like a he's like tanglements you did the challenge you did it and in maine yea yea teverino back yes and i make it girasole
the bag yet of grabbeth so it's not like a a two hundred pound bar doneraile thing ye see and that's a perfect example awarenesses rong i
think so too i agree with it on i agree with it i'm just i'm seen like if it's say we're all at i'd like a part of barbecue when lit just
avaporate be like that's totally acceptable you know the totonac houri it's all just guide like you know but if we are at a barbecue you
know let's say my daughter was a birthday party oyerheated yeah yuyudhan you to dare who kettle bell like it see who can do the night
whatever than to ninety pound on or something at my goodooroo i think aside from me you and me be hanulae gies that are are direct peers i
i from them i think people would be like you as i do motha's what i think they like you right at the real right next if you allow your
samory spirit to wither clearly your body will then follow suit you skin will begin to stretch as you gain wait part one i think we all
disagree with that radiolaria do you think that this goes back to the comfort question let's take you gets at a certain point where where
you say i don't really care if i get caught by this guy or i you know i am that guy's training for worlds and the hay if he catches me you
know what i mean eh yes i feel it your assertion is at a certain point you you you accept excepted yeah uh huh got okay i i do think it's
okay don't i know you do and and he not enough salute yes in eldorado when the door as you know hey atoka ye ye i'm i'm all the exclusive
right eh ha you know these kids are young and they're treating fred the the the the competition of that competition isn't got to get in
there with them and the right here that knocknascanelera flag on ye viola satan the door a choked at the heart entering it yes i i did it
and i'm not mayarise i think that when you except that i so if ten you sect it yea and the other thing i happen in your eugenia right yes
will because what happens as you you don't want to you don't want to get tapped out yes bad yes sir you do not get tapped out signorina try
ye and in it rishathaim yes fully and molly have you a friend things that all kind of entente into the equation so again it comes after
like why are you why are you training like wire you there in jodelet a whyte so yet if this seem what he talkin about where it's lycoctonum
love your cunnigan up what invent justifying it with in this case or i old their trainer world and and that's your your version of giving
up the yet spat but if it's like let's you're like an older guader and may be kinloss a step for whatever you know like i like people do
when they get older some time oh and you're like hay you know disguise getting out if i rise to that level of intensity i could get her or
some like that and it's like an iniaan not erycine smart yet right yes fluent if everyone is doing take down to your knees a little bit to
eat now it on exactly right that's something i e to check myself on some times yea i do big tasaaha bleibt that's a big one to a like when
you when you start like one in all out at thing yet on what it is is you when you allow your samarsi to wither that it dolebout he is when
you start saying you know what i'd rather still just keep fighting even though you're getting because young bucks coming up and jerrie
getting a train more than you and you got a workin it pay no it comes to me out then yes ye ye still codelike maintained the the spirit yea
yea let let them on people get married or they um they stop training or whatever and they they blame it on the marriage or they blame it on
their career and letting fat as ioeculative when people say that people say i'll say o now some one talking as some one alidade to train a
lot an i be all i mean i what what happened in this we know i got there two kids and you are just working alone i was like all you
iaokanann there no man to see it in their defence everybody's different the adeste have two kids the afore they're not you and the don't
you so you have that post my wife for good egialitis does make it heart it totally does insanit does make an art of with the kids and a
curer and stuff like that i was easy yeah's what i was going to say it's like trivialities invalid at the evident cat your warrior you
sommerspiret or you did it and if you didn't then you allotting which our true by the way by your as far as what you let you but of who
this person is hypothetical person if there courier or family got in the way you allow that to happen not easy totally not easy soft you
though at the end of the day i think samari are never without a sword on their hip this means of course that in honored enemy will arm
himself so enos expect in my mind always expect that your opponent is going to be armed business life whatever you're doing always e you
can the always expect that your opponent is ready a is expectantly be ready next as a samuraihood take care as to where your feet step as a
matter of course you never want to be off balance in case the unexpected occurs that's pretty self explanatory the ample fine information
systeme to keep himself for part all times she respond they have to be able to react comliness itating without any panic boom again does
that a fidove thing yester does no doubt about it a samarah are not aware of the things they should know or like cats that did not know how
to catch mightn't aware of stings they should know ye samarahau be continuously thinking about military manners matters failed to do this
at your peril those that serve in the military should be in a continuous state of thinking of warfare to be negligent in this war result in
failure and defeat you now i told this i tell us that young military people that i work with that this is your job this is your profession
and you got to do everything you can to master it and not mean what is being set right here continuously thinking about military manners
matters any samory who spends too much time playing ball coogate plucking the mouth harp or playing the flute or lie to become a coward
fatihahs as those in the military should never become overly in patching it infatuated with diversionary games conteegious some point i
like to get better ecatotowin heavier on me out there the whole oonnet while a samurai may be clumsy about some things the spear the horse
and the bow should not be among them like that this one is key samuraihood make a habit of regularly listening to tales of military combat
and rely on the learning found that there in this is a blatant peticoat ye then here's the empfingen by listening to such tales regularly
it will keep them fresh in your mind when actual combat arises they will be of benefit boonboon and i'm definitely got that fuaga all
kinsoboku that from gussie military that day can relate cause i'm telling you the stories that we tell a word over again their stories that
happen to real things this fire maneuverers people acting where there's none doing things be these things a real man is definitely helpful
the more you i wish i would have known more what i was in would have been infinitely better yeaning a focus on it though yes pegsworth to a
like cause they kind o keep her whole um like approach to lighten that that bad all frame you know don you so everything you know how i
edisonian perfection it talk about his old time it is if you are in the arbor right and from the mount yes you don't a one way but you
don't realize men there's there's infinite lead different ways to do it you can enter from the guard you can get it from the bottom
position you can get it from a cross siyou can get all the younger earmark from all these different positions it and every time you see it
from a differingly you get better at all of them yes sir eretime you see a military situation from a different angle from a lerret from the
ground to perfect bective from the old from the hot from the desert from the mountains you learn something in you better at it yet so it's
a lookin at things through that fret you know whatever it may be whether it be mother history whatever you're always kind of looking at
things in that way she or like the iliad this guy uncle uncle joe he was when a friend of the family and how i an a a ya and his hourely
good artist but yes to climb trees and take us just tree climbing i know brandon heptinstall me talking about erinose good fun but this guy
he'd always be like honey there's a magnate's an instinct of of climbing right panhuman davenant again yes i am sent on no he seems like a
year okay any air all be weird cause he pull out that climbing thing he pellitory up there no know that the kind like dan if you kind of
have these like looking at things through frames that are better useful you don't like a thing like better it's like man you can figure a
lot of things out that you go out people would have figured out gaein be bees like that for sure i like the nut like a good shot all that
you know now no care that's just a beach or whatever but i was a young and missionaries would ah he would conelike your friend like like to
climb things has got it jump off uncle you uncle joe with gonging this guy would jeysalmir ob sale course this random off school course and
he climbed he also like the climb of an got to the top of this thing is probably but call it eighteen feet sir and i'm i'm isleton the rope
and other guys let down her open the chief that we are wittled the ropes and i look up and he go and he's got indolence look on his face
they at you go and jumper the jumper got like a a a a curious look on the inquisitive ye any says i think i could jump down this keeteetee
stew it and the chief goes don't do it and he said i think i could make it and i and i said do it and the chief says don't do it and i go
ten box the gioconda jove don't do it and i go to anty back and he goes shut up in chipitolla that the jumper jomped it and he made it
delectate feet down just landed paspates landing fall only way he brayvllle a few to fallacior yeh come let lie it dispersed isaiah did it
good man eight men gonorrhea good hearted way though no man you don't got nerve how would it be your fall yet that kind of thing it would
have been dannewerke his jumbledest his addiction to tell her any neuclated tax samarahau keep in their hearts the fact that they only die
want forgetting this warrest in failure samuraihood this the this is so is this ontellible bit tricky for me to understand sarah should
keep in their hearts to fact they only die walk forgetting his warrantable and the amplification on this one says samuraihood that they can
die at any time and in any place could end up in humiliating failure in other words throwing your body into the river and relying on fate
to determine if you float to the shallows if you love your life too much you'll always end in failure so this is what i found the dressing
but this one does it economy the economy to me is if if you care too much about being alive then you won't take any risk in you will be too
scared and you'll that can be that ye so that that's that we know that that one's bat so he know we get that one if you love you have too
much you you will always end in failure maybe not always but it's going to definitely play a role you'll be too cautious you won't take any
risk you'll be scared that one can be your hesitate or so we get down on it umteen your hard said you only die once okay so that means to
me okay so you can die any time i'm goin to make it worth it in my mind to make it don't ye make o filioe and in this whole thing about
okayed it bore for word throwing your body into the river and relying on fate to determine if you float to the shallows i don't know to me
that could be taken to it and i think the both o ka number one this is a he don't just throw distatant is jump into the river and set in
bluff decide if you're going to make it on no youth prepare and your train and your ready the other way it could be taken as you know what
you can't control everything you got to go jump in the river and if you if you meant to make it your to make it either one of those can
possibly set your mind to besant i met you for retaliation waited to war you get right ye wait orderland ye ye prepare everything you can
if it eventually got a jump and so if the water is to terrenate the shallow water again yes way it's got to be yes so that's the way i took
down yes i read a lot into that one i think the first son just because the other one would would add kandeish exploit requirement retired
exclained you are as you agree with her paring in nigeria i agree with a faint i think doesn't he of the two that you just said the first
one i think makes more sense to me that that's what he meant so you're years thinking that he meant to prepare the best your body yet
exactly like i like is kind of like you only have one life and if you're goin to die make it oblige don't be dying trying to cross the
river he better to die doing something will be our time to kind of thing there's one more little addition that i believe that eric actually
added on here young visit his note it as the line about throwing your body in the river relying on fate and i termine if you float in the
shallows is very famous it's not that famous cause i do onion it so now he says and terattle fly provoletti and perhaps you will emerge
alive at the end i think that makes some sense for innesmore prepare the best obility you be fully committed and then don't worry about
what the ends in a come for you can't control everything i think we're good i think three now the one i had to i had to dig on this wall of
a two samaritan a great many things however the single folks of their learning is deaf and then the the amplifie came formation here he is
wallandoon tensive training in study of variety of topics what it all boils down to his seeking death so that beckind of that one i go i
tried to figure out what that meant or at least what it means to me and i think that to the most positive way i could go seeking derriere
you really seeking death as i what you're trying to do will know if you're a you're not helping the cause if you're seeking deafmute don't
want to die that's not our goal is an occurrence said could happen and matter of fact it's going to happen hous but the way i look at it is
what we're trying to learn were trying to understand and master is death in the fear death the wenever that little omareille here right ben
you've mastered that and once you're actually saying otion forward he unprepared then were good he could be all so dislike just so knows
far as seeking is go you on a sea quenching and you want see a bigger challenge you have it i said elarnagan's on i mean is so your
pursuing the ultimate challenge that be to your own aligatha your first point break come on byestanders where you know body he's looking
for the good the fifty year storminess thing so he's like him on a bed there and all the stuff he got traps the lame all these things and
then crowley skied imanan the stuff and you know i am upthet years storm no it hundred percent nos it in fact i was kind of ant like his
escape from the law and a catch one moses dies severne did he really die with her socotoro lived he died it was all kind of it i guess now
that you minatare's room for the clavier but he was a man i give my lariat the same move the aeheldown at a ansigte what they're doing
there oh mentality bit too like you i tell thee thy target may be some teenagers or something or that soon not bat sat through its glad i
you wasn't always to tie on to some sinner all right this one again i had to had to dig a little deeper on this one if you were to ask what
couldn't what is it that concerned a saurin the answer is i want to live i want to live kay so a break that down a little bit i i look at
the work concerns and what concerns me tisn't worries or drops did not he i don't think they're using the more like all that that concerns
me no like like it's not saying hey what what what concerns me and what i'm thinking about it's what i'm worried about one i'm worried
about is someone that saying i want to live i want to live he that's what they're worried about the casement saying i will live i think you
can apply this to lotta stuff let's take negotiation right youngton with somebody if you are saying i want with this dealing wattisfield
what your at of position of weakness yea so even in business you can have the position live i want to but we going to steal wabun one to
make it i want to get to steal on like now you and if your actually nogoinabe be i will to walk away from the deal and say no word done im
out strangely of the is same thing out picking up girls same thing yes if you are all i calliditate a girl doesn't want to be with a
gibaros ride ye the amplification here says an answer to the question what do santeri worry about the answer is having the desire to extend
their own life as something worth regretting samro value their own wives are not worth a farthing there so we've got that's i think you
need to be able to set aside that well i think applied everything i think verhaeren if you're so insectlike aggety did the yearnfully
interned about waiting in a not tapping out here you're not going to learn the end you in even were you not in to complete your not even
roll nothing to do well you and i so apprehensive and yes it yet a place a lot for sure here's a good one it is important to understand
that should the mirror in a samoris heart be unclouded than the opponent will be clearly reflected in it good one amplification any
samarius is fum can be described as having a mind that is unclouded so if you will as firm then about that if you will as firm you can be
described having a mind that is unclouded in such a state the strength or weakness of the opponent will be perfectly reflected next
samarias off fault of both life and death their mind is set on moving forward amplification samurai do not dwell even for a moment on
whether they livery fulfilling their mission requires samaritan there's what they do best what they were made for yes that is i think that
that one breaks down to being able to clear your mind on what happened the last go round i not worried about the future not wornout black
on your doing something we like if you're competing you make a mistake you have to put that out your brain completely i and you need to
yokahama happen or you did something great you can't jump up and down to be all happy about that you knew it just clear your mind to and
her keep the moneth you can't get freakt about the neck shot or the last shot her welearn that in shooting a like this is something he all
the time when we're shooting we do little basically with when you are shooting in the teams everything is a competition sir and you see a
guy you soothed places in the ethic had played in a row what is the steel plate about the size of a head and you got a shoot of it and we
shoot at you instantly know if you had a resoaping ping pang ping pang and if you see a guy that can't put the last one out of their head
so you know it's intention cigains macallan at i got were good he'll miss just the eldest miss and he did it doesn't even think about it
you here you are paying pinking giving me you plan to cling in you no no factor yeh it it is the proverbial choking you know and she'll get
the alewife you in at a shilling to be worn constrain your mind to do that ye can train your mind you that where you're just and actually
when i begining a lot i could get to that point and then if i mought shoot in a bunch i would lose that and i'm goin atiping i frustrated
it you sharing regularly you get that you could pass that and the older you get the more you do it the more you can decay no don't care you
know what a phrase would would the balays work with me when some one like you to a coach or something where entitle you have this wery like
you you'd be winning the whole game you know and in the fourth quarter it's like all my god would you go troo clock or out of you have that
feeling and guides a chocolate time and that's not to mention the other team is thinking the exact opposite we do not who orientate rest
when they do all you know so that's why guesnin or team can win at the last minute even though livingness iced yoking up fight kind o like
that too but if i notified to have like more of a will in a north for some reason but anyway they were out anacebu that the phrase i would
always tell music some one with just put on my stand safe finish strong to a venison his wrong to i kaisars like thoissey punch it through
or something you know the something like that that indicates don't let up at the end or mentally you know just go to key pushing the way
you for that is a little bit different than giving to stracted by white just half yoletta say eet is a little bit different but it in its
lianas i verano you play football what was it you were trying to do each play for you aren't you a receiver he okay so let's say you missed
our catch that you should a cough and yet to be able to put that out of your head right so i it is just a mental state a war it's like
finish strong finish strong in your mind it all so ye don't worry about or in the detestable time an when he on i went a match and then i'd
win another one o o je you got a wen like matches till of how after two matches it just start feeling this pressure like it's almost like
all my my two match when streak is up on to come to an end it's only like the pressure and then you win one more in than the freshmen on
more is weird ass like i wish i do wish i was done it is weird odour if someone would say something along the lines of finish strong awound
just cure the whole thing cause you're thinking about all these lagartero off with it i know the pressure rehearsed somebody say something
you have make you freak out even more yes oh yeah what followed not more some one had owed you got this or some one says he at least you
made it this far we do them back on this bosom you do with kids i will like that a man like i got kids soldado got kids too but you know
when you got kids that are doing something competitive yeh like gogo a wrestling and the tater waning and and you could call em hey you've
done good so far go out their half fun which is cool or you could say hey you need a focus more but it could you hemerobins comforteth the
lotto met with threw me a case when you say i just relachement that tells him that it's okay did not to be to check out you know so it
would end in what they're state of mind is to go into that that comment or to doisiest i feel like i want to tell people either people on
coaching well no i will i shouldn't say that when i want to tell my kids relax go out an have fun go out ten have a good time yet he caused
the i think that is easier on their brains of end and to what your point was earlier when people let loose then they they don't feel the
pressure they tend to perform that rather you know yes i agree with that fully but if it's like if that's like cenoby underlying attitude
like relax a fun regards the wet mat first match last final matador then yes i think so but if it's like coney got this wongins and then
right when he gets to the final then you say okay here not you married as far as solitariness i think he can be that i another take it but
if they take it like ordinola yeah i said go there have i go go up there and do it you do i say that little case so if you said a
longimesial he may find to be like he do what you do that's good to say is someone told me that god doth you do that would really be in
hard and to do what you do yeh that's good stuff to say to me this but anything to put pressure on the like if you do this you win like you
don't like one or matches no shell on saying like with coaching him i may if you would get a guy in a in gittin to a guy's head do not get
taken down and they go in northerly hard to take that person down here and when you and you janetoun take it down as soon before you can
get on the ground you get back up and get that people with that my attagona every really hard for some i take it don hale nukehevan atharne
be basically panoto know yeah son sheeting i hear a good one and this is actually the last one fittingly not engaging in any form of study
will cause your mind to wander this rope will result in your spirit becoming unfocused then the amplification there is nothing wrong with
daydreaming but if you study your spirit will become focused on and shape to deal with a certain thing that shape will then become lost in
turn there is a song that goes the drifting and becoming lost as what the mind does it becomes your spirit the mind of your spirit do not
allow your mind to do this and yet i think that that's that's something that we actually talk about all the time in fact that may be the
very purpose of me doing everything that we do which is you know studying and learn it and to go back to the question that that eric the
translator posed me can any of the wolves in this book a pinamonti more for as i said not only to the appliance apply the life and the
thing is there nothing berene here right dislike and arak there's nothing really new here but that doesn't mean that there's nothing really
new here there's always something new we sure we've heard these lessons before right we've heard him from dick winters we heard him from
bob hoffman we form from general paid hack work and we are in from wooden leg and i said this on the first pot cast that we did the first
pop as that we did i said you know what to do you know to be balanced and you know that work out and you know not to be glutinous with food
and you know you shouldn't sleep late and you know you should keep things clean and organized and you know that your struggle is now will
be rewarded in the future so you must endure indoor indor the hardship endured the suffering indoor the pain of discipline in dorthe pain
of discipline sat in the future you can have the reward and we know at that reward is several ward for discipline is free and i think that
is all i've got for to night so echoes eak i know rewards and freedom and trying and get better do you have any suggestions on may be some
ways to get better for people are ways that might also at the same time simultaneously support this pot cast if people wanted sure
something like that he wants to also that i think he is important and beneficial to add that you know and you endure the suffering man
etmada hers for the most part in enid's real paint villyan suffering real real but you do that enough and you get used to it and to the way
where you kind o like require it in a way like you got a want i like you know how i used to go on like um you know like a strict diet and
and i'd be hungry a lot but at the same time it was the die with you really effective with a good work up program and then the one i goff
the programme you can i feel kind almost like for like a better i like talk sick like morisseau you know sir i you almost i can i miss that
hunger and the you know the case kinaesae the hunger that you always have with like beaming good shape and in glenthorn i kind of like
nothing example like how it can be you know you don't like no no not eating a lot of amateur uneven have to amplify on to it ye like when
you're on the program yet can i feel good that you're on the wogram yourself reinforce there's some quinque suffering their hut they do
good in specially when you just you giles for when you think about the opposite of that which is when you're off the program yes and you
feel like a rap i an indian you and yet what you do to make yourself feel better what you do instead of going on the program and said you
go to the you go to the sleeve ariostian answer yeehats like i have not that i do inwreathes integration ye right it's weanest of
struggling now ye your you hear you're not enduring now you're not saying the pain of discipline you are looking for a short term or word
so that's why that's why i say said in the book i said in the book the few men right like when you're on the path it's it's easier to stay
on the path and when you fall off the path lay ye put people just get dagohoy ye it's like i fall for the trick and those i have mentioned
this as it trick your mistricolle that i your gettin is an inn you know one you ah ah i follow the pain when you feel like crap cause
you're off the programme and the fact of your off the programme of side from dust your pisicelli you feel like crap sedalia that feeling
plougastel's ginnie you pleasure floraison pleasure for you in sure turn when he needed on turn self you but is a good a good thing i do
that when letty don't feel i've been traveling been eating crab the way to get back all the weight of feel good again is just a hit
yourself wending to git so true yet so do good calf good couple base like as you in the infield benevent these various more out of and
there is some of those in there that are just all or not chorasin abs cause we call it chubut coronet are fundamental ye and i kind o know
where i'm at on em and even if i am knocking going there and do a record performance it'll put me back on tracknell clean my system i mean
to lead and physically yes and that's good stotting where am i you know if you're ever girl friend ye give fight or something like that or
the break up with you whatever whatever you know something that makes you in a bad mood for whatever he in the so go to the gym and do a e
like shoulders or chest work upon me now would give like a really really hard painful pump me of that kind like in twelve fifteen rats like
a minute in between to like eight sets of those i just see massively pumped for some reason i did do away betrothe same thing that's what
i'm talking about ye the way if you can give yourself for me you got your i got some work outside or just fundamental i don't know what
there's the pine for like medicine the medicine men yet medicine as a medicine work out you got to have some of those medicine work out
that just put you back on the tea a path through yea and then you know what do i fast in twenty four hours that's bulderent four hours you
feel you feel good in telling you i you'll good ye'll do like fifteen now actually pretty often too and you're right strangely your right
lord yea and i just read another article so atsiehoewe few articles as people people to eat him to me yet one of them was about the
terminate fasting we guess what it's good for you ye and then the other one was about this whole depletion of will is old not true yet well
there as thinly that i was right or what i assure and they i say have think with what you're saying i think he is like a dunianin it
straight up wrong with their nonnotte is i just read in article to day that is wrong yea that his idea of the depletion nonidi you have to
resist this calatifimi wit then in twenty minutes you won't be able to resist a cake because you just can't resist that as it's a lie it's
the therein now its not true not true ye feel like that's a psychological state so might vary from individual but one of saying as if you
if you are on the program and you had a medicine in the morning till the impelling you vere asier to hold wine the more you old line a
easier to the whole line tattersett's the truth you get so to be in a hole a little old my line and the truth by the way jocularities
jocosities creil the main one and joint warfare so joint war perlicemen and conjoining and curcuma witches the other there's it's not just
rukmein conjoin yet this kurumayasan is that more good maisie stuff to wage or fair against joint inflammation pain donation yes so and
that's a big deal cause again i'm a say i said before but i think this is critical i mean you know i'm sure there is like supplements at a
help you build your muscles if you're into building my eature there is but really if you can maintain your joints fishy you give you
through pushing way to any kind of like so i like a auroient e e o cause you joint take those that landright any degenerate over time oh
they do as i was having deteriorating a on jontarou date of the naya ye in i did it and the missis won of the cruel thing of all notimber
in kind of a funny story at my expense and a little bit of funny funny but it is that i look for oil or a two man foinitsha likoer pushing
crill like in light i mean no no oh praenestines bright or nementvri reat in maine and we bring the black belt a came the hampshire oh so i
can kinnakeet contact with him he's like you a heave any like what's the coluaman throw whatever is like prendi sent him some some of mine
and he was a tank it the port backed out like the other day but not a less in life i'm straight up wishing it lay our hell gray about it
all time on't think alice i make it in so i now but it's like you know can you get benefits for some even your dog pushing it on other
people some people do with oh brigading peiser this very thing enough books music why don't do that with music like if you in latin i meet
eellike all laceless and his song at the best song and then like you don't like it and i'm actually mad at you or your mad at me cause you
don't like it why do erieson like your music i'll droll think we can quaternity on now in a way where we've kind of what i do cruel for my
identity now it's part of my joints sight daddy i can tell you that and joint work for good ones all so awake i didn't tell you where you
can get this joint warfare and super cruel or in main dotcom click on the top to the labs actually tell the front path to me an jocatore
too by the way jocatore but yes reined it if ye want it if you want it a lot of people been asking for or subscription like a recurrere you
yet it at every one that's what i join you know ben will get it set up yes he tolerate last three pills i do or even six he'd take the
three like degore last night the tea this tomorrow yes after to morrow you know two days shippen elegerit open situation there there's this
you want to do that to yourself no i don't actually for illegitimate ones good idea thank you jap come and pet all so there's some good
gives on the jackies age duckie rash norwester with that american hands of worn it many times can i talk about nineteen per cent
improvement in performance at a tap out by andy so he far now that appetite may be what i still owe on a different site or more right yes
of all that old butternut coulter resist ninety i'm de saintot to al i can't come firm really yet but but what if you remember could you
referee i was wearing one of our rascarse my action be greater and ah i kind of got got after the right and in this any of you here here
nineteen plus and mining nineteen left kind of counselled itself otkell but i shall like maybe a few got nineteen i felt like that day i
had like twenty tolerating to any six year your bringing it like yet twenty six cause you were out in glee don't wear that right you don't
really wear a very not watch you weren't happy all in the final guilty no well coulera ly said i saw that coming year and that was one of
those comments that was meant to kinda dilate my victory you know like to you saw how in a resolve and it was just like you i escot lucky
and bulwaan i just i desidia definitely in the really celebrating i did it for you got it have leave out the fetich is yonge you break down
of you your guilt is gilitin cold brow which i think is even more so than the guillotine like you have such a good way to like get it you
and lose guys that like your probably walking like right now you think it about gilitin right now yes that's what i think he harfenisten
when you go for it it just lands perfectly it's not a higher you do oh i monument make or not don't feel now adjustment so it's gotten to
the point over merely lie on a debt like almost a deck of draining it to and that seemed getting some in that efficiently on my own made on
her oomrawuttee do not that far from the truth it's like my body like notes like a winner bertomy brain is almost like i can feel my brain
as a separate entity town in one my body or basis i get you in a gayety oh aline trying to defend it and the like and you get out and the
next one all we like her going down it's like men on want that be forgan told what will what i what i had to do so that of the first one
they proceed in a bower year it's not worth it that exacuit is in i think that's how my whole body reacts when i feel i get some in is kind
calanthea we'd been down this road say outcome you know my body does to that i'll come to it just kind of commodate it that's what it yes
like her and i think that's part of what i meant by it like i say all that come i think your body is okay with me gettin think so sure i
don't like the fact that it's like a not radical ihai think i think talking about it might help it or it might straight up not yet rash
guards geese made in america which is awesome so that's awesome yet everyone should know that and they may come like make of the sum yes
they don't like ship in stuff they and then had guyler we starting to make yeehats been in yet they make em make from the thread and the
give the keys the guise could aconitin out here thou the word and i aeide makin it an make him confused with the the man do by the way
hoonting into a right now nameless but hotep agin me the video said good one actually he can't made the video termination make anything
none the less a jocko other gees on origin all good i got two other ones so three origin gives altogether me only he's all everywhere i
think unless some one else can make no one baron material in america and you know provide the same everything that he may be may be not but
say another right on the outest also kettlewell in one keep you up dead on my kettle belly to action of diced i addicted to collecting and
doing him so i do want more than the cyclops from on it mum to decide on no no but what he called it the regulation regular ones in one of
those in a psychosis i think his forty something poms only got on him getting up jokingly the good thing about these is they are bounced
because latinarum what i hear i don't know but from what i hear like a lot of that design ones they're not balloting simply or is abalaine
that toone's i used and meditate work out start slow with these and when you do it though are you still doing a lot of kettle bill he i do
decontamination some turkish get up she other day you have it in get that i thought i was going to get really into turkish gap but i did a
few times and just didn't i didn't stick you aenothera stuff to stick in owasco i eat it you know what it was i did it with the thirty five
polonati do with a fifty four pound one and i was like taniwha good exercise hard and then i went on lines to look up exercises in the news
ones with guidon with a hundred eighty five pounds to go on it and made it may be is cut discouraged i got in curatorial yea and you take
it it's like a child in her ear made my whole outlook is different anyway when you do these kettle bells if you want the cool ones to me
kettlewell's red or dull but if you want a extra doe go to on it dakotas jackal get your kit abeles there is look in the hot light ones
heavyones i say start light but in whatever you are lavin ye had a also when you get your coffee of what is the the the trend venisoned
rules of war he is my adored ye put em prancier yeh see an let's remeliora well case so i put these books all these books of did already in
unshaken i put all the books on her website cock pocket dot com and it is for this very reason jocasta a pronounced somebody this stuff now
especially the japanese stuff you know he comes to me for help i help it's not a new process as i am saying so i the dimout little bit jack
pot to come on the top said books from the episode click on there look deepest one o one noon from episode on a one the hundred rules of
war on you in a is only ninety seven an if you want to get some other book you can still clad through a man hepaticas ye if you buy a book
that is completely off about what we would normally talk about ye like for like what i don't know something that's not about war the laying
the witch in the word joke there few go to buy that book yes you can just put on disports the visitor is in half to be the bud but when you
buy it ye just clearing in a box if you buy and delibes golf clothes to take law more grocery bag hold their swoon even though i don't
recommend that stuff if we carry grocery begs you caring with your hands both hands all on to by the way in a yet like though their so on
the website jock moaddam good way to support also subscribe to about gasiharon already on it enstate steer gully spot of fitaurari don't
you know about a fact on finicalities think you can get but there's a bunch of any parasti propor i don't think spot ivies m one of them so
we had request for spotty extend you could play it on a lace but i can lay on it sanleigh now you can say a elecampane latest jocko podcast
actually in and not to split here is but it's called amazon echo elective is the name he say the beaches were sad yet so as to a now you
see even get it on alexeitch me heron it afri dis anastagi incorrect did same and doing the right thing it's so nameless subscribed if you
have an already is it substituting some strike in san subscribed being is a good way to support also in outspirited to you do tannel but
some beeson there exerts not as many exerts a tideless week in week because i got it i learn this new video pang but we we talk to the
earlier i won't go into it but i can i win it pretext i want up getting like obsessed with it so like for i think it's like eleven hours a
day for three days in making this clip that's like three seconds long day sent so i didn't get to the exercise one of saying but as a
result i think there is a thing the next view that i release is gonna have some new things to it might be something that only i am noticing
may be may be not but unless that's going to be of it either way point darius subscription was support yes one do you too blithe to god do
that yes at the art or so as to i just you to glide a random ye ye like a face be cliveden to ye a and i be cool be stored on you to bed
said of story on face book right yeah i think it's just the matter of it to do the matter ultimately it's just a video ye but if it's a if
it store on an you two people can go back and be reading it and whatever and with it watching yet if it in face book its way buried in some
rind of piero he yet call it yea yea he aye time line whenever ye ye i'll be a poison that was yet not less he too does gottesgab that's
another video aside from jesperson spot cash that's the good that's the the man read i think to subscribe if you're interested in that kind
of stuff me in fine or you can get a notification if you are you don't need it but canon also joculator called jocatore jocatore outcome
got to new stuff on the straight up rasher godeau i know i've been saying it but they are up to is one of the hats got em that i am putting
beanies on there oh yes the as good as he as i hope your thick bees there a tregear i didn't know there's nothing i've been you know in
some research in this is a good benira from all i ken extracted all the you know the advice on online and these are the good ones am also
some new rash guards gave a new rascar is a rash bard that says small action on one side big reaction on the other side when i wore for the
first time a keeling taylor mum said he to eat it up he didn't know the layers but he saw it he like the essence of jagienka because it is
right nor machinery for worlding for i think you in judophiles he knew he is about the way also a less women stuff on there just cool i
think of patches on their shirts on the avenue sir coming out i i don't have any she you have a new sharlott youannotated is noe orangers
pigmy yet i loved him no get impet from the online people on the people and i kinda you know i er alliotti time it's like one off things
you know like water jobless one thing this is gone tiairi liked it moderate chirk canting and him although they are usually right aloof
times and piano may be that might not translate into your real picky and choosy aimery put it this way a lot of people after hit me with it
broke hands one of those i have actually mentioned it before i called back to the book a refined coming out reeentering out to him juggle
store jocko store dot come take a look at the stuff on their picioning ye like it something also pliaga warfare in all air is what i
logier's on all of our journeys in going back to turn some one requested some other day and it was actually better than campaign or journey
for a geas diabetes just not that much i know is better but i can't remember it i see on stuff just a street to see a lot of so well in our
campaign again fleetness journy every one wail run into holland points of weakness hopefully less than more more times than not we don't we
don't returnes of very critical full e not very often but one bet on infrequent time comes where you run into the weaknesses you shove on
in frequent time but it's got ononwe know what you mean broke the nut frequent yet the war time that you run into weaknesses do not worry
because psychological warfare is an apple with tracks that helps you right through that most situations pretty much all situations really
we can overlying work out procrastination stand on the program die alise all the stuff all lost much attraction there and it's jocteleg
pride matically ways that you can practise what practical right practical meaning you can practise these things it's not just some
philosophical slash inspiration of your duffield say few yet more due precise is kennettown it but none the less practical advice coming
directly from jocalder tly into your ear on the wide you shouldn't give in to these weaknesses like little spot in your campaign that's
what's lycocorax to good use riginater one spoken word owns one tunworth months in it findeth beat now by another album caelia's re
hevaneva's apple asking me it available as an album with tracks to own i do them as on musically and at other m p three platforms also an
amazon you can get jaconite tea what's good about jock a white tea is if you drink jack awake t you are guaranteed to one hundred per cent
be able to dead lift eight thousand pounds minimum minimum you are what your body wait one twenty five to eight thousand down as left so
the guarantee like that well looking pretty good ye right out if he ah there's some books were the warrior kid by the way just finished way
the word kid book number two what the whole thing or the draft the draytons in the home at ishtar the aras completely done it can be
testily nephew read it it's a he said it's better than the first one that's seen a lot to the nile the second one me a little message and
you his message said hey uncle jacko tattered and he is the use integrate so it's pretty accurate assessment were assuming nenimkee a but
the book number wan is out right now and it is a book to you wish you had your gat i wish i had when i was gettin no one has had riden
penlynden so if you want to give a kid of better life get in this book also extreme ownership check it out of new edition is coming out
matter fact callie refraished that new edition is out it is available right now it has a new forward in it where we talk about kind of what
we've seen since the book came out it has colored pictures in it oh depictures if as echoes name in it slides ehoesaces name an i is in it
because we took cuatro upon cast about leadership and put be really important questioned anianse in their seacove back you them without
having to go through a hundred and one in podcast and find though a one question that you want to get now now you can find it in the book
also it's got a new cover on it which is black more cool and you know because the cunei from you i can one do think everyone christison is
not just lay on me any more now latent and echo and every one that asked questions and ah help it boncassen question soothing to you all
for the new version of arlok also the disappointed freedom field manual is now available world wi you and if you've got festins this book
as i answer if you're wondering of arcosol i do what martial art should i train tinhorn what a good digitis what should i eat what i do
what i'm injured what side if i don't feel like working out what said do something bad happens how so over confetio got those kind of
questions this book as the answers this pinicals freedom field manuel get it for yourself and did it for any one else that might want
answers to these questions the book is not normal it's not normal i know it's not normal cause you know why i'm not normal no the will is
it's black sand the book is only has a black cover in his black pages as you know so some people don't like that and you know i say don't
read it yet he don't if you don't want to read that old don't read it and as i said if you want to get the book on audio it is not an
audible it is on empetre as a help with traction get it though i to damson music and goole plantat way you can listen to it as an album
with tracks this is a book that you don't sit this on a story hit's not a story you might want to listen to one section of it at a
different time you might be saying hey i need to listen to a section of thou destroyer mode right how do i give to this troyon one that you
might andreo the fear of failure listened with a fear failure one day you might need to hear sugarcoated lies one day you might when hear
about the war at the youthen you have it as a hell with tracks you can listen to it whatever were you want an said it as your alarm you can
put it in your play list that kind of thing which you can't do with a lame audible book so that's that also if you like to leadership
principle that we talk about on this pot cast and you want to get them for you keer business we have a leadership and management consulting
company it the premier leadership and management cause open company did i say that yes i did castoon me lay j p dave burge you want us to
come and work with your company and get your leadership a line and get you leadership into destroyer mode email in foitenant dot com and if
you have any more questions or answers for us or something that you want to tell us you can find us i'll on the inter webs on twitter on
instruman on a acacis an echochee and i am at joaille and to the soldiers sailors airmen marines who are overseas right now defending our
nation and our freedom thank you for your sacrifice and to the families of those men and women thanks force supporting it your warriors
while they are deployed that is one of the hardest jobs in the world and thank you for doing it and to the police landforce men fire
fighters paramedics and other first responder thank you for protecting us here at home you do not bet thank the nough umanitari now and for
the rest of you out there maneuvering of fog life trying to get the upper hand on the enemy or the competitor or trying to get the upper
hand and get control of yourself you know what to do you know one action to take you know how to win sir get out there and get after it and
so until next time this is echo and jacko out
