this is jacoba cast number one hundred and two with augers and me jackwell in bad he in echo good evening and we are rolling in to some
tune from the interest so let's go right to it jocko is there ever a good time to use an automaton tom that's a great question and i think
the answers actually i think whenever one thing about the answer i think it's pretty self evident i think a lot of people will agree with
it okay so is or ever good time to use an ultimate i think sometimes there is to put itself to tackle very seldom but when enough is chilly
enough sir then you got to draw the line and you got a whole life right you gotta make an old ultimation thing that is the xtremely
credible that that you should never make an omadhan that you won't or can't keep ye right a laugh the young geoff if you say it do it and
what's in resting from it a job perspective so like an in the work a place perspective welleta up the chanaan up the channerin not gretry
so so let's say you're my boss i come in in echo all want a race i'll want a by this friday or i'm out of her right that's an ultimatum and
that means i'm trying to hold you as tamos people do not like being held hostage so my my chances of actually supporting while you're
trying to make happen are very small the as i'm actually mad at you you i don't want to support you who you're big critical gueuse you
press recording you made some idees for me you don't haman like it's i that ye put your throwin ultimate him at megawatts where we're
hapgood have a conversation we couldn't come to an agreement to your to walk into me on the boss i just reverse roles aright i can tame in
the boss joe i warn raise and i want it now or i am out to hear on friday that's my ultimatum you what would you do it right are you
building relationship with me no are you giving any room to negotiate on the near you giving yourself any one anover not or not you're not
going to get yourself any rum to mine for so that one generally doesn't work very well now now if you have another job offer that some one
is put in funny you that's the legit made its good and its solid and and you come into me and say he jacotot job offer they want an inter
my friday here's what they're goin to pay me i'm not this is an ughtred a not trying to be a jerk i mean straight up with you but if you
don't give me what i want by friday i'm going to have to leave him go because i canna iernotte ye and i say man that's sounds like a great
deal working for them gorit but that's that's that's an old maum but it's a rational one i am cause you actually have a back up and you act
your trying to be straighforward me i so that so that an old tomato mattie a logical one now down the chain of command people don't like it
ultimate of either for instance you know ah cho if you don't have this project gone by friday you're fired said sinapati alto made money
and you don't like that any more than the bottle people don't like having alternatives pervious so what really do if you have to use
ultimatums down the chain in command and you should check your leadership real real quick but you made some mistakes right people don't
understand the dead lines people don't understand what it is you want them to do people on our and why they're doing what they're doing is
all kinds of things that they onderstand it you have struck from ultimate around as a boss so really if you find yourself using ultimatums
then you you need to check your leadership now that being said if you if i've talked you if i've coached you if i've counseled you if i've
done a written to state menton you and told you exactly what it is that i need echoed and now were we passed the point of no return eloah
here's what i asked you do you did do it this is the ultimatum if you don't start making three videos a week you are not going to be here
any more and you say you neither say okay well i'm going to do it or screwjack he's a jerk i'm out of here neither way i've moved forward
because you weren't doing it before that's so i know that that example is ye ken o ane hilliston in a inteso ultimate be very very careful
mature if you're going to use it it's got to be real you've got to enforce it and check yourself don't don't don't get yourself osirian
maneuver any more that's the biggest that to me that's the biggest point if you never want to take away your billet a move maneuver ye
don't want to do that yet makes sense and it or feel like you know it how you kensett to me will that first one were the tone has like a
lot to do that ye like all you like but you know your legitimate logical altri right it seemed like it wasn't like the first one leave her
looked give me either i ought here and a thing and then the second year second exact they are thorlike you know like me on on ye if he's
like you some one did that to me either way up or down a feel like you would still maintain the relationship you know like letalis at
worked up and i was like a key and all whatever you got the rays or whatever and if you sent it up crazy tone or whatever what a real fed
up till ye you're still like okay cool we we were in it out i got what i want but let but some but we know we've seen to relate as being on
a don't want to be digging or last ixion to see billowing yeh and i think the lot of times people like they'll dig a relationship and then
i'll just move on like nothing but meanwhile i mean i he oh like don't don't forget how i say to me and how you say that last week time
heals the wound but it doesn't remove the city yet in her oatlashshots tent or right next quest i flesh gratia high school crushed it
straight as boom helped my classmates with kind kind and helpful and expected them to be meanwhile they put me down mopped me never loved
me in a room with thirty people i was always alone in a voice tells me to go after the path see revenge keep looking at their profiles
profile piconine brothers social media should i go now he's got a series of questions here ye should i go off to them and try to fix the
past either by revenge or else should i should i remove them from social media and leave the the face book group should i attend the
reunion why have they even been in my life or jasiek those down number one should i go after them and try to fix the past either by revenge
or something else the answer that in my opinion is no man who cares there is school kids move on get on with your life ye disagree agree
agree okay that that one's me as pretty strafford don't worry about these humans italy had a couple conversations with with my oldest
daughters haven't had this one with my son yet but my older daughters which is haalele that are on the alley think or some important in it
school then in a hot you know some of them might be might have some life long friends from high school i get that but these people that are
not nice to you you won't be thinking about them so i do i not sure how old this individual is but he's got a couple more years before he
won't be thinking about these people any more so just get there earlier question to should i remove them from social media and leave this
face but brookes's little bit tricky in my opinion a first of all if you can if you can stay if you can keep them on social media but
ignore them completely just leave on dis leave it and totally ignore is because when you leave them or whatever your kind of arocena making
the seen he okayanni make sure you don't naenaehele when you un friend no man which i didn't you and i have some sitanath touaregs case so
i i know that i whitethroat you my wife you okay i tell you did i will not no no i don't even know how to do it now when i i figured it no
i didn't so i didn't ever have social media from till two years ago but all of a sudden i saw to varied with my wife as a weeshes a showing
me something and she says an i see echo as it well why you friends with people that why you friends people that i know m un air cooked on
friend on that and i didn't even know his big deal i started in a hay that is an end in intrastate it's a light no man yet unfriended them
mantar i bet you did it perfect purpose fully knowing it a big deal but not understanding that it's even a bigger nethethary unbricked like
it was totally your personality at that anisette as a joke like unfreemen to me like immediately originate a month go by where i didn't
make a joke about it as a target avrelio so it is kind of making a scene if you if you are friend this person or you leave the group in
yours creek a little fire storm but i will say this if you can't if you can't keep yourself taking on them no then you might have to do
that m so try it for a couple of weeks to a not looking at them ye let him go to leave him if you can't do that then delitiae the cooper
wotever so number three should i attend the reunion my unlet is negative not why would you these people are negative then they they bring
back negative memories they didn't treat you well they but why would you you don't need to move on again he wore i think move on and in the
last question is why have they even been in my life why i think just like anything else bad that happens in life the things that are bad
that happen in life kenneth the you or break you then you got a desire what you want them to do i vote that you you allowed to teach you i
e i voted you learn from these people that you learn how to forget about the past that you learn how to ignore people that are negative
that you learn to control your inclines and that you aren't to move on into the future worryer going to meet better people and better times
you be at that's what i would recommend don't worry about these people from the best there caught up in this weird world ye high school a
visit hightalian behight school or a high school get into the world yes right big toniello had one daughter that now radermacher goriorama
this drama but asseemelate hasn't been a lot of grimworth my kids ye now an eyes caledonian said praebet but i see it you happened
boutoniere ber the drama i'd say i eat i i guess i don't know i been a long time since high school for me personally though ye an i think
that's life you know i sesame medebach age kids slanning nothing is there more daminage than there is in my maybe it's because it's stuck
together he like elvire in your life like him you just consider it a gliscere my life yet we more in high school and my mind your drama
dat's it in your arterially me yes yes they're all high school all over guy obviously no so i ringfield like way more than it is for sure
oh but you don't when you when you but the further you go along in life that the more you realise that this means lesser ashes types of
things anyway when you consider it i schools really just for learning sure you learn littlehales living to you know what i just thought of
it is what interesting about that is if you're looking back on high school either with fond memories or with negative that recamara great
thing cause he could be like uncle rico from the napoleon dynamite right at anstey living back his high school football game yeeeeeing made
that pass and down i mean worse the championship or whatever you get to that marguerite that you even your stock in high school you plead
in high school yes if you looking back at the negative thing saying ticketand who no looward yes let in defence though a testy he just
graduated that's what's so he intirely is it lieouwen it's like you know some one morteros gonna happen brother hennion we get after it
yevpatoria media thing to slay this cause there's there's little level so like unfriended whether you can unfollowed i i must suing this is
fateful i don't know that you know the nerone could be stalking out himself but on faceelities still reinermann friend but just unfollowed
so you won't get all their stuff though they know that i don't think so there not i i'm sure i am you bofe un followed me and i don't know
that i've never fatentur whatever am i uselessly o he an hour giving a idiotlike merinice more than me because i don't understand as much
as you do either you and understand the face but ropey mean even to many people in leadlike losing lakeside alike make a scene yet so be it
well obsceno yet think leaving the group uses if it is i mean it depends on my people to go less people ages or more heniker if he's always
posing if his ease to head at the group or some one like this then ye you know how in the past there was atticists i would win to i went to
edicate classes when i went to ascertain its go in at it altaforte which knife to use that and tell that stuff and they did yo things for
instance you might not know this give you take a bite of food and there's something in that bit of food that you don't want to eat a bone a
whatever of the way to properly did it out your mouth is as you yousouf put it on the fourth of putita don on the plate so like ye got dad
said the saso that's the type of thing are all there should be a class or were going through a point where pelignian social media anicette
actually the lot about idea you should teach it i i've worked on i had a dart yet yet i school i aonaran brother yet a lot that's long for
that question there it is manneno that like defied that we folks on social meditate just about everything right anything that you're caught
up in yeah yeven that you're conpanero down just move on ye whether it's a girl whether it's a job you should had whether the vestment you
should made whether it's to those you didn't buy that you should have all those things if moon man it's gone move on ye it seems like high
school is really common one you know like the old caico of the person who let bullied in high school and then go in bad otoyo know like
decantabat yet the more and this what if you like to idonotwanttodiebutisurelywillif i all forsure the last high schools gonnen first
arrighi isn't going to any northey say as an uncle reg beehouse in copperware yea and it wasn't working out reform him ye heinig school is
still a big deal to her yes you know these are like the always talk about high school fool paratransit like that first oh may you can it's
kind of an indicator i know that how regnaverit not be doing much now you know you this if they're like forty years something like that she
as a tete i'm think about starting to get suit in my mama jim but then struck there is a brown bell should i go train with him or look for
a black belt towel if you're out an ever madam they have brown about the ascraean bat i think he probably be really good i think it's
probably fight or entered castaigne and fight jem sir which is good in my opinion and you know though the fact matter isn't he said this
before brown ball purple belt black belt there's good teachers in all those who bellewarde line really you can learn some good fun of
metals from her sologoub um and also there's some back bolts that are not good teachers and there's some purple bells that are for nominal
teachers so the at gotami the pretty simple question no yeeeee eat a hot how you just said like some some purely great peace so that the
bell usually on most part just indicates the the the vast like the knowledge you know so is given that there a good teacher so ye if it's a
brown bowshot's a lot of knowledge and just given that ease all right more better teacher that's going to be legia there is actually
lobelieh in salissait that vere some boaster really good teachers here although it does na enow you get a pole belt teacher rothe lobel
teacher and their goods and a curbeth of him of course you know on the precise he's goin to have more alleestrasse you know bedelloe case
ye yes it is isn't lynott if you're to starting point you can pray you're just going to be like a sponge on some one you hantee know what
you you know what interesting you could probably bear level if your white belt and you rawish the purple but alack beat you and goeeldy
know as you got your ask won't no that's all you know you don't know how easy it was sometime level for both of neither one of those
people's trying to artois the white belt yes ten yet and if they know to teach like i say is he's a instructor he is ninstant or you have
round the out he's going to be fine in fact that waarom on neither i mean were insane ego needin in santiago these pompoosuc us for sure to
and they're good to her and especially if you jest certain amen god do that and yet i just like i said do sometimes the black buttons
doctor he'll be good at rolling who could good enough any internments my cat really instruct an or they or you get like situations where i
mean i want to say is super common but it's there for sure is a you know your hearthstoned right with like you been a black bolt for so
long nor anything right it just so good at something that you forget what it's like to be a beginner so you kinda you know you might keep
over some details that are kind of critical if you're a beginner you know you just kind of your simonstone that this person knows the
certain months you know that you can get that like that's i think i owe times with gems of the sad but really bent deniers watching him in
it and in no arowe are doing to round to andy and now a cock his foot underneath the far arm on an arm as from a calicos eyed like a
pregnant hacking his foot under there humaneness ginkell good detail to a otaheitan him taniwa like a daughterand that's something that dan
taught me and i don't know who taught no ill but it's just that's the type of detail or your talking about where that is a small thing you
got to be deduction we got to get a lot of other things right before someone says he when you're awakenment of the far side put your pull
your tools basically underneath their arm to the tortershell er a little bit better eh that's that's deep there's so there's those kind of
details there is another thing where i had a a a finish for den or demeanin ormaleis and would try it now titan what trying in waiatt would
never work the thing on them fifty times and finding one day he's as hay when you do that move put the pressure here in said to her the
next time i did it to work a i know what i mean i then warm little betalen happy over they were and i was going with the indian we were
doing or moragas and he said he you're puting a pressure here he shall be roswitha pressure he's a put a here and look em next time i did
it tell me to that to hurt so bad she so it's weird if the little details that again the better the instructor is the the more detailed
you're going to get and most well what in fore about this until you are get to a certain level you those eildon mean anything to you yet
cause it you you can't worry about where you're putting some little detail on her machen you do eat how to do the armada the ever to the
locked before you start looking at the lilial yes and then the the that's the selection be part of the point where you get a black belt
brevine level instructor but he's not necessarily that good at being a teacher he'll start teaching those details and one of an nonbeing
was low he just skipped over the part to teach them how to do the actual arm bark but he iokanaans iously though be like hill because the
knowledge says that it's kind of just a sooner dissoutes converters journey is a siscowet on teaching you judiciaires see there ten things
as you have to do to make the giaour i can teach you five of them the other five you have to figure out because as were you put in your
weight in a arapin your balance and dan might be able to teach your seven or maybe maybe if you take a different class and i will teach you
in a atone but there's things that you you have to figure out of your own on top of the thing to you can be shown ye that's where you got a
roll yes atteo a off cause it that's the only way you figure out if it actually works or not and what it loustalot make ye yes billy and
specially if you have a good instructed they in see it too you know like you i'll hand you drill something or when you do the thing he just
with your partner and dog your lalage's good tomentoso in an tribe fan or whatever it's like i don't know what i'm demonisation the really
obvious santoris yet because he's not letting you do it but you know some one like an instructor in look and feel like all look your
letting him do this or or whatever you forgetting to do this if she cloudless yet i i agree with you go train with the brown belt by the
bogota he but if you're not learning nothing then you can make that valuation with factoryman would be learning to time given that first
next wish you talk about playing the game quoting to win but what about people that play the game to win for themself and adwised that's a
good god and question and it athit me if for no all that question of oh that's a good point and that's a good there's a very important
distinction here because i'm always saying play a game i hate a play the game you got on you got a bill to relationships with the boss you
got littlewit they like it got to told the party line you cottonville things you got to support to the corporate egorger or the boss or the
man right or whatever entity is up in the ivory tower i want you to play the game get them on your side and the reason i save to do those
things as that so you can get more control so that people ask your opinion so that you get listened to so that perhaps you get promoted
which is good but the reason your doing all those things the reason that your playing the game is to help your team accomplish the mission
that's what you are trying to do to help your team accomplish the mission now the the other side of that is what the question is about
people that are playing the game for personal gain they they played a game that they can get listened to so they can drive their personal
agendath so vacant get promoted and they want to get promotion they're going to use their power m ten maybe that abuse atower just is just
working last maybe it's making other people do the crap jobs whatever the god of cats may be if they've got an agent and they're going to
try and get promote it they can take care of them to sell and that is not a way i tell you to play the game and that's not why i played the
game and i definitely play the game and i played the wind but i played because i wanted my my squaw or my platoon or my cask in it on my
training command to be able to better accomplish our mission that's why i played the game now there is a secondary benefit of plain the
game and that is that you could possibly get promoted her or you could get praise from the boss that looks good on your record and then all
those things can happen when you're playing the game but that's just like colateral sor a fringe benefits but that's not why you're playing
a game you play a game to help the team win and when the team wins you win which also makes the team went again so like a positive cycle
cause you start developed in good reputation that get more leeway from the boston morleena boss the more you have the ability makemonas on
the ballville you can meuron the battlefield the more offensive you could be the more pensive you can be the more you win and then you get
more a billamore because your bossage even more woman when over so it of its a cycle at a good positive cycle now when you have some one
that's on the tana's playing the game for them sells first of all no one likes that person wrightery one can see that pereano one likes of
in their believe the military a military as unbelievable people that play the game for the best possible reasons to help their petuna help
the mission at help succeed there is also plenty of people in the military and in every every different ovinity people at plantacon to they
want to they will look it out for themselves looking out from number one rightnesses on to her there looking out for number one was plenty
of people and i don't with people like that my time and what did i do i used to tobyhanna and i'll pay what i would get in the head and i
when i would do as i would make them think that the best way for them to win for themselves personally was for the team to win her i would
get that into their head because of tometimes they missed that point they're look out for themselves in a worry about the team a man i
would get them thinking that there good look the best if the team wins a you really want to look good but the best way you can get pomodoro
don't for this tejus great if you get us a derwent the living we want their train that we need that's the best way you're going a look of
some cold word expendere nough got make you look good then i of course i'm going to be more tactful and i'm not saying it like that but i
must in earthenware getting them get the messaging is there no besantine you know our bosses like now are boston lightly as that complain
right ye agile the boss wasn't like complainers on emblemings like that right at possible dearth about stuff he montenaeken little think
that that and you know here's the thing that person that person might get the promotion because what you've done as you helped them act
correctly actually and there's a chance a decent chance a good chance even that they carry that forward they realize that he the best way
to play the game as to help the team and the best weight a look good as to help the is to make the team good in succeeds to mission and
it's a welly voiron of the classic cases sewell get into ownership a little bit but if something goes wrong right the person is looking up
from himselve y one else and and so that's a challenge right because once you start blaming one that boss starts blaming every one than the
whole team startlement other so how do you fix that well we talked but to million times the estafette your bosses my fall and a less right
it's your fault and there's a there is a good chance that vee reckinize how positive that is and i may take a while and it may never happen
because some people are just savages rightnesses they only care about themselves they only care about the next promotion and getting the
next to old ward and getting the next bit of recognition as people like that this the there horrible the follies but they're pretty small
most people retaste is working for this guy it can work for me too and that starts upread and the other thing that happened i think is if
some one's just a flagrant self promoter that you might get him on promotion because you were there a kind of make them look good but the
next time round they're going to get sentre going to get condat they're going to people going to realize well kind of person they are and
that's that's where i catches up a eson you keep playing the game you keep you keep working hard don't worry about them and actually do
your best to help them out the person that's like self camoti do you best to help out the erebos make him look at the holes one to make my
mosslike you in the long run carried her sometimes the it's hard to do sometimes else are egges noway sometimes cathoethes it what's more
important because if you're my boss echo and you're doing this just to make yourself look good if i didn't under mine you will and now we
don't accomplish the mision well i'm actually a bad person because i didn't do my best to copestones right we didn't look good ye i'm not
worried about how we look boy fails in our mission and we didn't do our mission of the best of our ability so now knocking let that happen
you want to look great cool i want to make you look great cause i want to tolerate doing or mission cause that's what's important to me and
if so so some of the collateral damage of that is that you a great even though you're a jerk and i get you promoted that's okay because
entire in you what you're going to learn to be a better person and teapot the team and that's how you got promoted near to realize that you
become a good leader ye ye a credit that when like always have where people can see that too you know in the cannot do that and you know
like if your boss is like a self promoter whatever and you have it in your head i understand i unstand this cause i've done in the
situation where i like shoot i've a kind o feel inside that kind want to like make an effort to make em look good kind of thing because
it's like you doesn't deserve it and a thing and what like what i'm going to make a look in and dolerite gonna think that he looks good
goin a thing but then when you really think about it another not by roseate got a one you're right and the same gospel for you like if you
if you're like to you know if you're just focusing on the the positive stuff you know you helikewise have anything nice to say don't say
that is if you're really doing that like people noticed that too i find that the cilice really positive or yo ilvaine ones in all had a
face like people see it in a starman your just mister positiver coat everything and he no it's not on a talk about that but you are not
focusing on the negative nineteen o where are bout this you say you know what we got some deficiencies her his woodaxe ye yes how temples
that did ye better he had no the point is people they see they say don't think that you know like you are going to help you know make this
culloo it in there just good they're goin to not see it generaal for the patriciate seats mostly mostly the young to that example that he
said about em eh playing to their eager or whatever where you i can you even you should you gonna look really good if you also you ever
seen the movie moanalua three minutes sanatory go she does a excuthe guy the main guys dad that the demigod and he is millyingaire way
twitchin great movie benham she does him like that he shows a hey let's take out a go do this mission you know restore the heart on what
it's on terry but and you lie you know whatever reluctant and you like she's a hay you'll be a hero again and he's like omarite her she
said quin there oh not nearly you know you haven't done anything lately there if you do this and you'll be the hero to a one and yet any
and of course he does it of course temistoele got a glass bongeor said is proof on on loan monetti have to say that in a very competitive
environment extreme one ship can be used by your enemies or the people that want your position when you take ownership over all faults of
your team members you guys become began to become better and get healthier and a healthier attitude but that takes time so until you
teamers and start to get better results your poets will take those tins of it was my fault and present them to your boss as proof that ye
this guy is not good or at least not confidentious and looks weak is not my case for me it worked a great but i've seen it half penning to
few colleagues who just didn't have good team members and they took their tremors for weakness and just took a vantage of that okay so what
we've got here is what he said i is extreme ownership if you're taking cremonensis of things your enemies can actually take advantage of
that and in this guy's case relating the like in the earlier stettin he said well all he says that for him it's worked great o but that he
seemed some of his compadres who have started to take ownership and there they've got weak keen and the team was he say here what the words
he uses they didn't have good team members and they took their extreme ownership for weakness and took advantage of okaz first of all out
of the gate if you have weak or bad tea members that is the first thing the leader needs to take ownership of right if you're truly weak
and bad team members than you need either train them or cotamor get rid o them that that's the first thing he so if you've got back
stabbing bad tea members that are looking to call you down as the leader you got a problem with those people then you need a fixed out
problem no one so let's just start with that number two i this is this is this tooth to kind of parts of esther's and insecurity level of
insecurity and there is a level of or a a a matter of perception the insecurity is the thing that says if i say this is my fault in
everyone up and we can command is going to say hiram piranesis fault but i i want you to think about how this actually perceived if what
you do is let's take the other example as what you do is you blame every one else if that's your attitude if your attitude is it wasn't my
fatihat pathos harfurt he was therefore was not me i'm just a person in charge not me thinking up that statement it's not my fault it's
it's my keys fault i'm just the person in charge is all my fault she think about that if we ever your placing blame if you are a leader in
your placing blame on your team what you're saying is hey it's not my fault it's my teens fault i'm just the leader here oh i'm not the one
out there in the field doing work i'm not the one that's making those decisions i'm not the one that's i'm not the one that's you know ah
interacting with costumers i'm not the one that's doing that so this isn't my fault it's my teams fault well meanwhile dessus in charge of
the time you are so the minute that you start saying it was my fault this for leevetenant tatou think about how you look to your post
laughable you look like an idiot you don't look like a good leader so don't fall for it and you know what i'm actually not saying that
you'll never get fire if you take ownership could you and he do something that's really bad there's i absolutely chance you defied if you
do something that cost a bunch of money your was immoral or elegy covered something up and for your keen covered something up or you did
something that was truly wrong and you take underheated might still get fires you know what that happens in the navy and the navy if your
ship runs aground or like lads been some collisions on these ships and now i think a late or i might talk about those at some point of the
toast but the captain the ship is delatit doesn't matter if he was on the ship or not he he he could be because he just because a ship at
sea the captain might have had to fronto another ship to talk to the admiral he is ship crashes he done doesn't matter he's there now he's
responsible for the training heaspolis for the accents who just monstrelet a happolati and he's getting fired and he and and also if he did
do something wrong willette one hippotades n't matter is getting fonder so montana never going to get fired um but generally generally and
this is when i said generally this is the vast majority of his arm is ninety nine per cent of the time if you take ownership you don't look
like a week possyolok like a strong post that is taking our ship a problem as is got to get the proposal i say that's a were over again and
as always you don't just have to own the prom jest one solution to the promise to so this is the situation here we got this guy people the
if you are in charge of a bad team and you're taking ownership the bad team is what you have to fix you have to fix it you have to train
them you have to curiou have to coach them you have to mentor them you have to do all those things and if you can't get them to get on
board with a program then you've got to get rid of him or get rid of that wan or two bad people that are causing the infraction and cause
that chance to spread dearie them set these ample promote somebody that's hungry and young and wants to get after it so you've got to take
eldership of the team the problems the weak people on the team you gotta take ownership of the solutions and get himself it seems like in a
kind of notice is from listening to that we need take abe's goin to cut you off with i have talked of it before sometimes people say they
think if they say all take ownership of this been the problem then is like her had been their safe that exactly well get ye yes yes they
yet they add is not the case yeesterday here you who is my hall otemau taking eldership it is donatien the problem is solved there's a
problem yes do you have to say yes there is a problem here i am taking ownership of it my fault because i'm in charge and this is what
we're going to do to fix it to and ten you have to actually go and fix it there is the pirate that see it is if you come to me twelve times
in a healing get a poast out cause i forgot to hat record i that my bust that's my boss okay well they from oones one rode of a make sure
that we have this things in place i hoped to be light it's going to fitting is it rearing the testes going to go docility member this cause
this nice we just the way you are but when we went shirmer in nowhere do we go on like last shirley went on driving we two old trailing her
rich your very life and we are looking for i can't remember what we looked for either the hotel or the the place or ever the stake house
paypalled and i was kind of navigating and you were kind and navagin innotuit help not tryin to help but you were kind and aviation there
really seem like to me any way you were like okay i'll let you cannonade took her on to whatever i know we are on our track or whatever and
i was like okay i got a take extreme on a ship right now because like right now is like the perfect time to take extenditur the worst time
not to tishion as her aunt so like all dogs that my dad i come in you know from do this kind of thing but at the theale really aggressively
took on a ship like your almost ill boy were at for at first as a are you joking but you weren't jonoro were like take take the next rider
and then we come close to it you'd be like this turnered here you aeternitate out round you were not ladinos he but which is funny now but
it is a good example because not only i mean in your mind you you put forward the more important part you were like okay i'm in a take it's
like your actions said that it's your fault and but you're the solutions that that you had even though there were extreme or whatever like
that was the part that you were impotent to jerk about it now josiah you know what your daniel next term's going to be one point five miles
here is coming up on the right they are right in teruewe were on estate is that how we navigate in the horoyally good i mean i really
squared away yet when you're in a convoy of military vehicle see it's awesome and you know it's bad the really on my part is that at first
i thought your joking like patronising me in no tenement do that but that's really kind of my ego you know i and indicates like do you said
the next turn dissector and i can figure that out you know i'm smart enough to figure that i'll kind o thing but if i'm like okay this is
the system and you know jackson a you know tell me and he's going to be detailed about it and make absolutely sure we don't miss the turn
inating then you're right an that's a good way to navigate you know mum but two people that have been bored but one the last i say he has
the solution i know so fezaudie it seems like back to his question oh your enemies could take advantage early on right as it as the extreme
watershed cultures trying to take hold to kinda whinin contingent from home like even only on that's what i think you in earlier
longitudinous no rule even early on and you don't look like a idiot you actually look square away because you go her off the problem said
were happy if that i identified here's organific them yea no one knows where we're driving right now you're kind of half driving in half
panaetius i'm over here talking or doing whatever guess what we made a mistake knocknagapple again i got this at you the right turned
coming up five hundred meters the right turn getting the left hand la fregate and that has always had the problem it in for to think in the
gaining you know you get to a hey here's a problem here in fix it for it's not he henry things my fall that not a few at moravian
anything's my fall everything is my fault and how can you dine me alone no pressing on a new act sure half to take ownership of the
problems and said alfred what pay you know what just i you gets you got to see a movement different times a bunch of different ways ye
bonoe way before you start to truly understand it you know they meant that everything the you ever do you ever hear yourself making excuse
no armor note more eldonian i you like i you save you like you come to on latinism in every fusion a mile away and you have him in your
head uses complaining of a complaint like how you feel don't like when there's something to be done i'm the name you know and everything
with esbul when the something be done be like mtoto doing this or i don't know whatever that just ran omelet but men are you see that stuff
coming a mile away ye not all it's definitely something that you get us too and you get good at maiyo get good at and you gonna saying you
get good at not to say well you know one of my assistant plutonian ders whose awesome guy and he had this big he was got a disagree with me
he would say the word well being you know well we think but but he had an only way saying it yea he would say well i that these and so i
tell you in you know how you goin to do this and he you know come up with his plan and and i'd say they would about this on the plan you me
my one come in from the north and said from the west and he got well and i'd say after a while i that became a code word for you are about
to get gelobt he is a toll seanachas shack wall soomerset next less jacko have had discipline equal freedom audio on repeat since its
relates in a love i question if our greatest strength is our greatest weakness than how is discipline which is of so you your strength your
grace sweetness a personal aren't even know what i don't know discipline would be my gastanks i know men at a disciplined person near no
doubt but i think it i think that i think i want the thing that people would find interesting is that i am not overleap or drily if he
think about those like psychological characteristics one of the miss extreme orderliness which normally goes hand in hand with for highly
disciplined people in noospaper that are um there are just old true highly disciplined but they have to have everything their theronto
right and i i'm not like them about a lot as things i am about something but like it's pretty funny actually my floor in my garage where i
worked out isn't is not clean right cotsal saying on it from sweat it and is dirty right and occasional get someone say you clean that
floor were a bit his gendarme's nasty but it tell me functional right in and my pones that i i don't i don't seek out about it it's
functional it doesn't bother me at all that not perfectly orderly there's also means a i don't mind when things don't go as plant right a
lot of times you get people that are high and of disappointed there too they're too far or not balanced so now in things don't call the way
that there's yet they plan things to go they they they start to lose it all but they can't deal with it they want they want to have
everything in order all the time they had to say that's not the way life works that certainly not the way come bout work but that's not the
way life works and on only mind them i don't mind chaos so i would say probably if if you look at disappoint as a strength i don't think i
think that would be generally considered the weaknesses of of being hyper disciplined in that you you can't stand when things are not
yonder you can't stand laister work out this is a thought to you i freak out completely by the lay i don't like mister workout don't lose
my mind over it yes now all that being said i would say that i am a very much a creature of habit and i do like to do the same things over
renaitre even now i have to travel all time in lyrate stay home i pretty much eat the same food all the time and go to the same three or
four restaurants all the time the right she is like to follow routine as much as i can you know what even intuitu i do the same basic
movements all the time i have the same you know salabut like a funnel like everywhere that you go with me it's going to lord to where i
want you to be cusiomhouse same moves surf the same spot all with time to i guess i guess for me the way that disappointed is weakness or
whatever for me is that a man i think a i i could be fairly boring in predictable yet for other people ye ethereality i know ye ensayo want
to go try this thing and my home now that her hellenora ly yet don't really want to i think you're right about that there because the
estate thing even a haereat time way from like i i i'm not guying desipience oiled the sin i mean but like the same stuff like over and
over again the funny i got eight ushant even like new movies ah didn't okenites like oh you know what i i i i haven't had time to watch
movies for a long time yet but but when i used to watch movie to be co im what big house again a live that kind too i think but who look
big abolished move the look in some move that different among the whole thing about this but this the two types of different morticoles in
this situation there's movies that are like a awesome good story line may be a great reveal at the end a twist or whatever and it's like
good good story and then there is like the tupoi that's just a series of good parts where the story doesn't really matter that much
somethinged some on the jump but is less about that more about the like the good parts in meriar in this weasel the big libowski like it's
just a series of really good parts ye and it's awsome ye ye that's what i mean i think they're both of some but though the one read that
have always either one the just the story lines off owing okayannie comes i can't think of any one to my head but big abases one of the hat
you like napoleon dynamena you if like dotate one just a bunch of dear good parts will care the whole would have a safat you probably
forget really i mean remem what happens if the error the story lie you don't really care but you'll watch it over and over hoisters or
fanning or whatever and the like point break for example and now we talk about a furniture a yeah that's a good that's a series of great
parts like the airiest before the limital the harsher disease the story is good you words flying we'll say that but that's not the point
the point is like you know anyway so back to the point though is oh one word talk about like bean repeated in like lanigan near over a
glowing femboering on boring ye pose i ukataw him like that right here at the lotefos he time and lizarann walking this is some o house
like his blackboard at i've but i go there like me not as much of probably go like maybe three times a week now but there is a point where
i was going five to six perforated his is well dear the water than a day a to as of course neist love o me and and my brother will so so
yet they just let me in there was loo again again we're just propellable for significant portion of their even my wife she's a like that oh
she looks a different sorserare in whatever and so my ification less a weingaertner that's something different yes as in okay tell you
where to the annorah's only is god old famines therasaea hover few like differeria i too undebauched it so like a mean goes for like what
we do to don the weekend itle really repetitive you iris uses the word the ground hog dick planning by allah to declares on that i am
maauepas under great parts but really you carry that then you know like the story what's that what's that movie really about that what's
the story about the way you do know ye totally know i soon eemitate you got to be nice to be girl full the ground all out day stops thank
waidono what them the other will be at this wooden venetian but a good move anyway so doesn't point of make it moving but oh but yes so
there moon's whip is is that ye you will be boring because my wife thinks i'm born in that way were like it's just the same old same
everything was i on my pride of the sasanian o go on sotillo's being or whatever they rossetti's like way better you no and yes so yes
think you're an i think that's my but so if you think discipline isn't your biggest string to what is what do you think you're begetteth
how i or no i don't perhaps i big strong you do think it is i think it's it's arguable maybe tis alina maybe even be not but now i let
artobane you now then heribald no you're pretty ballad eeyou know i think it is an you told it to me too oh you are durable on terms of
physical i think even mental to the that the thing like your you're like a durable fronie people like you you've told me stories of the one
going to but you toyaslas me one who made like huge mistakes you don't with you and you like handle it and it doesn't seem like it like
bothers you or you don't like that can sell stuff that like leonarda well and to do to me i guess that's that's balanced to make the
allegiances i don't i don't it's it's it's also boring right because i don't go for in one or a aaron i don't get extreme about this search
stream about that i just i i think that's what has been good for me yet was i never frout about stuff noise but yet of ye that ye the ice
next question with your biggest strength might beget story i'll tell what i think yours biggesta want your humble yosemite hell but neither
day you were tell you with a most humble guide or say the lithodendron all notoriety it it is fioretti that joke but hear ye me i had a
warhead on all the most egotistical persons that i've ever known like i am not to have out this if straight up tell me i have no eagle i
mean as she was like it was simplete insane i couldn't believe that that isn't a joensson myself man that's crazy egoistes a thing i don't
know who you're talking about specifically but um i will say this where obvious was it all a don't and this made him go along with the idea
that you think that a humble is like i don't even know if if i'm humbler not because i know before i wasn't humble before at all i love the
world like revolver on renanot as he fairly like a way for just yenadisse how by a kind of like if i had certain feelings like vater just
more important than what was kind o going on and it wasn't like necessarily like erlike walking ouaie a dick or nothing like that it was
just that kind of hat felt or whatever and am i you know complete immaturity but at the same time when you when you can foind it out that
humility is like a supermortal thing i like okay how can i how can i i i cayonans that's true because you know an you talking about so what
is that even mean and then what i realize it is a bag like a waitemata humility is to to i don't know that they be ability to learn things
from this one who might not necessarily be an export for example i like then you can learn suffraged bemaroo a bubel ye a eeteration a
white belt yes so that kind of stuff now i almondwise go will be like him aback felt eofor sir what do you have to say to me you know
nimitation cept that i be interesting the indigent you could take a cue stream of where there was times when people fought you can't learn
any thing from wrestlers you can't elenthero judo you can't learn anything from sambo you it that's that's that's great talk here you know
and and the good you get you players take it something from wrestling and take something from judicatories in a bunch from jail bunch from
sandal but i then greet her own stuff and watch on you to somebody that does all their stuff from the different ay yer a different school
yes this almost like this two different types of humility where unifies one who's really outwardly like home actually you would add the
example where i caught him a gregor for example where out like to to hear him talk and suffice that you be the case be a huge ego when of
this no humble is no humility with a whatever but like he's learning all the stuff from like leclair in all or ye if ye che knows he's he
humble yet so what is that you know like is there to kinsomeness in humility i think they're kind of look and even if we are to look at it
arionelli showmanship with conge right there's some were selling fights with cone but even at the same time like lit say that pasitch thing
is people probably pretty common that people are legitimately like into themselves that way clitheroe going to cocaine in the poast it one
point ye here because i'm going back and forth with him on social media yeaning like this ye abolsom is but me but by him could any that
question very a eaout year yes in general or but cleobouline yeah for boucanes counterpointe any body but you get people who are
legitimately cocky outwardly you know collier but but at the same athenaean from they have the humility to learn them every one kind of
thinker and you want it is almost even it might not even be nasal specifically being able to learn from every one its more about what you
said longtimes it's like admitting to yourself that you don't know everything and you don't necessarily know more than everyone at every
single time is like you have to be humbling to know that you don't know everything solicitin of that is the type of thing where even so i
will catch myself and i i used to catch myself doing that let's say what once a day and then and then it was wont to weak and then once a
month and and end in sprattle now but sometimes i'll i'll catch myself listening to some one and i'll catch myself thinking it is god is
now he told her you don't have many anyone hear so elewation take a different perspective ye because ye what can you not not this guy
doesn't know anything it's what can you learn from this person is that as a question yeah yeah what can you learn from you lassoing from
him do you defies a white belt even if he's in experience even if he seems completely arrogant crazy even if you're a learning how not to
act i that's better than just saying all this person oh no canonesses i've got nothing on or know you to i do so i itinerating as we talked
about how you make excuses you personally make excuses less now i personally make it uses might be a little ahead of you matias i can i i
figured that out may be a little bit earlier no older than you but it's you know i used to probably make excuses once once a day yes and
then once every three days and now on the wet and had come in plenty the many forms to though making excuses cause does the less curly only
mean making excuses to others it's like to soporiferous that's the primary years the primary or easy one to overcome is making a chotee to
her the hard one overcome is making a sesterce a novel yet that's the hard one overcome as it hurts more yea because it dominate you say
well you know i didn't get the thing i wanted because you all of less external consolingly an e or exerce the minute you start saying that
is the man that you stop working hard for at sang ye manuring for that thing or adjusting for that thing or getting up early in chasing
that thing down it becomes an excuse so in excuse if he come in excuse like meaner who just excuse you so did you i excuse yourself from
that work oh yes but i would say tactiturnity thing and i don't know i'm just listening to you at this point where maybe i am hope because
i have always had had at least a little bit of that where i be like may be this person right now even though i hate what they're saying to
me what like they could be right that could be read about mirah now and i think always had that i think that's why you know some people
they just you talk to me or whatever in your like the chance of this person changing how they are is very low o most unlike most like right
most people far out janangir too but the noteece something to really siashan over an order no known that like a dionaean inferiority but i
would say legitimately and i'm trying to look at it is like honestly is lost mower me ten years ago is like like you lettin some one i knew
some one tones go in i hadn't seen a more hurt fromantel in ten years and they like hung out with me for a week they would be blown away
they'd be like your just wait everywhile different perishes with me i mean so so this is funny there is a bar in san diego sure that age to
go to when i was perkinsites and he corinthus of bes and i was a wide yet i was a while i and there was a guy that was a a gigartina i even
know it didn't recusa not to state to even be paying attention to usherings anyway to make a long story short i decided i was going to put
in an ostrage and i put together the package and i quittent the administrative office at seal team one and i talked to the chief that was
in there i sitheing this package and i i was swathed a look at it you know physios i should add a look me goes i hear put in a package hung
it yea he was have i wouldn't expect that for it's the friendand i'll kind o why not he goes we yousheenie deja on this mar fan on these
nights i have been that for you know five years and i said i was not aware of that and you know in his mind he was thinking that's what he
knew me as he didn't really know me because he's in the adonais he wouldn't really know me from anything else and that was a little bit of
a wake up habit that of that so my point is i i will i i should not i should never come off as a saint only a donatist anger die for sure
for sir donata and even know to this day still working still trying to figure things out but but definitely back in the day i was an idiot
i had oneida fan but i was vitelot of tombstone ye but you're manin in a a i believe you hundred per cent where you were probably a certain
way back then and whatever it fades finial this or whatever in what you legitimately changed a bunch or a big part of fundamentally who you
are with being opened to like fortiguerra learn in whatever and i think the i think the biggest thing is i i had open eyes you know what
mean and as i moved in earshot i saw how other people perceived me i saw the importance of leadership and yes i mean you just you just have
to change in that something that as a leader you you see this all time what got you here isn't necessarily what's goin to get you there
etiani you have leaders that you'd be they were aggressive young cow boy with a round the field that's great but will you can you you have
to you you don't have to stop that but you have to put some rains on it out yet a rain and in a little bit the more seein your debt the
more you become accountable to a board the more you become accountable to a being a publicly traded company those of the rein in a more you
become accountable to the actions if you're in the military still in what a way you're going to be seen we do ay your unit is going to be
seen and perceived by the other senior leaders those are real things and if you don't grow up you don't make the progress that you need to
make it i was lucky enough to to see that you don't have some great examples long the way great leaders that i work for inlet it can be
hard to see that ye and thou that's a good thiefess only you said i i weepen my eyes or i went in with olenin even know how to the scribe
it but i just was aware of what was happening a little bit more of then nor moor a little bit in enough to make the change as i guess yes
an that's the hard part to and i think it is because of like i say like your your ego and it's hard for me timoney say that because like
even when i said it were evil it really like it it registers as like this external or the go walk round with his chest out and on a knoll
his small hot out on whatever it's like that is it enslaves on but it's not it's like like being able to kind of shed the the blinders on
self artie and so you know when some one so they like your your kind of acting this way you're kind of this way in to be able to be to
figure to yourself that this person could be right first hand and then be mad at the fact that they disinfected you second cook asie part
of it i understand but most times for i think most epotaque sometimes where the fact that you stepped to me like that in fact me more than
what you're actually saying from emanu if you don't have the the ego in the way that you describe it you'll you'll hear what they're saying
first and then did you go in the not to be mad at it you're not so weird to as like as i talk about the stuff like like when i talk about
detachment now i used to i used to know now now that warmed when i would tell gustation even you know not that long ago i know batistin the
teams but it took me a while and the teams while is trying to tell guy that but i will i didn't figure out the words yet he only uses yet
that is one example grave um there's a bunch of the examples like that where i was trying to convey a i would convey the message id'jut
have like a concise waited do it or a clear way to do it but i was not so conveying the same message i and maybe it'll it and that's
another thing that happens is as you get older yet more experienced you understand the message yourself better to like when you teach you
to do or you know the jenny thing the more you teach it to better you understand it yes and so as i taught things i understood it better
yeast's one thing that i think helps out want and this is why an exact an answer from me on so many different things of leadership people
say you what i do this young person that doesn't listen a word o this person that isn't reaching their potential was like a potentate toff
as that's what it writhing help me a lot was even my first poltoon when i was the youngest guiani was the most junior guy in my first
belton i was the i was the the head radiuminized i was responsible for stuffs i which man i sat through the brief and i had to help with
the planning i had to do like stuff that was outside my realm of experience that i had to step up a new it and it seems like a little thing
right now to say what when you are nineteen years old and your in charge of the communications for some training exercise and you know what
that was your doing that up and figured that stuff out ye and that's that's very very ambacht what you do with your junior leaders that you
want to have them step up i led you put them in charge things but then that is very lucky that i had leaders that i wore for that did that
he nocked about for me that leaders that that put myself in the other junior guides and betonica of things ye not just not just saying what
but actually putting us in charge things in that that's a quick way to go leave so was very lucky that i had that and i think that was one
of the things that help me to see the light right was being put in charge a thing even on a young younger age when de think like all how
you just talk about detaching matinee you are trancendent a message before you an called it detaching when did you understand the
importance of i've told his araber hearses i was doing all rigs train and we came up on a platform of an oil rag there the different
platforms of different levels i should say and we came upon this one platform i was i think this is this was it my ateethin is my first or
second paton on pretty sure it was my second pulten and as we came up on this this level it was it was a little confusing ended the whole
cocoon gets all mine and no one does anything i i i basically stood there for a second and then i kind of stepped back off the line of but
let i look around and i said okay i i see what we should do and actually said hold left queer righter whatever this little call was and
every one did it and the only reason i understood that was cause i stepped back like a foot and looked around and that's all ye that's a
and and i realize right then oh if i'm not staring down my gun if i take a step back if i look around if i detached i think use that works
at it now that word or but it's an off he just stepped back and you hide poor your gun and you look around you're going to know way more
than abode else it stare down they're gone and that right there changed my world it really did change my wondertime i didn't think that
change my world i just said oh cool you know what went on here we are won't he bore a frozen take us that back look around and then make a
call ok that's good that's what i started doing i didn't think it was a big deal at the time i didn't think i was a big deal until i was at
in astrogation and i would see every one staring down their gun and no one making decision in all i have to do stellionate kept back with
me right here one foot back off the firing line a look around and then it all okay we can go to the firmer here will be out okay othered
then i start to realize how important was in a serious put you know warren de round it and put put messaging around it that it was a port
in theirs and every lesson that i talk about was all kind of learned in that method you all that was kind of learned by being put in
situations where i had to figure something out or something occur or or i i nettamente with my life i go puttin some situation is okay you
know what and what i think might be kindly key about that particular idea of detaching is it is when you can detach in life right a kiss
you this incredible ability to see yourself and i link that if we go down to the oar of of myself improving as a leader and continuing to
try and prove as a leader it's because if you can catch and see yourself cause that's the same exacting like i i i i mention this earlier
as it not can i saw myself and saw how other guys were seeing me will that you've got a detach for being or to see how other people are
seeing you you've got to be able to detach a little bit and i understand it and so that ability to step back and see myself from the other
people's to to see myself in situations and see how other people were interacting with me was very very helpful now this does not mean that
i was able to dustcoat course over night and a lion to make that you know any one think that if and i did tombstun when i was when i was
assistant to commander need done stuff in all upton comin and i did dumb stuff when i was attacking a commander i did dunston was a
training center i do domino do something junto morrow watch me but i think i will recognize it most the time i look at it and say you know
what that was dumb and don't do that again or hears how you can avoid it and i think that's what will help people if people can can adapt
that little skill of stepping back off the off the line and taking a look around let take it to look at yourself look at how you're being
perceived walls is important is is how the actually think about how echo is perceiving me right because if i'm in my own head i can't i can
never see how your seeing me but sometimes if you're acting looked at first thing i do in some one's acting weird to me or i i understand
why some one's acting certain way as i put myself in their shoes it's hard to do that and if he is you don't do that you don't make real
you can't understand them so if if my boss is doing something crazy to me and all i do is get passed him for doing something crazy as i
that's we just traded created an agnation ship and now things are going sideways and it's not good if i boss do some crazy minnetarees is
you doin this women think about what he seen oh he seeing jocote cave man looking guy that wants to go out and he seems crazy and okay i
need to i need to correct that i knew a correct that thing i need to let him see that i'm thinking about the big picture that i understand
the shayok let me make a adjustments as opposed to restore using ruth he no each in shackerle's perspectives ye an that's a big key rather
where your life he said you know that the moment you kind of may be realized this the importance that significance of detaching it that the
oil rag campaign is and the miamis a training hinstalments campaign the and then how you understood at whatever point that that applies to
like living because a man that i say those two things on the stand that you don't know everything human beable to detach which is
borderline if possible by the way anemones yet in what it as far as the plane it's like late because i even in the military it's like a
that's a very specific environment milor like unlike most environments seeming like if you could be like how sackinly at one going to the
post office or going to the grocery store denewit my wife or something like that but to like when you go deep enough detaching is going a
seringal significance spiritall only wayne know yer yer wife gonfaloun passed because alan when i whatever you know how you set the first
reaction what you feel like doing which you let you but which one man typically do is laced accordingly according to a few about the lay
your saying to me shouldn't be sayin this stuff to me i didn't do anything go why are you doing this to me you know there only dishes or
whatever asked elatest as ali as lady or her ayuntamientos all italienne just thinking he this isn't fair this is wrong will you're doing
to me so i'm going to you know exarcate er but that's because you're not detached like you just it and when you are able to do it again
portliness ble blush will you are an moretense have you made progress in that arena acutely not here the hinano board inouis not that an
express i belike it's it's too anyone's word in epouserait possible because that's the last thing you feel like doing do so if you operate
he your life we do nature by the way with how you feel you know like i'm since rest on my shelf you notice i like it like this um it it's
like your doing something and you have to do something i'm pletely different her right just unladen that you're walking down the road and
now the sudden you're walking out a road maybe you even jogging your joking down the road now all of a sudden in a split second you've got
to like goito like right at that moment in time while you running the that radical of a change like a deal he'd something totally that's
what it yes like when you detach from the current situation you're in this urining euristan and have to completely go and do something
completely different that's it fer a few of like that radical outing when you when you really do it freely do it right like one year or in
a let's say an argument with some one who did her argument if i feel was like you're going from running a thousand miles an hour to a two
like putting your face in the snow and reciting the alphabet backwards they have on in a teatolly different yet and so that you know that's
why i'm people are going to ask any asked as before a how do you do tachinae biggest thing i think you have to do is yester what your red
flags are one of the things that show you that your two in golf than the situation and in recognizes things and engloutir face in the snow
a starched the alphabet that is that's what if you like to detach his but he be think about the advantage that you have the and in i know
your football player i'm not but didn't you know you can watch everybody that's watching the football game on you evasively mistake that's
being made as a happening in every one else in the field is their trying to vacate compositor a vast yet here in the game yet they and
usually on the quarterback by the way when they take i was waiting open waiting to do that and all ye exactly exactly hundred per cent if
you have that edvantage if you can do that yes if he can notice that and like another whole thing about the situation as ye i say bonanni
but the more you actually pull tinged it the more you can do that the easier become and when it becomes like habit in really all it is in
you can to weird like madam which i'm kind of a fan of doing little metaphors with yourself you know so if it's like you ever watched those
movies now a cartwere the move's going on and then the the person the way called the protagonist like it's almshouse is the movie and
everyone in the movie pas now that ever any saracenical it you say it's like you do that to yourself to early yourself as i enselman so
passed you did it out of all pain up the dogs whatever or out on no whatever you didn't on the lot of a that she's pistical motion to night
you can easily moonflower right but she spirit you don't think so so what you do is right when you feel yourself are right when you get her
yelling at you don't positive what do we have here what are we have here we have myself of wife she's mad at something doesn't make sense
what want makinut's like going you just detach it that one out of a document how are your sole you all you can eat only a asathor like you
don't he said like to the foot of an then you if you can pass tomoye at that at that point i detach you will easily matteration jess what
my wife i haven't been home for four days yes i left a bunch of laundry out if the baby was diapered and i forgot to tirawa i'm an okay as
you were to sit not made about the land specifically as arresting that is drunk she and he said hey you know what i totally should move the
one and by the way the diapers are as thou is completely out and to her men and and you differ using you destestation your detached and
that's a you that's a you're the ill you ever here's a little sight tip on that situation a law the de presoner it's not that that the
grass is long and she wants it short in the fact that its long is making her mat that's not the situation the situation is she said
something she thought that that meant something that she said something she thought it meant something to you when it came time to prove
whether not that meant something to you you proved in in it sat was your deal mess with you guys dealing with and that's exiguous you when
you detach the charades in your in the heat the moment at when you're in the game is hard to see who's open and whose not coming the time
most toime pressure all the time in my case a mexicaine quest i disgression lead that last answer was a good lead into this next quest she
how do you think young joe would have performed under commander willing and all jagoaretes that react that you just had his when i expected
because it seems like i should be like a really interesting quennell interesting interparental isn't that interesting to be quite honest if
young jacka was working for old jacko it would be good go i would have liked me as a young guy and as young i would like me as a boss i was
a young hard work or with a good attitude and sometimes a controlled as iasataweiat i could have been tightened up by the right by her and
i wasn't like i wasn't i wasn't um it wasn't ever interfering with the war er and all year wild chinntaile man wild best in an we get wild
very young young eyes with a fist full of money and beleaguered disgestin after it and you know the guys put but we weren't like causing
major trouble right we won't get in a rested much yet we weren't getting in fight fall o time you know wear comes upon it it was no nothing
major so we untie not and we got tighten up sometimes but it would be no factor and as a young guy um you know i i think i would do i would
like working for me because i will not let it myself into the horatii he books get after it and that wavenoise so again i don't think it's
i don't think it's like a a it sounds like a really interesting question but it's not really that interesting and the cool thing is there's
a lot o young teeayter like fire was on i sung tangier is a shell had we like to i would look at old young ten guys like i am remedies like
that good for him they good frasie up will there be any issue to her like what a young jacobin or two but what do you think would be your
major struggle you know it any even with my with a once of the mascara no no we've been clawed been gone then endecott is i mean like name
five per cent of the young buck tea guys that work for me yet by love those guys sisther are also and no issue yes tell your ye re like our
esentially on the path then really i don't with some loose ends for sure all yearlings there on a yeah was on the path and in india know my
my the guys that i got in to bud with the showed up the chilton brothers i will sir old jackal love to lasalle fired up i was nothing
faidon to i'm not a salseta cause i wasn't there as gustabat than me and you know that's to go back to a question or leer when i described
myself like as my good quality being durable the reason i say that his cause i there's guys it were better i mean that just about
everything like faster than me strong wytham better shots than me whatever is pretty durable though like i was pretty i was good at being
average in a lot of different things at his ostrog average in the water different things which is it an i was durable but i could i could
take some abuse in antelechia abuse which is it is a cool quality to have you know you here much to her like a tank that discanting i'm a
try to set it in motorman put him durable you know that that makes sense you know the you know like the the too high luckiness maisie it's
a tootovere seas their desolate there really really durable really there's a there's a show from england my wife's from mainland there's a
show in england it's called top gear my son watched the show top gear they tried to destroy a tall a telltale were ooliticus figure it's a
really durable it's not the fastest it's not the strongest youbet it's terble it's there a little a good quality are just continues the
other day you shall tolley should do a litigating intromit even in the ball park you know impetiginous talk crazy but sorry that anything
mansion eating you better you tuyeres crazy dog of checks ye young young young bajocco he'd had a good time and old jack like i say man
there's there's a tone young team as he fired upon as out with some young talaiti some tea nisan there was young to young peguy there and
some hesepti about a utalian i e you know what you know people say like all malines and they and the ill neoterics getting weak in like an
i've got t be going out with some of those guys they're twenty years old on my genaro go ye no good to go we got stuffed guys that are
beasts alleviate beyond solid creaking awesome yet my my two friends that are in the determinate not thinking talking of now like the
maturity love was just really that really impressive mature level especially for both them but at the same time thinking back on them and
how they kind of when they started on their like or in the filthy es all the stuff considering that and then considering where they are now
it makes it seem ashamed to me where the older them would it have a problem merely would knowing her the voisier on the path all the rarer
the very asatakon but els guys we old love that those gasworks in for me when i was at when i was a commander and i would love to be those
guys as my chief when i was a young guy they know no factor ye so i i said i think if people thought that sounded like an intrinsically
wasn't ye witholding idea for city ship the eel and not really don't braziers to what about social leader let not socially but what he say
like him like outside of the military you know charons a young kid the other day and as in older guyandot the young kids you goorsoon as
he's getting after it i don't bless him bless rock and roll i got wet me keep him out of trouble he has i'll good all good i think i might
at some problems with it myself it would be an echo ocas you get your was among the path yet no i don't know ye there was no path at any
see it hath really not a sage at a questa advice would jogie his seventeen year old self regarding school social relationships parent pure
pressure it saderesera actual jacopo to nitescere joe fassett's kind without asking like outside of the allytheer you if i was going to
tell myself something here a couple o things you know i would tell myself to detach a telltale to learn that i would tell myself that that
girl listened to hold orleanists for intriguing to have in the party isn't going to be the best party of all time and all those things that
you think is a otaka out earlier almost things that you think are a huge deal when you young than not have big deal and i heresinde up but
it's true ma'am do but things that you think her a big deal when you're seventeen years old not that big of a deal and it's really hard to
convince in some one at seventeen years old it of that right well they also also want they don't recognize his things that all rebible
don't recognize they think their little bilas they they're doing stupid thick right yes whether it's drinking and driving whether i mean
kid still drink and drive now lit up her how domitain julie ple all think you know nowadays we've talked to a social nereide's post off on
social mediate you got paid nehat is wrong with him i and i nonoward now you know we were with lotions when you apply for a job they come
and look your social man into a kind of initiation you know might be his that the good moveat move he's a great move so um yes just just
recognized that some of the little things are actually big and some the big things are actually little night squareites away and the onset
this before when you're young you've got a realized that how you act now is directly related to your future success to your inter happiness
to your future financial situation to everything so o'hart make that connection right we are young above if it in my rambosson kids get it
though i'm telling you some kids get it i think they're just no some kids get some av my oldest daughters friends they get it like tharon
track they're on track there there there like hay undoing this i'm doing that the thorntree years old either studying for the sat there
taking the a p classes my daughter included like their own track to make stuff happen yes but i think and i'm nothing this is the case but
this is probably the case when we nother i could be required but dasso and we talk about the before you in the party or brain that
understands all that egoist arnaneelia ope so tis you know in this is from what i understand how you can influence people you just put em
on a routine pendle okay so is the difference between a standing on like what i'm doing now and having as a tangible no onstan where you're
going with us and you you i i believe that they are definitely some kids like that that are just there just like he ocampos to give you
graviere you've made yolara i know for a fact kids at her like no i am going to do this this this and can lead me or actually you know what
you're right cause this god blake you don't remember blake these to do todos for at em so he we did like a thing the wars i think his
icourse something like that and he was otakou that where in elementary school he remembers feeling like if if i don't have perfect
attendants and have perfect strain as i won't pass this not pass but i won't like me the the perfect eye whatever and he said that he would
ahould like create like this track to his whole feature in life would be relegates all evaluating life is in meneainon that elisabeth
reason i wanted to do my homeward and get good grade is so winningly straightaway not to enter college it were in on that stuff or sure and
then i am way most kids are in my opinion most kids are a i don't want to get in trouble some immediate re precautions myself included to
pay i got a pass this so i can go to the next grade ye ye haanest her oot want to be the due in class to do to do is homoeopathy has it you
know for i shootout a guess so i guess so that's that's me trigo a step outside myself on the one hand i guess the final thing obviously i
tell myself desponding osram which is basically what we're saying ye throw get espontaneo you live your life that penneth the biggest one
there is to to whether they tolly understand that or not say like what you're doing right right now is the important things in life to say
that you think are importunate are not baroneted and then things that are so that you think are not imparter armored socani a like ice bird
you know the old pokoole at a oratorio little statement you want to people really like the way you say important and now said eight till i
flurry of glory and an rainbows limpio de fire well integre with you so like the iceberg thing you know in the spring metafor words like
people only see the top is burnable that is like a huge ice work so that's it that's what important things are in life right so you you
think it's just a little small little iceberg but what when you think of the whole scopoli which have no access to by the way it it's that
whole iceberg in so if you're not focusing on that important part of this burg will i guess an ice box situations not that important but
loiaute metaforally your ship ye a you know it elicitating of situation oh but and then at the same time the things that aren't really
portant meaning they don't have an ice berg on the er they're just little floaty there you can that's aborning in a mill or get create er
you know knock on the sinou no noising you justiniani's a sleety she a a wanting before we closed out to night because i think that's good
for questions i i want to hit a couple of quick temperses new book on her a couple o wick fangs for a mid tribemen to er is what it's
called and um no lodigiano on and it's written in really short little actions if he didn't notice it i mean you can read him in like five
or ten minutes then what he did in this book as you too and asked the same i think it's ten or eleven questions to all these different i
would say random but the not random cause they're all kind of successful in whatever realm they are going to be successful in case as
successful is a very open term right firstborn their in there's accessibles all kinds of people in her and i discard like the first couple
hundred and fifty pages or so and i so do pilot a couple of the bondathal are pretty cool i thought people could take a little sum it away
from an oaten or a couple of weeks thing he said again averell isn't so me ah anyway so here we go the first one it is a little section
from some acres an i'm not reading the whole like everything in each person section but to some of the highlights stephen press field
begins in authorising court in synresis arise he wrote the art o war he wrote the legend of bagger vance at the moore of art the sarah
wrote a war of our yahweh's obviously a play on words for for the art of war and the war of augusion be creative and outalians now come the
resistance and all that i and joergel to me he used to have a stacklepoole give them to people that came canoemen him never tired it to run
on very you and are you also rigattiere which is a fringe actually and to about the spartans the battle of thermopyla and they actually
teach gates of fire like at the basic school for the ring coranina carriages over that they've teach itself that's pretty that's pretty
often any way here is a question for stephen press field the question is at what advice would you give you a smart driven college student
about to enter the real world what advice should they ignore here's what he said i'm probably a hopelessly out of date but my advice is get
real world experience be a cow boy drive a truck joined the marine corps get out of the hyper competitive life hack frame of mind i'm
seventy four believe me i've got all the time in the world you've got ten lifetimes to hetty you don't worry about your friends beating you
or getting somewhere ahead of you get out and get into the real dirt world and start failing quid i say that because the golisch your own
self your own soul adversity everybody spends their life trying to avoid it me too but the best things that ever happened to me came during
the times when the ship had the fan and i had nothing and nobody to help who are you really what do you really want get out there and fail
and find out anpetusapawin last night literally last night and only the same thing yet out there fall what will part that hot that thing is
like you know live so mean when i step outside of my comforts on ione tiny step and here is the thing told you to jump he told me the alike
take a bigger jump kineton tell me to do it he discommended it cause what you all my hole and live probably half justification by the way i
have a comfort i'll take one time step and then all all all and take the anointing burned or whatever your it eating of the whatever and
then you grow from it that's what i what happens that's the whole idea right i take a tiny step that i take the tiny hit and then i get the
tiny growth but i try to do it all the time all the time while at but it still safe men that's still safe cause i just like one pink yoused
the comfort so that's what he was saying usalile you a step outside caussease i can endure a big fail no he sent out there and fail and to
so if he can endure like a big feel or too big fail or major fails now you have the ability to endure major failure ill dreams that sisting
yea i make sense and i tell not the dimling a perfect king triratna question festive press field when you feel overwhelmed or unfocused of
what do you do near is answer i have a friend at the gym who knew jack aline do will i if the name is unfamiliar jackies to say it's o
cadotte a day off from working out but on that day you're not allowed to eat that's the sure way of saying you're not really allowed to get
unfocused take of vacate yourself but now that the only reason you're here on this plane is to follow your star and do it the muse tells
you it amazing how good day's work will get you right back to feeling like yourself that's good in follit there when i realized this um it
so easy to go down the downward spiral of the bad food feel bad knocket good work out sleep late sleep like crap and and then what do you
do i feel it crap you want to feel better as soon as possible so you do some immediate gratification rank you negoro know what i don't feel
like work it out some talking to wornout ye and then you say you know what and don't feel good in dreading or feel good as could you don't
work out as i now which does you like wealth he know what's goin to make me feel better a denot and a fear that it berani you get the one
on in the beer and then the now you really don't feel like one counteracted the down words fire of ill break the spiral break it drink what
you call it the other day when john peters and was on break the loop yea so it's the same thing you got to break loose and at the start
about when you're feeling like a rap get after it a hat what i have to tow i trained that it and it makes you feel better and get you right
back on the path you and that's why i actually fasting is a good thing ye fasting is a good way to get yourself read we acquainted with the
past requickens your body with a bunch of junk i have made you not want a performance you not want a work out it makes you not want to work
when you're a clean if you'll good so it a fast twenty four hours you know the a rockin roland i like that you want take a day off that
school to an no even how legit is that i get no real logic cause now yes what at lunch time you a man at twenty at something cool cold
barigoule then i can get a drop on me that they were for you can work down and still not yet said all right getting into the next cat here
this guy's name is jersey gregor and the sky emigrated from toinette as a poetic refuge you with his wife in nineteen eighty six and he won
that substation for world weight lifting championships and establish one wild wicker record found at the ucayali ting team and by the way a
this guy's din all this guy's been on tin pot cast as well discourse also rider right poem for poems and had a war winning poems but this
is kind of a cool little statement that he wrote near a he kind o goes on a little bit of a tangent the quest related to the question but i
want to jump into it he says five years ago i decided to eliminate my reactive cave or to irritations but at first none of my tricks worked
i placed philosophical and inspirational coats on my eye folwell paper and wrote my journal but the proverb is always lost their
effectiveness overtime then one day i told one of my clients who blamed her husband for everything to take one hundred per cent
responsibility for her part in the interactions this way i said you will be free of trying to control him and you will be able to find
constructive solutions in your relationship when she left i realized that the same advice could help me as well taking one hundred per cent
person responsibility would help me to stop blaming or complaining at achieve a sense of flow who also give me the clarity in any
conversation to locate the right words to help a person except a hard choice so is talking about a tree moorhead and we talk about that in
tautain a tremor of inter relationship with another human being don't blame them figure out how you're going to solve the problem yourself
i don't this remind me of his would captain plum was on and he was had a cell mate and what they do you remember captain plaeace on it but
you saying that if the soul mate was annoying them cause believed in of their reliving with one other to other three of the people for
months on end in a little freaking hanno hilton fell and he said if that person could i can imagine how you get on each other's nerves and
these all took the and to die the aloud themselves if if echoes getting on my nurse it was nechutes my fault ye man fall and that's what he
takabout here and then you can actually fix it that the next question that jersey answered is this one if you could have a gigantic
billboard anywhere with anything on it when would it say and why in her regal here's what his answer was hard choices easy life easy to us
his hard life nothing truly meaning for lasting has ever been created in a short period time if you learn the story behind any great
success you realize how many years went by and how many hard choices were made to achieve it reaching for more is not only an act of
ambition it also becomes it also comes from passion and love nothing is achieved because of easy choices i believe that people can endure
any hardship if it is sensible and constructive hard choices means never retiring because the brain has to be engaged in fighting new
solutions in the moment not to remembering old formulas hard joices make us wiser smarter stronger and wealthier and easy choices reverse
our progress focusing or energies on comfort or entertainment in every difficult moment ask yourself what is a hard choice and what is an
easy choice and you will know instantly what is right goddesden economy not really his main tatterat thing to think about ye desponding
whose freedom yes poniard man ye you know eat it like panoplite another you know i could want to pay later or if you want a lot people they
try to pay later you know jo and i ratified on one day you can neither suffer the pain of discipline or the pain of regret were thin things
sanataty any sayin the same thing must mean something it must mean something pay attention to it if all right moving to the next section
here page one twenty seven from tribemen tors amelia boon and she wakes up that like three o'clock in the morning even seatonian she's for
time world champion in the sport obstacle course racing i met her a couple of times you met her to yeh yeh she's a beast and what's cool
about her is she be like she did the two thousand twelve worlds toughest muttered competition it's twenty four hours ninety miles three
hundred obstacles she finished second over all out of more than a thousand competitors including a present of which are male second over
all that i saysonable lollier that's durable to melia also human and at last on will be here but she she got asked the same question if you
could have a gigantic bill board anywhere with anything on it what would you say in wine it amelia says no one o you anything we live in a
world that's rampant with entitlement with many people believing that they deserved to be given more my parents raised me to be self
sufficient and he pressed upon me that the only person you can really depend on him in life is you if you want something you work for it
you don't expect it to be given if others help you long away that fantastic but it's not a given i believe that the key to self sufficiency
is breaking free of the mind set that some one somewhere on you something i will come to your rescue no one owes you anything no one's come
in to your rescue it's on you obviously i couldn't agree more to twenty because as she said i mean we we know the importance of a team and
you always hear people say you know you can't do it by yourself and i'm not here i'm here because of so many different people that's true
but that doesn't mean that you can sit around and read lie on the alter people to save you or to do the heavy lifting or even to help you
out day the way help from other people is a luxury at a luxury that you shouldn't count on to step up an only and make it happen because no
one owes you anything that book is trying to mentors timothy fares at timothy artemidore decemvirs short life advice from the best in the
world all right speak if helping people echecles ye maybe you can help people learn how to support themselves yet and may be if they want
to also simultaneously support the dispatches if they went to that that that would be fantastic but we're not relying on it that thanase
that unhoping yet not he i got this i'll run with it sure oh yes sure court sure you want me to run with it to a abi'l be done with your
leg for a minute but her that's easting as that kind of you can on yon rely on you to pan out buildin's pot cast otherwise it just began
talking to myself drove once jack at all i wouldn't be talking cause i topically talk after you to like in reaction to you so if it was the
echo tadcaster would just be silence yea with a bee be good evening because you say you know i no parasite good so ye support yourself
right it without peril cockleshell jocoser cries per supergan also jack joint warfare lukin and joining his offer your joints like that
type of supplement in my opinion you in have you been into other supple mendocino a long time yes so i have i have like in my younger days
work take like im an approaching powderlike this thing or do this no i can say with full on honesty that when i stopped taking it to
kitoosepe esepiger or one for that's a thing i yet so there is a difference and fish i mean i know i i'm whatever a m now it have to go
into that part but so i don't know i don't know how it is to take creil when i was like him i twenties so i don't know where you know and i
think but i know now that i'll tell you this and i have gone off it for like a sick maybe a week little little bit more than a week and yes
they they came back than the joint situations interesting you know i think they're croil and the join warfare do make you durable ye as you
dory you i believe they contribute dromy durability yet and that's in its acetanilid for me cause and for you too big time because you're
you're not like a small guatamara let's face it were older than we were before as the true tavantaine for and you you we you actually more
some do like art stuff or like liftin digito like hard stuff dear the harder than the normal person maybe some people not a million
tendernesse hundred usignuoli miles don't potomao yes he would out as you got ere you on it or something like it none the less the joint
situation is like that saint alo if if you can do the stuff that you do and i just condition introspection kind of detaching whatever i
look at a stuff that i do is like men it helps all i i don't think i'd be able to go as hard oh no when you definitely wanted like to sally
my shoulder he old ye my elbow strolled up a the lave o an my knees pray put a few so manes with wit like working out and get cause they're
idolos skinning and skeneateles there but am like their super loose where when i blot my eatin college the doctor when he note do tenniel
kate before they do that ma they do the test all these dessus kind of wisdom into all the stuff from different positions and they wiggled
both of em and there like brogues loose lay his just genesareth were skinny throughither were as intent you said you had skinned and he
dances dudoit down iyoi ah then i hurt my knee when i want greg and i went to h the doctor who performed the surgeon by set and he did he
was a olyanova blown a sea that i was like a oinly have i heard the outside of many or the inside many not outside or not my i am blow out
my ruins like knowle blew out your nisida to it oh but but he didn't run any comprehensive testing in detail later like wild did and then i
was like wal my doctor in college said i have really lose me such active on and there as he had like another person there and he goes up
and he checked elias like who who but the differences when you wiggle an not a calne it doesn't like abruptly stop even if it's loose
saying so like if your mislike these ruts like a bluntly peri's like if you have a big accord in there like a rope ter like attention card
or something that didn't in it stretch at all and mine are just a little bit longer if semisalty stoneless the point is i no long explicit
understand what i rolled you isoult sometimes send and then if if they patout and then i like kagoshima quicker whatever it it'll pop out
an you know you you don't there's kinship this tho this and then they'll get like caught on ease and when they get caught in each other and
you press it'll like men of the carlayer so they'll holgersen and on the inside at the end of the day they get swain for like some days one
like warm a month more or whatever but yet i take the justice the cruel oil on it just take no ortewein then no factor em pretty flexible
to cereclothes anyway you want a supper yourself there you go up josselin joint warfare boom tisica support on your supported structure
also if you rivedersi adds a nike what is it your signature and gestat wilikina all that ye antaeas cool stuff on a rewired get after
ateliers far as what a signature something we yet that's the jocolate we were being heinie jacopone over the soul for lack of a better name
is really true this will yet not lanely yea the death yet you disciplining coritum gie a good an kind o light er wait it's um petticoat the
did the weave veritable it we solomon weave it not just take cotton which is what was it what did it make pants from nineteen o eight from
her it alexic and when you put it a drier or he put it a washing when you get down it's almost dry it's got continent but i also got a a
polly blend yea they betuleti at's all made here in america from the seed of the cotton the very sea that you plant this it i wonder if he
were they get to sea from charleroi as you tennessee or self carina yes a lion will find out yes even buying the seeds or or acquiring the
seeds in whatever capacity do us here in america printed in america contingoes in america harvest it is america obviously died in america
died in a lesherton et we it of a bunch of little ones in shoe saburi and into geese boiled right on your back just at rolling all men in
america that's all the stuff and morgan by the way you don't know an i think that's a good glashgar in compression hear which is what
something do you as are comprise your notice cuddn't used to use rash cards other than for surfing do you notice you feel a little bit o
like the compression helps you athletically you feel that i don't feel that no but that i am not opinantem to be honest with you we see but
strings what about people they get nineteen per cent improvement in their jugalia real that interpellat leeway know the first coucou i hear
good things about compression like i see the links to articles that sail the performance benefits and all this stuff is a thing i don't
read on i don't know so i wear neadarne and i wear him for two reasons will i wear for three reasons number one just a abrasions on the
knee right rillwater mather on your knee which is cool you get it maybe you get it meet once every three days that's once every three days
you got maberly knee a blood and you got people that i like and on the road with you on your bleeding or whatever so that's just the pain
number two it for me keep im warm right all right louise's warms up her knees and never three provides a little bit compression at me me
feel good now i shall when i put on a rash guard i feel like that on my body which is caustion know by then i feels good ye you compressing
your ill i i can't speak really on it but i forget can't be against it and i'll mantamer in america and their doll do some new service yea
if if that even matters you don't do that matter that much well well you wear it because it's a efficient to rolling for sure ye the most
efficient thing you can rain is a rash guard ye feel like like ah that's the uniform be all the the the what you call it erenomenes
herenhausen how likely on the mat burned you don't give that for like all day a renaioli yes you if if you're going superordinated or your
elbow whatever it happens to be against the mat at it you know it's like it's a happenstance situation unless you knew unless your new year
who had burnell otherwhere do it your up adimari ception to keep you from getting her if you have rolled for a long time you'll get your
feet get all that murder out except of your knees get all made up and i'll tell when you're well you know when you are in the row mode you
barely get backerd ye you like once every three or four rolls to one or fear or for days you'll get a little map parnellites yes for i
haven't had met brentesion like long time on lake or gas like your skin get smart for like all what we doing rolling owentown ran i have
you he rolled on it like a resight resting that barefoot after you been rolling on a hard to tame man for a while the tategawa to get used
to it what cause you will stub your toe punch is your toes well i know where to go because they're jefferis for ye it's like when you play
football and grass and you got of artificially got a esarus anyway cool compressing dear good i'm glad that it's compression because some
people do care about that and i think that even you know on a most people life know the benefit in your benefiting from it there you go
pomistone think i just been panthenon but after this guess what i will because i'm not always right about things the first the way i look
at em all so also i want to talk about on it so i wouldn't go into my whole kettle bootie with a sash dester ay by the way i got a new
cyclops one by the way oh so again cool if you hev regular capable the regular ones that's good cause doing kettlebelly's way better than
that to engendered comment se get the good ones the dope a decorative artistic decoritate ave you like decoited here the way and hartshorn
kettlewell's i said get those ones they're just wigcastle into instant that's what i think my being a no less in a regular ones as well as
good to on it not complete jacintha bunch of fitness stuff i noticed jack's mace that i relented for like other stuff which is actually
part of the big point that you can use a lot of this stuff for like various different sorts of exercise actian they have like a bunch of
cool stuff on there like gum stuff that's different from your tradition all bench squat you know a functional stuff check unless i e
dugulas alcoto there bomb support yourself expand your work out man if you want you can be like jocote same name over and all noverre and
now over and over and ordinary yeah but they very over and on the sankuniathon actually murder say reight i die to be on even by so i do
see a arcole time with variations but those variations will come in the cigarette but the kind of the whole point of a work out to me it's
like your body gets used to it a certain activities of you can't let it get to you stories why they sing in a switch it up of the shock her
body all the stuff but if you're constantly to shocking your body cycle coward do your body is kind of sam this to you that'll get what are
we doing i'm to get as good at it as possible ogooma tegot i do this thing i'm going to try it my best as long as you feed me and rest me
i'm tribes all comedy to worse getting better this thing now if you give me one thing to do and say get good at that were never doing it
again you know there's no real results except for maybe the underlying system not may be like your heart ray or your you know those types
of things may be your um what do you call your you know when you can endure like hard stuff than durable yea like manteltree that but not
you do like an exercise sure you'll be sorrentina kind o at the benefits of that programme won't really tetigit on i could be wrong i could
be missing like some new science one do none less research it sujet a good work out routine and if you want to expand it cut on it because
they have the good stuff also if you want to get him a fee faris's book that jock was coding jocose there by the way how many times and he
couverture leverania close so base and here the same writer the same as the nallegory all this stuff ye and hooting like tuloose like
little extortionate just little quotes you and that's really interesting thing that he did there were he asked everyone the same person or
you because that's the chap person tims personality he looks for batter into the air i that's what i tell you in tatters the sky bravely
silicic ally you have eleven categories of advice that you can get from these top level people indifferent like industry is differed then
he's got like a sky kantor some in the back so you can see what everyone yet he kind of assembles the information in some various ways and
the dilabu you can sort of pool the pool the knowledge he etincelle you have an i actually like that kind o but that is smart he so that's
essentially when you have the others big book of advice from all these completely courts it and that is exactly what it is ye then so they
go when you get that just god here too waricapana dot com on the top taught many books from the episodes full my duty right there tribemen
tors like timothy farquier who good within you want shop for anything else good do that carry on man support away some people think that
that's not a big deal it is a big deal cooling through there i mean it is big domandare do estedio small action small action erection a
slicin when you do it into water anyway subscribed on the bocas you two that's for the video virgin but on iteesan play stitcher all
podcast ing providing platforms seemed sins obvious but you know if you have already surprised good wits apart also you to like i said but
you veroshka also exerts if you an share a little ideas that have emerged from the pot cast when sheriff individually there on there most
of them a work on a mere bewept em on there in sure schowres on to subscribe till the utias alit soako people what to what called this like
mass up the compasses dear when you put like our adheres your voice onerous videos yes they put some video too know some dial aid is was on
ready make masturbate i out is here the thing on to a mash up is like you just take various clips you know you of whatever you know like
they're just visual you do like a whole somatic staying in that kind of the thing so i don't know in while those as no really think about
it and and i made sometimes in a um yes canadilla read the war of ours or it might be just working diligently and obsessively on may be new
approaches in methods but the war of art on the para sighed to scrutinee war of art yet i read on as good as i i need to may be ready it it
for this i boltonparty hide production stampin none the less when i do make those videos i put em on you too and that's yet another reason
to subscribe as uplifted it does support the pacas was like a big circle loop of support in sin also jackassdom called jocatore jocasta
come it is where you can get your disciplinaque dom sure get after it sure and other shirts of that type also rathors on their new rash
gards on there to erasion their antwort you got a look dupot or ducked dot com the resort is sodium more actual as a action that's the
resort of an oftentimes make the pictures i got a list of you know so during that process hopefully be sonlike hatteral ardeates in list
i'm captain anyone want a job out there in the world anytime taking pictures of a rash or worry her as keras cards for you nice little
where your kids themselves so look out for that my little daughter was sporting here know a ladaki looked verviers very sad not less
they're on the asteroid some hats on their benishes well on and you'll illustrious i'm not saying by a benignity that you might not even
may you're not white ye but you were benoit's for thou dorymate you're in shy town seen you need be hieranasos den noteless goin there be
like something get something good way to support also psychologic warfare on your campaigning and sweetness that's where we're going with
right now campaign against weakness in proving yourself you're going from a person who it with who is incapable of detaching who is
incapable of understanding the message rather than your feeling about the message your if you're that person yet you're on the path to
become a different person someone who can understand the message first feeling second the billion city tach rose working on an efore
working on that as well to you do you does moments awakeness you have this album with tracks jocatus called psychologic harpar what it does
is that takes any little element of your campanians wetness in ye little element that might slip on the you might see that as one like
earthers p on it oh make little weak when you wake up or or will you about to wake up when you're witege at when you wake up your body get
up is fourth thirty and you're like tanganees the smooth tory there's a track for that you play that trick jockie you pragmatic it vice on
why you shouldn't it this new same thing goes for skipping your work out same thing goes for skimpin your diet slipping on your diet ah
gratia process is all these things is like tracks for were josteling you why he shouldn't that i had don't do that you know this is why
this is why why am it's beneficial for you to continue all that stuff a good one helps hundred per cent effective in spotting people when
they need a little sad if then if if he knew a spot sometimes you don't no spot sometimes you just give in after the hundred persuasion in
for that you also on a mason can get jocolate tea which is good if you don't believe me go read the reviews on their always some of morgan
he read of couple of money but you can read it yourself there review explained that when you drink jocolate t you can dead left eight
thousand pounds adam in em so that's a guarantee the people don't nursetender teeth the theif you to gilian i'll give your money back to
the eyes hathalee books you can get him anywhere really way the warrior kintang you every one i gives me feet back all the time kids that
are doing various things like studying like reading the book studying doing jegid poops swimming and peating dis all kinds of awesome stuff
everything from figure skating the ballet to wrestling senetaire kids getting after it that's a book for any kid that you want to put on
the proper path for discipline of hard work the next book the next warrior could book is coming out april twenty eighth i'll let you know
in a popsipetel dir extreme oneship the new edition is out it's longer has a little new forward in it it's castanettes color pictures by
the way coloradan stephania i don't like that allingham walk and wife by your wit only that's how i wrote ah there's all so so curdain
there which is the curate that's in the new version is from this poast which means it from you listeners thank you for the question and
also the new version it's black and its flat black agonistically the sinosities me even better is regular black rarely glossy all lassett
down barking assassinate it must be some invading poncas space ah yes you can get the deevers of tree monshi ran now flap back question
from the park ask all that also dispendia freedom eelman you'll so am i this book is not a normal book right we know that it's a book that
will if you give it to somebody they don't feel like allies wonreding dangeau it's not normal he so the publisher knows that right so they
want ednoth and they sent me some he would come for some tackling an ant the mines back right through kamakon went publisher yes the
goldsteins like an gongoni so my publisher is in mean have a small bag of my gestapo and thenardiers or tagging this buckleman a great gift
for a howdyedo lid gariheison me cause cause i was alicant beat saying stuff about my stuff without asking me first could you guys say
domster about my cool stuff on like that you so they said we foraker how tages the whatever is it now or i ought about it for four seconds
to and a rote them back and i said use this there is no better gift than the gift of discipline bomb factually there's your tag line so for
your pepin your life that you don't want to get him a stupid gift like a neck tie or a belt or something else that they don't want or need
though they need this book yet the best gift you can give is the gift of discipline said there go that's athey the way people keep asking
me and i kiteley one the audio version of this book and they said when is a coming out it out it's out the audio version of disponing
cafedom field manual it outright now it's on i tunesome amazonic is on gollan other m p three pot forms the reason we did that is because
in a put it on audible all the bowl you can't pull it out as tracks eades it for alarm or use it to spot yourself if you get a moment
weakness which this book is good for so that's where you can get the andovers on on beyond the books beyond the pond cast of fort le ershi
training and execution with your business or your team you can contact or lorship consulting company it's me it's late batten and j p to
know it's dave burke you can email in foe at ashlan front do come and if you have questions for us or you have answers for us we want to
hear both you can communicate with us on the andes and twitter on insermann face pakeha is atical and i am at jackall and to the service
men and women a world ride right now defending from thank you for your service in forgiving us the ability to do this podcast and to the
families of those service men and women that are supporting them from home thank you for your sacrifice date day it is much appreciated in
threeplie landforce men fire fighters paramedics of the first responder thank you for doing what year doing which is keeping us safe here
at home and answering the call when it comes and to everyone else at listening just from member that sure you have a team you have friends
and family and coworkers and colleagues and you have a support net work and you have people you can call and that's great but don't count
on the them don't wait for them don't esoon that they are coming to the rescue take lead take ownership take action get out there and get
after it so until next time missus echo and jocko o
