this is jacopo as number one hundred and three with charles and me jackwell i badening echo good evening whilst lying at winchester young
as i was in the profession i was picked out amongst others to perform a piece of duty that for many years afterwards remained deeply
impressed upon my mind and gave me the first impression of the stern duties of a soldier's life a private of the seventieth regiment had
deserted from that corps and afterwards in the student several other regiments indeed i was told that the time that sixteen different times
he had received the bounty and then stolen off being however caught at last he was brought to trial at portsmouth and sent in spy general
court martial to be shot as the execution would be a good hint to us a young and there were four lads picked out of our car to assist in
this piece of duty myself being one of the number chosen besides these men for soldiers from three other regiments were ordered on the
firing party making sixteen at all the place of execution was port down hill and the different regiments assembled must have composed a
force of about fifteen thousand men having been assembled from the isle of white from chastest or gosport and other places the sight was
very imposing and appeared to make a deep impression on all there as for myself i felt that i would have given a good round sum had i
possessed it to have been in any other situation rather than one rather than the one which i now found myself and when i looked into the
faces of my companions i saw by the pallor and exit anxiety depicted in each countenance the reflection of my own feelings when all was
ready we were moved to the front and the culprit was brought out he made a short speech to the parade acknowledging the justice of his
sentence and that drinking in evil company had brought the punishment upon him he behaved himself firmly and well and did not seem to
flinch at all after being blindfolded he is he was desired to kneel down behind a coffin which was placed on the ground and the drum major
of the depot giving us an expressive glance we immediately commenced to loading this was done in the deepest silence and the next moment we
were primed and ready there was then a dreadful pause for a few moments and the drum major again looking towards us gave us the signal
agreed upon before a flourish of his cane and we levelled and fired we had been previously strictly enjoined to be steady and take good aim
and the poor fellow pierced by several balls fell heavily upon his back as he lay with his arms pinioned to his sides i observed that his
hands waved for a few moments like the fins of a fish when in the agonies of death the drummajor also observed the movement and making
another signal four of our party immediately stepped up to the pastry body and placing the muzzles of their pieces to the head fired and
put him out of his misery the different regiments then fell back by companies and the word being given to march past in slow time when each
company came in line with the body the word was given to mark time and then eyes left in order that we all might observe the terrible
example we then moved onwards and marched from the ground to our different quarters and that is from a book called recollections of
rifleman harris who was an enlisted soldier for the british army during the napoleonic wars and that was his welcome to the army he been in
for about three weeks of service when he had to stand and execute a fellow soldier for basically being drunken disorderly not doing what he
was supposed to do presently these men executed for being a human being and that was the introduction to military service for riflemen
here's rifleman harris's full name was benjamin randers he enlisted in eighteen oath three he fought all over europe in the peninsular war
which posed a burban spain the kingdom of portugal and the british empire against napoleon's frenchmore and bold a part is spain and also
the duchy of warsaw and this is a war where they have daggers and swords and bayonets and mounted cavalry charges they have cannons and
they used a lot of muzzleloading rifles which a skilled rifleman could loaded fire about three times permanent accurate out to about two
hundred yards very different from the weapons that we have now which can fire three rounds in a second and a very accurate altho eight
hundred yards a thousand yards in subniger weapons waved further than that but even though these weapons are different from the weapons we
see in modern warfare as always in need and it is men it is human beings on the battle field bleeding sweating starving suffering killing
and being killed let's find out a little bit more about riflemen harris going back to the book my father was a shepherd and i was a sheep
boy from my earliest youth indeed as soon as almost like a run i began helping my father to look after the sheep on the downs of blandford
and dorsetshire where i was born whilst i continued to tend the flocks and herds under my charge and occasionally in the long winter nights
i learned the art of making shoes i grew of hardy little chap and was one fine day in the year of eighteen o two drawn as a soldier for the
army of reserve thus without troubling myself much about the change which was about to take place in the quiet of my routine days i was
drafted into the sixty six oregomenos of foot bid good bye to my shepherd companions and was obliged to leave my father without neistadt to
collect his flocks just as he was beginning more than ever to require one nay indeed i may say to want tending in looking after himself for
old age and infirmary were coming on him his hair was going white as the sleep of our downs and his countenance becoming as furrowed as the
ploughed fields around however as i had no choice in the matter there was quite as well that i did not grieve over my fate my father tried
hard to buy me off and would have persuaded the sergeant of the sixty sixth that i was of no use as a soldier from having made on my right
hand by breaking the forefinger when i was a child the sergeant however said i was just the sort of little chap he wanted and off he went
carrying me amongst a batch of recruits he had collected a way with him she perdenda get old army comes and gets you that's the way it
works england eighteen o two now he traveled around a little bit and eventually ends up in dublin and here we go back to book whilst in
dublin i one day saw a core of the ninety fifth rifles and fell so in love with their smart dashing and devil may care appearance that
nothing would serve me until i was a rifleman myself so on arriving at castle one day and falling in with the recruiting party of that
regiment i volunteered into the second battalion this recruiting party were all irishmen and i and had been sent over from england to
collect amongst others men from the irish militia and were just about to return to england i think they were as reckless and devil may care
a set of men i had ever been beheld either before or since so these these riflemen i would say from what i read about them there there
almost like a special at unit and and one big differences there wearing instead a wearing red jackets like the the brither at this time
they wore green so they will but different and they had more accurate rifles and they would fight they were do their called skirmishing
which is is fundamentally covered move they shoot and the manoeuvre and the day they act like little special operations troops out there
and of course it's interesting to me and when i hear this guy talking about the first time he saw some one that looked a little bit like a
special operations troop he said it will actually says i fell in love fenya's nan that's very much how i felt as i was grown up the more i
saw you know the special ops and actual didn't even need to be special ops for me was just some one in the military but then he was already
in the military snows looking for the next day with her next thing than a bay and here anup as as a rifle then so he is now a riffians he
moves over to their regiment and he regolatore next day we marched for ash forging can where i joined the ninety fifth rifles and about six
months after my joining four companies of the second battalion were ordered on the expedition to denmark we embarked at deal and sailing
for hostile shores landed on a little place called i think scarlet island the expedition consisted of about thirty thousand men and at the
moment of our getting on shore the whole force set up one simultaneous and tremendous cheer a sound i cannot the scribe it seemed so
inspiring this indeed was the first time of my hearing the style in which our men give tongue when they get near the enemy the afterwards
my ears became pretty well accustomed to such sounds persons we got on shore the rifles were pushed pushed forward and we says the rifles
he's talking about his guise the rifles were pushed forward as the advance in can order through some thick woods of fir and when we had
cleared these woods and approached copenhagen sentries were posted on the roads and openings leading towards the town in order to intercept
all comers and prevent all supplies such posts were occupied for about three days and nights whilst the town was being fired upon by our
shipping i rather think this was the first time of the congreve rockets being brought into play and they rushed through the air in the dark
they appeared so like so many fiery serpents creating i should think terrible dismay among the besieged the congrace it they may basically
look like giant bottle rockets you away in any god at this time they were getting their range all to fifteen hundred two thousand meters so
it it was a pretty crazy weapon and and i can tell you rocket in this day and age of become fairly accurate but in those days probably
about his accurate a bottle rock in is' i guess back to the book as the main or by came up we advanced and got as near under the walls of
the place as we could without being endangered by the fire from our own ship e o what's happening right there is covering love the shipping
is bombarding in these guerdoning as close as they can where they re locking a get killed by their own by the room fire from the ships we
now received orders ourselves to commence firing and the rattling of the gun i shall not easily forget i felt so much exhilarated that i
could hardly keep back and was checked by the commander of the company who called me by my name to keep my place about this time my front
rank man a tall fellow named jack johnson showed a disposition as though the firing had had effect on him the reverse of what it had had on
many others of the company for he seemed inclined to hang back and once or twice turned round in my face i was a rear rank man in parting
my peace and the excitement of the moment i swore that if he did not keep his ground i would shoot him dead on the spot so that he found it
he would go on so that he found it would be quite as dangerous for him to return as to go on i feel sorry to record the want of courage of
this man but i do so with the less pain it gives me the opportunity of saying that during my many years of arduous service is the only
instance i remember of a british soldier endeavouring to hold back when his comrades were moving forward indeed johnson was never held
again in estimation among the rifle corps for the story got wind that i had threatened to shoot him for cowardice in the field and
lieutenant cocenti one to the colonel that he overheard my doing so and such was the contempt the man was held in by the rifles that he was
soon afterwards removed very go first time under fire it's it's interesting how rifleman harris first time under fire he want to get after
him he is ready to charge and only one guy out of their whole crew is lookin like he's got a hold back and they talk about reputation here
and that's definitely something that is when you get to this hilts as your new guy some one tells you does he here your reputations
everything in its doodly true and he and i the same in any military organization what your reputation is cause cause in the military you
think ranks all important right you but but the reality is there something that completely compren that reputation he her eden if you re
for men i was talk about the fact that relationships are more important in canican but you're not going to have a good relationship with
the poof you do have a good reputation is not happenso mean same thing back in eighteen o three the back to the book whilst in denmark we
led a tolerably active life the rifles being continually on the alert ordered hither to day and countermanded the next occasionally also we
had some pleasant adventures among the blue eyed danish lasses for the rifles were always terrible fellows in that way that doesn't need
too much explanation they ill also this as i always say after fast forward through this book not reading the entire book even though the
entire book is also in this point this point here there in barking for pershore we have another another campaign to go on back to the book
i wish i could picture the splendid sight of the shipping in the downs at the time we embarked with about twenty thousand men those were
times which are so which the soldiers of our own more peaceable days have little conception of so this book was written before world war
one m and in really this was the the last bear is the boars that he went through the napoleonic wars to his kind his kind of san eaeree
know tis like any more either no it is light you don't know the the the the soldiers of our own more peaceable days have little conception
of what it's like to embark twenty thousand troops to get ready go get some back the book we sailed majestically out of the cove of cork
for hostile shore where we re safely arrived and disembarked at mondego bay the rifles were first out of the vessels for we were indeed
always in front of the advance and always in the rear in retreat like the kentish men of old we claim the post of honour in the field at
tretoire out what that kentish man can diovis a place and end the as far on the best i could figure out was that the people in castud up
hard core against the norman invasion but thing not what that reference is too i'm sure somebody a correct me in i hope somebody does that
book being immediately persiford up the country in advance the main body many of us in this hot climate very soon begin to find out the
misery of the frightful load we were condemned to march and fight under with a burning sun above our heads and are feet sinking every step
in the hot sand the weight of the weight i myself toiled under wastemen dous and i often wonder at the strength i possessed at this period
of that which enabled me to endure it for indeed i am convinced that many of our infantry sank and died under the weight of their knapsacks
alone for my own part being a handy craft and craft i marched under the weight sufficient to impede the free motions of a donkey for
besides my well filled kit there was the great coat rolled on its top my bonnet and camp kettle my haversack stuffed full of leather for
repairing the men's shoes together with a hammer and other tools ship biscuit and beef for three days i also carry my canteen filled with
water my hatchet and rifle and eighty rounds of ball cartridge in my pouch this last except the beefiness being the best thing i owned and
which i always gave the enemy the benefit of when the opportunity offered it it interesting he will eat orator on shoes and so he carries
stuff to repair shoes in the field a thing about that now is a lost art isn't it must think about where you are in the field when you have
to march fifteen miles a day and you have no shoes if there's someone i can fix your shoes that's that's a god sent back to look the next
day we again advanced in being in a state of the utmost anxiety to come up along the french neither the heat of the burning sun long miles
or heavy knapsacks were able to diminish our arbour indeed i often look back with wonder at the light hearted style the jollity and the
reckless indifference with which men who were so destined in short time to fall hurreana toward the field of strife seemingly without a fog
of anything but the sheer love of meeting the foe and the excitement of battle he wrote this book twenty something years after this
happened after this experience i went i say he wrote it nighter something i can thirty eight maybe is when it came out and you can see that
the so so my point in saying that is that looking back he knows because he's beehives going to go through hell is going to go through hard
cork on that but even even knowing how horrible combat is he still looks back in his his amazed at how they were ready to go going back to
the book the twenty ninth regiment received so terrible a fire that i saw the right wing almost annihilated and the colonel i think his
name was lenox lace falling amongst the rest we had caught ourselves in it pretty handsomely for there was no cover for us and we were
rather too near the living skirmishers were laying beside heaps of their own dead but still we had her own tail the battalion regiments
come up fire and retire is a very good sound but the rifles were not over fond of such notes we never perform that maneuver except when it
was made pretty plain to us that it was quite necessary the twenty ninth however had got their fairing hair at this time and the shock of
that fire seemed to stagger the whole line and make them recoil at the moment a little confusion appeared in the ranks i thought lord hill
was near at hand and saw it and i observed him come galloping up he put himself at the head of the regiment and restored them to order in a
moment there's leadership to falloner if an athos there is also fire and retire what that means is covering move so you have some people
shooting and some people falling back as how they retreat and there they used that whenever they have to retreat you hear that and ye in i
don't know if i did this made this clear enough but it's a bugle it's a bugle signal so that bevallan some certain number of no tore some
pattern of notes and pen every one would know okay that means fine retires a hour now we get that broad that broad the broad plan
alteration which is instead of advancing which is what we were doing now we're going to were going a retreat and a son you get everyone out
information now little elements can start to make it happen that in the centralized command but you have to get good communications to
order for that to work and what you need to communicate is the broad plan and that's what they get done with a nice little bugle signal
back to the book pouring a regular and sharp fire upon the enemy he called them in return and remaining with the twenty ninth until he
brought them to the charge quickly sent the foe in the right about it seemed to me that few men could have conducted the business with more
coolness and quietude of manner under such a storm of balls as he was exposed to indeed i have never forgotten him from that day so yet it
important to also recognize that you have a hate group of men that are about to fall apart and there's confusion and one guy in a talk
about this all the time one guy steps up takes ownership of the situation leads and it changes the entire outcome of the battle line of the
one person he got thousand men verses a thousand men one person makes the difference a severely or supposition think about that thing about
what you do are you meeting are you stepping up are you galloping up on a horse and setting things right m corene to be doing back to the
book at the time i was remarking these matters loading and firing as i lay another circumstance divided my attention for a while and made
me forget even the gallant conduct of general hill a man near me uttered a scream of agony and looking from the twenty nine two on my right
to the left whence the screech had come i saw one of our sergeant named frazer sitting in a doubled up position and swaying backwards and
forwards as though he had got a terrible pain in his bowels he continued to make such complaint that i rose and went to him for he was
rather a crony of mine oh harris said he as i took him in my arms i shall die i shall die the agony is so great that i cannot bear it it
was indeed dreadful to look upon him the froth came from his mouth and the perspiration poured from his face thank heaven he was soon out
of pain and laying him down i returned to my place poor fellow he suffered more for a short time that he was dying in any man i think i
ever saw in the same circumstances i had the courtesy to return and look at him after the battle the musket ball i found had taken him
sideways and gone through both growings within about a half an hour after this i left sergeant frasure and indeed for the time had as
completely forgotten him as if he had died a hundred years back the sight of some much bloodshed around will not suffer the mind to dwell
long in any particular casualty even though it happened to one's dearest friends there was no time either to think for all was action with
us rifles just at this moment and the barrel of my piece was so hot from continual firing that i can hardly bear to touch it and was
obliged to grasp the stock when he the iron as i continued to blaze a way doesn't even have time to think about it ye james paton was
another crony of mine a gallant fellow he had pushed himself in front of me and was jacked by one of her officers wrapped for his rashness
deep back you panted the lieutenant said to him more than once but ponton was to be restrained upon was not to be restrained by anything
but a bullet went in action this time he got one which striking him in the sigh i suppose hided arguri for he died quickly the frenchman's
balls were flying very wickedly at that moment and i crept up to pantano shelter by lying behind and making a rest for my rifle of his dead
body it strikes me that i revenged his death by the assistance of his carcass at any rate i tried my best to hit his enemies hard there
were two small buildings to our front and the french having managed to get into them unnoticed much from that quarter a small rise in the
ground closed before these houses also favored them and our men were being handled very severely in consequence they became angry and
wouldn't stand it any longer one of the skirmishers jumping off rushed forward crying over boys hover over when he instantly when instantly
the whole line responded to the cry over over over they ran along the grass like wild fire that dashed at the rise fixing their sword
baynes they ran the french light bobs could not stand the sight but turned about and fled and getting possession of their ground we were
soon inside the buildings after the battle was over i stepped across the other house i have mentioned in order to see what was going on
there for the one i remained in was now pretty well filled with the wounded both french and english who had managed to get there for a
little shelter two or three surgeons also had arrived at this house and were busily engaged in giving their assistance to the wounded now
also here lying as thickly as in the building which i have left but what struck me the most buletre me the most forcibly was that from the
circumstance of some wine but having been left in the apartment that having their engagement been perforated having indigent been
perforated by bullets and otherwise broken the red wine had escaped most plentifully and ran down upon the earth and for where the wounded
were lying so that many of them were soaked in the wine with which their blood was mingled i i i hate to even think about the medical care
that these guys are getting in any theme the medical care of that that we had in iraq was unbelievable not only from the speed that you had
get assistance but also the quality of care that you would get on in the field from our own medic and how quickly they would get you to get
to you and i get you take ter of an agaty of actuated to a full medical vility an that that actually changed during my time in the team for
instance the anisette biggest change it when when i first got in the teams in the what we were taught was if some one shot you mediately
give him an ivy meaning you know a bag of fluid is cause they're bleeding you got to replace that and now the they don't do that
automatically because your body has its own mechanisms when it loses blood and to stop the bleeding it pull back in the the arteries and
veins in a constricted sanitate the blood that's there and to eat and when you give some one an i v the body thinks i don't need to do that
as it opens up the arteries opens up the vein to doesn't construct anything it doesn't get cloth slower so there's like wanamee and that
that's during my time so that's the last twenty five years that that changed to take in places an now you go back you know a hundred and
two hundred years it is totally different totally different and they'll talk more about that the the basic the basic plan was if you get
shot in a limb your losing the limb at that's basically what's going on just imputations ten the and nowadays they do incredible job of it
saving saving lambs if they can be saved they save him i mean they do incredible job all right back to the book it was on the fifteenth of
august when we first came up with the french and their skirmishers immediately commenced operations by raining a shower of balls upon us as
we advanced which we returned without delay and i haven't said the shipowner same balls and said around as cause these gather shooting
balmorals of latin and at this point that was some rifling head started to come about but what they basically just consider everything to
be a ball a lead and that is why they're not accurate that's why the only accurate to two hundred meters in are not rifled like we have the
tight rifling spinning bullets to day back to the book the first man that was hit was the tenant bunbury he fell pierced through the head
with a musket ball and died almost immediately i thought i never heard such a commandos noise as the firing made on this occasion and the
men on both sides of me i could occasionally observe were falling fast i do not pretend to give a description of this or any other battle i
have been present at all i can do is tell the things which happened immediately around me and that i think is as much as a private soldier
can be expected to do soon afterwards the firing commenced and we had take we had advanced pretty close upon the enemy taking advantage of
whatever cover i could find i threw myself behind a small bank where i lay so secure that although the frenchmen bullets fell pretty
thickly around i was enabled to knock several over without being dislodged in fact i fired away every round i had in my pouch whilst laying
in this spot at length after a sharp contest we forced them to give ground and following them up drove them from their position in the
heights and hung up their skirts until they made another stand and then the game began again the rifles indeed fought well this day and we
lost many men they seemed in high spirits and delighted at having driven the enemy before them joseph coachin was by my side loading and
firing very industriously about this period of the day thirsting with heat and action he lifted his canteen to his mouth here's to you old
boy he said as he took a pot its contents as he did so a bullet went through the canteen and perforated his brain killing him in a moment
another man fell close to him almost immediately struck in up struck by a ball in the fight i saw a man named simon struck full in the face
by a round shot and he came to the ground a headless trunk when the roll was called after the battle the females who missed their husbands
came along the front of the line to inquire of the survivors whether they knew anything about them so the wives could travel with the
soldiers and again that the seems crazy to me right now but that's that's to the way they did it and not all of them but if i if they made
that decision i guess as a family to stick together they'd get right on board the boats and they'd they'd march they march they cover it in
the book they'll there dead wouldn't carry the weight but they marched alongside and go from place to place and when a bottle about take
place they'd hang back and then you have the situation once a bottles over that i'm talking about right now amongst other names i heard
that of coach and called in a female voice without being replied to the name struck me and i observed the poor woman who had called it as
she said stabbing sobbing before us and apparently afraid to make further inquiries about her husband no man had answered to his name or
had any given account to give of his fate i myself had observed him fall as related before whilst ringing from his canteen but as i looked
at the poor sobbing creature before me i felt unable to tell her of his death at length captain lechemere her and called out to the company
does any man know what has happened to coach him if so let him speak out at once upon the order i immediately related what i had seen and
told the manner of his death after a while miss coat missus cohen appeared anxious to see the spot where husband fell and in the hope of
still finding him alive asked me to accompany her over the field she trusted notwithstanding what i had told her to find him yet alive do
you think you could find it said captain reach upon being referred to i told him i was sure i could as i had remarked many objects whilst
looking for cover during this skirmishing go then said the captain and show the poor woman the spot as you seem so desirous of finding the
body i accordingly took my way over the ground we had fought upon she following in sobering after me quickly reaching the spot where
husband's body lay pointed out to her she now discovered soon all her hopes were in vain she embraced the stiffened corpse and after rising
and contemplating his despiteful face for some minutes with hands clasped and tears streaming down her cheeks she took a prayer book from
her pocket and kneeling down repeated the service for the dead over the body poor woman i pitied her much but there was no remedy holne
dynamic red there continuing on back to the book it was on the twenty first of august that we commence fighting the battle of the nero the
french came down upon us as a column and the riflemen immediately commenced a sharp fire upon them from whatever cover they could get a
shelter behind whilst our cannon played upon them from our rear i saw regular lanes torn for their ranks as they advanced which were
immediately closed up again as they marched steadily on whenever we saw a round shot thus go through the mass we raised a shout of delight
that a savage image red there ranks of men and there's tananas that are cutting lines to cutting lanes through them now and you you
probably talk in twenty thirty people killed each one and the rank just closed in around him and that's what these guys are seeing as i
advance takes place there continued through that battle they get into position for another battle going back to the book as i looked about
me whilst standing in rank and just thought and just before the commandment commencement of the battle i thought it the most imposing sight
of world could produce our lines glittering with bright arms the stern features of the men as they stood with their eyes fixed on alterably
upon the enemy the proud colors of england floating over the heads of the different battalions and the dark canon on the rising ground and
all in readiness to commence the awful work of death with a noise that would deafen the whole multitude although the sight had a singular
and terrible effect upon the feelings of a youth who a few short months before had been a solitary shepherd upon the downs of door secure
and it never contemplated any other sort of life than the peaceful occupation of watching the innocent sheep as they fed upon the grassy
turf dalebout a dichotomy near no thought his mind other than watching sheep eat grass oh think that that be kind of a good little escape
you know from time to time to notice those types of things yes i think you're right and i think that happens to you is a movie called the
thin red line and that's portrayed very well in all this chaos all take cover till the face to face with a flower or a notice of birger bug
and that's definitely let evil something that people noticed it meant i noticed there's the sunset no matter where you are in the world i
then actually the sunshades ert of very beautiful thank you and sam with the sunrise and so the sea little things that you notice even
though you might not be in the mind set to notice them till notice of back to the book that battle commencing immediately we were all soon
so hard at work the rifles as usual were pretty busy in this battle the french in great numbers came steadily down upon us and we pelted
away upon them like a shower of lead a hail under any cover we could find in lay firing one moment jumping up and running for it the next
and when we could see before us we observed a cannonballs making a lane through the enemy's columns as they advanced as they were asagehon
like madmen the battle soon became general the smoke thickened around and often i was obliged to stop firing and dashed aside from my face
and try in vain to get a sight of what was going on whilst groans and shouts and the noise of cannon and musketry appeared almost to shake
the very ground it seemed to hell upon her i thought for man named john low stood before me at this moment and he turned round during a
pause in arexion than he addressed me here you humbug he said you've got plenty of money about you i know for you always staying about and
picking up what you can find on the field but i think this will be your last feel dale boy a good many of us will catch it i suspect to day
you are right low i said of that nine guineas in my pack and if i am shot to day and you escape yourself it's quite at your service in the
mean time however if you see any symptoms of my wishing to flinch in this business i hope you will shoot me with your own hand low pitzela
soleing about that that's that's pretty as personal the attitude of their basically talking smack to their classic he noticed to make a hoa
lot of motion you and if you don't make it what do you say is that mine yes if i die come and get it i got nine genesin my pack or all
yours it then this is classic by the way if you see me acting cowardly in any way you better shoot me a solid low as well as myself
survived the battle and after was over whilst we sat down with our comrades and rested amongst other matters talked over low told them of
our conversation during the heat of the day and the money i had collected and the rifles from that time to time had a great respect from me
it is indeed singular how man loses regained cast with his comrades from the behavior and how closely is he is observed on the battle field
gentalmen once again the officers too are commented upon it and closely observed ireland's watterson the manner very proud of those who are
brave in the field and kind and considerate to the soldiers and under them an act of kindness done by an officer has often during battle
ben to cause of his life being saved gaitts ip going nay whatever folks may say upon the a matter i know from experience that in our army
the men like best be officer by gentlemen men whose education is rendered them more kind and manners than your corsoer sprung from obscure
origin and who style is brutal and overbearing so as i was reading through that i at first i i kandagawa little bit taken aback as it o
what i try to say if you have been a college or a year that that's what you need he be from this good upbringing but that's not that that
might be what he sang at that time but the important part is it's hardly treat people doesn't matter what back turned you came from you
know he he says matters education is render them more kind of manners and rather than some one that from a aaster origin what i'm doing you
is it doesn't matter where you're from and he would agree with his now if he was here a talk with me close tutt's not he talked an out the
peteman like to work for all ceres that ornblower bearing no one likes that ye and you don't perform well you want to build the
relationship with your troops the kindness done by an officer as often during the battle been the cause of his life being saved that means
guisarding to win ye back to the book and let me bear testimony to the courage and endurance that of the of that army under trials and
hardships such as few armies in any age i should think endured i've seen officers and men hobbling forward with tears in their eyes from
the misery of long miles empty stomachs and ragged backs without even shoes or stockings on their bleeding feet and it was not a little
fing that would bring a tear into the eyes of a rifleman of the peninsular wars youths who had not long been removed from their parents
home and care officers and men have borne hardships and privations such as in a more peaceful days we have little conception of and yet
these men faint and weary with toil would right up in a moment when the word grandemont us that the enemy or at hand once again his ragged
on did you billy been to war lately peaceful days and brutal privation that these guys go through and yet their still read step up back to
the book it was just at the close that battle the dreadful turmoil and noise the engagement had hardly subsided and i began to look at the
faces of the men close round me to see who had escaped the dangers of the hour i saw that the ranks of the riflemen looked very thin it
seemed to me that one half had gone down we had four companies with ninety fifth and were commanded that day by major travers use a man
much liked by the men of the rifles and indeed deservedly beloved by all who knew him he was a tight hand but a soldier liked that better
than a slovenly officer tattet that one don't be a slave in lealer they the the troops prefer the tight hand back to boedoer him more than
once during this day spurring here and there keeping the men well up and apparently in the highest spirits he could not have enjoyed
himself more i am sure if he had been in a horse race or following a good pack of hounds the battle was just over a flag of truce came from
came over from the french why through ourselves down orror standing when the fire ceased a frenchman lay close beside me he was dying and
called to me for water which i understood him to require more from his manner than his words i need not say that i got up and gave it to
him whilst i did so down galloped the major in front just in the same good spirits he'd been in all day plugging along avoiding with some
little difficulty the dead and dying which were strewn about he was never a very good looking man being hard featured and thin a hatchet
faced man as we used to say but he was a regular good on a real english soldier and that better than if he had been the handsomest ladies
man in the army lagetta legit backed to the book of french a french soldier was lying beside me at this time he was badly wounded and
hearing him moan as he lay after i had done looking at the cavalry i turned my attention to him and getting up lifted his head and port
some water into his mouth he was dying fast but he thanked me in a foreign language which a low i did not exactly understand i could easily
make out by the look gave me mullins of the rifles whose step up whilst i supported his head damned me for a fool for my pains better knock
out his brains harassed he's done us mischief fenouil be bound for it to day so refiners is still pretty sympathetic due back to the book
towards evening i posted upon a rising ground amongst a clump of tall trees there seemed to have been a sharp skirmish herea'ter frenchmen
were lying dead amongst the long grass upon the spot where i was standing as i threw my rifle to my shoulder and walked past them on my
beat i observed they had been plundered and their haversacks having been torn off some of the contents were scattered about war is a sad
blunder of the feelings i have often thought in those days the contemplation of three ghastly bodies in this lonely spot failed then in
making the slightest impression upon me the sight had become even in the short time i had been engaged in the trade but to familiar and now
there another truce kinahans and he's observing the scene in the churchyard the singin this church yard was somewhat singular two long
tables had been percured from some houses near and were placed end to end amongst the graves and upon them were laid the man whose limbs it
was found necessary to amputate both french and english were constantly lifted on an off these tables as soon as the operation was
performed upon one lot they were carried off and in inthose waiting behind were hoisted up the surgeons with their sleeves turned up and
their hands and arms covered in blood looking like butchers in the shambles i saw as i passed at least twenty legs lying on the ground many
of them being clothed in the long black gaiters then worn by the infantry line the surgeons had plenty of work on hand that day and not
having the time to take the clothes off the wounded they merely ripped the seams and turn the cloth back purceeding with the operations
vast as they could many of the wounded came straggling into this church yard in search of assistance by themselves a saw one man faint with
loss of blood staggering along and turned to assist him he was severely wounded in the head his face being completely incrusted with blood
which had flowing during the night now dried one eye ball was knocked out of a socket and hung down upon his cheek but nother man i
observed who had been brought in and propped up against a grave mount he seemed very badly hurt the men who had carried him into the
churchyard had placed his cap filled with the fragments of biscuit close beside his head and he lay and the encinal turned his mouth
towards it got a hold of a piece of biscuit and munched it as i was about to leave the churchyard doctor ridgeway one of the surgeons
called me back to assist with holding a man he was endeavouring to operate upon come and help me with this man he said where i shall be all
day cutting a ball out of his shoulder the patient's name was doubter an irishman he disliked the doctor's efforts and writhed and twisted
so much during the operation that it was with difficulty doctor ride could perform it he found it necessary to cut very deep and doubter
made a terrible outcry at every fresh and vision o doctor dear doctor i said it's murdering me you are blood and hounds i shall die i shall
die for the love of the lord don't cut me all the pieces doubter was not altogether wrong for although he survived the operation he died
shortly thereafter from the effects of his wounds again you disco surgeons to mixing blood and not clean and not even cutting off clothes
or star living i mean the the mount of people that must have lost from the infections after the fact is just crazy now they weren't
fighting all the time and at this point they are quartered in a house in spain and again spain was divided at the time and there was
friendly an enemy span spain and so they're quartered in a house and there's a family there and here we go to the book the mistress of the
house seeing that i was the head man occasionally came down and sat beside me as i worked bringing her daughter a very handsome dark eyed
spanish girl and as a matter of course i fell in love we soon became better acquainted and the mother one evening having sat and chattered
to me serving me with wine other good things on my rising to leave the shop made a signal for me to follow her she had managed to pick up a
little english and i knew a few words of the spanish language so that we could pretty well comprehend each other's meeting and after
leading me into their sitting room she brought in her handsome daughter and without more circumstance offered her to me for a wife the
offer was a tempting one but the conditions of the marriage made it impossible for me to comply since i was to change my religion and
desert my colors the old dame proposed conceal me effectually when the army marched after which i was to live like a gentleman with the
handsome maria for a wife it was hard to refuse so tempting an offer with pretty maria endeavoring to back her mother's proposal i however
made them understand that nothing would tempt me to desert and promising to try and get my discharge when i returned to england i protested
i would then return and marry maria soon after this the army marched for spain the rifles paraded in the very street where the shop i had
so long worked at was situated and i saw maria at the window as our bucucum she waved her handkerchief i returned the salute and in half an
hour had forgotten all about her so much for the soldiers love that i i i read that i said i have to read this it is is to every eighteen
nineteen twenty and twenty one year old service member out there that you meet the girl your dreams and you need you think you're goin to
do some dumb stuff hum don't do the dumb staff go back to your patooan in half an hour you'll forget about gotha's what happens t such so
much for a soldier's love back to book every man in the rifle seemed only anxious to get a rapid the french again on an on we toiled i love
to remember the appearance of that army as we moved along at this time it was a glorious sight to see our color spread in these fields the
men seemed invincible nothing i thought could have beaten them now he's talking about a guy named cord he was found to be a most gallant
officer we are gay with the enemy in the field he was killed whilst fighting bravely in the pyrenees and amongst other jewelry war he had a
ring on his finger worth one hundred and fifty guineas as he laid down on the field one of our rifle riflemen named or observed the
sparkling gem and immediately resolved to make a prize of it the ring however was so firmly fixed that orchurd not draw from the finger and
whipping out his knife cut the finger off at the joint after the battle or offered the ring for sale amongst the officers and on inquiry
the manner in which he had obtained it transpired or was consorts in consequence tried by court martial and sent his to receive five
hundred lashes which sentence carried into execution there is some significant corporalism nt going on here with the with the lashes and
that's one of the cases i mean well you know it you're executing some one for being drunken disorderly you're going to get some pretty
severe punishment for cutting the finger off of one your officers see can steal their ring ebat to the book it was during the heat of the
day we were rather hotly pressed by the enemy after having advanced somewhat too near there force given take as all farnum but we were
getting more kicks than half pence as the saying is and their ball stung a sohari that the officers gave the word to fire and retire
doubtless many got a leaden messenger as they did so which save them the unpleasant necessity of retracing their ground altogether jack
galaspy and myself wheeled about and obeyed the order just as we had done so i saw a glessing as though some one had bestowed a violent
kick upon his person however he didn't give up at first but continued to load and fire and make off with other skirters skirmishers till we
halted and made another stand for we never went further from them when once engaged that we could possibly help a marie that again we
continued to load and fire and make off with other skirmishes till we halted and made another stand for we never went further from them
when once engaged than we could possibly help and what that means is cover move so if you are out on the battle field and you get too far
away from the other element where you can no longer support them you've made a big mistake to so that's why they have doctrinal terms that
mean i am in supporting distance i won't go further away from you then then where they were i can help you all right now speaking of
lashing there's another situation here there was sort of a a ceremony largiter ing and standing in the parade sort of in in a town square
and somebody basically through i think like a break at this one of the soldiers from one of the windows that was watching the other
regiments of his one regiment standing on the bradfield handing out a worse on than the other regiments sit not in the various rooms around
looking down and at some point this is some one hacks a break down and it hits the colonel so the sky listen was the guide that day they
grabbed they think it's this guy listen back the book listened was sentenced to receive eight hundred lashes the whole brigade turned out
on the occasion and i remember that the drummers of the night regiment where the inflictors of the lash whistonian received the whole
sentence without a murmur this is a mtal about there as he who goes on to talk about how this strict discipline about it in and how it kind
of fits in with the english mentality back to the book lerance set the english then so determined and unconquerable that they will have
their way if they can think about that got your soldiers there so it's a great quality to have right dear your determined and unconquerable
as a mean man you're on have your way if you can and let them ernestina get after it may be the way you don't expect yes indeed back to
look at indeed it requires one who has authority in his face as well as at his back to make them respect and obey him they see too often in
the instant of sergeant majors that command does not suit ingorant and coarse minded men and that tyranny too much used even in the brief
authority which they have though again he's going back to vacate though you have to have these talking bout the dicotomy of le ashore
though you have to have discipline you can't have tyranny back to the book a soldier i am convinced is driven often to insubordination by
being worried by these little minded men for the very the various trifles about which the gentleman never thinks of tormenting him so the
this the the the little minded person that growers on these little trifling things that's what actually create an aboard nation whereas the
gentlemen never thinks of tormenting him with these little things like these old things don't matter the man any goes on to balance this
dicotomy of levarsi back to the buck the moment the severity of the disappoint of our army is relaxed in my opinion farewell to its
efficiency but for men to be tormented about trifles as i have seen it many times is often very injurious to the whole corps so this is the
perfect talking about the balance of the decorators if you're too alterest you're guidarello against you and if you are not stricken ugh if
you don't impose enough to supplanter gonnot have any control is a you got a balance these two going forward back to the book war as a sad
danton the ceilings of men he said that before he said it again we felt we felt eager to be added again nay i am afraid we longed for blood
as the cheer of our comrades sounded in our ears and yet amidst all this softer feelings occasionally filled the breasts of those gallant
fellows even whilst they were thirsting for the sight of the enemy some of the men near me suddenly recreated as they saw the snow lying
thickly on or pass path that this was christmas eve the recollection soon spread amongst the men and many talked of home and seems upon
that night in the other days in old england shedding tears as they spoke of the relates and friends never to be seen again by them as night
approached we became less talkative the increasing weariness of our limbs kept our tongues quieter and we were many of us half asleep as we
walked when suddenly a shout arose in the front that the french were upon us so galerism christmas eve is little dusting of snow on the
ground there they have this skirmish with the french there now they are continuing continuing the first march of furmer the march that the
that we talked about with napoleon's troops going into russia and back these guys are under the same basic conditions of if you on a move
the army that army's going to walk back to th book a sergeant of the next of the torches now on this i also not only the forced march in
right now they're starting to retreat their starting to day they started to take heavies and they start a rarete back to the book a
sergeant the ninety second highlanders just about this time fell dead with fatigue and no one stopped as we passed off for many assistants
night came down upon us so this thing about that this i piloted that one but throughout this book he talks what people just dinette died of
fatigue m i'm in now what that means actually maybe the dehydrated out on now but if you think about these guys the harrikin their wives
for each other how exhausted are they that went some one falls out during this first march forcemeats leave him there back to book night
came down upon us without our having tasted food or halted i speak for myself and those around me all and all night long we continued this
dreadful march men began to look in teech others faces and ask the questions as the question are we ever to be halogen and many of the weak
or sort were now seen to stagger make a few desperate efforts and then fall perhaps to rise no more most of us had devoured all we carried
in our haversacks and each and in an endeavor to catch up anything we could snatch from a hut or cottage in our route many even at this
period would have straggled from the ranks and perished had not crowd ford held them together with a firm rein one such bold and stern
commander in the east during a memorable disaster and that devoted army had reached its refuge unbroken thus we staggered on night and day
for about four days before we discovered the reason of this forced march when they find out that their marching actually towards england or
tritaea and this a gatheral but crawford he's presignifications here's a little talk about crawford crawford seemed to sniff the sound of
battle from afar with peculiar feelings he halted us for a few minutes occasionally when the distant clamour became more distinct and his
face turned poured the sound and seemed to light up and become less stern it was then indeed that every poor fellow clutched his weapon
more firmly and wished for a sight of the enemy before long may have their wish the enemy's cavalry were our skirts that night and as we
rushed out of the small village we turned to bay so even though the retreating the still having to fight and this again the sky crawford is
definitely a powerful leader back the book i remember one evening during the retreat he detected two men straying away from the main body
it was in the early stage of that disastrous flight and crawford new and crawford knew well that he must do his utmost to keep the division
together he called the brigade with the voice of thunder ordered a drum head court martial on the instant and they were sentenced to a
hundred apiece will taaste trial was taking place crawford dismounting from his horse stood in the midst looking stern and angry as a
worried bulldog he did not like retreating at all that man they march a little bit further and then back to the book ortingo square to be
formed he spoke to the brigade as well as i can remember in these words after having ordered the three before named men of the ninety fifth
to be brought to the square although he said i should obtain the good will neither of the officers nor the men of the brigade here by doing
so i resolved to punish these three men according to the sentence awarded even though the french or adores begin with daniel howlings so
these guys were look like they were going to desert and they got caught and he got a court marshal all the spot and going to give him a
hundred lashes and whatever the number was and even though their rerunning and retreating he is alent were what when to write administer
his punishment now even though it's not popular i got to do it actoeo was indeed no time to be lax in discipline in the general knew it the
men as i said were some of them becoming teres that ruffianly in their demeanour whilst others again i saw with my wife tears falling down
their cheeks from the agony of their bleeding feet and many were ill with this entry and from the effects of bad food they had got a hold
of a devourin the road or knapsacks too were a better enemy in this prolonged march many men died i am convinced who would have bore up
well to the end of the retreat but for the infernal load we carried on our backs my own knapsack was my bitterest enemy i felt it pressed
me to the earth almost at times and more than once felt as if i should die under its deadly embrace the nap sackin my opinion should have
been abandoned at the very commencement of the retrograde movement as it would have been better to have lost them all together if by such
loss we could have saved the poor fellows who as it was died strapped to them on the road there was some difficulty in finding a place to
tie how and up as the light brigade carried no halberts however they led him to a slender ash tree which grew near at hand don't trouble
yourselves about tying me up said hollenstein his arms i'll take my punishment like a man he did so without a murmur receiving the whole
three hundred his wife who was present with us i remember was a strong hardy irish woman the doraine up you hintended times we add a yohewa
ping thing with the it when you get out bout if you met jim i wish john you tall pretty lake and rill good aggagite man he got his blue
bell hand and he walked fothering hallway to get his belt the gantletted he was a walking the gantlet he just walked and stopped at each
person and gave them the opportunity to give em all they got yet those pretty laodiceans like you sound like a man sounds i my boy
hollandie here who more about crawford here this is classic there they're getting to a river they got across the river on their retreat
back to the book presently he spied in all strachan himself from being wet through i supposed and wearing a damp pair of breeches for the
remainder of the day had mounted on the back of one of his men the sight of such a piece of effeminacy was enough to raise the collar of
the general and in a very short time he was plunging and splashing through the water after them both put him down sir put him down i
desired to put that officer down instantly and the soldier in an instant i dare say was dropping his burn like a hop in tato into the
stream continued his progress through returned back sir said crawford to the officer and go through the water like the others i will not
allow my officers to ride upon the men's back through the rivers all must take their share alike here in just go ahead and note that down
as out o lead that's just the that's a metaphorical and literal example a m in a ride on the back of my listed manila i can stay dry what a
savage i think that tagassou have gone the lashes back to look general crawford was indeed when the few men who is apparently created for
the command during such dreadful scenes as we were familiar with in this retreat he seemed an iron man nothing daunted him nothing turned
him from his purpose war was his very element in toil and danger seemed to call forth an increasing determination to surmount them let it
now they are continuing to march and again to its its a story we heard many times on here and how harsh foot marches can be and at this
point rifleman harris he's eat at the he's going to make it then he is fading fast he's marching with a giame brooks the kind of broken up
into pairs to try and stay together a little bit and he's trying to maintain back to the book i remember sir dudley hall passing me on a
mule to day he wore a spanish straw hat and had his cloak on he looked back when he had passed into dressed me hair said he i see you
cannot keep up he peered very sorry for me for he knew me well you must do your best he said my man and keep up with us or you will fall
into the hands of the enemy as the day wore on i grew weaker and weaker and at last spite all my efforts i saw the main body leave me
hopelessly in the lurch brookshire was getting weaker too he saw it was of little use to urge me on and at length assenting to my repeated
request to be left behind he hurried on his well and he was able without a word of farewell i now soon sank down in the road and lay beside
another man who had also fallen was apparently dead and whom i recognized as one of our sergeants named taylor walt we lay exhausted in the
road the rear guard which was now endeavoring to drive on the stragglers approached and a sergeant of the rifles came up and stopped and
looked us he dressed himself to me and ordered me to rise but i told him it was useless for him to trouble himself about me as i was on the
able to move a step further whilst he was urging me to endeavour to rise up the officer in command of the rear guard also stepped up the
name of this officer was lieutenant cox he was a brave and good man and observing that the sergeant was rough in his language and manner
towards me he silenced him and bade the guard proceed and leave me let him die quietly he he said to the sergeant i know him well he's not
a man to lie here if he could get on i'm sorry your paris he said to see you reduced to this for i fear there is no help to be had now he
then moved on after his men and left me to my fate lotiform never leave a man behind you actually got people to send a you're not going to
make it blaine you're not going to make it an now your tough guy if you're not if not walking right now disentwined for you do you know now
he lay there for a while and he actually once he rest for a while he regained a little bit of strength eventually crawls to a house yet in
the house and get a little bit of food gets a little bit of it an i will love to say water but isheart food to wynaad he recovers somewhat
he pretty much recovers and um sleep for a while wakes up recovers and now he can now he can walk again and what you think would happen now
like eminece as similar to this as possible you know but just now where a dacant make it what do you do carry him year you mean you try and
carry him of course other guys go yet and i mean it's horrible to think of these situations where if we have to move these all these men
and to sit there we start will let's let way this you have to war this if we try and carry all for wounded out warne of us are going to let
right so that that's what the that's the situation that there politely face it hey ureter connage out of here yourself and people don't
restand how hard or is to carry it down man it is untimbered very difficult to cure a down man an especially across to rain that you know
some time in resting practice you you pick up and you you pick up your partner and you do a couple of laps right hand ah you know that's
all good youens nice smooth surface figerately in operating is not just dead wait it's yeah when you start carrying bodies around it grevy
really difficult so you don't it's not a wonder one either so if one guys down you can't sottane person carries that gun yet actually has
to be two or sometimes three we have gerona methods of carrying guys i mean why i can carry you a little while right but after a little
while you know beata five hundred meters a thousand meters you're not going to be your freein also your combatant you can't you can't you
lies your weapon properly not for not for any length of time so you know a situation like this that the position that these leaders are
making is a guess what give we don't just keep walking where gontran the french are in a catchising to die yes so harris an anthing for you
so in contempt like now we'll say it if there was a circumstance like that where we're going to lose more guys if we bring this lie with
the sir one big luxury we have now is we have ever sport ye so oh the enemy must to keep coming out of school we'll sit here and call drop
on an all day situations like that of happened over n over again in the modern war said weiterdingen istar wore small elements are out
there in the field thereabout to get overrun and the air craft in air air fire ah air power comes into a completely saved to day and keep
the enemy at bay for extended periods of time yet so we have a an option he another option but in the c i guess he ultimately be
hypothetical then that a caryatides the you got to put someone in outstation as you with her going to do and that's a decision you got to
make us all nitilowan almost popayan you be weighing all these micro my crow asset yet her haligator away or the bad cause ye well how many
of marther neelie reinforcements coming isterici can take his tarwater what can i do how many people are down yet away all these things out
make it decision it's going to be hard to vision yes for sure he i mean so you don't flit like the the the concept or should i say ah like
the action of at least trying to bring the guy with you m a head of like other guys lives so you eelopement lies where either you don't
have any content you have any support you have any other options that either other guys die or the will we leave this guy behind the fact
that each tried to bring the guy doesn't tramp like the lives of other guys where you if the decision is to be made worth understood like
other guys would have died if we didn't leave this guy here that would be okay but it's not out bokay and you're in half to live with one
horrible re fought for the other irish the the thing that's powerful about were not on leave everything any one behind the etowee but that
is it that your ethaer default mode you an fall notice to fight and that's what that's a that's what we train that though lessing we are
men like america trainer not liebhaid is a wind nater go to attitude that you go to attitude and all the thoughts about he will weigh it
out and all senesino you where you a fight were kill everyone they were in winetavern thing we can do to bring every one back that's all we
do and that is a powerful thing yeah man these savage times for lysiades savage times going so like i said he does recover though luckily
before the french get to him he recovered enough to get out starwation and he talks a little bit how he was clinging and he was clinging to
survival back to the book it is however indeed astonishing helaman clings to life i am certain that had i lain down at this period i should
have found my last billet almost spot i say apa suddenly i heard a shout in the front which was prolonged in a sort of hubbub even the
stragglers whom i saw dotting the road in form seemed to have caught something like hope and as the poor fellows now reached the top of the
hill were sending i heard an occasional exclamation of joy the first note of the sort i'd heard for many days when i reached the top of the
hill the thing spoke for itself there far away in our front the english shipping lay in sight it's a view he had indeed acted like a
restorative to our force and the men at the prospect of the termination of such a march had plucked up spirit for a last effort fellows who
like myself seemed hardly have strengthened their legs to creep up the ascent seemed now to have picked up a fresh pair to get down with
such as hope to us poor mortals so they obviously see the hpeaship and that inspires them and they start moving a little bit faster back
the book there was i recollect a man of the name of bell of the rifles who had been during this day holding a sort of crying race with me
we had passed a repast each other as our shrank served bell was a rather discontented fellow at the best of times but during this retreat
he had given full scope to his ill temper cursing the hour he was born and wishing his mother had strangled him when he came into the world
in order to have saved him from his present toil he had not now spoken for some time and the sight of the english shipping had apparently a
very beneficial effect upon him he burst into tears as he stood and looked at it arise said if it pleases god to let me reach those ships i
swear never to utter a bad or discontented word again appreciation and he did make ships and harisarman harris made to the ships and they
got embarked on those ships and they sailed back to england for a few days and then get off the english shore and then finally back to the
book one fine morning received orders to disembark and are poor bare feet once more touched english ground the inhabitants flocked down to
the beach to see us as we did so and they must have been a good deal surprised at the spectacle we presented our beards were long and
ragged almost all were without shoes and stockings many had their clothes in a coutrements and fragments with their heads save than old
rags and their weapons were covered with rust walls not a few had now from toil and fatigue become quite blind let not the reader however
think that now were we were to be despised as soldiers long marches inclement weather and want of food had done their work upon us but we
were perhaps better than we were peered as the sequel showed under the gallant crawford we and made some tremendous marches and even gold
art enemy so severely making good our retreat but our comrades in adversity who would retire by the other road under general more turn to
bay there and showed the enemy that the english soldier is not to be beaten even under the most adversarum tances the field of death and
slaughter the march the bivouac and the retreat are no bad places in which to judge men i had had some opportunities of judging them in all
these situations and i should say that the british are amongst the most splendid soldiers in the world give them fair play and they are
unconquerable for my own part i can only say that i enjoyed life more whilst on active service than i have ever done since and as i sit at
work in my shop in richmond street soho i look back back upon that portion of my time spent in the fields of the peninsula as the only part
where the of remembrance it is at such times that scenes long past come back upon my mind as if they had taken place but yesterday i
remember even the appearance of some regiments engaged and comrades long moulder to dust i see again performing the act of heroes ax of
heroes in i think it's safe to call riflemen bengman randal harris i heroes well and at the same time i think it's important to remember
that bees these men these heroes are not super hero like we seated in movies they don't wear a cap and have any superhuman strength of no
special powers what they do have is they have will the will to fight the will to drive on the will to live the will to win and i think
that's the super power then it never ceases to amaze me these are normal people by from that harris was but alma guy my god but when called
upon to march they march from he called upon to fight they fight and when called upon to rise up and overcome they do just that they rise
up and overcome cannot shows us that we can do the same thing in the fallen in the challenges that we face we can do the same thing rise
can dovecote then i think that's all i've got for to night so echo perhaps if you could let people know how they can support themselves and
maybe they want to support this pot cast that is well it's crazy hall these marked it right brutal yea and this is a a at an old lemmeno
from what i can remember the tower one when you specially holyday with no shoes to shoot there use probably this fall off when the
eversholt le bit and then there walking with no shoes or barely nissoone crying straight up just from the march by the later not the not
the war anything like dead where the marches yet just as big of an enemy he shot his pack was his biggest enemy he have leray the he the
kind word guistiniani them killing it on so we we disco back to utah obviously and oh you after every ewer do that training where you know
we breathe deereeree down excised then you know we walked back and forth i often so i'm gesabo of jest tell etesian idea what you're
talking about or just find echo we just ashenton did a afterclang exercised with a company we were utah we brought accoonts that he could
get some footage of what not in so thesestories were in the field were doing basically urban in combat with a group of bet's column regular
people business people that are learning leadership through experiential environment ye the listing on deealect it's like a con behalf you
don't communicate with someone effectively grenfall apart revertor if you don't enoshima what you're genneteira out said jelali her but
this is like a condenser and of that andes so you don't communicate with someone during enough to ax it you know within like thirty second
that something just went wrong ye eidouranion in the face with the with air soft rifle sea yaidi so it's really fun to watch from the
outside yet cause they see it and i've been to another one to um and yet you see it threatinin teresting how in the beginning it's like
it's almost impossible the aonian immediately communication breaks out immediately don't and then towards the end you start to see people
communicating gain yet you know litorina loong over communicate you effertur and withput the more you do that to morfessi crazy to watch it
is and it now if you remember dave saying this dave told them he said joodishary the mistakes that you're goin to make you told you what
you are going to do and you're going to do it i asserunt funniest was the one individual that said they came up with a plan for something
and we said yu know your risking get a book of low on blue there yet and she said i she's a lesson i i i understand what you're saying but
it's not like we're going to walk in there and start shooting each other they as nagananda and serenola very or was it a stressful
situation and they entered a building from two different sides of the same time and sereno she she dusted one of her one of her team mates
if and it was you know with one of those things now i said i remossa yesterday i oh yeah i remember a toileting in i had the luxure seeing
it from me outside oblatione it though a year but you in a different situation or i shouldn't ha me anyway the point is um so i the terrain
there was a where the field and where you were you actually do the hatfield straining part of it rum is a cow would you say we apollophanes
away from the break where you do the brief in degree fas but four hundred yards a yes so it's it's sloanehurst you're doing it again and he
montleon brief exercise de brief breathed extension all day really so and this was a situation where there is as a hill and rocky you know
her isaaci right at my camera tolentino a slight the mother come but you know it's something oh and some walking back and forth all day all
day where my feet are certain to get like kind of tired more tired than normal and i'm thinking arbiter single time though everything time
i'm thinking this is nothing compared to what you guys will onternoo know how nothing it was i didn't that that thought did i am go to
malinda all anyway she peouaria is while i am walking this is like melachim i'm singing seeing ye guys and everyone's greeting and i'm
thinking is everyone trying to act like this is it like kinda canopying literally didn't figure until you shed this to me right now a
bathing is i will fondly acting like patineusement i was going to i get brother till i am no lot of stuff in our gothaner no etherius to
fact is do you do actually better when you pretend that it doesn't bother yes that's a sayadaatee ber that night in denight at night and it
started acting all tired excepting as showing every one to yei's true hello but nameless the fact is it wasn't nothing it wasn't nothing i
felt it and you know ah so a finality guys don't like a wonder he's gayer i oh but none satanti no nobody said tang these tracks or getting
long or trouserettes pronoesan save foot on noisier time i feel anything like that i actinolite you guys first and you guys are doing it
like crazy heat too dear and my god this stuff and i think of this kind as these things i do rightful meharis refletees feet all poor up
starves arvin starving no slender no water sanpieri you ah ye aye so that's the point man ye as if these guys can rise and overcome that it
eowa figure your personal potential ye right ye figure fight more you could do yeh a mothers you little but i do so he looking rather
envied that lilian had some dope to ouahaug excuse trenoweth i don't even know that an excuse but it's a factor where these like a hard
actual hard times kin call onoto to exercise this kind of will you know and i think a lot of times were not like hard times no callinikus
anyway menarday know her but an you know what so you know what though it you should but i mean technically and potentially you should be
able to exercise as much will as it takes the really now onyons der kenneth limits you orielton cesare the limitours interesting isn't that
this is one of the stories where the guys that come don't yeh he's ad ahelion guersaint hey if you stay here you in a diagnoose any more
till there think about you know what what point are you at when you cannot save your life by walking you can't you walk can't take another
stall in ye any came back from that ye gin ye it and the tot really good job in illustrating it cause he or or talking about it where
because he mentioned the note thing the few tale he did but again i bet if yeh yeh he's he does a great job but you can't even begin to
yell canteen begin to really get the point across yeh could wait it is as the villadorata to a guide the other day that went abusin didn't
make it through yes and i know him for a while and i i just said like haman you know your good dude you know what why did you why did you
quit and he said you know it just socked it i was okay but did you know it was going to sack and he said ye i knew was going to sack but at
the same time you know i watched on t v and i thought to myself okay yasose said so i i follow understood how it was going a sock in a
dinedan how is consolateur said this really socks and he quit and again a good dudedad i'm kind o you know thinking myself why i'm trying
to figure out why people quit you and that was what he said to he said much like were saying they as much as you could imagine anosafada at
ye but i taiaiagon that one more step and you don't know yehoodee been di dreaded having people try to shoot you clean it up your buddies
brains off your jacket for weeks months on your d i dreaded and now you have no shoes no stockings and your march of dunore march on this
road for this bleacher days without stopping what even is that no patines yeah that's it i e you this kind itha's about to mention like no
medical care no like no one coming to save you a onotoa's really jack absinthes think if you have an ingrown toe alright right like like a
little thing that is bob it actually bothers you in actual life i think if you have that here or you have a oradel's say that a spring
dinglebat spring ankle i sprang my ankle really bad before sure you can't walk on it well now you don't have a choice yoeta on it or you
die or i fineat the little things that are that cause you an inconvenience right now i think about what and in invented is in this
situation thing like you will infection in your fingers near your finger you you ever had one of those little stupid like where your finger
nail is gination there nay i think but that i and that you have no matterson you don't have any way of hitherington to turn into him and
ginnistan yeah you die a little little tiny things that unknot you or tikitiki you takin the day o she act so what we have to do is prepare
for these hard times do you have any advice on how we could help prepare useles for these hard times on top a a the reference in these the
arioi reference you guys tenlake to basile thing you that you go do tell me and talk about like holt super hot i you don't sleep as much
imogen remodel all these up i kind o imagine that helps pollyopolis christi alps me to think about rifle in harrishes into speaking a help
speaking the health helping yourself m so you janina levis kind of a dicotomy here cause he onlike when your joints get sore on timocratic
but you can desesperer yeah yeah i onearthed growled watcher not hating prettybones cosetta time ah there's premure yes a free luxury where
now it's i came my joints and getting older my joints canterer don't have my camp work out at the gym you know at my leisure as good let me
take some joint warfare you know improve my comfort while i worked up function for her function but comfort as a lot to do with it working
out with sorjint as wayless comfortable than not sorcelages how ministhers exercises that you cannot do when you when your joints are ready
rocroi so you can push yourself harbor and be better for paired for the hard times the afferrandose tly if your joints are working
therectly yeah that's the dicotomy and they are all so easy no like cut what concession there's no there's no reason to say hey my joints
being less healthy is a good is pine and is good that's good thing you know eveche should i should i maintain or improve the joints of the
my joint health a health of my body including but not limit to join or should i not the decision should never be i am not ever be i think
this was my vinaya am so the point is so joliment joint sales free adjoint to me best consalement as as some one who with a level head now
is for supplements go as still i think the joint for your joints um you bones may be stuff that's going to be roger structures jonesport me
cause again in as it said is for like if you like going for surported powder lopepe do say hey what's a didron doubter he seething you
don't stay like how much poteen do you like not get to need supplemental proteol you don't people on that skandinavian that's why people
like those carver fiamma one that's going to be both convenient and tasty and i and good sategon the less that's cool i'm not saying not a
bad thing i'm saying is far as like deportation on a supplement the most benefitted minting your convenience that really persuasion i
rotinelli convenience nothing wrong with that motherwort we got a lot to do i understand but as far as like the vitiate call it the the
piracy holofernally him angered name some on very to hold a eminentissime the the the decrial omeath rees like these kinds of things that
help you directly that's he that's the main one way so your point in all this is jonathan up omens super creel oil jocoser curls what's got
chiller eaton and join orpheopoulos them or gin man docorated you vivifie like not at your rondeau's knifing be like an if you want to have
good healthy joined some croil super grill and gets em doing warfare from origin man dot com m a i n eye but an then we be good we be moved
on the next thing he no i did it and i ronenghwireghtonh love let them remember in and this makes sense this is relevancies of bereford
yont to it on the propietorio because back out like one and of gain again when he is we'll say twenty torummage some fasitotai lointaines
so what if some one listening or group people listening there who have that same mind aright and it's nigh us not as i knew both the idols
if i distinto okay almans nointeen ye well that's godites that doesn't know that maybe they turned this off like eight minutes we younited
there more educated now and may be booltheen there looking into the joint situation that's what i think is happening that's my opinion
thank your that's my party in i'm sure twitwillow us know any way the orgin man dot com on the top click lad's actually threaten the front
peacherina from pedometer josue crow enjoying worker died on it the altogathar be widening asking me years now what gishala start you did
it with dechage we know now we know now hundred per cent all made in america from the cotton from the sea and so of the conti planted
harvest did proceed adhibited the dear bestiality the war that's an exciting thing on jusserant that kind hannimals you know he makes it in
maine for meat the fabric bongee othersof do by the way clothing peatsmoke a stylish cannot twist on his clothing yet in fact i always who
was odegaard there and the origin the whitelead the lydia like i don't know if you know the caneville there certain cuts of like dodonaean
loss what are you know what my orders actisanes the on that no rather yes it does anyway micantia ble for people who want to notice it
onlaying a desgracias a good like that's a good hiakotoo java it's something is not nothing something none the less it's all made in
america and there's a little stylish twist ister there to notice if you care to notice and some passion stops at in their if if you don't
notify a notice coustou you ever wore that it you were the derivational ye warm to kept me warm i'm not used to nineteen degrees like you
was a utah near you werest i will be young of rebellion nineteen i was but i had that idea help you guys had these big as cortex
jacksonites all the stuff on organman dot com is made in america from seascale all the way to the final garment you wear it be good on
chickenstalker a good way to support all so in your fitness routine if you want to expand out of like just basic a bench squat or peas dead
less what a paciencia hosenet you an expand do some like co interesting duff on it dotcom slash jocko go there they got them cool fitness
gear cattle bells which are they got all the catbells including artistic once though their cool i think those are all the ones i have just
artistic makes it funerall twist on it and do you give that mix up your work out for is creativity which keeps it fun for some people not
jocose people though if you vary the work out like nomees faneuil movements if you will oh you're more likely to stick with it stand the
pan make the path enjoyable sometimes not just niglect the enjoyability of your work go if your unit duanes of rude setness curanter oh you
take it up see what you like and i gets something all so when you are buying the book recollections of rifleman harris a ontake it easy for
you we amadei easy for you clematites jack podcast dot com on the top man uses books from episodes boom is a list of all the books by
episode click through there to get it takes the amazon and am both good with his work in tondo some other shopping while you're on there
like what mon mors gocos golf clubs pocasse quipment recently ought to be will be hating me up saint him a minister a pages what's that
equipment you know i should get a asked me that to ask igenne i just talk yes you press record yes and i thought the equipment so had that
knowledge and cried about that army so he hastaing nolledge is better than not having the knowledge in whatever regard none less if you're
going by pautucket carrion do not stuff but yet with you asked god with support all so subscribes machassan already on stitcher i do in
obviously go play spot of fight confirmed omism weird that i didn't know that for sure to reward here's a thing so many thing of that ward
we need to talk about it for a antofagasta again you know what you're right it's just me expressed iself look all you got to know spot
fight confirmed the gesu there confirmed it to me the otano's really the good thing about people interacting yes it is you learn a lot
about yourself in your own situation of things that you don't know i i affixed on roucas there detached and eave different experts by the
way in a lot of ways mostenses rib if you have already also subscribe on youth this excerpt there if you do want to list dorf you don't
nessessary watch the whole wall episode video version of this potation just get little excerpts taninsha foratch or even come back to
that's a big otter we've put out so much that it's too much people can't absorb it all the first time round ye wait what do you mean by the
whole anson you i what was on episode sixty three ripener that saying the ivy he souses igitur you go listen you learn it again and now you
know it's more recognizable yes so like drilling a little bit death the anlace back of it josie and somehow like certain things just apply
to you more like if you are your advice on an don't know college that these wonder member to about how to approach college it crush college
whatever is going to fly to me more if i'm actually in case you know radiantia alerting in life would you gastlie can first sure but that's
good up i redirect will say oh you know more than maybe the next day so that kind of stuff where that one one remember okay i'm going to
come back to that if i can constantly remind myself of the things that directly applied to me you can be more it's going to be more
beneficial rather than just love it all the boasted hoping you remember each in nameless point there is that's it that's a good reason too
subscription so if you in fact if the excerpts or some excerpts resonate with you he tananarivo any consuelo joculators called jacotot
jackassdom that's the ourthe there it that's where you can get if you want sir he unnoo are as any more of course they do things out i
think that's common language no actually nine right nationalities yet the web site and we was an you are i'll stand for he well and on even
know sir it is thine mine at a gogoniant not at kabeke yes you old man nor i knew what a man i don't know what it stands for you know you
don't i don't know siveral something asked you rather i know red probably not even universal jacales none the less it's jocolate the web
sight is jocatore dot com in a thecret but esteemer nothing get the shirts who tis rash cards compression rashers if you will every tacitis
where you maintaining range or motion you jaisuitical in my opinion what do you otherwise ladies there's the same design but both there the
heavy ones peasants me like a bestavaar's the heavy bodies will billions we show like the tenant heavy ones will call him i've thought
thereby to the first colnet oration exactly where those are all sold out they sold out last year they and so i did another iteration with
our quest for they had the third that the heaviest one aceti there might be some industrial heavier in loredano because i think that was
the yonnie none less these are the heavens come from double consensual so the women stuff on there oh i think cominade of few things before
christmas on the storm claverton keep your eyes on that that's a good way to support is once something gets something chacma also
psychologic warfare if he now what that isn't tell you to noble with tracks joctaleg on these tracks basically you listen to a wan you are
you know on the path i say on the path and you get moments of weakness days of weak this end of the u not feeling like it is you know how
you always talk about liking to matter if he feel like you're not used on you it yes oather so i and i respect that in that's where we all
want a wanamee all want to be there but for some of us it's not like that hundred per cent of the time sometimes we know really don't feel
like it sometimes an i reydelet i to don't do it then sometimes i be honest well put on salagur and you'd do it yes like a spot you know
specially spahis is where it's like a no braine like really easy on you you're like contemplating i like i could eat a just do this to
alright and you start making bets with yourself you ever do that don't deal with myself you vinnie for elisees straight up jocondas
joceline i don't feel like it i feel like it whatever that pendent make any gain any i didn't i pessimy saw yourself if i start leaning
towards like i'll maybe i just won't do anything now already really oholous cool were dinomache you look real funny sitiwated doesn't
spress i've witness that with you like will be to sam like a dowsett do that then you get the sort o look to conway about you hilliterit
tetart as of echoes going on vacation and you can be gone for a couple of weeks and i've been real busy with all kinds of stuff and we were
talking about if we be able to actually get all these pocasse and i don't think we could do it an i said i acherontian you know no no
podger a few weeks and then uh the nisa actually alike day went by will and i said a senectae said ah actually we're going to do it yet
wereroa i'm in the trap were going to have an all nighter and on is get it done bring some red ball and get something with facitote t e o
well is interesting about that is when you said that you had this kind of tone of danderin like what we i take back we gotta take a break
after two years by the water every single week piloted harek that's he said no and right winendale cool i dig it to i mean i'm nothing good
i'm saying colipoll understand and you want that make sense ah be become take huge breaks everybody takes you to braaeve gladiale aderation
you're over here two years and no breaks no breaks no matter we get so now come a time when we are forced to for some reason yet that's
kind of part of the point path so i'm like cool i big i totally understand jocko and when i said that that's on your face kind of shifted
like penny you went into your own world titisee it's almost like you sort o got mad from a subtle notes there alastair not taking it a
break i know jorgenson back mateless and i'm sure that if a osdat but back to psycological if you need a spot or even want a spot with
those times that you're like maybe elgitha work up momma'll in the diamint just listened to any try and the track is labeled you know where
if you can skip on the diet sykehouse like wet what is this your ordeal something something sugar cotidie sure oroetes yes he listen that
and then it what's good is it's not so inspiration all or you can do it it's not that it's like pret pride mariotto that the whole is a
thing though you but just by nature you her tone of voice kind of handlike by half instance insert that concept and in it so it's kind of a
double double thing as it turns out but primarily its aisarat thing think about think about this logical stuff and then at the end of the
tricycle that all ye meditating to get after a a exactly right out of psychological worker is it is on i once amasomi grealig in elergant
is the store a awentas o gagait t and if you having troubled dead lifting less than eight thousand pounds if you get jackal be so
immediately in your your dead of bovine eight thousand pounds including a jordan be peterson who can now dead left at asmani broke foreseen
thousand pounds yet caterer a harrier books i got some books way the warrior kid number one um don't let your kid be a wimpey would you do
that why would you like your neighbors can be when piet why would you do that get him on the path way the warrior kid path stronger faster
smarter better get some extreme oneship the new edition is out and thanks to you all because we added questions your questions from this
pot cast into an open inside not every question but a a bunch of em a good mount so there in there this also new forward and so we coloured
pictures colorature interesting yes could i ll like colorature i said nell that conomy they say well this is more premium as it now
bytonians gets so any way if you want you what i look like in color then you can get the book but to to offset that i said okay find you
want oculaire the whole book black so that's the thetable and that was that in speaking of black also the displicere field manual this
available and i told you at the taggin that the publisher wanted to help like the elmetkeouk giffordian i told them no the tag line is
there is no better gift than disappoint that's what youth you know is actually true if you could give some one the gift of disponent be
giving them the best gift of life yet now you can actually give them the gift of this pine cause freedom feel manual seedeaters important
people keep ask me i feel man you will be on your version is pinicals for him feel me is it is also on i tunesassah empetre platforms it
available right now it is not on audible audible is not with tracks we wanted and how we with tracks throw he toteway for something on top
of the books and the pot cast if you need leadership training in execution at your business or with your team even contact arbuscula
company to me it's jap to know labatry in phidean dotcom and if you have questions for us or you have answers for us the couple of
questions i asked to day you can communicate with us all the interweb all twitter on instigation dates at eaton i am at jaca willing and to
the service men and women out there right now holding the line a slogging through the mud and the heat and the danger and of fear take you
for defending us in or freedoms and to the police landforce fire fighters paramedics other ferres onder thank reliving the life that you
live which allows us to live the life we live on to everyone else that's listening just from member that you might not be wearing a cape
you might not have any magic powers but you have the old tomatoes and that is human will the power to march the fight to overcome and get
after it so until next time this is echo and jock o
