this is jacopo cast number one hundred and four with a charles had me joaille good evening acolleen for in a go right into curacoa on
things as anything to discuss not do it er is too cunicula on a cushion of one you discuss leading and manoeuvring up and down the chain of
command but what about laterally within your own peer group where a competition for advancement is fiercest and your billiken objective and
implements some of the tools you discuss is limited okay so you you absolutely do after lead latterly amongst your peers and since you
don't have rank or position you have to do it another way but wait a second sin you shouldn't use rank or position to lead people below you
in the chain command and and you don't want to be led that by some one that's throwing their rank and position around and guess what you
need to do the same type of leadership that you would use up and down the chain a command to lead your peers so whereas it mean that means
your hot that when you can you support what they're doing you try and build a relationship with them that's what you tryin to now this this
part of this the word were talking about the competitiveness like if they want to maneuverable and jump in the spot light and try and get
all the credit yes what fine but i let him do it and every one is going to see what they're doing and i might not see it immediately but
they will eventually be found out so do your best to support them do your best to help them do your best to build the relationship may the
mission the most important thing i a little politics that your about the diving do in get involved in don't make that the primary thing
make the primer thing a confering the mission they on this if you start fighting with them a year expending energy on fighting your own
team as you doing instead of fighting the utmost it's this is a blue unglue situation this is friendly fire as fratricide don't do that
disengaged from the friendly fire and focus on how to make the team win take the high ground take the high ground on the high ground will
take you good another one of those points always say and i do that was think this where he prowting man they see that was she that you see
all that stuff for let's by this came to you never gave more a play where it like who would you hire it would you rathah workin for cooler
out to have working for you is that gie the go oh you forgot one guy is helping the other guys out trying to help them with their mission
one guy the other end of the spectrum is undermining people and trying to make himself look which guidardone promote ye all day long you
know you you're going to promote yes you're going to eupeithes trying to help the team win and not to look out for himself he yet they and
then sit and considered that we not just your boss but like your peers as well you know even in this competition let's say there's
everyone's competing thought of and you're the guy who is jumping in the spot light always whatever verses the other guy who is always
helping every one right even that even if they're competing with you for sir i was no minnifie's going to get astroides different to us we
won so many they picture it to social you know what now lou now answer me this when some one seized the world this way that means the habit
tendency to think that way that means the man of a tendency to act this way so they got lasalle cautious if you're looking out for like all
trained people that guy said he i might be get screwed over if i don't if if i let him he'll get the spot light right now if that's the way
you're thinking that's the way you're acting if your acineta everybody can see it ye don't act that way to an away be a good team member
yea the enemy is outside the wire yet that's a good one to ward the good news about that is like lessay you are active enough way as long
as they can admit it to yourself even if you do have these newington side you're like hand when i ask like that and you start asking it if
in no pannikins revealing and then you start acting that way slowly and slowly your feelings cannot come where you don't feel that way any
more you'll start to the late we left our man realised how you should act as a human bein as a team member as a leader as a follower or
yaou'll grow up your mature you'll be good person you feel that the it as opposed to just what of yourself schoon or the attention against
me she kamehameha my detach his small and i'm a white belt under three months and their typically two or three blues and may be a purple
belt in the class with us when i train or spar with the blue on pervades i can win the advantage or submit them more than half the time
they don't like me because i like it instructor is teaching but i feel i need more of a challenge should i find more a more competitive
school your time of appreciate it okay so there's something very susiscanes something wrong with the school if you are white out that
consumit bosomer les and not an you had maybe i may be of your five hundred pounds for just as super athlete lenorman person even if you
wrestled in high school may be even if you wrestling in you even training you distorter months the you should not be submitting perapet
that should not be happening there the now there is a small chance of tiny tiny chance that they're just bein like so supercollegiate that
they say oh yeah you do all that was good you know you caught me in my arm and detest giving it to you just to dumb to realize that i but
since you're saying that they don't like you because you're so mating them that that that's very unlikely that there is supernice so i
think you may actually be in a fradenst where the school is not a proper school and i haven't heard one of these in the while but you a
white belt should not be on the regular is of mating a blue belt and deftly a purple belt or any parabat if there's a massive size
differential it be an occasional occurrence but on the regular shouldn't be happening yet right correct it yeah i mean unless again like
there is may be it may be the small school you know this you know fipple may be like some real old people or some like that maybe this get
i don't know how big he is yet but listenest of i'm kenric here right what if he's to twenty five on solid six jim marmiou of binnacle
wrestler okay learned a few chikkin the adored and arm a anarrhicas twenty five college wrestlers six two yenessi omissions that that
decoud be problem at and then the rest of the atoll or maybe like a signiory five hundred forty five pounds now you know if there's no
extreme um disparage between you and the other students you we have a problem yeah if there is extreme disparage even then you should go
look around because even if you're even if you're to underwent five pounds six foot two wrestled and college most purple but should be able
to handle you if you've only been training for two months yes yes yet so yea even three men all and not to say my situation so here's proof
i'm nothing now but just an example i was two to one i storyette five i'd say when i really said ale into it i lost he got down to about
two fifteen to twenty ah and i was white over three months by the way and i rolled with this guy george was his name my remember him small
teeny oleanders a purple bell and no chance i had with his guinievre than three months by the way is after i started competing in ergo to
ye purple belt yeolo me first like art mitescere yelaya no can i'll pimlot like him you of no chance at a and but this is not a big guy
this is a day noontide not you know i fifty might be smaller than five six year these small military that ingrate example is a great
example trying to think i mean when i started to git i was two hundred and fifteen pounds well is bethany hundred fifteen pounds and dan
was a bluebell just got his boweled chance ye you are in i mean it and he and olivia fronted hundred and seventy four pounds ye so ye yes
it's very similar yet you have to like gather disparted the owthwaite laali silesia he think it is the aretini frailish like how like what
a vile trooth instructors not a real black belt the instructor knows he's watched enough tube to show and armand he can acted it on the
purple bell because he is head agerstone or something yes and he does it a little bit better custanti you if if you are if you watch you
doin you studied his heart as i could as you could and you one school and you trained all the time you could be a blue bell level and then
you can be the other boat that you talk yeah and then gave the obolygated yourself a black dog as probably was going on yet crazy i ever
this is it me up again and tell me what your school is yet face voyagest on one to do that and want you to and i hanoverian is that of t is
that like a is that a hard move to be like he this is my school and put it out there you know and here is my instructor i mean in one holy
an to think if the instructive as legit no no not what i was around long enough i i want if the if the guy wasn't legit i don't know what i
do i don't have a plan for that but if the guy was legitime back on you in sayer's the situation you found out that you do this is what's
going on in arraix two two one eighty five ton the antivenin rest for na and you studied sambo or you like a sailor juno under their belts
ye true but you would even be asking the question if you had that unrebuked know the answer yet i had you too ye man siyah i the chance of
that is true is fair it's a fair chance agelastus on i haven't read intend to many of those lately in because that's a rare thing the
anisotoma up now ye be all kinds of roslin schools and makes sense i can think about it the internet is all over everything you get even a
halfwit fraudulent person or it's like okeyoah mean as a man of hell to the cold so on an maybe two it up at his and possess we have some
kind of thing on our web site where we have if you are legit school like a jackal proof school an interior it helmets a day you get asked i
lived in tennessee where shani live in chicago are petiolate you get as that a day a though every other day is is that about our holy on
you ask more than that i guess a lot or an you may not tons more but definitely i asked repeatedly me where sacranian jacksonville florida
where she train or live in wherever come of new hampshire were glad where were sitting i live in salt lake city you thyonian peony's asking
him yet the only risk with that is like okay so first off we don't know all the schools we melekeh the school you in just because you say
you're under the extent it doesn't mean your legitimate like as are after have some sort of approval process yet and then at the end of the
day let's say you approve on onknown i could unpleasant then to a natator no no our people will be like okay here's to the page the website
water they'll be like okay this school that i'm like looking at i like it but it's not on the the ethononweh get to it kind of thing and
then it gets kind of like the den you know you way if i shouldn't be that much of a problem by the way there's not that many frostwinch
argument wondering now possibly but there's not many out there although the ransom ye they're like the instruas you drive back a strip on
you see something that says tedisome he now there's linet schools in all go to the door come presentait as he had a giletti's hard you know
i'm a bit yea the there's a actualities actually the normal place for titus nowaday about a ah there it letrilla yeah he is one is straight
up in the all owing him that's not strip mall than i all ye ye i'll help all all i asked to go visit compro yes she you are at the dead
with them for men amoramago like hell i forget this in the utter not but there's his cool you know lise trains that go on it out for the
kirishitan little is come to by magnanimitatis funny he fell his complete such a nice guy you figure on that alaetheueion hae actially i
said he sadly but he says i hate it melie smiling in it's very interesting ticorum correct yet more information needed on this academy next
weston i am seen at work as a very assertive in aggressive duke and i seem to rubella when they think i'm upset or frustrated at problems
they present which is rarely the case i'm just so fired up out o i work on my cat to well sylvia served with my team you know what am fired
up too sure haglike that danaan at when i was young i i this is where i was young sir i rubbed some people the wrong way i know that even
when i was a young kid workin on a construction site desha i was doing a hard and two hard making people rubble to only a etiani got sittin
there is a little cruel of us that work too hard to care were too fired up we were i would run me o course with my with with a rock sack
with the forty pound packet of forty pound sandbagged no one was doing that beggery one does it now but back then there is a small crew of
us that were doing it it runneth jungle botome and sad of anneke's and a little got pulled aside by some of the old i and my old resident
men nomoi mean old guys from wherever a you know from the from that ninety stortade do you and you know how to get the egestaeans know you
need to do that ye and so ye maybe i retose galilean way understandable but when i got it older and a little bit more mature i got fired up
to actually do a good job as a league or to actually build relationships with my pontoon maids and i got fired up for people to instead of
thinking that i was upset or frustrated a mot on i was fired up as i want people to think that i was come and cool collected shows that for
don't wholly different it's like we say defaulters ye and i ysaye not been aggressive in his envenenadores i yelling to benares i pachisi
was i m aggressive towards making people think that a monops men that no matter what's going on at these have an jackets would be on a
lodestar super buvait um not now that being shed that doesn't mean that i was passin the date men was in the sortie it means that i was
aggressive and assertive did it with patinated of coming a people straight on i frank them i wasn't to their little ideas were i made their
ideas come from me but they denoting the susi help and supported what an don't so for us by helping people out and helping them with their
indian sitting to control and make everything your idea so that's my advice here relax calm down focus get fired up get aggressive about
being tactful get aggressive about working with people get aggressive about showing your calmness that's what you get aggressive about yer
don't get asserters and ye antagonistic relationships across your company ye jack yes one good he said he he gets or they think he gets
upset or frustrated at problems that they present dear which is rarely the case he said he said i just fired up so it's some infant seems
like and i'm no expert but i'm trying to put myself in position where i i think may be like you it is just a presentation thing you know
like you i he i definitely alperton is aggressive like you say he's an even getting fresher o reamining frustra with him for acting or
threaten a guest like you might that he did not lay any early at evelyn's definitely a presentation thing no doubt about it yet but i that
means you say oh i'm presenting the wrong thing i will fix what i'm presenting yes i do do you think excepting you do think this renovate
er oh you know i'll people'll vill get not or whatever they'll build bill be aggressive to get fired up in and you know though when they be
the loser temperer or there be handin that's that's aggressive towards people and their justification is not to say discide this i don't
know but am to san bar justification is i'm just passionate near about it i'm just whatever you know ye oh is that that's just a
justification right is because them yet like if etienne is it's a juistinian it is also a reality so think about it from the other
perspective if if you're doing within if you have some one on your team that gets all that they of their passionate about something any can
be problematic say oerneclou passions right so as they just geheimnis happen and they make bad decision because they're so passionate about
making something happen that they're done did not doing something logical in so yes you could say it's just nauseous no such thing is a
passion a person but that actually wouldn't be true it's not an excuse it's a real thing now if you are aware that been why you keep acting
that way you have put your pa in de chat that's such you got to do under present year an i meant more like it in excuse for their behavior
you know like to me i personally i think that being passionate about something that you're into is good we menocal course but again you
know how sad like his itinerent between what you feel and how you behave in now so if you're if your superbaton about some ajuste like all
this e rational or emotional or like loss of temper situation behavior she him saint soltikow yet peasant but don't behave in some crazy
off the hand away a grey sloping to the use their passion as an excuse for their behavior is got a pot temperament yea yea yea yet as i
mean to you can act like old lasar that woyage say thee deal yet after exactly right you that's just a imediatly nutquesting my wife told
me that she thinks are eleven year old daughter is being bullied emotionally by some girls at school as i drove into work i wondered if
jugo would give her some tools tethele her deal with emotional stress and or baling that might be taking place i said we all know i answer
that joll give to this question absolutely gioell help eleven years old as a perfect age for getting in there and you learn to she will
learn to defend herself for real and physical confrontations which will give a real comfort is of which will give her confidence because
the let's face it emotional and verbal bullying is absolutely backed up by a ether clear message of possible violence or a subliminal
message of possible violence right a man of big grow a grouse getting picked on the the the under lying messages there the implied messages
there that it's the cold go physical if it had to and when that its removed because the the daughter knows how to now fight and to
underself that sarcoma these emotional bullies well so yes absolutely gaetani i would throw some boxing in their too just cause that is a
pretty impowering thing you punton something that feels good and you know what will rattlet get to morenigo on right get a pull up or
gateway the warrior did that no getting dead get absolutely get her way the warrior kid don't be beer too much yes you gotta be careful
that cause you your daughter and you say oh not so horrible in these proserpine i don't don't do that cause gas what she can be dealt a
circle life do you re going to be get there's always bullies in every environment in the then school environment in the work environin
there's bullies then she ganoatohale with him so don't don't baby her wise thinks that year the one is going to save her from it umihalo
think she knew that everyone old boy i got asked that when we warder to came out and so much would did you get billy that they think of
course i would never get bullied because i'm a big due well guess what when i was nine years old i was a scrawny little nine year old kid
and every body that was eleven was bigger than me and stronger than me and then when i was eleven every one that was thirteen was bigger to
me than starland when i was fourteen every one that was sixteen was bigger n me in stronger than me so sowanowane who you are as a kid
there's always somebody that the biggest ronger than you that's going to belleure so i think she should understand that she's getting
belied right now but that's that happens to be planetlit over it and get through it in a d i do think you have to be when you say that you
can't leave the imp you can't overwhelmer and say every one gets bullied and you're going to always get bullied in the office all
intermingle murieta's is like there's a there's a lot did you ever see ovington we told nowairi oh yeah yeah any o ye there's a great scene
in that movie where the girl is the sclera fight going on between her parents in the apartment the yellow each other screaming his slap and
people of domestic violence going on and she comes out and she sitting in the hallway and she's crying and the assassin guy kind of walk up
the stairs and and she looks then he looks at her and she looked at him and and she says is life always like this or does it get better
when you get older and he looks at ernshaw's like this yes so you are be careful that that's not the message that you aiding others in
reality to that statement i like the ages while life is always going to be hard and you do want to give your kids enough exposure to the
hard thing so that they're not weak you and they don't they don't go into panic mode when something tough enters their world so that's why
things like to do throatwort ing out or good in exposing them and letting them experience some hard things but again you just don't want to
over well her and that's that and by the way you misleading to their dad recitando yet o yet a youse to get down on that jimeno you that
you don't tangerous if you did you be asking this corsetiere getting getting her train in the doasyoulikes that happening the sole
emotionally bullied it so is it interesting she in the new warrior kid book the blythe's a bully on there but he's not a bully like kenny
william whose big strong belly he's a bully that's an emotion a blended and every time there's seems like there's goin to be a comfortin
you find a way to weave a out of it you you know so he'll harasho but the holloas people he knows perfectly how to push the buttons after
it marchionites kinneneh and james so vaguely fantomes caused as problems etherealities of that name pressure that idle he sought this this
makes a lot of sense think cause i've a daughter for it half by the way goes to pre kaiserish creates digitus cushions enough nor any way
so she struck her as a pill me on de um she said that her friends in not considering him to the matter um she said this friend told me that
she is not my friend she's only this other girls frendon now that's emotional bulling as the e for the four and a half year old version of
argolis it gets way worse said he left him by the way to the men probably way were set the fifteen sixteen just my sobs so what i told her
not to say this is the right answer it may be is no anything about so my daughter does digito has done you go but if a leg so well i get
well i was to assault smashed the end she's bigger to overtender one in her sad enow no nor it's always really dormy daughters trained to
be it a life rockaways had this one lengthing no matter of someone peasent you that doesn't mean you be mean to them let me fer me peri
said mean people will be mean to other people nice people tend to not be mean to other people right that's really proposition metallised
for opotiki reminding her so ah so i i told her he look if she doesn't want to be your friend then she's not your friend and that's okay
does that mean you be mean to her now but at the end of the day she i said are you stronger than her she said ye said are you smart in the
near she said yet i don't know she is very thin here's a thing it's the self impowering thing just like a you said where she knows you
geese smarter she stronger she can do more pouched more berean stuff like that all this stuff it starts to form in her head hopefully
douagh till foriner head that if they don't want to be my friends that's okay not to no loss to me maybe if some one who was strong like me
smart like me and whatever like me didn't want to be lecambye that something but this isn't the case you know it's kind of that idea
efferything it the the thing of jessamy that took it not everyone's goin want to be your friend that okay yeah and some people are going to
like you some people aren't connie you that's okay you just be nice to you and that in yeah i can ask that question when we the one warrior
kid pon cast a bunch of people as oh my i feel like people don't want to hang around with me and i was standin took a year it's okay you
don't need to hang around with people all the time i don't i don't like even like hirondelle idiot on the egotistical person like aboue
that makes the end that thing i think it is said were told my daughter always asked you know did people not want to be your friend or am
would she like bumper had rehearsed did you used to bump your head when you were little you know she always wants to know like it in my
lonesome and men it seems like you're really helps what i say now i used to all the time i showerlike my scars and stuff like that and
she'll be like oh and you can tell she feels better of it but it is pretty cool its weird i think that would help with a billing and and
and it's good your daughter's smart answer she has the capability of formulating that question about a lot of kids might not be able to
even save hay did you bumper had to whereas a parent if you do recognize that they probably feel alone as of you say oh i know you but had
i used to but my head to one time look in on scarehead and out enemy to so they don't make your kids beg for a partner in the world give it
to him ye follow the actual her'mae ferreting and not makes since to another then thinking of because the key didn't asinaduti so you got a
kid and it they're like hay de you in did you bought me er head like distant get blood on your head whatever when you are though and you
like you're like ye and if you add this and this is how i dealt with it right because a love at times in you a little passe yes exactly
right i tell you you got you know you got this for little kit he bumped the in head and like dan i don't even i've never felt this before
the lot of pines blood hope that scary i don't know really how to deal with it it so of course he got to your dead and then it does i can
he ye i've done it this holy did it this haiden with it and she's like a pay me be akin do with it and even the dog cause don't sweet that
too not like dangnation oanaanites dear jaded it who first time whatever jolyon or you know you're going to whatever was like her i got on
to it in this way you can slack it is is like how you deal with it all this in bomefield better about it and and more impowers on top of
that you did too if i got at it at all away or ever no you just to the not spitshead exertion i've got a leadership situation i need help
with else promoted to a troop commander position over a fellow team leader who now reports to me he had many years of experience in a lot
of knowledge is very he very bitter and that getting the promotion at not getting the promotion and his letting me know when i includin
decision making for the troop or try to taint his knowledge and experience he he shot stone refuses to give him put and says that i should
already have the answers since of the troop commander i know the troop would benefit from his imput and teem dynamics would be much
improved if you wasn't so negative i've tried to let him know that i value the i value his experience i feel that is impot would be
beneficial and that his negative attitude and bearing a bearing or not acceptable is making very ineffective temblador i i'm failing a
getting through to him and i don't want to dot want to fire him for his position how can i get him to value his own position in the troop
and become effectively as her i i actually insured on the right thing and you've opened a door from satiation first initial approach ah but
obviously doesn't seem to be working now a couple of different courses of actions you could take one of age you can do i actually give him
some higher ostensibility right given to put his team in charge put him in charge the whole team sometimes maybe he will step up and start
to lead and see that he's now able to prove that you have long rosanna that stuff there's also a chance thing about this as also a chance
that you you might be coming off as condescending to him and so imagine this hey ici value your explanator it i am you don't the true put
prilliant from her in put its erioration like a key the kid and he's getting that those on em off as consenting to we have to put those a
little bit in jack as well and i think those are a little bit you know you put the pot the person in charge you try that you've opened up
to try and get their imputing get them involved but it's it might be coming in might be coming across his condescending even if it even if
you're doing now you give your dead and that giles your impet on this same be great even if you're doing it like a cool way in your mind
you might be hearing oh i could really use your i am aisen if you're saying in a perfect way is still might be hitting his ears in a
different way so i don't know i this point i think when i would do is i would maybe just back off i would just go forward a treating him
like one of the leaders and expect him to perform as you expect your leaders to perform i think i've made the effort i didn't really work
and now you have a job to do an you got to get on with it it there's also um you know the world doesn't revolve around his holding in his
being native and an you can't let that happen now on top of that this guy's a powder and is a negative guide that's probably the reason he
didn't get selected to be promoted o'talk about earlier the boss saw that they saw something along the way were things in go his way and he
and he poured into his negative and that's why he didn't get promoted meanwhile the guy that did get promoted when things and go his ways
aoyagi drive on with with the new planes and that's why you got promoted so i would say move on do your job treat him like you would treat
one of your leaders i be very careful that you don't over correct cost you hear me say like okite normal now beside you treat him like
craphound that hat but treat im e as firmly and as fairly as you would any one of your subordinate leaders and we have to see where it
close from there he may end up just not being able to deal with this fact i mean there's there's a reason why some people get promoted in
some people don't and maybe he's one of these people that can't humble himself which is one of our biggest fears in somebody that trying to
be leaders that they can't humpies and if that's what's going on he is going to have a long hard road and to know what he's allat's going
to be never his never in any is falvey one else's fault and and that's do'll be problematic yes it tough linen there yet cause then he is
mind straight up the like your condescending you don't deserve it i deserve it you know and how you had it already in her leathery lacking
humility this one time in football and i was junior varietal and were shooting up the plaguing right and my bread he was he's really good
so he you know evade that one guy rushing junior party of the one denominator of the touch on in all his jade was at a so were sitting up
and one of our team guise on the team he was lemaire there he was that you was the thing is but he wasn't very val he wasn't here athletic
you you know oh and the kind of play of same position gets rang back he was run back to i think discursified oh he was so you go to day to
all time to show off again yes holy god so your man in the mind set it a santa guy probably has the same kind of mind set absolutely so
tsamanni you can't even if you are doing the right thing i you said like saying everything all cool in his ears it sounds different in its
arizonans there for shooting off again the up to to a sometimes when some one isn't gunnar your words correctly sometimes it's best not to
say interesante them mouchot and ever been in an argument with some one but your cheeks completely trying to desolate it and every single
thing you said is getting taken a onatheaqua et lessen odour head and then you know like you you're not going to you not going to convince
some one you're not going to get through them they're too emotional this guy's too negative you and you everything you say is going to be
heard differently and i not apostate yet fondly cut opportunity cost of the dressing it is just ipse mexican i'm often given tasks on the
fly whereas many of my tassar given as a result of meetings these days an increasing number are coming from emails or my manager or clint
askimoneiab myself quite disorganized when dealing with this i righting things down one of told but it's all over the place posted note
book on it such i don't have a solid method of keeping track of these things i'm guessing that a possible solution is to write all these
things down in the same place but i also tried that and dinner eally make a difference i'd reciate any impute advice you have on how to
record and track objectives in a functional and a reliable manner as i am subjected to a lot of him formation each day week month i'm
definitely overloaded to remember myself distorters ya the a few things first first of all definitely right the things down in one place
and it sounds like since your moving all time or you're going to meeting carry just and the nice little note book with you and right the
things down as you get past with them then on top of that you have to have a master less of some kind he her paper or digital on canary
recommind digital to track things over all in a prioritize methods so if you get past something in a meeting in your little note book you
come back you put in the right place in the master to ask west and then it twice a day to consolidate the information that in the little
note book you have into the big master list and then before you go to bed at night you organized those things by priority on the masterless
to put the most important thing of a top and that's what you're going to attack the next day that's part of one anaho get these things
oranie now we part two as you got a schedule this stuff and actually i always say this some people have trouble with tasks put them on the
calendar dial actually denied as that for me when james got something for me to do she just doesn't email me and say hey you need to do
this sheep puts it on the calendar so i look at my own or beaumaris i got to go to this whatever this task is done so put these things on
your counter and that includes scheduling time on your calendar so that you can have time to consolidate your list and do a review of your
less in a weather that takes the part take fifteen minutes to do and i guess there's a bunch of abso can use and i sure people will make
recommendation to this atanof to do lest absecon there's one there's native ones on all the different ones so you could look at that as a
possible a voice recorder you can either use the voice quarter act you have or you can carry your round a little many force recorder then
you can just take not with that and then you consolidate those notes from your fomor vocoder mean to your master task lest every day and
then you just got a patience that preside forward as a right a staff down a little moist i was the little boxes in front of everything yes
he did at the doors i like when i have a task at the little box for sealike in check it yea yea makes briers obviously commere a master
that like all that is like dangnation amon the flight to leek disguisers status like on the fly and knew stuff comes up briers and bones or
prize it how much more you could get down if you actually made a list of things you're supposed to do holinshead list and a still
chartersea it down an i'll make a list i even ocas i have a book but jamie gave me by the way ah a book or two ulisse i have you reseating
or have to and then i have my fan and then i have this all that have just a regular thing in the paper and then i do this thing rollin word
and have it on my side screen and i'll put the list there now for the day i'll just be up staring apace and strangely that has proven a
akertet vessles i'm just i'm and here i see my mistake right now that i'm telling me this i i put it on on the book that gamekeeper right
my to do this i put it there and then soudainement book there's one on the one for with your married now by the way who master was an
there's some absent nay she does matter you butting your phone if you put in your computer iakov ously toff it's on paper you need to have
jonesport into digital format but there's there's some petatone to consolidate less teamster list of things on your turnin then i need to
attach myself as far as the routine goes to look at that list you all like that's why you schedule it which is what i just said that's
where you put it on your schedule he every day when i sit down fountaine minute review of my less than meatrack that gives you the
afternoon to catch up on anything you might have missed and to get rid of my others lida half of it is me trying different methods out so
right in the middle of carrying out one other metal soles a bad thing about trying different trying to combine a bunch of different masses
what you're doing when you do that jolkin for the easiest way out tathe funniest clearest example of that when dan first artificing and he
was going through his various stages of trying to figure out how to cut weight and he already cut weight cup light nigh schools restore
knew how to cut weight but what happened as people would come along and say haters this traigtren there's this trick in there's nature then
he would try these other total those little tricks out if any would try them you know at the same time i talematongue what you don't when
you trial these different each cause what you're really doing you looking for the something that's oneasy till ye i'll do that it was the
holford was like all i'll be gone psen salt bath in the hot tub and then it was oh you know and all drink just to still water for the
forecourt of days and is all these of which all these things are viable right we know that their vile options but there's you have to use
them in conjunct after you after you you can't you like pull the poor whatever life you she want and think you're going to be good to go no
you got to do you one follow the system ye take one and go with it kind of ye and what you're trying to do as you're looking for things
that sound the easiest and that's what you're trying to do ye rats will it all to easy path we donteither but meanwhile like you got three
different paths all effective meanwhile your jumping from one pattoniana even yet in the south legacy what i'm doing with might to do this
i'd like for to do is okay eyguieres consolidate all stede this tested in number one then i got a remember that that's the last that i'm
checking then i got to remember to check it because you know you have because you always have that to do this in your brain you always do
you know you like all i got the thing by me on my mind wanted my brain is real solid sure but like said the jehovist in my brain is really
really solid yea and i know what i have to do is the only the the things i have to write down or things that outside get outside the the
the parameters of of daily situations like let's say there's some admettin that only comes up well fircombe rarely all remember it but it
is an admunsen that comes up on every corraine's not it's not so far outside the wall number and it's not in the routine so i don't
remember sir right at the now that's it somewhiles so deyo rate down the list that in your head on the on the on the wittiness i'll write
down the things that i know are are subject to being forgotten because it other things i don't forget the yes a year just i belonged to
hard like confiding in a camp i have a let's say i'm going on a trip of a cat like if i'm going on a regular trip from going to go to a
company that i work with and there in atlanta and i'm a flither three days i don't even i don't have to think about that yet everything
that i do is is the the work undoing the peplum doing everything i do is this standard it is tandore even that even the things are going to
bring with me in the same i went on one day trip to vegas to the day like in and on i did even stay to night and i had the same suitcase
that i take on going a five day trip lenise matter i am not changing any standard operating pecudes three got there in this at artelan to
side you will wha'd'you renascent is how i desisted for cider me the i'm not deviating from it whether i'm going for one day the like a
nine hour trip to vegas or of five day trip to atlanta guess what does it matter on carrying the same thing because that's what i do so if
it's something like that i don't need to don't even love things something don't make my list because i already madame lessoned is solid
it's things that are outside the bounds of the standard operating with just those of things that'll make the last year and then make set
for this question can i question consulation the fly is gettin tomoye's god of pease got up it had the stuff down ah i think i hear think
were all kind o the same way in that way were you going to have won two maybe three things on your mind that no wherein of forget this you
know canoeing but man knows list now you got to eat really got a choose one path and stick with it in remember that's the thing i think
that's my problem i know that and next west how did you deal with low is in jugurtha faces look presuming in a turn mara i just had my
first turnament and got the floor white with me vaultings and ashes obvious thing is e got be good you learned i think we for i think
finegan through hot one and then rely you know how how did you get the what are were you weak in then you analyze and and improve in those
areas and that stederian all dwell in an donwell in your loss but learned from it and move forward and actually speaking of daberi was
talking to dave bert and he was explaining to me his psychological current status in jigitivka he is however he is basically my age in
forty six might be forty five or something like that but he's been basically a master of kind of everything he's done he had ever the
aventine like factually if you look at his life he's been top con popgun instructor he was telling me that during operation southern watch
which was prepose first call war pre nine eleven he was he he was wont of the very very very few giscala dropped a live bomb near it and
you know that of the day he don't have any experience he was guided had really really done it this and in he was talk on talk on his
shorter it he yours and then after the five fenny to just all that stuff that he's done and he was he was telling me that like if he thinks
about it he gets a little bit bombed out because he's just starting to diterih now that obviously it in his head and he thinking or i'm
never going to reach the highest level that i should could i if i entertainer in the if he is almost like if he thinks about that too much
it's a hole like olaters nocked yea but he vehemently was like of course i know that i'm going to do it and rothes good as i can tabut you
know that that's that's also the way life is right you just like when you how do you deal with losing in life you onfroy mistake you move
on you don't dwell it to same thing as you did to you study a week missus you figure out what you can do you fix those promised but ford
don't dwell the past that's it yes the god be good he is so put in through a perspective even more wellcomest an assumption i just had my
first tournament i'm assuming white belt may be blue belt okeanoio know it just don't seem like it brown valtesi you you you don't
afforestation or you don't owe your first reyes to fitly but oh me i never know but you would he have this in your mind where in an how do
you do with loss you you won't have that any minestron bell when tea you know i live in work there anyway so unless he you this is like
scared you for life in lost and i'll never compete ever again katothen um i think this is this is a good way to think of it where you know
it's like a hunder first girl friend at no junior high or something dumplin at the time it seems like no i rightlier whatever and then when
you're in a dulling jellies like when your wife felt lost your first you know as a white belt and your you know on a blue belt prove
romeliot whatever in your singing about your first turn amen you like all my gosh who cares does it matter at all and really when you kind
of put into prose unless you want to dedicate your life to competing pretermit daraus fun and if you take the fun out of it by putting
everything on that one turn on that you herinnering one to do it and you'll kinda think that that's kind o what competing is about a's not
so if you are if you lose your first erment my first match of my first turn amenti lost think it the floor white with me but i that ocoon
sick yes you think back on it and not only be well i think you always remember the first one but m e is far as like whether you want to
lost deamuter till pulled it other men or at all and you'll find that the more you compete the less it'll matter and then did you sit
cocomeri really unless you are like really dedicating your your your life to be not you know to competitor umgekommen ition you goin to win
some and you got to learn how do some in em to you learn yes and you learn and learn all my gosh that till the work if i don't time a
currently or dan that doesn't work because that's not a real submission i only do it to smaller guys than they tap because it's
uncomfortable kind of thing but in dornier et learnes kind of things you know but not in going to matter like dealing with a loss it's not
a going to be a factor because you just got another it's just part of it and were you care as when you are the kind of just starting out
you know like me if you ask like a top level black belt competitor and he now did you win as color choler right he tells the story about
him in his went their first competition there dad sin if you win i give you ten bucks if you lose i'll give you twenty so i take the
pressure off like it's not that big of the deal in ow you lose boom you know it's all got that's what those for an oiler lost his one whole
loss he got twenty bucks he's mature i would have you know had ethier one of the greatest legendary dies lost his first one bottines ecton
kit doesn't matter at all scetanius adolescent gets twenty bucks but this it omados it that it won't matter in you're going to think
sametini high school like the stuff that happened than highschool when it happens it seems like it's a big deal but then when you're a dull
you're like a terouenne don't cool with sepol memory but you know could have been the etext question hello mister willing i'm currently
deployed to iraq as in e six in the army i have listened to your processing relijon your stuff especially differentiates i know as a
sergeant and as a leader your focus isn't to be liked however your soldier should respect you re respect both you and your rank my question
is how do you tell your soldiers to do the small stuff pedius stuff like taking out the trash and still be like all right well first of all
safe want a yet respect from people we have to give them respect for a sure take him out that thing of you took out the trash sometime you
know think of your the you'retheguidingstarofmyexistence it out m there's think about what that does fingerettes the attitude the guys ye
if you took out the trash you you may be in your mind you think you'd be losing respect but you actually wouldn't be at all ye the fact
everyone looks in goes all he's a good guy he said you not the trash it was little fall then he stayed to care of it so maybe if you're
insecure detinens or spectre i think if you secure in our ability to lead it and if you know that doing some tedious stuff is going to make
you guys appreciate you then to me that means it's kind of work it is full right um another example you know i want take out the trash but
like that of the pulton space has to be cleaned and on friday you you just say hey guys because canonree out i got this right there's a
chance to like a bass will not leave in a werewolf you there's course there's a chance to be a call that's awesome thanks boss and they
bail over time that might be if you if they don't respect you at all they might balow in ordinary regain the respect do you make them stay
in boston around more to satinrose the respect for you see she holines thing it is is that if you go egestas i'll do it and you work it
hard and you still got him maintained a discipline and you don't take any slack but at the you it's the same balance to bounce with talk
about all the time so the more that you treat them with respect more the onrespect you and they're going to know that you're not you know
to high in my there another your down to earth when i was a puttinati king commandite up brass i clean the ranges with the boys that's just
the way i operated and i would recommend that kind attuned make people think all jackals does not anything better to do that actually knew
i had stuffed to do but what are got to do take up brass at the boys he buildeth set the example thinnest you for yeah make sense at the
end of the day do you have something better to do right because the hole in the big picture is like how you say like that's a leader at
noon is like sometimes you literally have something that i earliness you literally the i can't though i picking a brass and the andes what
you got to mean with granning all sir you got how do you get of evison times we do actually doiterin what's cool is attically is and you
heard a sainted the afterpart if you see the leader doing something menial what you should do is a seasover step up into her acolites you
can go and lead that's what atterdan that's what i want to do for my leader i want to take things off my leader's play as much as possible
yes now the more you try and he echist build us lattitude you don't have anything better do then you get down there and you help you help
clean up the range you up pick up the brass yea that had way it is actually did notice that about you and lay to ahwee you don't like i'll
have my camera equipment and you know light through whatever and that a bunch of stuff but you know you always like all you'll make grab
something ye and you don't like an i ravaged on tough to onetyoneth bless and what is just mean you is kind i cool cause we're just kind of
friends or whatever there's no perceived or no like higher crescendoing like your abut let's say like at the master whatever it's obvious
like you guys have a specific job of ussac job you know canting and meanwhile you and and lay well like if if i'm around i'm carrying some
of your always said grabs omething or or say hey you need you know yes ate you tatankaota only proeusta instructor here i had a thinking on
my head and um and ye ye can all always offered to like help gingseng ill my camalote like brodie doing looks like a neocles at really be
asking me for animalisation igual yea and at the small tedious stuff the other thing as you explained to white important baboo answer we
gave all the time why is it port wisitor an that a ponoton well cause i want you guys to have time off over the week ends or not be stuck
here cleaning causing officer came in and saw that this place but bagheera will that make sense to us we understand why you want us to
clean how do you you want us to clean so that we can have time off you want to clean sail you want us to train hard you want to to do this
cause cause we want to be ready for combat can i watch you got to be able to come on our families make sure then understand why they're
doing what they are doing and if there's no reason why to if if if the reason i mean even cleaning even take out the traces a reason for
that right there's an actual reason for that we can't just have a junk everywhere so explain why participate when you can build oulton
ships of eutrope's you'll be good yes that that works and eightaitch brother all peeved time over and iraq getting after it ye said conatur
that works for kits betatakin why you do it and if you really want to die in the effect of his is make that reason somehow tie it to their
interest their direct interest can sometimes kids can't see the big picture you know like if i say you got a clean your room and i know
otherwise our room we messine may be you know omladina you might be it comfortable with a masseron like gettin the way of your fictives you
have little forfive year olds benandonner stand that i call that sounds like terrible but they won't feel it you know but if you tie it
into their like deracines as a four or five year old or however will be kittiwakes really good what if you don't clean your room an there's
a fire and i come in here to get you when i trip the fall down and then you die as he soon what you hear for sure a right i had an off i'd
say that but go timor one more here ye think so jocko in war the enemy is clear but in life and business not so easy to identify any tips
well um m in first of all that is not a thursday in in in war the enemy is not always clear not at all the enemy the enemy can be hard to
identify very hard to identify the enemy's goin to use came flies to conceal themselves they're goin to use deception to two distractor
attention they're going to blend in with the friendlessin populus and they're going to take advantage of your benevolence it in fact the
enemy is going to do absolutely everything in its power to obscure their position to hide their purpose to even mask their identity so it
is not easy to identify the enemy in combat in war so which you have to do as you have to pontual what you pinonta right you got to be
prepared you've got a trade you've got a study you've got a hearse you've got a remain vigilant you've got to maintain discipline in
everything you do so that when the enemy does reveal itself you have the ability to outthink it to out maneuver to out fight the enemy and
it actually the same thing in business right the enemy can be hard to identify you are competitors or broad casting their next move you
don't know what the markets going to do you can't be certain about the next train to the next down turn to the next bubble that's got a
burst you can't know those things so you have to do the same thing if the control what you can control which is you a gather intelligence
you've got a antwise the metric that you can track you got a train yourself and your pen to be prepared for both the known and also be
prepared for the undesignated likely contention hees are that have some plans to execute if those continued his occur maintain discipline
as an organization so that you have the flexibility and the responsiveness to manoeuvered we inofficially when the unpredictable actually
happens so instead of suffering and falling apart in the chaos you can take it vantage of it and win and that business and life is the same
the enemy is not always clear in life it can be harotea who's going to trim bring you down or what is going to bring it down there's
distractions there are things out there that will do you harm that on so camoodi' see them at all there are deceitful people there are
accidents that can occur and disease is that take root and there's bad luck in theirs murphy's long there's times when it seems that the
old world is against you the hole world is the enemy and the same rules applied control what you can't control you train hard learn
maintained the unmitigated daily discipline in all things train hard physically in mentally posterals so hard that you become accustomed to
the stress you get used to it every day make yourself stronger and faster and smarter and better so that when the enemy does finely climb
out of the shadows and expose himself to you you are ready you are waiting and you pineish in the opportunity to attack and fight and
utterly desolate and destroy him and i think that's all i got for a night so echo maybe you could hold us said rathole can support
ourselves and perhaps from be better prepared sure for the enemy yet of which ever kind and whenever exposee so that i consait and if you
want to do that you can also do that while simultaneously supporting this poast the want to curse alween of advertisers on the listen as
talk about the stuff that sir ye yet either way eeheetoy of things is talking oh tacitas that's true that where you oh you know you say
that all and it's easy especially me i what do i say a lot like be ready you know ye ye maballa yes tronger vaster smartened n't like a lot
of things after a while you hear it like enough allowed him lattitudes sometimes it clicks but then every one little while you'll it'll
like leave a mark no one an the opposite say they it is the opposite like a ocongate are i get i get a levantine then these things like
when you really think about down like we there is a saying areas to not knew when i heard it was like chance favors the prepared man is at
the carnforth favors the brave what we what do you looking for that that colthearts salicate favorite though the one that i heard was
chance favors the prepared many for had silicates inversions of that one i want straight to the fortune favours the bold or brave ye will i
get repaired i thought you have said if you know you're gonna seem to have more luck einai victory in all this other stuff and so like you
know in any circumlitio take work in our not is like the easy one because like if you're in shape or your fear strong or you're not weak or
you're not incapable you know like you don't work out so you back out or something like that or come part would being strong being strong
is always more beneficial in fleeting much every single situation be arid than being lysias or being in shape or or you know being healthy
and be exardebit smarter each year yeast you hesitate a picture to always got to be strong i casilinum one that it's as long as things work
where it were the result of working out and being strong is always going to add a tangible benefit to most this tree much everything you do
your life or you don't go about in small hand'm not saying that having that discentem into yestreen i didn't think about it at the
agronomist moreover my rosette you get full toneless but i think that's one of those things where we be it's my opinion that what you just
said there is should be taken to heart hundred per cent concurrent youson cool thing like lissac it that sounded good that's one cool but i
am warori don't i moved i don't plesent it cause i'm saying yes i thought so to do okay but it'll it's absolutely true and you know it and
this little microtragus you know and she face it i'd are you ter my ooroowela my all in his ilithyiae but guesno problem you know no factor
no factor how feeling up jugs and i use it example a borning again you know i could it's it every time i feel ujugi think about this the
struggle is readiest are like well forty pounds right i think that i was like him in poundtown eight pounds per gallies in oki so there
five gallanta there call that you know but no problem you know now facing do it no i don't need a part take care him neither kind of thing
did you carry us wanted each urn that yelleray chants see what is he wanted not the aylett's nothing i etainville who don't work out in a
like that that's not nothing it's young so greater none the less of some distant like if you're prepared okay so tell us how we ever let
jarret okay so ferlini's maintain maintain your your what you call it you you you structure a foundational stoodin all structure make sure
you not breaking down starting with you joint as always sit chackasses pliant gilliland golosinian dinant supplements jocoser crow crillo
in what's called joint warfare joajai morford gogoniant and some other good stuff for einspanners stuff is actually really beneficial so go
to origin man dot com and read so he can realize the benefits that you're getting because it's good for you yea and all though be on
disgorge it's the kind where and i'm saying is first and first hand account my aibor he take this you you're going to have joint pain and
even nonacrian pang of something to do for the other day dabersa to a wit so dave burge asked me about cell justin general is like what i
don't have joint paintlike mother out contarenus see the innate thing it so i was like i was kind o like that too where i didn't know and i
want to be the guy who's like no you do have this problem and they like broodin' have this run renood and you need this productnot di idea
want to be that guy who want to coltlike that so in like you you've saved coming off like that for the potatoe made a good point if you
don't have like joint pain or or whatever um then yet you won't have the exacted because i did have joined painted i joined pain in places
that i do in a realize it you just feel a whole do tang i'm like a gossamer such your baton eyes to the pan on top of the fact that i had
pained that i didn't i have that i knew was it normal you know it's just more stiff now that kinalden whatever but none the less a
ticdouloureux sure you could not have joint pain but the even before i had like amycian from workative from joint for in my joints or
whatever i should have started taking it before that i should have an i'm not saying people tokutaro saying that necessarily oh so dave
questioned to me what should i start taking it as it yes yes and per cent goodie but i did aveline if you ginilly not haven't joined paint
don't think that it's going to be a miracle thing like you felt like for me that's the point but not the less it's the best of cos it from
jocari ye woefulest of a happens to be happens to day any way through origin mean dot com for this super crill and juan warfare the tops
labs at seein the front to yet reading there organico was also some geese you was still wondering about what gadado's wonder in the
straight up ye and there's actually there's actually no comparison to quite honest revision to gathers him every other gee is it not made
here in america with american hands american material ye so there's no invercarron thence you literally can't compare those comparison yes
and in a i don't want that ten this into like you know putting down any other geomey seunaar going to do that but let's face it in certain
manufacturing industry i guess brenda lot of brands vagotha all good to the same supplier faces we onourin come from the same place yet and
that's why i said there is actually no comparison in it's not just no comparing casagrande ica no comparison because it's been designed
firom the ground not yes by people that do you gits yes my people that do judicant daily at origin factory the new of the next building is
the origin training facility the soles like the it's like waggonettes and train and then we're going to make sure that it square away ye
from the mat by the way thought like oh well we wanted to look like this and will just have to use some random lateral no we'll design the
material you design the wave of the material yes and yeletpos and that's what will make and self so there is no comparison yea and you lay
no one else do anything close that tuteloes would be hey were born making it look were putting a color to it or putting a patch somewhere
or it that the closest you could do to say an we're doing something like this yeah no one is designing from the ground up yet from the
material up from the threads themselves yea the typical there either way not just the geese trascorsa thing ye the material created by
origin he yet the typical scenarios you get you know he abonyis even these like kind of establishd ye brands like to an doesn't matter
which wants whatever but they'll be like hey yeah let's do you know letitia oh but the way let's get the same banks sir eloisas been
getting and that everyone else and let's just put a cool statholder something or patch or or design the just the way to pickle works not
even necessarily that there's anything wrong with it cause if you like you i like you get at good dot how i am but the asnorin once you can
apout it on i will argue that you you're going to kinnerton my pinion some less orginally noaccount that's the good one also for legationes
keer cotton it decom flashed jack of god katleean there they at some star wars hatevil that's coelestin man you are really cared that much
about the eensoolt eve i do not about it i do i think they tell no less oh yes callovan there i got into handled very late wish i had done
it earlier dragged you in the cantabile yeah i got you in a growl and kinaesthetic asboth ye both not necessitate lying you in a macomo may
constertoot do me one reremittance sometimes like a was like what's the deal with this this meat of alicante should want shade we i
sisatoones new sergeant and your cardio on the mat gatnaliel yeh yeh i'll take two by the later macon met con with cattle and crilloire
otanes a lot of cool other exercise stuff on there like creeks tenacre more created stuff on bookee your work out interesting that is on it
dagombas rock with checkout some stuff on there they cut the really good stuff really good stuff i you sobre smart with that where he's
always like pushing like the good stuff you know in all so jocatore it's called jocatore dock was towed up home it has if you want get his
shirts that we make that we have been to man there good shirt to they're not like free sure neeate free was the unlike cool and you never
wear it not that in very wearable i made it a point to make em like good you know one tuffin there rathgar patches whoes a noting colder
now places they're thicker hates thee i called macaire is actually it is it's like shakety the ananoff a collarit none at clandevil yeah
dane monica i disraeli my not everyone and on no wyandotte at a man i might have to the span or my cut ecureuil oratorian who we that's the
meteor people who are in places other than way or if you're a monaco the girl ideal is as inyati by stuff on sancon jacketlike something
get something good was for also subscribe to the potassic van already on i tons and stitchery whoever you listened to the porcari seems
obvious i know but if you haven't said scrap good way to support all sonnet we have you to channel there is various reasons to subscribe to
you two but the main one i think man too is if you like to be overgone and you like little curs whether we put some music behind them when
i say we i mean me but some music died on and some various effects or not there is exercuit le shorter than the whole version of the
pocasse listened to him and whatever let quick her intersected he to his lontani you want and if you do want to no do it a good way support
also psychological worker if you know what that is it's an album on i too the you can get with tracks that on your campaign against
weakness on the past traitin better shape you trying to get in shape you want to maintain your shape you want what wake up early or in your
comfort it through now and then enough to see i'm saying you know but he is a thing sechlike can okay so it seems obvious right you're
trying to get in shape you're going to have hard days you know dasenheim to work out right now with its hoogstadt an element of life on the
path that it seems obvious you'll run into like points of weakness to tobias and i did it and the attack for that cockatoo why you
shouldn't do that you just listen to it bom get right back on track but i don't always do at i don't always talk about is that this tracks
for other things like the creativity thing like if you got like a progress ination situation ization your looking at me like this is
because you already know this but not everybody knows is you your procrastinating my finishing this pot cast a new anandale are finishing
this potash strong wits bolted of all because of the abeille knew features psychological warfare it's an album with tracks on i tunes and
petrie google play amazonic if you're goin to run in dismiss elope you out getting through those issues next topic yeah guess they could
say it like that that's more of like the jolaha it you know like i don't try a feel like if i come from the place of you know of venti
really sin to the struggle she like it'll it'll it'll pass in assage in a more accurate way i think cayou don't skip work up true you had
de you okay is this how this do you ever sit in your jim sat on the bench or whatever or the viking be like an if i make deals with you no
hay if i escape to day you i'll just do it to appleton i i'll do is like if i'm doing something that's going to sailis you i'll i'll ill
ill wail put all procrastination like it's guna happen be carbut i'll like oil new sterilisation is things like the outcome is known yea
the outcome is not in question all care the workout will happen i'm just being a complete baby about it okay to rise after cockit up yer so
the that's why you're looking at me like that because me and a lot of people like me were not like that sistrameides we want to be like
that i know i do i want to be like skipping the work out as straight up a non not an option ever i want to i were now to do i i want to be
like saoulometre are times and have been times were in sitting there got late to this and times i drove to the jimber gerundive to the gym
sat and there it was like valuation right out o your rainwashed his work out i not getting home for i i need her goucking alida good work
out any way ill you know what i'll i'll just come back you on saturday that was my active rest i'm come back in and i'll get it then today
will be my restrict i'm like that on other people are like that you're not like that donaonda under an enough which i'm shuffling reapers
being passover as head on havelok you know hamantaschen noteless it's lilac warfare i'm tryin make make disappoint this is the ferapont
valuable point is a tract that jacko in even though tried talked me out of explaining the tiernay'll talk you out to out up effectively
talk you out of skippingrope orkup copilot presentness whatever all these little points of weakness congestion at him you see all the
little poincianas that you that sees tracks address secord very affective cool are we done without action there good wanolasset all right
jock a white to you get down on him as on it will guaranteed universe double blind plashendall placebo said surfacial blind a yoking damlet
eight thousand pounds so you might want a picked out upon him alone you can read the if you don't believe me that's fine go read thee go
read the refuse on him as on where every verified purchases i they're dead lifting minimum a thousand pounds books got some books we
tewarri if you have a kid or you know a kid didn't help poked help them be a better person have a better life did them the way of the
warrior kid extreme aldershot the new dishes out and you all help right it because it has questions from this podcast also the new ford
also the color pictures lame did otumba made up for that by dismaying the cover black because black and that book has all the fundamental
proclaimable ershi hereunder team he don't need to hide it membret beginning people would want a big get it in it when the kittenish when i
hid the knowledge caetera to love they want that don't do that soane the more people know it the more people are on board the better it's
goin to work also from an individual perspective to get yourself on the past there's a book called dispensed to you manuel it's available
everywhere then you might be wondering if it make a good gift well not only is it heavy any noticed how heavy it is it's a heavy book it's
a big book it's a substantial book it's completely unique because it has black pages and the outside of the pages are also black to work of
our other so get some copies for the people that you know because beyond looking really cool there is no better gift than discipline
vegetables and also if you want the audio version see now look i'm doing the same thing you just did well he wailing the takif you want the
audio version of this punical freedom field man you all you can get in on i done and as in music google play and other m p three platforms
period right there that a run knows what you took fifteen minutes to plan if you were in further need of more fire support in terms of
basic leadership besides the pont procas beside the books and you want to have more interaction take it on next levee have leestening
company it's me it's late bad and it's chape de nell it's dave birth can email in full at esalan than dot com and if you have questions for
us or you have answers or you have directions or you want a share something you can hit us up on the interweb twitter integram and ashatea
is at echo charles and i am at once willing and thanks to those people out there that give us the freedom and protection to make of this
postponable or service men and women in uniform protecting us from the enemy and fighting the good fight thank you and to le police and law
enforcement in fire fighters and paramedics in the rest of the first responder out there thank you for answering the call when we call and
to every one out there there's none me then whether that is a literal enemy like or military personnel face or a man of four ical enemy
like people face every day don't fear the enemy respect the enemy and out of your aspect for the enemy prepare prepare and train and learn
and stay vigilant and stay disciplined so one enemy comes you are ready vegetate it until next time this is echo and jocko or
