this is jacopo cast number one o five with charles and me joaille good evening echo didymus cialit the air was witness to seeing a horror
the enemy was all over at least a couple of hundred of them walking around for three or four minutes it seemed like three or four hours
they were shooting in machine gunning or wounded and laughing and giggling i knew they'd killed me if they saw i was alive when they got
near i played dead i kept my eyes open and stared at a small tree i knew that dead man had their eyes open there continues then one of the
north enemes came up looked at me then kicked me and i flopped over i guess he thought i was dead there was blood running out of my mouth
my arm my legs he took my watch in my forty five cow bepist and walked on i watched them strip off all our weapons they laughed then they
left backward they came from i remembered the artillery the balms the nepal everywhere real close round me that shook the ground underneath
me but it was coming in on the north to me soldiers too all this and more much more took place between six fifty a m and seven forty a m on
november fifteenth nineteen sixty five the agonies of charlie company occurred over a hundred and forty yards of the line but men were
fighting and dying on three sides of worthing we held american perimeter in the centre i held the lives of all these men in my hands the
baby wounded captain bob edwards was on the radio now asking for reinforcements the only reserve i had was recognisant portion twenty two
men was the attack on charlie company the main enemy threat delacombe it and the combined mortar position were also under attack now
reluctantly i told captain edwards that his company would have to fight on alone for the time being the din of the battle was unbelievable
rifles and machine guns and mortars and grenades rattled banged and boomed two batteries of a hundred and five millimeter howitzer twelve
big guns located on another landing on five miles distant were firing non stop their shells exploding no more than fifty yards outside the
ring of shallow foxholes beside me in the battalion command post the air force forward controller lieutenant charles w hastings twenty six
from la mason new mexico radio to special code word broken arrow meaning american unit in danger of being over run and within a short
period of time every available fighter bomber and southennan with stack overhead and a thousand put in vales from seven thousand feet to
thirty five thousand feet waiting its turn to deliver bombs and napalm to the battle field among my sergeants there were three war men men
who perished in normandy on d day and had survived the war in korea in those old veterans were shocked by the savagery and hellish noise of
this battle choking clouds of smoke and dust obscured the killing ground we were dry mouth and our bows turned with fear and still the
enemy came allen in waves and that right there is from the opening chapter of the book we were soldiers once and young a general how more
and joe galloway and the book which was turned into a movie which i saw went came out in two thousand two melion it's a good movie pursue
but is also a hollywood movie and hollywood movies there forced to fit into two hours and he got a follow some kind of a plot and they
can't dig into the details and they can't really give you a comprehensive understanding of the events and i purposely did not watch this
move again wallpapering for this pot cast a cause i didn't want it in there and i want it in my brain the movies interpretation of the
caracters in it in the way that they were portrayed and the book is so good it's so packed with tale and drama and action and an utterly
incomprehensible heroism every one should read this book every one it starts off it explains the way the battle unfolded and it talks how
it went tactically operational and stretelli go through all those levels of warfare and you can see in the book how strategy unfold that
the tact colletel and how tackletons impact granites well he conceded on both sides and there's also which is interesting their significant
commentary from the vietnamese enemy leadership that they went back and interviewed after the war was over which to make it an incredible
book like i said everyone sir reade so tells the story of operations the i drink valley in nineteen sixty five from november fourteenth
until of ember eighteenth so five days but the fighting as was noted in that opening chapter is absolutely brutal leadership is tested over
and over and over again and this battle took place with battalions and companies from the sentence cavalry regiment and few remember the
books we covered on general george custer he was a officer that led seventh cavalry troops in the battle little big horn where he was
surrounded and he was killed along with two hundred and sixty seven of his soldiers all of them dead by the native american warriors on the
suicide from the loot and the dakota and the northern shin and a rap tribes and cavalry in those days met horseback hatsuemon that's what
mounted cavalry that sort it was and i nineteen sixty five they had adopted cavalry to be a new kind of steed whom a new form of transport
and this was the lookout and in nineteen ty five diccon fired the eleventh a result past division through the first cavalry division and
the first and second battalions of the first cavalry division soon took on the historical name of general custer unit and and by way
general costivan calves even though that's kind of the most famous along with this i guess along with the adrenal but the day the the
seventh came served in world war two and corea all kinds of incredible service there and and a lot of that is covered in the book but again
we'll have to move through the alibi more quickly otherwise go read the book which i highly recommend but let's get into it a starting
about where ten a colonel hal more take over the first potalon that seventh cavalry going back to the book on monday june twenty ninth as
scheduled by took command of my batalion i was forty two years old westport a class with nineteen forty five with nineteen years
commissioned service including fourteen months tour in corea combat tore in corea in a brief talk to the troops afterward i told them that
this was a good battalion but it would get better i will do my best i said and i expect the same from each of you before taken command i
had a long talk with the most important man in any battalion the sergeant major basil l plumley forty four years old and six and a six foot
two inch bar of a man hailed from west virginia the men sometimes called him old iron jaw but never in his hearing plumley was a two war
man and warn master parachuting with his five combat jump stars he was what the young air born types called a four jump master plumley had
survived all four combat jumps of the eighty second air borne division in world war two sicily and soerine teen forty three the atman a
nineteen forty four d dayanand and market garden in the nether ones for that matter he also made one combat parish jump in the corean war
with the hundred and eighty seventh airborne infantry regiment he ended world war two a buck sergeant and was promoted to sergeant major
nineteen sixty one so let's think about that for a minute let's think about that i mean we've talked to be definitely talked about normandy
we definitely talked about market garden he jumped into bow those and jumped into sicily and salerno and jumped into combat in the corean
war unbelievable going back to the book the sergeantmajor was a noble ship guy who believed as i did then tough training though discipline
and tough physical conditioning to this day there are veterans of the batanians who are convinced that god may look like sergeant major
baseplate but he isn't nearly as tough as the sergeant major on sins small or large privately i thank my lucky stars that i had been herded
such a treasure i told sergeantmajor pale that he had unrestricted access to me at any time on any subject he wished to raise after the
ceremony recompounded in a batalion staff got a look at their new boss and a word of my standards they were fairly simple only first place
trophies will be displayed excepted or presented in this batalion second place in our line of work is defeat of the union on the battle
field and death for the individual in combat no fat troops are officers decision making will be decentralised pushed the power down the
pays off in war time loyalty flows down as well i check up on everything i am available day or night to talk with any officer of this
potalon finally the sergeant major works for only for me and takes orders only from me he is my right hand man so he sat in the stage
pretty interesting no only first place trophies second place no not happening here back to the book the officers of my new battalion were
it the usual great army miko men who had come from their jobs come their jobs from west point are otis after kennet gruel and military
schools like the citadel most of the young second lieutenants of come through oss and college artiste programs there were three rifle
companies in the battalion alpha bravo and charley companies each at full strength supposed to have six officers and a hundred and sixty
four in listed men they were my manoeuvres each rifle company had three rifle tones pass one button of three eighty one millimeter mortar
squads for fire support each rifle poton in turn had three rifles cross posse weapon squad of two emicus for fire support so there's
there's the break down right there they they also had a another combattre company delicacy which at recomputed a mortication anti take pete
and they converted the unneeded anti tank putnam chine gun to tune for prouty venom case was no enemy takes going up against that's out o
de petite was looking like going back to the book during a during those first fourteen months and i was going to talk about the work up a
little bit how they got ready for combat back to the book during those fourteen months before we sailed from vietnam we spent most of the
time in the field practicing a salt landings from helicopters and the incredibly complex coordination of artillery tacked clear support and
arooset artillery with the all important flow of helicopters into an out of the battles on commanders had to learn to see to rain
differently to adicota scan for landing zones which are called elves and pick up zones pass to all the other features they had to keep in
mind we practice rapid loading and unloading of men and material to reduce the helicopters window of vulnerability total flexibility was
the watchword and planning and attitude there was one bit of sobering reality that i insisted be introduced at every level in this training
we would declare a platoon commander dead and tate let his sergeant take over and carry out the mission or declare sergeant dead and have
one of his pets take over running the squad we were training for war and leaders are killed in battle i wanted every man train for and
capable of taking over the job of the man above him so there there working a whole new gig ere they never no one had really done this
before riding everyone's going to the combat on helicopters and obviously helicopis give you great amount of manoeuvrability you can be up
vertically in take off in travel a great distance and set down anywhere or not anywhere just about anywhere you can sit down in a lot of
place sichaeus you can't set down anywhere especially in the june week i trees and all kinds of obstacles and then you got enemy of optat
in helicopters are our pretty vulnerable flying machines and so this idea will what they were practicing was this mass of movement moved
all the troops into the combat on very quickly and enemy doesn't expect you than you can a show up there so it's that's what they're
practising overgoverned and clearly you know a corean war veteran like how more was he knows that leaders can get killed in combat and so
he is sometimes tell the leaders and training and that's a tradition we still had we did all the time when i was running turning this heel
tames the minute a leader started to get a grip on things it was like okay your dead next man's got to step up and sometimes that would
just racketeering it the will o leader dies if there are good leader and there not and no one is used to stepping up i'd be problematic but
sometimes it would actually be beneficial she gets some radio micromanage killin and i watch everything runs smoothly he come back and he
go doda off a little bit because this guy runner a better show than you are and it's really clear so sis we teach guys lessons that way
back to the book unfortunately my battalion and every other in the division now began to suffer the consequences of president johnson's
refusal to declare a state of emergency and extend the active duty tours of draftees and reserve officers the order came down any soldier
who had less of less who had sixty days or less left to serve on his enlistment as of the date of the ployment august sixteenth must be
left behind we were sick at heart we were being shipped off to war sadly under strength and crippled by the loss of almost a hundred
troopers in my battalion alone the very men who would be the most useful and combat those who had trained the longest in the new techniques
of how accompanar were by this order taken away from us it made no sense then it makes no sense now so again i talked about the strategic
kinda implications at these guys felt and this is one of em and obviously in jumping through the book they talked more about the work up
and what they did to prepare but now is doing this point where present johnson doesn't declare a state of emergency and keep these guys in
and so you know that political decision obviously a but what it where is in impact sure it impacted on the front line that's word in fact
now like i said this book is written not only by not only by lieutenant general how more is how you retired in this book alleverte an
colonel or sometimes i guess i'm just a disrespectful and call him how more i don't mean it this respectfully but anyway how more wrote a
book for you also wrote the book along with another guy named joe galloway and you know it he goes tries yet goes rider well of this is so
go triterite's a bit of her son's book but no one supposed to know it and then there's people that right the book but they get credit for
it and you might think that a situation here to look in at the title case you've got lieutenant general herald more retired and joseph all
galloway look you know doesn't name he serves thing well in this particular case that could give you an absolutely wrong impression because
joe galloway was a reporter a combat reporter who was so obviously he was very courageous and and facially got after it for lack of a
letter or so i'll go in where the interduced him a little bit back to the book you pe reporter joe galaway a twenty three year old native
of refugies marched with us when he hooked up with us he carried on his shoulder an end sixteen rifle which especial forces commander major
charles back with had handed him when the fight was over dalloway told back with that strictly speaking under the gecommen on he was a
civilian non combatant back was response no such thing in these mountains boy take that rifle so we onything about charles back with major
charley back with it the guide that created dealt to force a plete bad as warrior and he was a special force commander vietnam and and was
one of the first people that apparently galloway work with a galloway said you know you'd better armorel so here's galloway talking
galloway remembers my first time out with how more's first batallion seven cavalry was a helical into the sun to remote montenard mountain
village we got into a patch of brush and wait a minute vine so thick and thorny than every step had to be carved out with machetes we
covered may be three hundred yards in four hours and forded a fast running chest deep mountain stream just as darkness fell that huddled in
our ponchos wet and freezing all night long at first light i pinched off a small piece of sea for plastic explosive from the emergency
supply my pack and used it to boil up a canteen water for coffee if you let see for very carefully you could be drinking hot coffee and may
be thirty seconds if you were careless it blew off your arm over us first cigarette i watched more's men first they shaved shaved up here i
was amazed then the colonel himself belonged just jawed and very intense a son of bardstown contucky and west point walked by on his
morning rounds with the sergeant made with sergio plumly more looked a meader and said we all shaven my outfit reporters included my
steaming coffee water went for a wash and a shave and i gained a measure of respect for the man they be disciplined nothings you know
that's another thing that i failed to mention but it's very clear when you read the books this is nineteen sixty five in the war had not
esclater at all then it wasn't the the and meatgrinder that it turned into so these guys you know in your work up all they they knew that
they were going to fight but they didn't they didn't know it wasn't the vietnam that we think of now where there's a lot of casualties
appening it it will hadn't gotten there yet in his matter of fact this battles really the first one where that while you start seeing very
significant american castalies the guides in charge over how over how more is a gin name of colonel brown and he shows up going back to the
book not long after coalbrow flew in check on the situation with alicompayne and called me aside how a moving your battalion west more
morning he said unfolding his map here is your area of operations north of coupang in the edinbilly your mission of the same one you have
now find and kill the enemy he rapidly outlined the scope of operations and the resources he could spare sixteen uh one d us so that a
heelcutter the most i guess the the the most iconic alcocer a properly of any military and certainly of the onam the hualapais is a
completely iconic sixteen hues to move my troops to one olive house or batteries within range to support us in at least two days on the
ground patrolling he added that alpaca of the two hundred twenty nine helical helicopter betaald provide the helicopters the two twenty
ninth a company commander major bruce crandle was on his way now one more thing how in that area be sure your companies are close enough
for mutual support so the reason i had lied that a lot of times people have a tendency in in combatiant specially when planning to get too
far apart from each other and oridial the time and what happened is it it it seems to make sense because you come more ground or you have
better angles and it it seems like a good idea like he will just split up and you can take care of your guys all take your my guys but you
always need to stay within a position we you can bet your sport each other where we get a traneen govern move that that's what it is in you
you want to be able to cover a move cover moved so the minute you're out of sight out of widest our radio out of the out of the distance
where your weapons can be used to support your alone hum then that's the thing you you get away from whinest radio contact the distance
that weapons can be shot effectively from the other unit that your other with now you are alone so when your planning maker and he said in
that area i i always use that rule all at as as often as possible are there times where you can you can you can flex that role little bit
of course there there's situations you can get into an you can it might be better tact cal call but always keep in mind what you're doing
and what you're sacrificing that you can no longer move neutrally support the other unite your out with and they can't beat you sport you
here alone so he knows this is going to be a little bit of a hot ary lesius pect it going back to the book how ready was my betan for
combat we had never been everingham bat as an entire battalion although all three rifle companies have been minor scrapes say been of venom
for a while they've been in a little bit of contact but nothing too major and like he just said none of them none of them had been ben ben
also group as of italian that i but most of the men had never seen it an enemy soldier dead relive we had killed fewer than ten black
pajama grillos in the etiquette patrols and small operations since our arrival the four line companies had twenty of their authorized
twenty three officers but the enlisted ranks had been badly whittled down by expiring in less men malaria cases and requirements for base
camp guards and workers back into an q alpaca had a hundred and fifteen men forty nine few or the authorized bravo company at a hundred and
fourteen men with fifty short charlie company at a hundred and six men down by fifty eight and the weapons company delta had only seventy
six men forty two fewer than of arised headquarters company was also under strength and i had been forced to draw down further by sending
men out to fill crucial medical and communication may and sees in the line companies i unlike being short handed but things had been no
different in the corean war and somehow we made do you just suck it up and do it and we would do the same we do the same way in the edree
officers and entos would do what they could to make up the slack just as we had done in carease but for the reading that these userhat
under man supposed to have a hundred and fifty people now you know a hundred uttered five whatever and there is nothing you could do about
it it's also interesting and worth noting that he has a headquarters company so you got the depitation commander and he's got a group of
guys that do weapons for him and also communications and he's pushed those guys out since sakeen those guys and make in him is his own team
all fat happy not he'd make his team thin and gives as much as he can to the to the forested ratified so another good note on leadership
now they're getting ready to roll in and we will talk about his kind of going through the plan a little bit he re go back to to i would
personally land on the first helicopter piloted by bruce candland prescribes the commander of the helicopters that are flying to men that
would permit me a final low level look at the landing zone and surrounding train and with craneline front seat and me in the back
wickerwork out on the spot any last minute to version to an alternate landers tendenzen if necessary and fix any other problems with the
lift in the american civil war it was a matter of principle that a good officer rode his horse as little as possible there were sound
reasons for this if you were riding and your soldiers are marching how can you judge how tired they are how thirsty how heavy their packs
way on their shoulders i plied the same philosophy in vietnam where every begin commander had his own command and control how a copter some
commanders used their helicopters that personal mount i never believed in that you had to get on the ground with your troops to see and
hear what was happening yet to soak up first hand information for your instinct to operate accurately besides the two easy to be crisp cool
and detached at fifteen hundred feet to meet a man the impossible of your troops to his make mistakes that are fatal only to those souls
far below in the mud the blood and confusion till the something we talk about all time from leadership perspective you cannot be you know
it's it's the it's the dicotomy of detachment lighting it does pay and their certain times will you can tell it in these situations if
you're in the command helicopter that up above the fighting well your your defacto mean you you are detached from the situation an you can
see what's happening you have you have a good view of what's going on but even though i have a good view your also missing a bunch your
missing what it's like down there your missing what the men are seeing you missing what it looks like to them your missing the
communication break down that are happening down there self you have to find that balance between these two and and he clearly is aware of
that he's preparing for this news got a bull a book called street without joy by guinane bernard fall and in it a book about venom's book
about the the the tragedy that the french troops went through fighting the vietnamese and he says that he took one less and away from that
book and this is the lesson dear is the price you pay for under estimating this tenacious enemy so he was aware and like general madis said
you know not to monger talking o gentle mate now come you read so many books he says cause i get to see i got to learn and this is a
classic case he he knew he read books about the the french that i fought to the enemies what ten years earlier leven years earlier and that
made him more prepared now talking a little bit like i said there's a there's great information in here about the enemy and like i said
they went and interviewed in got reports from the enemy and here go a little bit about the enemy back to the book the soldiers commanded by
brigade general the showy man had been training for more than eighteen months when they joined the people's army each were crew was issued
to calisiris two pairs of calcitrosus a sewing kit and a pair of hoch he mend sandals cut from used tire trucks those uniform for expected
to last five years they setoning lasted thirteen weeks six days a week six a m to nine fifteen p m the instructors emphasized weapons and
tactics the house of warfare while the political commissars had time had time saticide each day to lecture on the wise of this war the
recruits were reminded constantly that their fathers had beaten the french colonial is now it was their duty of feet the american
imperialists they were imbued with hoceans dictum nothing is more precious than freedom and independence after basic training some were
selected for six months of antioch and would emerge his new corporal for the rest advanced in petitian crudeoil iar ization with all
weapons the use of explosive and bush tactics we coniston tactics adjusting more fire in patrolmates in june of nineteen sixty four man
soldiers moved up into the mountains of north thienemann vietnam during similar to that western highlands of salteena here physical
conditioning was emphasized they scaled steep slopes wall wearing rocks acote with fifty to sixty pounds of rock their advanced training
now also focused on the art of camoflage when the time came for them to begin the arduous two months journey down the hochelaga through low
general man's regiment broke down and of batalions for security per persist each moving separately at least three days ahead of the next
each soldier carried four pounds of rice seven days rations possint er eight pounds of food stuffs that were expected to last him the whole
trip two pounds of salt two pounds of wheat flour and four pounds of salt pork one man in every squad carried the aluminum cook pot that
would that the squad's rice would be boiled in each man also carried fifty antimeria pills one for each day on the trail and a hundred
vitamin b one tabs to be taken at the rate of three per week despite the pills were tilly every man who walked the trout contract in the
lay and on average three or four soldiers of each one hundred and sixty men company would die on the journey malaria die aria accidents
poisonous snakes and american ararat took their toll man's soldiers marched nine miles each day the distance between rest camps where they
spent each night every day every fourth day they stayed in camp taking the day off to rest up washed their clothes and tend to minor
medical problems so the elegit enemy were looking at legit enemy organized well trained hard tough well led in and ready and you can't ever
you know this is one of the biggest problems of fighting a counter in urgency as you're going against some of the tenting on their home
turf on and now is just to you can't how you of a common of an is well you have come out of vantage with fire power with some technology
but that is a hard advance overcome and here's a cold from general anne when you landed there you landed right in the middle of three of
our battalions of the sixty six regiment our service are reserved force it was the strongest we had at full strength the bataan each had
about four hundred and fifty men also there was a headquarters battalion the regiments total strength was about sixteen hundred men so
there kind of by chance set up on the same spot where these gadare going to go in which is elzear landing zone act ray then here these uh
their flying on into the elixer captain john heron whose brave company troops filled the helicopter recalls it was cool it was a misty cool
morning with some low hanging fog when we lifted off but shortly after take off we broke into the clear and you could see the one o five
artillery pounding the areas around the elias we headed in vietnam even in war was seen e with green jungle heavy forested mountains and
wild looking rivers crisscrossing the train now the helicopters of the areo rocket artillery slam the perimeter with rockets grenades and
machine gun fire using twenty four of the forty eight two point seven interacts they carried so it's the it's the same thing that we heard
before it's covered love right as you come into a a landing one like they did in de day what do you do first you bomb the crap out of it
you hit it with abel gun fire there doing the same thing here their propping the landing one by dropping a bunch of onelie hour through
into the round mhehe surrounding area around the landing one and then of the helicopters wantit close and the and the howieson off then the
helicopter starsheen and they do their best to clear of the area round the land how an that's what's going on back to the book that people
army commander on the battle field then senior lieutenant colonel knew and who ah says when you dropped troops into ex ray i was on to
pomona we had a very strong position and a strong mobile command group we were ready we were ready had prepared for you and expected you to
come the only question was when the trees and bush limited our view of the helicopter's landing but we had an officer vation post on top of
the mountain and they reported to us when you dropped troops and when you moved them so well man the i a talk about all the time about
having the high ground well when these guys are landing in a valley and there surrounded by antigone so it's a year at your at attackeded
antage there right as soon as it is about as soon as they hit the ground hog there fallotte while they get a prisoner to do americans get a
prisoner and here is there's a translator and he translates the prisoner's words in hers with the prisoner says or here's what the
translator says he says there are free battalions on the mountain who want very much to kill americans but if not been able to find any now
you take that with a gratian because it coming from a prisoner but it's not nothing oportionately now it's something back to the book only
a few rifle shots rang out in the area where the prisoner had been captured sergeant giromani were in contact it was now twelve fifteen p m
we had to move fast if we were going to survive had to get off the landing zone and hit them before they could hit us only if we brought
the enemy to battle deep in the trees and brush wood we stand even a slim chance of holding on to the clearing and getting the rest of the
tetana it that football field sized clearing was our life line and our supply wine if the enemy closed the way to the helicopters all of us
would die in this place so that's one of the other things about helicopter warfare especially in vietnam will actually anywhere is you you
get grazing long distance and get in there but then once you're there there is if the helicopters can't come get you out or they can't
resupply you you're in real prober your back to the word there sadeler alone ye back the book even as the first shots rang out i was
reading you in hereinto saddle up the rest of privacy the rest of his hat his brabacons met amove out fast toward the mountains developed a
situation turning to the doll and he again i there's all these characters i mean there's there's all the company commanders that polton
commanders the the patois the perconteris there's the ground troops as all these chartered and the book doesn't outstanding job of
detailing who all these individuals were what their background was where they came from and i eidothea do that right now not but that's why
you buy the book and you read the book but this guy to doll he is one of the company commanders so he regitur ning to and adol i told him
that the original plan was out the window that his alpaca should immediately take over elsie's purity and get ready to move up on brabacons
left when charlie went enough of charley companied arrived on the next lift to his son the job of securing in clearing so classic you hit
the ground and and now all of a sudden the plan is out the window right out the window we're going with our standard operating procedure
which is hey we're going to move a company here you're going to set up primers iury and go back to book in a small copse the other two
platoon patoon of bravo company men had opened sea ration cans and were grabbing a bite when they heard the first shot in the brush the
older sergeant glanced at one another nodded heat fast they told the men and get ready to move but that else x ray had just begun and it it
doesn't take long to begin going back to the book says sergeant gilrae were virtually pinned the ground taking casualties lieutenant denis
deal remembers that moment devise paton was taking moderate fire we could all hear it through the foliage and i heard a crackling on my
radio or was in some sort of trouble the firing it increased in volume and intensity then i saw my first wounded trooper probably the first
american wounded and elsie acre he was shot in the neck or malherbe was still carrying his rifle was ambler and appeared stunned at what
had happened to him when he asked where to go i put my aroronon and pointed to where i had last seen to petinka so it's a mediately on and
an you of course it is because there's there's three be towans of the enemy soldiers there and this is this is how more talking back to the
book that military historian as olearia wrote that the beginning of a battle unit fractionized groping between the antagonist takes place
and the battle takes form from all of this martial had it right that is precisely what was happening up in the scrub brush abrogate landing
zone ex ray this day and no other single event would have greater impact on the shape of this battle than what lieutenant henry herrick was
in the process of doing harichand right past through tenant demones men swung his potion to the right in hoppersit of a few fleeting
eminene shoulders and disappeared from sight into the bush says sergeant early savage of harets orders he made a bad decision and we knew
at the time it was a bad decision we were breaking contact with the rest of the company we were supposed to come up on the flank of first
betune in fact we were moving away from them we lost contact with everyone everybody so again this is what i just talked about in its
youantee throughout this book of the all these principles that we talk about all the time that that we taught and that we lived through you
can see that these types of things happen in here's a classic thing is just talk about like when you get out of a distance from your
supporting elements you're now alone atabat situation of being back to the book now john heron was up on my radio reporting that his men
were under heavy attack by at least two enemy companies and that his second polton was in danger of being surrounded and cantorum the rest
of the company even as he spoke mordanto's hit in the clearing where i stood my worst case nary a just come to pass we round heavy contact
before all my battalion was on the ground and now i had to deal with a conopeum my response was an angry shipped cape captain john heron's
estimate that his brave company men were trying to deal with two enemy companies was slightly off on full enemy battalion more than five
hundred determined enemies soldiers was boiling down the mountain toward herica second potion and when new bring near aldavini's pin down
first bolton again here's something that i failed to talk about with helicopter so he's got a battalion of five hundred guys five hundred
and fifty guys do you can't fiddles guys on sixteen helicopters so you gotta do multiple laps and that's what he is he's worry he was
worried about it going in that hay i wanted my hope of tallington the ground before the fighting starts he's already failed to do that for
me he has a failed to do it but it didn't happen back to the book i was tempted to join the dolls were edward's men but resisted the
temptation i had no business getting involved with the actions of only one company i might depend down and simply become another riflemen
my duty was to lead rifleman's there's a a we talk about the detachment that he said haloing to penteconter but right now he said look i'm
not going to be a helicopter overhead at fifteen hundred feet but i'm not going to be sitting in a poltoon as a rifleman slugged out with
enemy that's not the right place to be either you have to lead and in order to lead you to take a step back you have to detach and he does
that to the best of his ability then here we go back to the book just now the snap and crack of the roundsman near by took on a distinctly
different sound like a swarm of bees around their heads i was on the radio trying to hear a transmission over the noise when i felt the
firm hand of my right soldier shoulder it was sergeant major plumb lee he shouted over the racket of the firefight sir you don't find some
cover you're going to go down and if you go down we all go down panias right as always any one waving yelling hand signalling or talking on
the radio was instantly targeted by the enemy these guys were quick to spot and shoot leaders radio operators and meat i had never read it
about being wooded in combat in career or here but plumley brought me up short the game was just beginning his is no time for me to go out
of it the sergeant major pointed to a large turmoil six or seven feet high located in some trees in the waist between the two open areas of
the landing one it was about thirty yards away and three of us turned and ran toward it with bullets kicking up red dirt around our feet
and the bee still buzzing around their heads that term ideal thesis of a large automobile would become the battalion command post the age
station the supply point the collection ry of her enemy prisoners weapons and equipment and the place were a den were brought casualties
were now beginning to pile up as we drop behind that termini i fleetingly thought about and illustration an illustrious predecessor of mine
in the seventh cavalry leutenant colonel george armstrong custer and his final stay stand in the valley of little being hornamental eighty
nine years earlier i was determined that history would not repeat itself in the valley of the eye drank we were a tight well trained and
disciplined fighting force and we had one thing george custard did not have fire support far port plays a itabod critical i mean they would
not have been able to do this without fire support and that's the one thing that's going to save them i mean obviously the disappoint
obviously the training obviously the bravery but the fire support is is a gift back to the book sergeant steve handson was behind into the
right of lieutenant task he says we moved at a trot across the open grass toward the tree line and heard fire up on the finger to the west
where we were headed my radioprint specialist for ray turner ray tanner and i crossed the stream bed captain a doll's party and the two
other potuere after the right lieutenant taft was well forward as we crossed over into the trees sergeant first classed lorenzo matanga
turner and i were close maybe ten yards behind we were moving fast specialist speck for pa winter was near me we ran into a wall of lead
every man in the lead squad was shot from the time we got the order to move to the time where men were dying was only five minutes the
enemy were very close to us and over ran some of our dead the firing was heavy sergeant naked pulled us back out of the woods of the stream
bed bob has in pataran operator recalls him tenenapa out in front of me i was off to his left he added he had his ray he had the radio hand
said in his left hand connected to the radio on my back with that flock surfeited rubber wire they got tight and i pulled back on
lieutenant and hollered were getting off line he glanced back at me turned back to his front and took for more steps then he fired two
shots at something i couldn't see what then he dropped face down on the ground we tenants was hit i didn't realize how bad until i rolled
him over he was shot in the throat and the rounded ricksha down and come out as left side he was dead and it was difficult to roll him over
even though he was a slightly built man captain the doll says the enemy on the mountain started moving down rapidly in somewhat
uncoordinated attacks they streamed down the hall and down the creek bed the enemy knew the area they came down the best cover root the
third bolton was heavily engaged in the volume of firing reached a chrianan my last at this time i lost contradicente t with passport in
the center of that fury bob hazen struggled and rolled his dead pottomet rover he was gone and there was nothing we could do the first
thing i thought of was what they taught me never let the enemy get his hands on a mapper visigalde coat book i got those from lieutenant
afton was kneeling over the triumphal his body back that's when my radio was hit and the shrapnel from the radio hit me in the back of the
head it didn't really hurt all the sun i was just lying face down on the ground next to ieutenant taft i felt something running down my
tree but down my neck reached back and came out with a handful of blood common miss sallie was on hazen's right we knew what had happened
the word passed fast they got lieutenant taft again were talking within minutes of these guys arriving this is gone completely sideways
back to the captain the doll out of radio contact with tatulo moved moved toward the furious firing on his left flank to find out what was
happening nadal says my radio operator sergeant jack i gall the company communications chief who had volunteered to carry one of my two
radios ran with me out from out of the creek bed and into the open area toward tossouton we ran into sergeant nathan and i asked him what
was happening he said the petunias on the left flank but left squatted taken a number of casualties and had pulled back out of the creek
bed refusing their left enemy the left like to the enemy nathan said tate had been hit and was left in the creek bed that made me angry
we've been taught never to leave any wounded or dead on the battle field sergeant galenicall forward of our lines to that creek bed where
the enemy were to find taft we came under grenada from the west side of the creek bed but had some cover from a few trees we located taft
dead while bringing him back we saw another soldier who had been left behind after leaving cabouy with his batoon gallinie back again and
we picked up the other man back to the book denise remembers we moved on line for about a hundred or a hundred and fifty yards before the
volume and of firing forced us to stop we were taking too many casualties i radioed here potion and said i think we're getting close to you
shoot one round off wait to the count of three in shot two more the radio men or whoever was on the radio did that so we had a pretty good
fix on where he was we got up and started the assault again we went about ten yards in the whole thing just blumine faces blew up in our
faces the enemy had in full traded between herrets potion and us and now we're starting to come behind us so that pupunha gotten separated
this element with dennis deal was going out to try and get contact with him umbringt back inside the primaner they meet they they there a
salting a go hundred yards a hundred fifty years and they start getting mowed down and now i realize that in between they've got bad guys
in between where harpoons and where the rest of the perimeter is sent up cathedhal kind of a rough primerom this on this landing one in the
landing one poles went out explained this mean in order bringing hellowes in the jungle gestinken space of the landing one electras an area
where there is not much fuller whatever reason and so that's where they've kind of consolidated their forces only could they can't go
anywhere else they had the ground they start getting shot out some other setting up a pot what's called a perimeter and obviously
herriton's outside the perimeter back to the book we tended to a adds that he and another he and the other two petunies now began planning
yet another attempt to break through and rescue here's men leaders were running back and forth coordinating when all the sudden firing
began the low dissipated quickly it was at this time my weapon squabbled er sergeant curry the chief was killed his last words were those
masters are trying to get me he was caught rolling around on the ground later on as my men were carrying him back i had them put him down
and turned his face toward me and looked at him i could not conceive of the chief being dead that sergeant wilbury junior of buffalo new
york was thirty five years old harican the other two squads were holding precariously to the septal now near the bottom of the finger
savage so a a kid named savage he is out there with her akbitanan he ends up running a lot of stuff in the indefined that out but here is
here start her in a little bit of him right now savage time up with the kenrich ch was pineth ground here was hot that squad sergeant
deland squad was off to the left rear savage checked on his men when he tied up with nicandre he knew that speck for robert am hill m
seventy nine grenadier was no longer with them he got killed in there somewhere he had his m seventy nine and a forty five calibre pistol
and he was firing both at the same time the twenty three year old hill came from stark lille mississippi and her sergeant savage talking
explaining some more back to the book the enemy was past the machine gun before never quit firing i could hear started hurlton their
cursing even we even over the fire fight i heard him he was famous for that mother fouler son of a bitch i could hear him hollering that
down there when they threw then they threw enaden him her o thirty six was from washington d c baron bam twenty four was a native of new
york city p c donald rowdy twenty two hailed from an arbor michigan the three of them died in a hail of rifle fire and enemy grenades the
enemy down below turned surgeon hurdles and sixty around and began using it on the americans on the knoll so that causes all kinds of
confusion you can tell the difference between a different types of weapons by the way they sound when they shoot and when someone starts
shooting a friendly weapon at you it's cause a lot of confusion and the m sixties and beach of a weapon belt said machine gone and it
swaniness you'll seams that was the that was the machine gun that that we used was the amities a devastating weapon back to the book at the
enemy more than a hundred fifty song now attacked the nole from three sides north south and east and soldiers on both sides were following
lieutenant herrick ran from trepidating to get an offence organized and enemy volley cut across herrick his radio operator specialist john
or stewart and the three week and the artillery reconcentration john t brown wooing all three harikar seriously stewart took a single
bullet through the leg hericart company commander john hartington him he had been hit and he was turning command of the potuan over his
sergeant carl palmer harican gave explicit instructions to his men to destroy the single codes redistribute the ammunition and call an
artillery and if possible make a break for it aransas i gave herical the credit in the world for pulling that pecuniary could make their
stand so should we all savage and zalen painted clear picture of a green young lieutenant who did a superb job in a hailstorm of enemy fire
his pocono the very large north of veinees unit clearly heading down to join the attack on the landing zone i long ago concluded that the
very presence of this patoon so far to the north west confused the enemy commander as to exactly where we were and how far we had
penetrated in all directions and thus hold us help thus as the battle built sergeant savage recounts the final moments of henriede he was
lying beside the on the hill and he said if i have to die i'm glad to give my life for my country i remember him saying that he was going
into shock head in the hip and in a later pain he didn't live long he died arlene fight next to a little brush pile speck for charles or
lows twenty two of mobile am alabama was the new potomac he joined a tunmer few days earlier we tentaderos kneeling when hit he had a
bullet when to the hip he told me to go help the other wounded yeah it's we have to remember that the sky hericks like twenty two twenty
three year old fresh out of amiserat it be twenty one um and he made that major le offensive move and pursued and got out of touch but what
how more say it hey that confused the uneven confused afriend seat confused the enemies well so there some their some good that came out of
it back to the book sergeant rubentes was struck by a bolt above his heart that exeuntes left arm bleeding heavily he grabbed a rifle and
fought on the encircled infantry men of the lost buttons refused to give up here's especial list dormand we were all on the ground now and
if you moved you got to hit our training really showed then we shifted into defensioner had five men killed and twenty five minutes then
all of a sudden they tried to mass a salt from three of directions rushing from bush to bush laying fire on us we put her hamsicora an
killed most of them another guinane gainboge bungen bonum said we gathered up all the full magazines we could find in stackin of us there
was no way we could dig a fox hole the handle was blown off my entrenching tool and one of my canteen at a hole blown through it the fire
was so heavy that he tried to raise up to dig you were dead there was death in destruction all around my thoat men of the potentest nine
had been killed in action another thirteen were wounded the twenty five yard wide perimeter was a circle of pain death fear and raw courage
medicale lowsed from man to man throughout the raging fire fight doing his best to patch the wounded with limited supplies in his medical
pack although he himself was wounded twice lose never slowed his pace he would keep all thirteen of the wound it alive for the for twenty
six long harrowing hours low says on several occasions i had to stand or sit up to treat the wounded each time the v c fired heavily at me
low used is forty five and am sixteen rifle to help defend his patience a dining attack from three sides thirteen wounded eight dead was it
nine dead unbelievable back to the book command had passed so this is talking about you know when it when someone is dithelite get killed
that goes to the next person that person gets killed cousoners on so here's will happening in her expectin the loss polton doctor took
command had passed from leutenant henry hericourt carpore to sergeant robert stokes and each in turn died of fighting now it was the turn
of buckstane savage sergeant savage came up on the radio captain harracles he said haricane dead to give him more artillery and he would
directed in his close as possible we could never establish the botonda position but lieutenant riddle could have just fire on savages
sensing and he began to do that the extraordinary unyielding resistance that the dozen or so affected fightest were putting up plus the
artillery braes that early savage was bringing down finally beat off the heavy enemy attack early savage and his small band hunkered down
determined to hold their ground to the end and he's geyser calling in to danger calertio danger close none not toukang close is when you're
calling in fire support and you want it to be very close to where you are and you you on the ground have to take responsibility for it so
another word the the person whether it's artillery whether to aircraft you have to call and say danger close yes sandro we know its close
it's we take responsibility for one happens in and by the way going back to the book as this fifth left lift of the day roared out a tree
top level the landings one was suddenly turned red hot there newlanded everyone yet belong on every one every one on the landings on yet i
and here's crandall talkin it again he's the the pilot unbelievedly hero pilot and a commanding all sir this alcorn said conal as i was
flaring out to touch down we started receiving hevery heavy ground fire i had three dead and three wounded on my boy bird the wounded
included my crew chief who had been hit in the throat when we landed we saw that every bullet had struck the wounded in the head or neck
excellent markmanship by the other side and not a happy thought for helicopter pilot to say the least so that the enemy is taken had shops
back to the book with candle flying serpent yellow three or chief warn officers ricardo j lombardo thirty four of harpocratic ate and ale
as pap jackal forty three of cattle washington pop jackal was a father of nine children during world war two of the age of twenty he had
flown beat twenty four is out of england and be twenty nine during the post where years until he left the service in nineteen fifty pop
jackarooesses at night in nineteen fifty two in have been flying helicopter since nineteen sixty three pop jack o kee the intercom and said
i from thirty one missions in in be twenty fours and world war two and that's the closest of ever come to swallowing my balls so these
these landings ones were crazy and with these helicopter pilots flying in there it's it's dear here you're getting there as fast eso can
but there's not much you could do your you bring it in the fast you can you try and get loaded up quick and you try to take off but it's
not like you're able to shoot back even once you're on the ground your machine gunners and a huge they can't shoot any more because you
don't know what from a troops are so you're a sitting duck literally a sitting duck and these pilots going in time and time and time again
this goes to the delta company commander lefebre and here's what's going on lefebre seriously wounded was facing was fading fast i lost a
lot of blood i could see people shooting but i couldn't hear any sounds any more i told john heron somebody had to take over i called again
colonel more and told him that i was going to turn over the company to sergeant and alice then the medicine a bandage my wounds shortly
after i remember some one putting me in a poncho hauling the over the area of the italian command post when i saw lieutenant to botan later
we never did talk much about it he was just too damned close to the real thing reloaded his handful of dead delphica troopers had unknowing
the joined the alphacca at a crucial moment about thirty northeaster flanking the dolls men on their left and captain e fabrateria party
ran smack into them and killed most of them the dolls men dispatched the rest unknown to the fera sergeant consols had been hit in the face
by men enemy bullet consolingly said roger when the febrile him he was down the command and for the next half hour and a half he ran dealt
to company sergeant gonzales shot in the face no factor in it ontake leadership right now a going back to the book it was during all this
horror that back remembers fear coming over him and here's back talking while donal was here with me working on russell fear real fear hit
me fear like i had never known before the fear comes and once you recognize it and accepted it passes justice fast as it comes and you
really don't have to think about any more you just do what you have to do but you learn the real meaning of fear and life and death for the
next two hours i was alone on that gun as shooting the enemy any more shooting at me in bullets were hating the ground beside me a cracking
above my head they were attacking me and i fired as fast as i could and long burst my am sixty was cooking i had to take a crap in a weak
bad so i pulled my pants down while laying on my side and did it on my side taking fire at the time now we're going back to how more
talking here for my command post at the turn it hill the enemy were clearly visible a hundred yards to the south they were damned good
soldiers used covered concealment to perfection and were deadly shots most of my dead and wounded soldiers and he shot in the head or upper
body the north read to me paper tickler attention to radio operators and leaders they did not appear to have radios themselves they
controlled their men by shouts waves pointing whistles and sometimes bugle calls it was two forty five p m all three of my rifle companies
were heavily engaged we had lost the use of the larger clearing for the helicopter landings wounded were streaming into the command post a
station we were a desperate fix and i was worried that it could become even more desperate by now i believed we were fighting at least two
people's armies battalions turned out it was three they were very determined to wipe us out but a major difference between lieutenant
conwention of the people's army of vietnam and lieutenant colonel how more of the first cavalry division was that i had made your fire
support and he didn't airforce captain proves wallace and his fellow a one east sky rater pilots as well as the jet fighter bombers from
all three services held provide that edge flying fifty sorties in closer support that sunday afternoon says wallace the importance of
airplanes in a vulgar brawl is to be down among the palm trees with the troops putting ordinance on the ground at the exact time in the
precise place that the ground command needs it and then sir he there in his old school a sky raiders but then captain walls is talking
about what it was like watching the helicopters back to the book with it it was different with a huge to wash for eight of them at a time
the new vering up and down and later lean even backwards boggles the the viderit mind those guys swarm with target like bees over honey i
had to hand it to those he re guise they really got down there in the trees with the troops then this is how martha more talking again the
field artillery while we called two bartley to distinguish how it's her folks from the helicopter rocket folks proudly calls itself the
king of battle the brave canning cockers and telefonin went without sleep for three days and three nights to help keep us surrounded by a
wall of steel those two batteries twelve guns fired more than four thousand rounds of high explosive shells on the first day alone says
barker on the first afternoon both batteries fired for effect directly on target for five straight hours one of bruce candles he was licked
pilots captain paul winkle touched down at falcon briefly that at first afternoon and was astounded by what he saw there were stacks of
shell casings at least ten feet high an exhausted gun cruise they had fired for effect for three state straight hours by then without even
pausing to lever the bubbles one two was burned out to a busted hydraulic that some shooting the matter how bad things got for americans
fighting for the lives on the extra perimeter we could look out with the scrub brush in every direction into that seething inferno of
exploding artillery shells two point seven five inch rockets nay pon canisters two hundred and fifty and five hundred pound bombs and
twenty millimeter cannonfire and thank god and our lucky stars that we didn't have to walk through that to get to work he so like i said
the the closer portesa or the closer port your tory is absolutely what an that's that's been happened many on many occasions for for
american soldiers sailors marines overseas fighting a the o the air force the navy pilots that rinolfo pilots coming in and acite ginerous
controlling these guys of air force pas wealth so have i that arupeii is a wonderful thing now speaking of the air's going back to the
helicopters chapter nine in this book is called brave aven't again this sitting ducks coming in his crazy to read about going back to
booklover the twenty months of air mobile training a bond had been well did between the infantry and their rides that he welcome pilots and
comin now the strength of that bone would be tested in hottest of fires if the air bridge failed so the the mate meaning the helicopters
ability to get there the air bridge failed the embattled men of first the tin seven cale would certainly die in much the same way george
armstrong custer cavalrymen died at little big horn caught off surrounded by numerically superior forces overrun and butcher to the last
man i asked but came craddles brave air crews of alpaca the two hundred twenty ninth aviation battalion for the last measure of devotion
for service far beyond the limits of duty and mission and may came through as i knew they would and the so so again your basically asking
these guys to get shot down every time they fly in and this is interesting that to look this was early in the war and the men of at
commanders had decreed that their birds would not land in hot landings owns enothera words that they would not go where they were needed
when when they were need the most even before i asked bruckner decided to begin doing everything that had to be done staying with it candle
now dropped his he loaded with cattle to the pondered dirt strip on we and this is this is grim crandell talking when we hit the ground we
were met by madison infatuation still waiting to be lifted into extray so that's another crazy thing to think about your your unloading
wounded men and your and your getting on that air craft that's going to go pick up more when you member you're going to stay so the troops
that are on the ground yet think about what's going on through their minds they they removed the dead and in a yoritomo the mosasticon
going to rehementer going most of those guys are saying it would get me in the aspasias you can that's what they're saying these are the
brothers out there back to the book they removed the dead and wounded from my bird and this act is engraved in my mind deeper than any
other experience in my two tours in the etnam a huge black and list of man clad only in shorts and boots hand bigger than dinner plates
reached into my helicopter to pick up one of the dead white soldiers yet tears streaming down his face and he tenderly crated cradle that
dead soldier to his chest as he walked slowly from the air craft of the medical station i never knew if the man he picked up was his buddy
not i suspect not his grief was for a fallen comrade and for the agony that violent death brings to those who witness it more about the
helicopters back to the book one of the ship's broad and larry litton who melito over command of geltman from the wounded sergeant consoles
i told him that add the for delamotte's to consolidate mortifyin set up by captain edwards and to control all seven mortars from a single
fire direction center principien of fire was towards alphardians and the moreman would also have the mission of the sending or two copeland
on me east there i i lintot is even though i talk about the centralized command all the time and how more starts off the book talking about
how important decentralized command as he is right now in that in that moment he centralizing command he needs to get control of all the
mortars so that they can use it correctly so again that's why it's the dicotyledons ip because you can there's times when you most the time
you decentralized but you can actually be centralized too much if you don't coriat they have for to these mortars you're not going to use
it effectively so he sentries the command of the mortars brings them all to one location and sarssin them effectively so then the good note
for leaders to remember now here's another potencee joe more joe arm described the situation in his batoon my petunduc was a short time and
did not accompany us to the pong sergeant first class george macalive paton sergeant carried the aid kit and we planned to use staff
sergeant thomas tolliver as our medic when the nedrus he had been a combat medicine the corean war and was well qualified still we did not
have enough medicago round so he sent down specialist brute night and specialist charles lows a senior medical aid man as button medic de
rabican now calvin bonite still alive but mortally wounded was laid gently on the ground and his blood filled rubber poncho before the
medical platoon sergeant sergeant first class keen his friend and comrade for the last two years and here is what he in says but night
wasn't dead he was shot right between the soldiers right directly between the so shoulders he reached up and took my hand and said serge i
didn't make it we got in i v started on him and put a pressure bandage over his back wound there was just no hope we were able to get him
on an evasit but he died the scripture say that there is no greater love than to lay down your life for your friends this is what
calvintonian did in that fire filled jungle he sheltered the wounded he was treating with his own body his back to the enemy guns
completely vulnerable and here's how more it was now three forty five p m when except for the predicament of sergeant savage in the
canooering a good deal better about the situation we had all of our men in massive power than to played a company reinforcements was on the
way are two chopper life line landings on was secure most of our wounded were either of vacuated or waiting of vacuation and we were
holding tough i was determined to make one more attempt to rescue sergentee and all his wounded and dead on the slope i ordered alfarata
companies to evacuate their casualties withdraw of close contact with the enemy under covering fires and prepared to watch a coordinated
attack supported by heavy prepared to where artillery fire to reach the car off potion i was tortured by the fate of those men and the need
diresti them in chapter ten is called six bay in that which can give you an indication back to the book alphardians the first units deland
had now been locked in violent battle for more than two hours that suffered no small number of casualties especially among the sergeants
and radio operators and it shot up most of their ammunition at another thing we attemper the movies they never on out ammunition right
unless it makes some theatrical poet plot point right thought they also in the movies there's plenty of water oh there the gentle then a
pretty one of these guys don't have water out here on the water no food and other running out of emanation the two commanders toning the
doll and john harned time to evacuate their dead and wounded to reorganize and re group their diminished batoons and designate new leaders
and to replenishes of ammunitions of ammunition and grenades they would have forty minutes to accomplish this than haverill ry fire would
lain down ahead of them as they kicked off one more tempt to break through the ring of enemy troops and rescue the survivors of lieutenant
hair henri haric second paton meanwhile help was on the way back at third bided had quarters in the tea plantation the orders were going
out or sister batalion the second petilian seventh cavasa formed that one of its companies bravo was being detached and sent to landing x
ray landings on x ray to reinforce on arrival in ex ray bravo company second italian would come under my operational control for the
duration of the fight so as there's two battalions these each potion has an amercan es in a man their gonta one of the companies from the
outer battalion and let him let them come in as reinforcements captain my rene did eric bravo company troops won the toss and down so there
there was a bunch of different companies there and they were all doing various things but a myron to dear e company was actually in a they
were they were standing guard they were closest by and so they were the ones that were going and it's it's it's probably a good thing
because this guy captors a complete bad as of as was a brave company second italian had good solid professional man comes in its true it
served together for some for a long time it was a good rifle company i was happy to get it captain to derrick was twenty seven years old a
native born ukranian who had come with united states when his family and nineteen fifty he was the orotava from saint peter's college in
jersey city new jersey and was commissioned in july of nineteen sixty he completed paratrooper and ranger training and had served tours and
germany and at for penning de derick was married and the father of two children while a reinforcements were saddling up my alphardians were
about to launch their second attempt to break through hoanoia but tone john heron intoning the doll had pulled their men back to the dry
creek bed during a lull so they would begin the attack from there to tonsura show miller remembers the scene on the rowsery high after the
first contact before we went off before we were after the cool the two captain the doll got us together and said men we've got an american
patoon caught off out there we're going after them the replies were ye and let's go get them and geryon and geryon is the like the war cry
of the of the cavalry so and there's a comes from an old song and it's it's a historical thing and that's why you read the book can find
out about geryon it their marching song back to the book captain tony a doll afikuman was the first man out of the creek bed leading first
portunity assault he recalls we moved about fifty yards when we ran into the enemy force which had come down the mountain i presume they
were preparing to want their attack about the time we launched ours the fighting quickly became very vicious at close range we took many
casualties lieutenant wayne johnson the first otometer was hit at least three other squaw eaters were also hit two of them killed one while
going forward in his tempt to rescue one of his soldiers against the wreck orders against direct orders gone up i give my body toned had
ordered his men to fix bayonets for the attack bill back firing a burst from his mixty machine gun to his right front was transfixed by
what he saw just forward a tall thin sergeant bayonetting of northites in the chest it was just like practiced against the straw dummies
forward thrust plout move on one two three captain toniello men in his command group as he charged into the brush to radio operators sartin
jack down a twenty five year old native new yorker and specialist speck for john clark of michigan postholes artillery forward observer
lieutenant timity m blake tony four from charleston west virginia and place reconsign sergeant floyd l reed junior twenty seven years old
of half arkansas as they moved up the dolad the radio and set to his ear a purse of any man sin gun fire swept across the group sergeant
gall was hit and dropped without a sound and the doll kept moving until the long black cord pulled back on him he was looking round as he
what was wrong the same burst that killed sergeant gallinaso killed ieutenant blake and sucked and struck sergeant reed who died shortly
thereafter sergeant sam home and native a sergeant sam home and junior a native a pensive a native pennsylvanian knelt beside his mortally
wounded buddy jackal and heard him gasp to my wife i love her tony no doll had no time to mourn jack now jack on a man he gravely respected
too many other wives were in his hands on the right flank of the brave line canidia was now rolling around on the ground desperately trying
to dodge a valley of machine gun slugs cutting through the grass all around him some l twenty five yards away deal saw american get up and
charge forward while every one around him was flat on his belly says deal i saw him throw a grenade behind an ant hill and empties weapon
into it then he fell to his knees i said to myself please get up don't be hurt i didn't know who it was i couldn't make out the form there
was so much battle field have dust and smoke it was lieutenant joe marma he had spotted an enemy machine gun dugento a big termite hill it
was chewing up both brave company tones after failing did knock it out with a law rocket and a grenade and a throne grenaditas deal with it
directly he charged through the fire tossed a handgrenade behind the hill and then cleaned up the survivors with his amity rifle the
following day within a aldavini found a dead northeaster and eleven enemy soldiers sprawled behind that turn it mount says deal joe morae
my life and the lives of many others we teetotaler back to position with a balloon to his jaw and neck he joined a growing stream of
walking wounded flowing back toward the betaana station sergeant keeping treated arms wound anne one of boscobels crandell cus evacuated
him to the rear within dayroom was recuperating at valley forge ariostian near his home in pennsylvania in december of nineteen sixty six
joe more reported to the pentagon with a secretary of the army acting on behalf of president jutland in johnson presented him with the
medal of honor the nation's highest award for valor joe marms heroic action unfortunately failed to open the door to the conover company
had progressed only about seventy five yards alpaker all through of the dolls putois were now either dead or wounded as were many of his
noncoms war shet alpaca's first petunt now to head of the two other and was heavily engaged with perhaps a hundred enemy some of the north
some of the alpacos by passed the enemy and dense brush and those northeast opened up on them not only were we unable to punch through the
rescue harts but then we were now in danger of having another potion caught off and again i pologize one of the things i should a talked
about was the way this torrance up it's a there's a lot of grass like i would say waste high grass and maybe a little bit taller than was i
and i i if you take cover you can't say anything because you are ingrasheatin you stand up you get shot ah so it's it's a terrible ah
catchet to the stand up secants happening i see where people are going and see with themes new vering and ye might a shot or do you lay
down wetikoo you have a better chance of docketing shop you can't see anything captain to dera ran up to me and shouted derosier now this
is this is osso captain to dirk as a guy that's comin into he's from two seven he's come in an aswearin to and like i said garry on as like
their worries her regal captain to der ran up to me and shamusho more's alkahest all miss embroil borson be taking so many gables then
here's a elmore as captain ted eric ran of command shouted carry on sir that the dear come and brave company second to alan seven cavalry a
hundred and twenty men strong reporting for duty his eyes sparkled with excitement and the challenge of the situation i told the dear to to
assemble as men in a competes thirty yards north west the command post her act as a posset betime reserved for the time being those comet
report carrying very elisir ah captain dall says the fight continued for another twenty or thirty minutes with either side making headway
it was getting dark and casey's mounted knight aside we were not going to be able to break through my called colonel more and asked for
formation a pullback et here's what colonos says with night approaching there was no real choice i did not want to get in the hours of
darkness with my battalion fragmented with the companies and capable of mutual support and subject to defeat in detail word came over the
radio and messenia this is a specialist gave among them whose out there with the loss potomack to the book work came over the radio that we
would have to hang him on till morning i could not believe what i heard i thought there was no way we would be able to do that others
thought the same thing carcase me do you think will make it i didn't know but i said we have to pray in pray hard was a big question mark
in all of our minds we had to keep our cruel and bear down the now we hear from now more again i now considered the toll this day's
fighting at taken donnells alphian had lost three officers and thirty one and listened enlisted men killed or wounded and now reported
effective strength of two officers and eighty four in listed john errand bradamant had lost one officer and forty six in a list of men
killed or wounded and was down before officers and six yet and listed men with one proton paretrape outside the primaner for most eight
hours i had been involved in the minute to minute direction of the battle now i wanted to personally walk the perimeter and checked the
preparations for what promised to be a tough night and another tough day to morrow just before dark sergeant made your plumly and i broke
away from the command post and set out to check the primaner talking with the troopers and getting for a field for the situation on the
ground what concerned me the most was the morale of the men how well the companies were tied in their defensive fire plans and the
situation with ammunition and waters applies mirallon the man was high although there was understandable grief over the friends we had lost
the men and i talk the man i talked with realizable facing a fierce determined enemy but he failed to break through our lines they knew the
fight was over i heard weary soldiers saying things like will get him sir and they won't get through us sir their fighting spirit had not
timed and they made me proud and humble in every one of my companies that had landed this place this morning there were fifteen to twenty
soldiers who had less than two weeks left the going the army some of those men now lay dead wrapped in ponchos near my command post the
rest of them were out on that poor minerstand ing shoulder to shoulder with their bodies ready to continue the fight thirty seven miles to
the north east bruce crandall and big ed freeman finally shut down their hues at a law at a huge helicopter pat nick named the turkey farm
outside the wire camp hallway they had been flying non stops and thicken it was after ten p m en grande shut down and tried to get out of
the air craft that is when the day's activities call up with me my leg gave out as i stepped on the steed and i fell to the ground for the
next few minutes i vomited i was very embarrassed and it took some time to regain my composure some one slipped me a bottle canaaneans and
i took a big slug it was a waste of good booze if came up as fast as it went down i finally quit shaking and made it to the operations tend
to reap the day and planned the neck the aviation unit had quite a day we had not the suffered a single fate tality and we had not left the
mission undone when our infantry brothers called we called the standard for combat a salt with helicopters had been set on this day i
wondered about the more would it be worse i wasn't sure i could handle another day like to day then again i thought about the troops in
extra and the choice was not mine to make then he was how more talking about the wounded back to the book all of the wounded all our
wounded for out of extra by cradles he is and end up at charlie company fifteenth medical potalon first cavalry division which was
temporarily set up intense a camallia the executive officer of charlie mad was captain george a calling twenty eight from saint louis
missouri charlie madie surgeons tried to stabilize the soldiers coming off the helicopters the treatment we provided says calling with his
ignite the blood flowing through the patient system until he could be gotten to a hospital which had the personal equipment to perform
definitive surgery charlie meddoes tied off perforated blood vessels to stop the hammering and then pumped the old blood telling he calls
that many of the castetis were rapidly bleeding to death so it was a raised against time to get blood into the soldier faster than he was
losing it even while the surgeons were trying to tie off bleeders we threw caution the wind and gave a patient for cut downs which is an
intervenes tube tied into blood vessels with four cormantin the blood bags as hard as they could his not unusual for the patient to shiver
and quake and lose body temperature from the rapid transfusion of so much cold blood but the alternative was to let him die so there giving
blood dereckly into the veins and they've got cormantin there squeezing the bags of blood the trying keep people alive back on elsie here
sergeant john steadily talking they proved us all night long we had a few men wounded i'd never been in a situation like that when they
would come at us they would come screaming and we could hear bugles as darkness fell savage was on the radio with lieutenant bill riddle
herons artillery forward absorb observer walking the high explosive barage all around the conopeum all of us were lifted off the ground by
the impact and covered with dirt and branches boom recalls savage told them on the radio that was right where we want them we hallett it
was too close but i looked backward those first round it and saw three men running towards us we opened up they must have been crawling up
on our position with that artillery came in they would sneak in his closest ten yards or less and many times just stand up to laugh at us
we would vote them down it begins to work on your mind what are they laughing at i couldn't believe it the north needed to me to launch
three separate attacks to keep the pressure on the trap second poltoon during that long night each time sending about fifty men against the
americans and each time being beaten back by artillery and rifle fire savage had seven men on her and thirteen wounded nine others were
dead some of the lost batons wounded continued to fight and coding sergeant rubentes who been shot through the chest a pucoon later cured
still another large enemy force moving down the northern trail toward extra and again brotre fire down on them this was followed by a
flurry of hand grenades back and forth at about four thirty a m with an hour the first light the eastern sky revealed dozens of khaki clad
enemy dead scattered all around the little noll the trap etonensi the longest night any of them would ever know they checked their
ammunition and prepared to receive a dawn attack in hers one of the pucoon sergeants talking put on sergeant robert jimison jamison at
first light we sent out a patrol staff sergeant said he coin speck for arthur l bronson and three other men were picked a go says jamison
they saved us from being surprised they spotted the enemy on their way back into an attack position they came running back with bronson
screaming their common serge a lot of them get ready i told him machinegunners to hold their fire until they were close pailleton bolt
twenty four of jackson belfords hit while firing from his position twenty yards to sergeant jameson's right jemeses gobbles hollering
somebody helped me i yelled all gogetter george agin yelled back no i will georgean moved out of his position in the foxhole to help god
bolt and was shot this was ten minutes or so from the time the firing first broke out struck in the back of the head lieutenant john lance
jack joggin was killed instantly the man he was trying to save pigadia his wounds shortly afterward the enemy was now closed to within
seventy five yards of edward line they were firing furiously some crouched low and at times crawling on their hands and knees others no
taller than the elephant grass they were passing through came on standing up and shooting they advanced screaming at each other and
edward's men leaders were blowing whistles and using and in armseliger eighty two millimeter mortar tubes in baseplate this was clearly and
no hittenden affair they'd come to stay and here's joe steadland talking or sergeant john sir john stevan his john stefan talking it seemed
like a half of italian hid us all at wance to yet had long and he had a strong i thought we were going to be overrun when charlie hit us he
had the strange grazing fire he shot right at ground level trying to cut off your legs or if he weren't deep enough in your fox hole he
shot your head off when he started firing it as they came like torrents of rain you just couldn't get your head long up long enough to
shoot back you just stuck up your weapon pulled the trigger and emptied the magazine lieutenant charlie hastings are forward air controller
had already swung into action sending disaster hastings made an immediate instinctive decision i used the coat work broken arrow which
meant the american undone in contact was in danger of being over run and we received all available aircraft and salteena perclos air
support we had our craft stacked at a thousand foot intervals from seven thousand feet to thirty five thousand feet each waiting receive
target and to live with their ordnance and here's how more by now i was convinced that the enemy was making a primary effort to overworthy
south and soles and i alerted the reserved polton for probable commitment into charlier delta company sectors but noise of the battle was
unbelievable never before or since and two wars have i heard anything equal to it and here is a specialist arthur yerthe gun fire was very
loud we were getting over wrong on the right side heueriger came out into the open in all this i thought that was pretty good he yelled at
me i got up to hear him he hollered at me to help cover the left sector i ran over to him by the time i got there he was dead he had last a
half an hour i know beside him took off his dog dog tags and put them in my shirt pocket i went back to firing my amset nine and got shot
right in the elbow my ansena went flying on i was knocked over and fell backward over the lieutenant the arnow grabbed his forty five
pistol and began firing at left handed then he says then i got hit in the neck and the bullet went right through i couldn't talk or make a
sound i got up and tried to take charge and was shot at with a third ground that one blew up my right leg and put me down there went in my
leg above the ankle travelled up came back out then went into my groin and ended up in my back close to my spine just then to stick
grenades bourrit over me and tore up both of my legs i reached down with my left hand and touched the grenade fragments on my left leg and
it felt like i had touched a red hot poker my hands just sizzled on believable attack and i think that skirt description right there really
spells out how intense this was and when obvious got corn more saying that this is the loudest thing he's ever heard in two wars that also
confirms what we're doing with her back to bucketee forty five a m the enemy struck at the left flank of toninas alicumpaine at the
critical elbow where allan charlie companies were tied in we were now under attack from three directions breathing fire from rifles and
machine guns shredded the elephant grass and swept over the patina post in eight station leaves bark and small blanchers branches fluttered
down on us several troopers were wounded in the same command post and at least one was killed my radio operator speck for robber pelet
twenty three years old i had a a bespectacled six forder from tattoos were hit and slumped over in a sprawl unmoving and seemingly dead i
kept the hand set to my ear and here's joe galloway the reporter the incoming fire was only a couple of feet off the ground and i was down
as fast i could get when i felt the toe of a combat boot in my ribs i turned my head sideways and looked up and there standing tall was
sergeant major basil plumly plumly leaned down and shouted over the noise the guns you can't take no pictures laying down there on the
ground sunny he was calm fearless and grinning i thought he's right were all going to die anyway so i might as well take mine standing up i
got up and began taking a few photographs plumly moved over to the age station pulled out his forty five chambered around and informed
doctor carrera and his madigan men prepared to defend yourself so polly thought they are getting over on to or at least got to get close
you ring the eight station at in the center of this whole promoter and he's point on his forty five and sat apart defend yourselves you
can't make that up to specialist willard f parish twenty four years old than the native bristow oklahoma was an assistant squaretoso
charlie companies to eighty one millaments paris was one of the more men who had been outfitted with his spare machine guns and rifles
collected from our casualties and put on the delta company perimeter parish recalls when we were hit i remember all the trace rounds and i
wondered how even an aunt could get through that back to a right we started hearing the guises hollowing the coming around their coming
around i was in a foxhole with a guide from sicago japanese coleman and he had an insistent i had my forty five in his forty five and i had
an emstein gun we were set up facing out with the tall grass i was looking out fan and i could see some of the grass going down like some
one was calling in i howled whose out there nobody answered in a hollow again no answer i turned to i turned to common burn his ass comin
said my rifle's jammed i looked at him and him at me then i look to the fun and they were growing out of the weeds i just remember getting
that machine gun from there an out and the training takes over and you put your mind somewhere else because i really don't remember what
specifically i did i was totally unaware of the time loonton on that end sixty machine gun according to the extracts from his silver star
sitations specialist paris parish delivered a leaf fire on a wave after wave of the enemy until he ran out of the munition then standing up
under fire with a forty five pistol in each hand parish fired clip after clip into the enemy who were twenty yards out and he stopped their
attack says perish i feel like i didn't do any more than anybody else did up there i remember wotans a lot a yelling and then all at once
it was quiet the silence out in front of willard parish was that of this cemetery more than a hundred dead nor threatened were later found
where they had fallen in a semi circle around his fox hole forty five and each hand that's that's crazy actually mean you ye he's he's
going with through hole another level because you can't reload you know you can't reload your pistol so maybe he may he would stand up fire
both didonian i trow and each pistol get back down riotous but then he got up or that's after he used all this sixty emma george fox twenty
five and a fender twenty two were slump topress their silent m sixty machine gun surrounded by heaps of empty shell casings and empty
ammunition cans they had died together shoulder he so shoulder sergeant jenison pays them the ultimate compliment of a professional soldier
bird and fox did a great job they kept firing that gun and didn't leave it they stayed on it to the end so all this closer sports come in
in this whole time our toller's comingone whole time and all of a sudden they get a situation where they start they see air craft coming
overhead with jet coming overhead low pass and their their heading towards them and they drop some napalm so hears how more i yelled to my
long to charlie hastings the air force fact called that son of a bitch off callimote heard astinecia ing in the radio pouppayon says i can
still see the canisters tumbling toward us i remember thinking turnerish you won't be blinded i put my face into a reporter's shoulder to
hide my eyes it was joe galloways i could hear good time charlie hastings shouting into his radio poop the second jet did the napalm from
the first hit some people and caught them amalon fire sergeant major plume jumped out to put the fire put out a fire around the ammunition
i ran out into the elisetta air panel out sergeant ni says two of my people pigimy de nogiyama and specialist five james clark were on the
other side of me several yards away somebody was hollering and count colonel moore was standing up there hollering about something about a
wing man and i looked up there were two plans coming and one of them an already dropped his napalm and everything seemed to go and slow
motion everything was on fire knockmaa black and clark was burned and bleeding when he was joe galloway before i had walked over and talked
to the engineer guise and the little fox holes now those same men were dancing in fire their hair burned off in an instant their clothes
were incinerated one was a mass of blisters the other not quite so bad but he had breathed a fire into his lungs when the flames died down
we all ran out into the burning grass somebody yelled at me to grab the feet of one of the charge soldiers when i got him the boots
crumbled and the flesh came off and i could feel barebone to his ankles and the palms of my hands retard him to the age station i can still
hear their screams spectorum as ever lyle a medical man from brabacons second batalion rushed out into the clearing with his kit bag to
help a napalm victims broacht in the head and died within minutes and lieutenant rasores arms the oklahoma man beryl i turned twenty three
years old just four days before he was killed back in the command post or ear force fact charley hastings was stunned by all the
consequences of the misplaced their strike hastings were calls after the napalm strike colonel moore looked at me and said something that i
never forgotten don't worry about that one charley just keep them coming ah ye no what we got to do it's got has things that just do
killtime of his own men wounded some of one man by fire and he freaking out prides one to call any more bombs on and how more realizes
that's what keeping him alive don't worry about that one does keep him coming charlie company first batalion seventh cavalry bejones day
with five officers and a hundred and six men by new at had no officers left and only forty nine men on the hurt a total of forty two
officers and men had been killed and twenty more wounded than two and a half hours of vicious hand to hand fighting the bodies of hundreds
of slain vietnamese northeaster the bloody battle ground speck for pat sellick twenty four in a native of mount kisco new york says i
remember one guy had a small american flag on the back of his pack when i saw that i felt very proud that something that always stuck with
me the american flag was put on top of a blown up tree just like you ogima another battle we had one for the united states that little flag
foolardi zone ex ray for the rest of the fight raising all our spirits and now there's a law in the fighting at her we go back to the book
during this lull the saddest most painful and hardest duty to endure was collecting our dead and loading them on board the helicopters
there were so many that the brigit ordered the big choppers the siege forty seven in knocks one such halicore out all forty two of the dead
from charley company they came in together died together and now left together wrapped in their green rubber ponchos speck for vincent can
do says we were picking up our dead and placing them in the coppers some of these guys i had known for two years yet i could recognize them
only by their name tags their faces were bone off there was hard not to get sick we would look at each other and without saying a word just
continue putting our dead on the chaperone colonel that's in charge of the both both the italians he makes a visit and here we go mad
morning before tolarate colonel thimbron fu in for a visit polly recalls we tenacious saluted brown and said i told you not to come in here
it's not safe brown picked up his right called a poland waggled his full colonel's eagle at more and said sorry about that deanie my
situation report brown asked whether he should stay in ex ray establish his small brigade command post in rome the shell we we recommended
against that i knew the area and bob tell you niega along just fine brown a geekie we entick merchant says colonel brown had trust and
confidence in his commanders i'm aware that some felt he should have landed an ex ray in established a command post i've never accepted
that the first potalon seventh cavalry was probably to find his potation of vietnam well trained superbly lad without standing offers and
ansioes throughout the unit brown would have been out of place in extray besides there was no room for a brigade spirea it being rather
crowded behind that ant hill so the reason that put that in the scaurs the the guides know how more's boss comes in to to check on the
scene and some people say he should have stayed there a cause is a bad fight and he in this um dick merchants said now let you shinest
there he he did the right thank he came visited and laughed and by the way you want to set up a brigade command post you you need i find
your own little aunt holcus is on all who this one as you elthois of thetford in sosiego we then mood it everywhere and oh so they but it's
it's the important point there for my perspectives you know what the key thing is that he had trustingness his oussere didn't need to
magotte micro manage them and i'm not saying you could never do that of definitely not say that's what i coomes you know sometimes you
might look out there and say there's some ingoing on i need to get out there and get in the wiesendanger this frame problem handle an ed
come up here n support in this wailers probably wouldn't have been a good idea of how more had it under control his point that's why
they're landing a a a cheque for some giant held copper much bigger than he needs you know a slower and that we saw on approach it slower
so ye there's a time to get up their micro mane nestine with you let your teams lead okay going back to the book and my rentiere and
lieutenant recrost so belisante two guys that came from the second petilian seventh cave and he just talks among little benthink it's worse
worth mentioning ricossia then ah my riedrich robocomputer second potion had two four and born officers whose accents and gone horatius
lent to touch of four in legion flare the ukrainian dederich and the englishman rescored or destine the next avitor to become battle field
legends in the seventh cave as much for their style as their feelers larson afire and yet it is you can see what these leaders do and you
do get to see it but here's when when to dear marie touched down and he was told he go go said up security and here we go a marine dearer
and his soldiers had not yet been sorely tested but they soon would be during that wall to direct made certain that fields of fire and
observation were cleared out to beyond two hundred yards that good fighting positions were dug that machine guns were placed in positions
that a shirt that assured flanking interlocking fire that trip flares and antithesises were installed as far three hundred yards out that
every man was locked out loaded down with ammunition of that mute amare supplied points were designated that all radios were checked and
double checked then to direct work very carefully with his artillery ford observe of registering the plant fires across the front the
officer the officer lietenant william lane had four batteries twenty four hour thus registered and adjusted on call so that you ever wonder
what a howaniver leered as that's where he does right there dies everything in and here he's talking about so one of the direction leaders
was rick roscorla that here's re says about ricossia recessit pottomet with six months out of oasis at the infant school at four benning
but he had arrived there with a wealth of good training ardent in under his belt he had served in the british army in cyprus and with the
conillac rodesia and he knew what soldiering was all about what he did to prepare his position and his men speaks were professional
thomsone what rescored it rescrewed the terrain and tried to see it from the enemy's point of view that critical what's the enemy thinking
scrubbrush elephant grant grass and hills and some ground cover stretched to the front the ground was not as flat as it first appeared but
had seems and thick rug stretching off to the south with a slight incline away from his positions the hasty prone to shelters dug by
charley company first petion had been dug after nightfall under enemy pressure roscorla moved his men back fifty yard which not only
shortened the sector but met the enemy would now have to leave the trees across forty yards of mostly open area to reach bravo company
foxes racoare all because of our short lines i decreased the number of foxholes three man holes were constructed the entity machine guns
were set on principle directions of fire from which they could switch to final protective grazing fire interlocking with each other and
with the machine guns on our flanks fox holes and parapets were built in detailed i tested the whole some were so deep the occupants could
not even see the pet over the parapet in these cases firing steps were built back up two hours before dusk sergeant e s box h two seven and
sergeant thompson organized a buitran detail carefully they rigged nades and trip lars far out on the main avenues of approach clamor minds
clamor minds of wat of ice the cake but some where they had been lost a screw up but i felt we were ready to tangle with the best of north
lettie and again these guys are lucky there's a law and they have all the time to prepare this getting also up and that a big difference
from what happened when these guys hit be else and they didn't have any of this stuff that have any the train figured out that ever chance
to set in your personal up and these guys are taken advantage of that tactical situation to get up their make things right and you know
both those gas you can see that's what a leader does that's what water does they make sure things are right they make sure your ready to
win and he could do that an ad applies to every every leader in every position and every industry in every team in the world that the
leader is stepping up and making sure we are going to be prepared to win and by the way this ricasoli and this is a little bit of a side
note he ended up working for morgan stanley as the head is security for more constantly than they worked at the twin towers of new york
city that's one more constantly was and she felt like they needed to do drills like they needed to prepare the like wawatam end at the
towers came under a tack and they ran a bunch of drills and when september eleventh came day ran those drills and got every one of vacuated
and ricossia was last seeing on the tenth floor going back up into the building to do a final check and make sure that every one was out
and the tower collapsed at nine fifty nine a m then he saved a lot olives that day novelly through his actions on the day of but through
actions in preparing now oh the vietnamese come the north eades come and they bring it here go the first rush by at least three hundred
northernness was beaten off in less than ten minutes by small arms machine gun and artillery fire from the burtwell prepared brabacons
second italian troops at four thirty one a m twenty months later they came back to dearest the intensity of their attack increased and i
was under the under a soul aimed at my three left platoon sectors screams shouts and whistles split the night as invasion the mountain
straight into the smoke clouded killing ground now all the mortars of my battalion and toys were turned loose adding their eighty one
millimetre explosive shells to the general mayhem riflemen john martin who is in dederis we kept pouring rifle machine gun fire and
artillery on them and they broke and ran i don't think we had any casualties but they were catching health so so now it's tolly different
story he used in they have all their artillery dial in they've got their field of fire set up and the attacks come well organized act with
three hundred people they did you can't make they they they don't make it happen the deemest of making apathetic to the book of one parent
restore as men fought on our enseignent switch to direct fire fire delivered to visible target and loved round out between seventy five and
a hundred yards still the shadowy clumps moved closer or pegs and machine guns crackled as they blasted us from the dark line of crowned
cover across open fields they came in a ragged line the first groups cut down after a few yards a few surge ride on sliding down behind
their dead comrades for cover in amazing highly disappointed enemy a super cursed and pleaded in a high pitched voice got damn it stopped
the bastards there they are their tacking in one when the north read me soldiers get hit there their bodies are coming up behind them
taking cover behind their bodies and continuing to assault so this is an indicator you know like i said this was early in the war nightie
and you know wedinoin determined enemy yet we do understand that yet anther were seen it for the first time this is one of this is what a
disinherited these guys or they are going to attack they're going to tack through whatever we put out here's another situation steadily
this is our stadlin whispered orders to his scrattling men on either side of him to hold their fire not to shoot until the enemy stepped
out into that open space right in front suddenly afar in a boobisa went off and they were there in the grass shooting at us i took around
just above the elbow nothing really just a stitch or two and a piece of tape after the fight nobody shot back then they stepped into that
open area the flares were burning they were led up and it was easy we opened up and picked them off it was a light attack they then they
hit us harder thirty minutes later blowing bugles blowing whistles we killed them all then some white fosters came in about fifteen funnin
four of my hole and i lost most of my web garay shirt had about eight burns on one arm john step lin sat there under the light of the
flares and used the point of his bayonet to quickly dig the still burning willy pet fragments out of his flesh so white vosper's type of
munichandra used in its it's white fostering up it on fire in the little pieces of burning hot neteen he's picking it out of his arm during
the two and half hours of the attack against a dear fector the rest of the ex ray pruner had been quiet too quiet tellin and i discussed
the possibility of conducting a reconnoisance by fire to check for presence of the enemy else were on the line we had plenty of ammunition
and what the hell the enemy knew where we are lines were by now as well as i did we passed the word on the italian net at precisely six
fifty five a m every man on the perimeter with fire his individual weapon and all machine guns for a full two minutes on full automatic the
word was to shoot up trees and hills bushes and high grass forward of the ford of and above the american positions counters which shoot
anything that worried them by now we had learned to our sorrow that the enemy used the night to put snipers in trees ready do damage at
first light now was the time to clean up out front at the state of time are permanence in earsplitting uproar and immediately a force of
thirty or fifty north eateese rose from a cover a hundred and fifty yards forward of jos sardines alphian second italian lines and began
shooting back the mad mine of firing trigger there attack prematurely artillery fire was instantly brought in on them in the attack was
beaten off when the shooting stopped one dead sniper dangled by his rope from a tree and fort of the dereef most position another dropped
dead out of a tree on osida ely forward of john harrow john harran's brotonne first batalion command post a third vit northener was killed
in our later when he tried to climb down for from his tree and run for it sergeant steadings arm speckled with white fosters burns began
hurting him now i was sent back to the age station where my arm was bandaged and i was waiting to be met of act out the more i sat there
the more i realized i couldn't in good faith get on a chopper and fly out there and leave those guys behind so i took the sling of my arm
and went back out somebody asked where are you going i said back to my fox hole nobody said anything else so obviously these guys now i've
gained some some good fire superiority of the opera and in the battle back to the book roscorla's men had been watching the air show
appreciatively we gathered for the last sweep suddenly a fighter bomber plowed down on us from above we buried our noses in the holes and
express train screamed down in the explosion shook the earth the bomb landed thirty yards from her holes we came up cursing in the dust and
the brig the call came to move out every available trooper including colonel more pushed the perimeter this time it was no contest at all
we kill twenty seven more enemy and crushed all resistance i looked over the field littered with enemy dead sprawled by ones and twos and
heaps across a torn gouged lamb blood body fragments torn uniforms shattered weapons littered the landscape it was a sobering sight those
men are enemies had mothers too but we had done what we had to do aside from wanting to make certain that the dear aconitin did a clean
safe job i had one reason for joining the final assault personally this is this is colmore talking and then it goes to requester ricoco
watched colonel more in our sector was rushing up the consumatis pulling them apart what the hell's the colonel doing up there sargento
asked i shook my head lady we saw him coming back at the head of men carrying ponchos by ten thirty a m colonel morefounded use looking for
three dead american troops were no longer missing in action now they were on their way home to their love to one by now late morning
tuesday november sixteenth a personality of landing one extra of changed what previously had been a killing field had become something else
we moved without impunity in places where movement had meant deafly hours before except for her own artillery and air there was nothing to
be heard it was just too quiet too sudden and it made me oneasy that old principle nothing was wrong except that nothing was wrong where
was the enemy headed back to cambodia still on the mountain preparing to attack again had it north to the idris precious water and again
the old question where were the enemy twelve point seven nometer heavy antiaircraft machine guns if the enemy commander brought those
weapons to bear on us from the mountain above elsie cray with three american batalions crowding the clearing with present a beautiful
target i told dillon step up the harassing artillery fire and to keep the air strikes coming in the slopes above us i told him i wanted a
picture perfect helicopter extraction covered by all the fire power weak could bring to bear so ye tied of turned completely in a thin fact
they've turned so completely that i chenowith is a big helicopter flies in with a bunch of protographs and television cruise and reporters
and they surround they surround colonel mord he rego back to the book the other reporters now clustered round me i told them that this had
been a bitterly contested battle that clearly we were up against a brave determined in very tough enemy in the north eatened but that
american fire power disciplined gods and willed to win had carried the day at elzear brave american soldiers and the end sixteen rifle on
offic tory here i said my voice choked in my eyes filled with tears as i told the reporters that many of my men who had been killed in this
place where only a matter of days away from completing their service in the army but they fought and died bravely as i stood there i knew
that the telegrams that would shut shatter the hearts and lives of scores of american families were already being drafted now came the body
gaunt menifee ber we talked about this before every one was always they wanted to talk about the body countinent even at this early stage
that he was thinking about that back to the book now came the body count from the beginning of the fight i had known that higher
headquarters would eventually want to know what damage we had done to the enemy so after each major action in this battle hating it i asked
my company commanders for their best attimes of enemy killed the battle raging back and forth over three days and two nights it was
anything but orderly there was no referee to call time out for a body down we did the best we could to keep a realistic count of the enemy
dead in the end it added up to eight hundred and thirty four dead by body count with an additional one thousand two hundred and fifteen
estimated killed and wounded by artillery aretas and aerial rocket attacks on my own i caught the eight hundred and thirty four figure back
to six hundred thirty four a personal allowance for the confusion and fog of war and let the hunt one thousand two hundred fifteen
estimated stand we captured in evacuated six enemy prisoners on our side realist seventy nine americans killed in action a hundred and
twenty one wounded the none missing and at this point they get extracted off the battle field and bencoolen turneras men to leave from his
battalion and here we go back to book it was a short fast ride to landing one falcon just to five and a half miles east of extra as we
landed among the artillery pieces i saw seventy five yards away a group of my troopers often the northwestern edge of the elzear an bs news
correspondent was in eliakim that afternoon he captured the scene and his nineteen sixty seven book the face of southing and here's what
dean brellas wrote how more was the last man to come out of the battle it was the biggest battle he had ever fought he was a lieutenant
colonel and he carried himself like a proud man his sergeant major was at his side it would need a shakespeare to describe what happened
then but it was something that was love and manliness and pride it was the moment of the brave how more turned went from group to group of
his men and only a few bother to get up because there was no exclusive now no rank and how more did not want them to stand and salute he
was counting them he talked with them he thanked them he was not the solemn and he did not bring to his greetings to salutations of a
politic of a politician there was no poverty of spirit in his hand ship shake then he shook every man and it was a union of men who had met
and defeated the enemy not for ever not in a victory that ended the war but in a victory over their uncertainty when their hour had come
they had done their job and it was this thought to that elmore how more had in his mind and he said that if they had one no one else is
gratitude they had his i think that these men all these men have are absolute gratitude for fighting for freedom for fighting for each
other for fighting for us and an actually the history doesn't end there nor does the book and we're going to save it for the next pot cast
the word to her about the story of eli albany which is a few miles to the north in still inside the i drink valley where second battalion
of the seventh cave moved in and fought and it's there so much that i didn't cover in this in the more i just covered their so much any
government any man over last but who does eventually get recovered a tree the book i should left that out spoiler and the but for there's
so much in there there so much the habit so many lessons learned so much action so much good description and the so many heroes and some
much sacrifice i only even think paradice i am the gratitude enough i think we owe them more than just gratitude we owe them are best we
owe them our lives are best lives every day every moment to remember this sacrifice and what we owe them is we owe them to live are best
lives then i think that's all i've got for to night so echo um me yet will i be compressed over here may you can give him import on
howsford this pot cast or support yourself if you want to i sure ye if you want you so of course the first way is supporting your joint
calstock about a supplement joesfeen beastkind go accont warfare and supercollegiate very good for you you want some of that get it at
orgement come i turned the front where you just click on lad to straight there also this good ah gee but before that give new product we do
a new promittere class of promises of produce ironwork out o your anyone and he is buzzing on are not yet so discipline so pre work out it
is all in that the coward or that's the name full both socalled duplin right so it's presidency to call our prewar up or calling in a
premission to supplement well pre work out would help you with your physical activity sarlotte disipline has coneiferae in his well i as
when you're on a mission you just don't need physical strength yet eat mental strength so this give you both yes so if your mission the
work out but there you go in a free work up her mission is a exam it's a pre examp yes supplement if you're if your mission is a mission
will you see to greenish ere you go boom ah yes get down am i too can vouch for this to some one to fit should perform well to you know
display its effects i also gezira at organman all made in america the more i think about that the more would big deal that is the relic
deal yet because it's from it like always say the coin to the d the gear the you know mother stuff that there's a lot of cool stuff on
their geese rash guards even a pair of all made america organ man to come a spot to get him if you want to i want i like em funny like
every once in a while is fine myself just worrying all origins got not on purpose too it's the kind not at my favorite short even thou they
don't have em i know he were that it were every other day approximately and you know mussing yourself in the stuff but it's still good this
might be an also for fitness dear confidence she anna even if you're just doing kettle bells i say get darkest a cattle from hon it i do
come lashed jocko a three gate is all other creative work out stuff on their maces and countries and battle robes and and what not of
preaching if you're getting bored with the work up agin one of em had it in some creative we said geranium flushed jacotot get the dice to
the absecon lot o good information so it's kind of a catch twenty two good you can get in for on there a lot o good in full interesting in
full we made spent a lot of time there to be careful also when you buy this book we were soldiers once and young by general howe moore and
joe galloway you know it thinking i have no idea what you're thinking so some tells me about a year to if he watch the move a few good men
think it's done more yes she plays ah like the prejuges i shouldn't be more her name the character name is joe and galloway but color jill
summer name is joe galloway i noticed that anyway were you by this book we was layers now lather heritiers that they as toleretur preted
layers as not later walls are comin to this there's a big difference fine night charlie beckwith that formed up delators sheer beatin this
book the that's a just laryer yes i led out come from those layers for her lies for sure i no i still feel like joe always a layer
somewhere maybe i do o what if they negative no of this negative dearest at ainanan the gate could have negative but maybe maybe not and it
may did he failed they failed he conjuror it after it he so we'll delineation now that really wet she convelli way i stillinger when you am
when by this leon you by the look we have alision a website along with all the books that jack refuse it's on the website jocko podcast dot
com in the section of a topman click books from parabolas all there by episode quick though their good way to afortime from amazon muata
stuff and then you don't continue to do more shopping if you want if you want carry on they go through whiteshore also subscribed to the
paces i tom who will play stitcher spot afy come from some sent me me actual lincombes i saw it lesly visual confirmation spoil and other
pot gassing providing platforms i subscribe i know you have already by its say some but in the undyingly find likely or a chance that he
danusco subscribe good with effort if you are also subscribe to you too if you like the tiger the visual the video veronicas now he would
jocosely you see what i look like if you care about the sort of thing don't most people don't care what we look like no no i i don't i
don't think it makes sense it they don't care to one matter they just care about the content of your character subscribed to eat too that's
the point if he do carbottle looked like also the exercate good way to get little bits of lessons messages from jocko sharable senator the
whole two and a half is our podcast in sartees pass some on you know let some one else oh learned these lessons with you also jocasta
called jocaste named after him jesoot is where you can get the cool shirts i think they're cool and i think he goes down just my opinion
because people have emailed me in bed and like a lesaca because i made sure they are not the lollardy you know people extorsit brand on or
if their printing sir they're like heliet the cheap months are of to spend a lot of money play it safe all this stuff and into that about
the good ones stuff bit i would actually wear regardless of what's printed it like you wearable there warble taweny the final there good
i'm here in runnin yer correct me too when an i will know where it if i didn't want a war on you there very good that's where you can get
the shirt is when the self on there also this rascarse there for activities such as surfing cogito warrior to grassgarth ere he could rush
cart should be reclothe she'd be there good i vowed to get a man in time to ship for curses that would be like to it ocote and you tategami
val said throatward withal i found it is yeatman you better succeeding a you know this way once seneschal there for detouring in kind cool
activity cycling whatever in then you want range amoton to be maintained one hundred per cent and performance be increased by nineteen per
cent i think it's of the twenty one per cent in retention the field the yeah i think i a kind of average case some people a little bit more
i know the theopile they they pushed the average up i think that's at work anyway coleopter check it out and nothing get something but if
you want something to any get something and and it's portsmue good ways for fotestas well beer one they might be running like might have to
get sore it is winter i get it but they at the tethered the ah the dickies also psychologic arter what that is if you don't know i know we
all know what it is or adytum ber one and i to well may not be number one any more that's long story anyway if you don't know what it is
the unlikely event that even now what it is is what it is it's an alb with tracks jocatus each track is designed to help you through
moments of weakness when you're on your path when you run your war path avenele have ououge not less on you the path of discipline right
you're a program you on your campaign against weakness you you hit little it's not just one smothered and it's not a bonstetten and it's
riddled riddled every day probably every minute literally riddled with distractions every one in a while you'll hit a moments of weakness
weitspeck distraction laco energy bored em repetitive nestus ness tediousness that's orders what psychological workers for a little spot
for those moments you don't wake up early every single day ah we got the solution for that he listened to the little track jacopodi telling
you a kingite the little moment a weakness something with winding to skip the work of for the day that was mine that was mine in more track
isfandyar the bunch of em for all kinds of stuff giving on the diet and the good one that's what psychological warfare is very effective
hundred per cent effective but the bolt patent as you can get jackaway tea on amazon which will make you devoted to a thousand pounds
actually comformed a eneidos on their way the warrior kit good christmas gift is also good whatever gift so get all it on the path get them
on the path got so much gratian on that extreme ownership this is re leading at every level in combat in business and in life picture
monarchic written meat by me and my brother ladebat also from an individual perspective if you want to get yourself on the pathes no better
gift than disappoint the disciplineless manual everyone asked me for work out that's where they are evroland me what i eat that's where it
is if it asked me how much i sleep that's where it is so get that if you want the audivero the audivero is not an audible to autoisi of
desparedo field manual is on i tunes amazon music duvall and all his other empetre distributing gladford there's another master the muster
which is atlanta lilieski conference there's two of them cannabin two of them in two thousand eighteen we don't have enough room in this
cedule to fit three ah one washing in decried this is actually not one it's number five is a never five washing and c may seventeenth
eighteenth and in number six san francisco october seventeenth and eighteenth commanded it you can register for those edermine dotcom is
are they going to be like bigger you know like you have gatteria more piffle have all we have a little bit bigger to basketett we just we
don't have time at this schedule any more yeah gait and we are going to do the rollcall four long fortement military vivider we do that as
well but we haven't the locked a day on that one yet also for lorship in addition as potash in titian the books and dition of the master we
have leverman at consulting company and you can hire us to me lay abandoned dave burge male in potash on ashland from doom if you want us
to come and speak at an event don't call a speakers bureau don't call a speaker's agency does go to ashes go to athlone doom ye they been
calling me a yeah don't do that that's a we do and if you have comments or questions or answers for us we could be found on the inter webs
on twitter on instance and on that his pocket is at echo charles and i at jackwell ing and thanks to those people those soldiers sailors
airmen and marines that sign up that sign up and volunteer to make the ultimate sacrifice thank you all for protecting us and our freedom
and to police and landforce ment thanks for protecting us from crime and criminals and terrorists right here come two paramedics thanks
were coming to us in our time of need when we call and to the fire fighters right now out there almaine especially in our state right here
of california cal fire than her your service and your sacrifice that my condolence is to those who have fallen in recent days in weeks and
our fought are with the families of the fallen and for every one else that listening when you see what men can do when pushed by on the
limit of human capacity when you see that when you hear about it when you read about it well then remember to push yourself push yourself
every day every moment get out there and get after it and so until next time this is echo and jocko a
