this is jackal past number one o six with a cuchares and me jocelini bideing accolade now in potash one o five we finish just as the one
seven cave for the i drink valley after keeping it together during a vicious three day fight where they suffered the massive casualties
seventy nine killed in action a hundred and twenty one wounded the ten and on top of that the battle field was littered with enemy dead
with the estimates of enemy dead to be between five hundred and a thousand and we stopped there were the were the one seven cap left a
battle field so he hadn't listened to one o five yet go back and listen to that before continuing with this paason o sex because even
though the one satan left a battle field of battle was an over yet and one of the one of events that i i didn't really talk about in the
first i drank pot cast on an on to five was the fact that two other battalions had arrived on the ground to reinforce the one seven and it
was the second battalion fifth cavalry commanded by lieutenant colonel robert toi and second battalion seventh cavalry led by lieutenant
colonel robert mc dade now most of the battalions men from those to pitied landed an elzevir which was about two miles away from extra and
had patrolled to x ray on foot arriving from th most part without incident and then things seemed to settle down a lot of extra one seven
left and once one seven had left a battlefield to seven and two five or still there so at that point that portion of the battle was over
and two seven and two five croutha likely benacre tealafrance ly just at one seven a ben it seems that general westmorland did not like the
idea of two seven and two five pulling out he thought that that would appear as a retreat so he ordered that too five and two seventh
secure elsie for the night and then the next day they would move by foot patrol to another eleele elsie albany which was about two point
five miles to the north and then be fifty bones were gone the rain down bombs on el cry in the sounding areas they didn't expect a water
resistance cause things had settled somewhat down so much on elsie that i if you remember even towards the end of the last pocasse was
reporters came in and landed to electronicas shots and interviewing people so it was pretty settled down they felt like it was over and
they didn't expect much resistance on this movement from elsie a ray to elsie albany so let's go back to the book the book as we were
soldiers wants in young but general how more and joe galloway and like i said there wasn't much resistance expected and here is what it
says in the book the word among bob make dates troopers was that it was going to be a walk in the sun astrologer to another land exon with
the helicopters would come in and extract them the first leg of the journey home to an kathe ward was wrong and these guys even though
their hand been much fighting going on they were actual a little bit tired because they had been awake on the ground so he rego just before
alicompayne second battalion moved out its commander captain joe sat denis put out an unusual order his executive officer lieutenant larry
glenthorne here a lot from the tenant larrigan remembers it well the company had been on a hundred per cent older for over fifty two hours
we were in such a state of exhaustion that cap in a denis directed that each man take to a peccable aspern with caffeine a moved designed
to increase the mental alertness of the troops so they go take little caffeine little aspern did you guys do your heads in the game because
they'd been waited for a long time again they're not expecting much but they still begone ground in a hot else for a while back to the book
recently with the titans communication officer was with headquarters company we were told that this would be attacked gomov there was a lot
of stuff on the battle field equipment supplies captured stuff that had to be pleased it up and blown up all in a hurry up situation i was
personally caring in arcioni ety two antenna in addition to my regular pom battled i waited about a hundred and forty pounds my normal
combat load was forty or fifty pounds the two nine two antenna weighed sixty pounds the temperature must been ninety six and humidity was
the same we were moving as fast as we could through the elephant grass and scrub oaks some high canopy we were humping every one was as
tired as could be so were arderon situation we been on the ground for fifty two hours and were going to move to a half miles doesn't sound
very far but when you're carrying tighe's already cared a hundred pounds as forty fifty pounds come out load pussented everyone else is
carrying all kinds of existeth pulling off the else ninety six degrees out ninety six percent humidity and walkin through the jungle is
never easy at the up and down a little tranfers the ah gone various foliage is horrid or so this is not easy not the biggest guy too by the
we a hundred forty hundred fifty pounds which casuals aller back then ye but still they are now far poteano hundred pounds is that's no
joke that's no joke back the book to kentigern gin of alpaca says the jungle around us got heavier and heavier that's when things got a
little scary there was the sudden absence of any air cover be guided were silent and i wondered where are helos and her air area rocked
artilleryship were we had not changed formation tactic we but physically we had to move in much tighter to maintain visual contact because
of the undergrowth the terrain forced our flaker flankers and to this point there they did had a bunch of air covenant have any air
overright now and now the train is making them get closer and closer together because if you and i anonatea want to keep you in visual
range and here be able to see you and so if all the sudden there's elephant grass while the only way to to keep visual of use for you to
get close to me and for meeting close the next guy and so every one starts to compress my stocking about the flankers being out there a lot
of times when we petrolium you'll put people out on the flanks with invital range but they'll be stretching the visual range but there out
there to make sure that there's no one's sneaking up on you and so have the it's getting dense now to the point where they can't keep their
flankers on so now you losing some of that flank security back to the book bonsas alicompania column order integrity had been good and to
coepiones were captured and everything came to a sudden hope when i arrived signes signe's was interrogating the two they were men
condition new weapons grenades new gear but both were feverish terrified and shaking none of us in company had quarters of seen alive nor
henemies up close these were not the last re with see this day we gave them water and advised the detain had caused so openly got a couple
of prisoners little scary to me when the prisoners that we take have brand new weapons new grenades new gear i mean we at least know that
their fresh and maybe they're not come back harder but we know that they've got some good their well supplied which is a scary thing in
this type of war so this is this is kind of rare looking back in sight of course being twenty twenty this is this is an error or a or a
mistake that gits made right now and a course mistakes happen all the time and they they don't get capitalized on by the enemy sometimes by
luck sometimes by skill of the enemy this is one of those mistakes that it gives capitalized again whether it's by luck or plan for a
probably by lackaye it's a little bit of both you wouldn't think much of it if things in go away they did you know late late at ostades
conversation a lot of men you don't know when things are going to go wrong m and and seriously you can be on the battle field and you can
you can say hey everyone go left and everyone does laughed everything turns out great or you can say every one go right and ever go right
neverending turned out great if you go left and you happen to go to where the enemy was waiting in ambush for you to go now you're you're
you just made a bad back coco the the thing that made it about to call at the enemy happened to be the only wouldn't know that said i if
you'd been if you said go right we eat a great may the greatest call ever cause he had an was over the way for again you don't know where
the edme's goin to be done have that love ury so sometimes you make a vestal decision you can make and it turns out bad now we can look
back at this hindsight being twenty twenty of course and and criquetot to happen so we we will talk a little bit more about it here's what
goes down back to the book captain george forest commander of alpaca first batallion fifth cavalry was more than five hundred yards to the
rear solesgate in a long column of march there of people mc dade asked all the company commanders to come forward so mc daytona is the
pitanate he tells all the companies commanders to come for to ease me gates up at the front of his column and who knows how big they are
the he says he's five hundred yards the red this pale thing probably span out probably six seven hundred maybe ten eight hundred meters
working close to a collamer and length of people just spread out lo just so every one understands its hard to control forty guy in a in a
light of march with any kind of control that spread out over two hundred meters that shanging five hundred six hundred guys spread out over
almost a lameter we have a serious commanding control issue so now what he's doing to overcome this issue is telling all the all the
company commander so there's three companies that are out there actually is more than that but there's multiple companies out there he
tells all the company graters had come to my position at the front of the things to weaken talk about what's happening back to the book
captain says mire the charley company commander was also moving up the cow calenture mic dad's position with him or his two radio operators
his artillery his artillery forward exarsere be tendencies ith and his radio men as well as for first sergeant franklin hands so alain
think about that or leave explained the suliemon here's the charley company commander he's moving for red leaving his company and with him
he brings his to radio operators so hostile it a company there might be one button guy left that a radio operator may be one in each
poltoon but there there she pulling the the communications now out of the company right there he brings forward his artillery observer so
that the guy that's going to be a to place artillery other guys can pick up the slack but not as well as this guy can do it ah he brings
the tenant sidney smith and his radio men so that means that so sorry the the artilery observer is lieutenant city smith but that guy
brings his radio man as well to the is another guy out of a loop and then the first serge the company first starch so now that's the
lorship but company bearship is now from protaean is now gone there moving up forward to talk about it and so here ah they give a kind of
an overview of what's going on here does this is what back to book this is what was happening so denis alpaca was moving forward toward the
albany clearing of a they've now approved their kind of approached this this eliab that's there talking of the albany clearing um alicante
sergine's alicompayne was moving toward the albany cleary colonel mac date in his vatannan group were with afikuman the other company
commanders had left their companies under orders and were moving up to join mc dade for a conference to the other company commanders are
not what their companies any more the etain was strung out along the line of march for a distance of at least five hundred fifty yards to
half a lumiere men of delicate were willing around on the ground charlie company had flankers of the each side with but were mostly taking
a break sitting or lying down george forest men at the tail of the column or in a wedge formation in also had flank security posted the men
of the tin were worn out afternoony sixty hours without sleep and four hours of marching through difficult to rain visibility in the chest
high elephant grass was a very limited that situation of being here's lieutenant gin talking we had been there a short time five minutes
when i heard some rounds fired near our first potion i thought they must a caught up with those envisager then everything opened up opened
up the firing just crescendo they hadn't found the stragglers they had run right into the north enemies i was out in the grass away from
the trees when it started the rounds were so fast and furser head they were knocking bark off the trees i ran to them one round struck the
tree i was crouched next to an inch over my head i said holy ship and ran to join joe we all got down then i heard this sickening womp of
mortar fire landing where i had to see our second poton disappear the most savage one day battle of the vietnam war had just begun the
second batalion seventh cavalry had walked into a ornatest the north vietnamese reserve force the five hundred fifty man at batalion sixty
six regiment had been bivack in the woods off to the north east of mcadam sir you got fresh soldiers that had been waiting there was the
reserves that whole earlier battle in the high drank with the one seven cave this this vehemence the sixty six regret to tisienus regiment
had been waiting in reserve and now they just so happened to be in the line of march where these were the two were the two five is coming
through for sorry the two seven is come in through a year's what colonel anne who again this was the vietnamese commander here's what he
had to said say i think this fight of november seventeen tashmit important of the entire campaign i gave the order to my battalions when
you meet the americans divide yourself into many groups and attack the column from all directions and divide the calm into his many pieces
move inside the column grabbed them by the belt and thus avoid casualties from the artillery and air we had some advantages now for
livinstone oreque are two things first of all get the battalion split up right and if you hear and i always talk about the common theme of
keeping things together keeping people consolidated keeping your groups were the commutual support each other his gods the opposite that
get them split up so they can't support each other that's number one so contrary to that what you should always be doing as a leader's
trying to keep your forces as consolidate his possible so they can take manoeuvre together and most important support each other to cover
move now the second part of this is moving side the column grab them by the belt and thus avoid casualties from artillery there that
something that we still seek to this day we talked about it with the chessington at was the chechens mode of operandum operandi take to get
inside a bright next the russians they call it hugging they would get in there and and get in the same building as the russians so you
can't call virneu own building so that's what the that's what the veinees war trying to do now what's beautiful about these statements
bigamous these two statements this is beautiful commanders in tether is all i want you to split em up get close to him that's what i want
you to do is not say how to do is not telling each individual group we were to move and what to do he is hand split him up and get a close
to him estaloe this is gives the guys on the battle field in corradiate to execute that plan back to the book we had some advantages as on
continuing we had some advantages we attacked your column from the side at the moment of the tack we were waiting for you this was a
reserved italian and they were just waiting for their turn the atepetl an had not been used in fighting in this campaign they were fresh
spect for dick actorines it the right flank point man in the recomputed which was itself the point of the battalion says acumen we are
going to the left to a clearing we had gone about a hundred feet will be heard some shots then more shots and finally all hell broke loose
the main brunt of the attack was right where we had been standing just a few minutes before we had the dirt i was laying in the middle of
the clearing and bullets were kicking dirt in my eyes and breaking off the grass ackerman's first sergeant was standing shouting and giving
directions his sure was off and he was in a tea shirt he lifted his left on the point and i could see where a bullet had ripped him ripped
open the side of his arm and part of the side of his chest he was still giving orders we were then ordered to another part of the circle
that was weak it was facing the main area of attack there were people running everywhere we couldn't just open fire in that direction
because our guise were there we were in semi automatic and picking off whoever we could be sure of as a target so this disturbs in him
immediately indicos and again this is why consolidation of your forces is so important because the many you have enemy in between you and
other friendly forces your field a fire completely shut off in your likely when you when you are pulintang you have a good chance of you're
in a sotomayor own guy now so that's what gain why consolations have forces is very very important now he say this all time i'll make a
caviata are there times where you can get away with with splitting your forces and there onetime that makes sense yes absolutely verities
that makes sense and we did all kinds of operations over seas where we had different units out on the battle field that were split up and
manoeuvring from differenter es we did all the time but you have to know and understand the rest the after no one understand the risks of
splitting forces of having enemy in between of trying to consolidate back together which is very very difficult degust have to really think
about what the rest or how he can mitigate those re sometimes you can do with the taranfeather you can put guienne where pa i have free
fire because you're down behind a knoll or yourn a ravine where i know you that i can't shoot you that that's the type of thing that you
can do to mediate but it is something that people think they can get away with and you know matter of fact we were doing after a sand it
was interesting we had one of the one of the females during the planning face we we have him plan just a a a couple operations just to sort
of get used to planning before we start the actual after this is for those you don't know we have companied all that long front and
sometimes we do feel training after cises with the companies were working with to get them took to help instill in them the fundamental
principles combat leadership so it was funny to this one female she had come up with this plan and they re entered this target building
from two different directions on one by the classroom for yesterday rewritten and she actually i said you know we've said keep it simple
and it can be a little bit confusing if you start entering a building from two different sides and your now you've got guns pointed at each
other and near you got to be careful that you don't shoot each other and and she literally said i just don't see how it's going to happen
that week had go into this building of worses going to start shooting each other ye of course i smiled on the inside sir and said okay and
and literally the next day during the after fate of the training which were using her soft weapons and your shooting at magis they came up
with the plan entered a building from two sides and she and did the building and literally shot one of her own people she did exactly what
she didn't think her happened if and and that's what people have to retain now you might think all of this graatis female and she was she's
not a military person and it's you know that's why it happened no i saw seals do it all the regular in you're all hyped up you go in that
room you see a person moved crack crack em fer a couple of shops and then you realize what happened so till that the tone on here split
forces things are going crazy now he re go aramis back to the book after man's recompounded er lieutenant pain he says all how broke loose
upon the north side of the elsie i turned to my right and observe some american soldiers moving toward the north west so setups tions and
they went down in a hale a bullets within minutes we were all under heavy attack and my radio operator and i were pinned down in the middle
of the elzy with the most of the fire with most of the fire coming from the north and north west lieutenant pains ready oercome alive as
the alicompayne pocketholes reported heavy fighting pain says morteros began falling which was a new experience to every one since we had
never had any kind of moral fire against us the noise level was unbelievable i remember pressing my body flatter against the ground and i
have ever been in my life and thinking that certainly the highest thing sticking up where my heels mortars continued to fall and small arms
and machine gun fire continued in a hectic pace finally my mind seemed to adjust and i once again began to think about the situation we
were in and what we were going to do so you see there's a leader he's bin down and this is something that that the insurgents in iraq would
do as well to their going to hit you with multiple different weapons systems ennoia combined coordinated attack so a few can imagine if you
start hitting people with morners well every one needs to get down one to get down you need to take cover well you're taking cover that's
that's cover deronne they're going to be verinder going to move or in with with have you weapons or her going to move manuriness water
they're going to new or an with the vehicle bore it said this is same thing happening here as you're getting more good which these guys
aren't used to which the int the there's not much you can do to get used to it cause it doesn't matter doesn't help you to find it you can
be used to it you stopt get down you stiff to take over these guys are taking cover and what i found interesting about this was you can see
in his mind for a couple of seconds maybe thirty seconds he's just going holder on going to die and then finally he says my mind seemed to
adjust and once again i been think about the situation we were in and all were going to do now this is wot combattere ce is helpful if you
haven't been in the situation before is going to take you a few seconds to an apt and be like oh dan i need to do something too if you
haven't been enough situation before you could end up with some you are you an take his time or just in it like we talk about with self
defense what you get you if you never been grabbed before ye and you've never been ground on before you've never had come for someone pulls
you before it's your mind set takes time dis to get through that before you even some thinking about actually defending yourself or just
getting used you're just an a whole cropwise as happen however you train all the time then you're used to it you go oh okay some of got me
here's woman get out said they were getting punch in the face if you never been punching the face before it takes some getting used to you
really get punched her four or five times before you like way to second i need to defend myself if you've been pinched before both all i
got punctooation here's one of a de and your speaking of it going back to getting inside that the same thing getting close to some one what
they were trying to do what the north eat me to turn to get close stay close that's the same thing that you do too as you try to avoid the
big punches you know you get in close you stay close you keep the person close to you that's are you avoid getting knocked out same thing
so trained train hard back to the book alpaca's alphito apocopes commander captain sennes was in the trees headed to wear he had seen the
potion command group disappear just as i noticed a small clearing up ahead i heard one or two shops to my rear back where my first and
second patons were i looked back there was a pause of several seconds and then slowly all held began to break loose i i remember for we
were reading the book by any pile and he talked about the expression all hell broke whose cause we we deserted like five time if any token
about how it beats over used but it's real heaven tell with these guys it it's just absolutely real that all hell is breaking this and
order say this too because i didn't i mention this about dade macaws the bataan commander mc day is the basin commander he had just taken
over the battalion like a few weeks before and he had moved from some adman position inside the inside the the the i don't i inside the
battalion or inside the brigade but he had moved from wika sort of an administrative position into battalion command so another word she
wasn't charge of in charge of any troops and then all of a sudden he was in charge of troops and in through elater going on to combat now
that being said but he also said that this guy hadn't been in charge of any troops in like ten years so he he he apparently done his button
commander his company command in world war two and cressidas an experienced combat leader but he's out of practice of his out of tactics
and more probably more important or just as important to to being out of practice as he just took over so part of being a biting commander
he is that you train and prepare your troops for combat you get to know all your man you get to understand their weaknesses you just can't
jump in and take over and all of a sudden have the knowledge that you would have if you were preparing every one that's why training is so
important as to why we train you so if you are if you are not given the opportunity to train and lean your troops year and a huge
disadvantage you're an haven't had time to train them up to the year standards you know this guy was in world war two and corea he
understands combat and so the thing that he wouldn't put his guy's through a you know a certain level straining to get them up to speed and
made sure they do things like like make sure that there's a a other people in the chainman i can step up and lead having a succession
planned so so like him calling people forward maybe if he had trained of italian he knew that there was other guys in there that will be
able to take charge and realize there is like a little a little hesitation there that was going to happen which is what happened if so he
doesn't know his his ten well enough for the situation and that's not good back to the book captain sergens says werry going and i hit the
edge of albany on the north east side of the clearing as the column began to receive intense fire we began received peragenor fire part of
the re compute had already reached the island on the island of retort as liking island of love wood an island of trees i yelled across the
opening for some one a cover us we ran to the island this point i called my first and second batons on the radio almost immediately i lost
communications with first batoon the pucoon sergeant for the second pontoon came on the radio that was sergeant first class william a
farrel thirty eight from stampedes he was a veteran of world war two and career had been a prisoner of war in korea and could have chosen
to remain in the state i did not have to deplore vietnam with us every one called him pay feroke asking captain sergine's where he was
telling him that they were mixed up with the north vietnamese and had several wounded and killed i couldn't pin point his location i knew
where he should have been directly east of our island pappy then radio that he was hit that there were three or four men with him all hit i
could hear the fiery and his location over the radio i never heard from papagais he did not survive this confusion it happens is fararar
stuff this is the complete foreword stuff and by the way the enemy gets a vote the enemy get a vote the enemy kintoki like this that you on
expect the enemy can hit you for multiple size the enemy can have a strategy to get or a tactic to get in close that's what the enemy's got
to do you don't know what the enemy's going to do actually you don't know what they're going to do you don't know they are going to have
mortars this time back to the book lieutenantcolonel mc dade himself recalls when things began happening i got him with afikuman i know i
was trying to figure out what was going on i moved very fast let's get over there in those trees and let all get together the enemy seemed
to be all over the woods we had good tight control in the immediate area and were trying to figure out where everybody else was one of the
things i was very concerned with was a people being trigger happy in just shooting up the grass i was telling them make sure you know what
you are shooting at because we are scattered so notice how he says as we had good tight onto immediate area i were trying to figure out
where we notice this is horrible it shows you to think when you have good tickertape ple you okay if you know where your people are our
okay there's the worn of the worst feelings on the battle field is not knowing aware your guides are that is one of the worst feelings on
the battle field not knowing where you're guys are an sitting there trying to figure out where we notice which i guess those two of the
same things and so the biggest concern that he has right now is a kesso concerned about friendly fire he control your people back to the
book that italian operations officer captain spires believes that the the fact that the commanders were absent from their companies when
the fight started contributed to the confusion it had the most effect i think on charlie company their commander captain skipped fast mire
was up with us and down cornet the charlie company executive officer was killed early on so they had no commander and they just
disintegrated so clear is osborne thing on the botfield talk about that all the time this is why this is why when you see a platoon or
company that doesn't have any leadership they fall apart now if you are well trained and if you have a good succession plan and if you've
done drills were the company commander get kill that you take him out of the people have to step up and lead yes that is how he prepare for
the situations you have to prepare flestrin you have to prepare for leaders to go down but if you have no one that steps up dear going to
be in a real hard way real fast back to the book the entire area was now alive with north vetoes soldiers who had obviously cut through the
battalions line of march severing the head of the battalion from the body gwyn saw three g gis coming through the high grass running from
the area swarming with enemy i jumped up and screamed to them waving my arm they saw me and headed directly drawer position the first man
was a captain or air force forward air controller who was completely spent i pointed out the biting command group which was huddled to our
rear at the at another ant hill and he crawled toward them he was followed by the battalion sergeant major jim scott who dropped down next
to me and scott was followed by a young very small p f who was delirious and holding his gun with his hands he kept asking are the hello
coppers coming i said yes hang on the medalion commander initially fault that the incoming rounds were all friendly fire so think about
that the atinian er on this aleala the incoming rounds were all friendly fire so at his reaction take covered osheba m which is actually if
you're getting maneuverin by an enemy the worst possible thing you can do is take cover enough you back because that means the enemy's
going to new for fast drawn you back to the book he had been hollering for all of us to cease fire and the word went out over the command
net but to no avail as the troops on the perimeter could see nor to an times the canyou imagine the confusion you've got the batin
commander on the command that yelling every one i see fire meanwhile you can literally see north lethean you shooting in engaging him this
is i this is ma'am the sergeant major and i were looking to the rear when i heard a loud blast the sergeant major yelled in it he had taken
around in the back one his arm pit and there was a large hole underneath his right arm i told him he would be okay to band to get himself
this he did ripping off his shirt then he picked up his end sixteen and had it back to one of the ant hills i saw the sergeant major a few
times after that and he was fighting like a demon sergeant major scott says i took a bullet through my chest not more than fifteen or
twenty minutes into the battle i could see enemy soldiers to our left right and front in the in potion and company size a women's they were
up and trees up on top of an halls and in the high grass we weren't exactly organized we didn't have time everything happened all at once i
didn't see a hole being dug up prior to eight p m that night we did use the trees and anvils for cover within a half an hour there was an
attempt to organize groups into defense position in the company area individuals did this no one in particular i think that's what saved us
so this is decentralized command coming at you the only thing that gets in together that individuals stepped up and tetoken to form a
permeter offence now unforcedly o a half an hour an hour already passed when they got to this point where the individual start making the
call the other thing is there's a lack of overall direction so you get to a point where if everyone knew hey here's a vacation were going
to be in the italian here's our formation if something happens here's bargane or in a bound towards the ariarathes whole kinds of
contingency plans that could have been done her no gin i'm doing hinside twenty twenty which i hate doing but we are trying to learn and we
are trying to talk to wealthe military people that it was in this theropont right now think about this that i had this probably told the
story before but when we first got to remade my one of the junior officers was taking a patroon is apt concubines patrol with siracides and
some seals and he was going over the patrrol with me and he gratis bag open field a said the other word here we after across this field
cause only way to get from here to there not a one do when you get to open field he is in wilson to get across it as how he torcross it he
said well arawak across it as it were do you hit and he didn't really ave any attraction so he was regent do leave him is in the tree line
over here have these guys down across to this little diceret here then those guys can join him come removed is covered it across his field
and that's if they did in sure enough they actually got it they got hit with a pretty significant attack and he with more resent small arm
fire and day covered moved a situation but my point is looking at the train before hand having a plan and the next cetinge plan in
dictating a situation you're going to be it instead of letting the the situation dictate what happens to you don't do that does not a good
answer situation dictate that's not it we dictate situation and talked about it before and then have your like the vietnamese command was
very broad commanders intent dick close split up these guys didn't have a command like that what could be opposite command of it then stick
together to stick together keep integrity well there you go don't let them in close okay there you go back to the book so genes and gwen
art agree that it was not long after this the alicandro alicompania missing second batonlike at gordon grove staggered into the american
position from the east here's larry go in talking i saw gordon gouty grove coming across the field along with two wounded men they were the
only ones left at his bolton who could move grove was distraught we got him and his two men with us and our macgowran working on the
wounded then gordy asked for men to go back with him to get his people josselins said gerty i can't send anybody about else back out there
he was clear that to leave this perimeter was deaf everywhere you looked you could see nor tredame gordy asked permission to go talk to the
metacom and her so genie said go ahead he jogged over asked me gave for help to get get his man got a negative response so he came back to
our anil so this is one of those class examples you hear about old time people will try and get you in the ah the catch twenty two question
like the gotique tion well what would you do if you were in the situation and he and use of you guys were still out there but you never
ought people to get him or you are being overwhelmed to what would you do well here's a these guys do rather though it no you can't go get
em send it more people of ever going to die if they did we send ten guys out their fifteen eyes of her eighteen eyes of or to go we
overstone going to lay em or got where i stay for woighty best we can from it we'll get fire superiority back will get a ship together and
then we'll go get these guys goin adds there was a tremendous battle going on in the vicinity of where we had come into the clearing and
beyond there in the jungle it was charlie company caught in the killing one of the ambush fighting for its life the more fire had ceased
the enemy tubes apparently had been overrun by charlie company be because we found them all the next day but there were still hundreds of
northome calmly walking around the area we were observing now began the sniping phase of our battle i call it that because for a long
period of time all we did was pick off enemy wandering around our primer and this last in til we started getting aristor everything that
had happened at this point had probably taken less than thirty minutes gwyn saw major frank henry to the tin executive officer lying on his
back using the radio thing despite get some tactfully or support and succeeding the air was all the way but now is no artillery or aerial
rocket artillery yet jim spires the sthream to us and cleared gordon grove cortege asked the situation outside the primaner where he had
just come from grove told him there were still men out there tightened into a small premier but they were all wounded and dying in the
radios and all been knocked out captain spires asked the second time if he thought any one was still alive and none of us said anything
gwyn climbed a top a termitines sniping at the north leones visible across the clearing in the trees to the south was semite rifle there
were plenty of targets and i remember picking off tenor fifteen envie from my position my memories revolve around the way in which each
enemies soldier fell that i hit some would simply limp slump limply to the ground some reacted as if they had been hit by a truck some that
i missed on the first and second shots kept on milling around until i finally hit them what we did not know at the time was that they were
wandering around the elephant grass looking for americans who were still alive and killing them off one by one nor freedome soldiers
climbed in the trees and on top of those brush covered termite hills and poured fire down on the cavalry troops true prostrated in the tall
grass below them in the main body of the column there was serious firing including morterfied boat from both sides the strike at the head
of the call was followed so quickly by the enemy and circling and salt that the whole business seemed to rub almost simultaneously without
doubt some of some patonce batalion were alert and in as secure a formation as they could achieve in the elephant grass brush and thick
scrub trees but the visibility probated difficult to maintain formation and one result was that american trot for cosine another than was
tactically sound providing juicy genie duty targets for gernade mortoun or burst from a ca forty seven rifle all down the column pothunters
sergeants radio operators and riflemen by the dozens were killed or wounded in the first ten minutes rapidly degrading communication
cohesion and control to this whole thing that we talked about up in the pons a half an hour just a brutal and thought that that kicked off
with massive violence of action captain pasmore adds the result was very intense individual hand to hand combat in the confusion i had no
idea exactly where the company was located when we tenant cornet died it was virtually impossible for me to talk to any one in my company
the battle had clearly become an individual struggle for life again that was the goal of the vietnamese was to make it an individual
struggle was to get in close was to separate people from the main battalion split it up a news many parts as possible said nakopit apart
speckport jack smith whose in charley company had been a radio operator until about a week or so before this operation when he was shifted
to a supply corksome events of november seventeen are etched on his mind smith company commander captain pasmer had like the others been
called to the front by lieutenant colonel mc dade subsequently many people pointed to this as a major error and in light of what has
happened it was the firing began to roll on all round by the executive officer of my company a man called dan corneto very fine officer
jumped up and in the best style of the infantry school yelled follow me elements of our first in second petuna right towards a series of
aunt hills with inten feet of them we saw where the machine gunners behind them firing point blank at us men all around me began to fall
like moan grass i had never seen people killed before they began to drop like figs and die right in funem these worthy only friends i had
and they were dying all around me private first class james h shadows in foredoom mortallone the intensity of the fire increased at a point
where shade couldn't hear anything but weapons firing nears what he says tom johnson came crawling with me hit in the cheek in the back of
the hand the trees were full of northenmost spotting one was almost impossible they blended in so well i kept raising up to try and detect
a good target mace shalt news laying next to me kept jerking me down as i raised up again a bullet pierced my helmet straight through front
to back i went down again and came back and the anas i came back up a bolt struck the tree beside my head from behind i don't know where we
were surrounded or was our own men they were firing wild anything that moved somebody shot at it one trooper crawled up next to me shooting
through the grass a few inches off the ground toward where her own people lay never thinking what he was doing i told him to be sure he
knew what he was shooting at the firing eventually began to slack off shadin has no idea how much time elapsed there was no way to keep
track of time in a fight like this then were wounded and dead all in the area six were alive that i know of sergeant tyler pay carter
piccanin pet shelton piece cones and myself tilgate the only order i heard during the entire fight tried to pull back before they finish us
off sheltered to the ground and would not move the five o lus proceeded to try and pull back but the snipers were still in the trees soon i
was hit in the right shoulder which for a time rendered it useless tiles hidden the neck about the same time he died an arm's length from
me begging for the medic speck for william pleasant who was already dead the last words tyler of her spoke or i'm dying sergeant tiler
thirty five was from columbia south carolina the helplessness i felt as beyond description within a few minutes i was hit again in the left
knee the pain was unbearable contusion the feet and ankle we were wounded and trapped i could see we were getting wiped out a buddy helped
me bandaged my leg he got the bandage off a dead vietnamese i got behind a log and there was a vietnamese there busted up and dead this was
behind us so i knew we were surrounded it's for me it's crazy if they these are americans to really is you know the straying you you always
think novels that americans have the upper hand all the time but you know her you are you you you you don't you don't always have the upper
hand he chancons on it appears as if the ground was opening up and swallowing the more berman they they fell so fast a brown waves death
rolled over them and on into charley company vietnamese intermixed with them then reality said in the enemy held ground beyond the aunt
hill the column was cut in half in coming fire drew our attention back to the tree line the firing increased rapidly we returned fire a
muzzle flashes i heard an explosion behind me turning i saw thy compendled in all flash and smoke no casualties the volume of fire became
almost unendurable bullets peeled bark from trees vegetation disentegrated i looked to lieutenant james laura's for help saw as high his
head violently recoil he had the ground here's another description back to the bookies what the vietnam war looked by in the afternoon of
november seventeen through the eyes of two of captain forest apocope riflemen p did a purp lavender of murphy's brough illinois and speck
for james young steelville missouri says lavender my petunias bringing up the rear we started to maneuver and work our way up the column to
help those ahead every time we made him move we were hit by mortars it was something you can't describe people were dropping like flies the
first blast killed the young soldier named locatelli every time we moved the drop mortars on us i know we must have had twelve or fifteen
moondown of our poltoon including our cotoner these were my buddies i had been with any army for two years the majority of our whole
battalion of a drafted an aged twenty one and had been the service for over eighteen months all of us were nearly twenty three years old
tepic my brothers overtime hearing these fellows scream hearing them killed stuck in my heart and mind ever since the most critical part of
this fight was the beginning it was the surprise they had us in a ousaphais and they had a cut off with mortars surprise in violence of
action the surprising violence of action to klement of fire fights and here's what young said the other the other individual introduced a
moment ago there was a grassy field to my left twenty five or thirty yards and a sniper off on my right i couldn't see him but i saw a
tracer bullet go across my hand i felt the wind of that bullet the same bullet passed over the back of smith's neck he was lucky he had his
head down our company commander captain force came running along our line he was stopping and telling everybody were to go he acted as
though he was a mute to enemy fire i don't know how he kept from getting hit so captain forest stepping up and leading and what otting do
not happen without leadership to himines he gets up and makes these things happened at they are not going to happen that's what you do is a
leader you have to make things happen talk about it all the time there is an example of things do not happen unless you make them happen
now if you remember that oftentimes in vietnam there would be a command and control helicopter and we talked about this on one five where
the prigadeer actually came and landed for a little bit and then left well that was colonel timber on an here we have a little a section
with a talking about what he what's going on with him back to the book cuteron helicopter was running low on fuel and the chopper had
returned to refuel brown says i knew they were in a contact i did not know how severe or anything else while i was talking to mc dade i
could hear rifle fire but he didn't know what was happening i asked what happened to you lead unit he did know where's your trailing units
he didn't know and he didn't know what happened to any of the rest of them nobody knew what the hell was going on we were not a position to
shoot a bunch of artillery or air strikes in there because we didn't know where to put them only now that colonel brown begin rounding up
reinforcements to send in to help bobbies second battalion buono ice what he wants to know is where people are that that's the infernal
about this before i used to ask that you young junior alas with the most important piece of information you you can have on the battle
field and they say a war the enemy is and how how many there are and what kind of weapons there are and not the most important piece of
information there is on the battlefield is aware you are and i actually tell the same thing to business is cause i'm a a business is don't
where they are as i not tracking what they're doing so you ask him hey wowee you in your in your panel and your profit loss then dolowar
him where they're doing their hotweather sailes performances heterogenes you need to know where you are most important piece of information
there is here is mcneal gen the osteon el er the the the ah potanon er letendre in charge on the ground in that first hour so the situation
was so fooled that i was acting more as a platoon leader than a mitannian that's a flag red flag right dear acted if your acting as a
batoned and you're in charge of the opotoro guys of the titisee hundred six hundred head actooaly or choose donohan we were trying to
secure a primer i was trying to figure out what the hell was going on myself i don't think anybody in the betancour have told you what the
situation really was at that time i can see where this might have left him brown the predicate in the dark about what was going on i didn't
know myself until things quieted down to the tiny commander adds i could have yelled and screamed without we were a death trap in all that
crab but i didn't know it was as bad as it was i had no way of checking visually or physically by getting out of that perimeter so all i
could do is hope to get back in touch i wasn't going to scream at the sky was falling and specially in a situation where nobody could do
anything about it anyway so if you don't know what's going on deniers of that problem let the that's that's my assessment and also it's
also if you i'm not trying to say that you should cry wolf because you shouldn't but when things are going sideways you can wait for them
develop if you have a great grip iapeti if you don't know what's happening you'd better spend some people up the come help you and at least
get him spending at least get them turning that happens a lot where the guy the ground might not fully understand what's happening make the
callin say hey i need i i stand by or support stanyer of spun up you know you you make those calls doesn't mean send anybody but denham
ready get him closer dition stand by your as quick rations if imontegroa also it shaitel different directions i'm not really sure what's
happening i might not say send ecureuil say hey have the cure asmoke to position alpheues very close to where i am in case i do need them
in fifteen minutes or an a half an hour or an hour or right now i at least made that propogation the like for just provide some general
weariness yet for you could'st here turf quick reaction force they might be they might be thirty minutes away and they might need fifteen
minutes of notification time seven if you call them right now they're going to her in forty five minutes hum forty five minutes from bad
fire fight is not going to help you do so your first call now you might bring them in and you pre plan the so when i talk about pre
planning we would always be plan hay if we did you or affrena you to this point here will call you to this point here if we need to bring
you on one stand by will care call you to this point let's say this point in five hundred meters away from where we actually are and then
we have one that's right where we are like you come to this building if we call you off you comforts building we were in a shine get in the
tapeline if you don't hear from us we just call for turfmen that building will be inside it to that to arvilly m as they get closer hope
leontis medications with them directly but if you start losing control of the situation this is the thing when you start losing control of
the situation you call for your oonah moved to staging point so now there moving usedst rted that forty five minute clock right now they've
all spun off their all getting their vehicles they woke enough the the people that need a get out they get their peoples may drive it so
now they might get to the five hundred meters away and i had the situation on her tomasha we don't read you come in we're okay hold off
what you got there bombed but they don't care yet it rather have that because maybe in thirty minutes things are developed to a point where
i need him and now they can get there in fifteen minutes instead of in forty five maso again we're not trying to spin up and waste as that
for him but in an actually no who to dissever similar in that in the previous poast the guide called broken arrow which means troops ergot
be overrun didn't wait for any one saltees called he's a cambronero now it takes some time for those guys to show up there by the time they
got there they needed him similar thing now yet advocate yelling or screaming sometimes you might have to go hum you know you might need to
get that information people are paid attention what you're saying it could be badful if you've never been sitting in it in a actopan in a
weir people yelling he had penicaud most most military guys don't yell and scream for no reason there yelling screaming cause there's
there's a reason why they're yelling screaming don't recommend it i don't recommend it but i've heard it you know i prefer the condishing
yell and scream then calmed down and talk about what you actually need you can't just continued yelling scream cause you'll you will get
through clear do you casinum offend office true motional anne you know you just become hard understand we are coming yelling calmed down
yet there attention give simple clear concise direction of what you want back to the book each every man's tollin that field american in
north eadmund first life in the tall grass it was nearly impossible for the soldiers of either side to identify for under fro excepted
extremely close range americans in all of drab and northenmost brown were fighting in dying side by side it may have begun as a meeting
engagement a hasty ambush a surprise attack a battle of maneuverers all those things but within minutes the result was a wild mad lay a
shoot out with just gun fighters killing not only enemy not only the enemy but sometimes their friends just a few feet away there would be
no cheap victory here this day for either side there would be no victory all just the horrible certainty of death in the tall grass no
amilcare horrible back the book just for of head quarter section of the column charley company was beginning to die charlie companies
oochiri company a whole company men one fifty eyes speck forward jack smith was with the lealest inches in the charleycoats formation
nearly ten at don cornette the acting company commander when the company charged into the teeth of the enemy machine guns in the first
seconds smith saw one of the radio operators fall that with a bullet through his chest his eyes and tongue bulging out the men have charlie
company were firing in all directions smith recalls within a span of perhaps twenty minutes every one around me was dead or wounded except
me you have to understand that an ararat elephant grass was chest high once you hit the dirt you world was about as big as a dining room
table you warrant completely confined to that area and the six or seven men around you at that point we were isolated awfice was in the
same shape then the north redmire through i believe they came between alfaro any began to shoot people we didn't know if the noise was from
five feet away as they began to shoot people was friendly or enemy smith saw soldiers take machine guns lie flat on the ground to begin
firing into the grass often they were firing right into the muzzles of other american machine guns people were screaming to stop the
shooting it began to have all the elements of a massacre nobody was in control because all the officers were to the front and a radio
operators had fallen dead on their radio sets no leadership no communication you know i talked of business is that i explained this to my
there is your point there is loud and clear tell these business rigging talk to business as they talk about this problem in that problem go
other problem the promiseless ip that's the promise the promise leadership and the situation like this with the leaders or not there to
lead you've got serious problems on your hands as specially once again if you haven't trained people to lead to step up and lead when the
leaders gone if you haven't trained people to do that you're going to have problems no one is going to lead back to the book pain fought
the northeast had done a match much jeter better job of anticipating in preparing for the attack but the americans who survived the initial
and thought began to rally in one respect you could think of it as little little big horn we were surrounded with our packs in front of us
shooting it out during the course of that long afternoon i never saw soldier not do his duty i never saw any one who cowered in the face of
the enemy our backs were against the wall and it was a matter of survival every person i saw a rose to the occasion so this is the american
troopers are doing what american troopers do fight even in these terrible situation no one cowers no one stands down back to the book
shortly after word of the command came over the battalion net throw smoke lieutenant gwen moved a little away into the grass and the men in
albany perimedea began to throw smoke or mates i saw skipped pismire charlie company commander throwing smoke i had no idea what the hell
he was doing up here our permit was marked with colors with all colors of smoke delineating or positions and shortly after the ears strike
started they were the they were a one east sky raiders with neponte first napalm canisters fell right at the point where sageneusas the
jungle and came into the clearing we could see masses of north vetement other side i was sure i was very sure they were going to come
across at us i think they were cleaning up over there shooting down at the ground dispatching our wounded that first strike was right on
target to napalm cans i saw them hit the tops of the trees and jellied nepomucene down through the limbs and the envier jumping trying to
get away and being in gold and flames i saw that time and time again lieutenant gen remembers a cleaned out swath after swath those faces
would jump up and try to run they didn't make it by now the americans were cheering and laughing at each strike the cheering stop when they
dropped two canisters directly on to the position where the remnants of the second poun had been making their stand it might have been me
for all i could hear was the cracking of unexpended rounds burning in the flames that engulfed ar men none of us know if there were any
alive at the time but none of us wanted to think about it speckport arment of the recompter are artillery was supporting us so close to we
would occasionally get some shapcote were playing flying closer support we started digging in everywhere we could mindreading to it was
attached to my pack left out in the clearing so i used my bed at my fingers and some one else's to own it was available the comfort of a
trench just big enough to hold your body is unbelievable no more than two hundred yards away in that tortured column of desperate americans
one man prayed for a miracle and the u s air force to lived it pim shade don't the company who had boitard his own body with a hand grenade
was badly wounded and unable unable to move he was directly in the path of a group of north venavides methodically sweeping the ground
killing his wounded buddies that hears what he says before the north the atomist to me half a dozen of them a pilot came over a tree top
lever level turned straight up and dropped the canister of napalm dead center on them i never ceased to be amazed amazed at the accuracy of
that drop the heat of the napalm rolled across my face and body like an open door on a furnace i owe this pilot more than it is possibly
possible for a human to pay may god bless all pilots now we hear from captain a bus holly's abroo company first petal on fifth cavalry was
a was a sign the mission of the attacking to relieve the pressure and attempt to link up with the beleaguered batalion re free force mints
were also on the way for the pataran command primate the head of the column during the afternoon captain myron to dear e battle wearied
bedrooms of the fighted at landings on ex ray braceman second petilian seventh cave caught a warning to prepare for a night harrison a hot
landing zone the bravo company troopers delighted to have survived the hellish fighting on x ray and enjoying a well deserved rest and a
lot of cold beer back at camp holloway were stoned when they were told they were being thrown back into a desperate situation so suddenly
so he remembered to dear from poast one o five from two seventies brooman to seven they went in and helped turn the situation around at
leray they fought hard and in they got extracted and now they're getting told ah there's a managin going on again and we need to put you
back on tacking back on the flight back to the book specialist john will linus bravo company mortar observer was doing some serious
celebrating he had not only survived x ray without a scratch but this day november eighteen was his birthday i was twenty two years old we
were fed and showered a new clothes were available i spent the afternoon at the men's at the enlisted men's club drinking beer with the
bolton exchanging stories and celebrating my birthday around four p m to eric came in and told us to saddle up we were going to rescue the
battalion out about the sixteen hundred hours lieutenant rick rest squarely recalls captain de derricked up get the company together be
talons catching health we may have to go in her the only parton leader left in the company help all the patons get their ship together men
spilled out of the clubs and double time to their equipment they worked quickly throwing on their harnesses no protest but their eyes
filled with disbelief again did dear elentae the mesures frag order and bravo company history will be landing from the southeast open fire
and anything on your left run to your right of solanin with one side of the landing zoned by the north leontes set rappo the ground grim
expect to be sandwiched between friendly and enemy fires out about five forty five p m reccolected the pontoons they pressed in close
listening intently for word sergeant first class old stone allston the mortal tone starting sergeant sat sergeant martin speck for vincen
specialist wiliness the towering sergeant larry melton eighty or more young faces hollow eyes you know the battalion and is in the ship i
said we've been selected to jump into that ship and pull them out if you fight like you did it extry you'll come through it stayed together
come out of those choppers ready to get it on across the field the first lift ships were sweeping in hand him up capitur route i turned and
walked to head fantino trailing with the pears twenty five the road stretched out past the permanent couches of the rear as elan and hall
away words spread that we were on a suicide fight tumbling out of cozy bunks holloway's finest line the road to watch us to part a wieners
a vatches gens beer cans and hands cooks and bottle washers the ship burgers projection is club runners same army different species the
company picked up pace a tight dirty brown column a few of the men carried a case trophies from ex ray no one had shaved noted roscorla but
our weapons sparkled what outfit are you one spectator asked the hard core of broad oompa second of the seventh where you headed to kick as
a yell back a deep rumble ran through the ranks men galling cursing not a man among us would swap places with these lard asses as we passed
i asked fantino how we look in back there his reply no straggler sir every swing and dip is with us as we made a column right to the pick a
point i looked back at our crew no outfit in the army had ever rendered a rout step and he better than these men at this moment re piled on
to the huge without the usual loading instructions and skidded away into the fading grey light at six forty five p m the first lift ships
roared into the small albany clearing and captain to directors bale bountifull grass the cavalry had ridden to the rescue but the killing
and dying and terror continued unbated in outside the american primater as the long night began wantage that the american soldier ride
there barely survived extray get called to go back in and they pick up the pace back to the book captanide ride of the flight in in the
situation on the ground a salting albany we picked up five bolles in the helicopter things were bad i found out when i landed that the
battalion was shot up pretty bad so we came in the nick o time to the rescue the main part of second italian seventh cat was on their last
ditch stand and albany little big horn revisited then here's restorator and looking sideways i saw a trickle of blood down the pilot sleeve
this is other flying in the choppers dropped the few feet the pilot yelled the gunner the gunner smelled it out i hesitated get the facoun
four of us dropped a bone jarring ten feet now inside to the tin command group firmiter roscorla took stock in here's what he says the
botian sergeant major sat against a tree with a band its chest we got hit bad sir real bad the wounded were gabae thirty yards from the sea
p only half my polonaised the other ships turned back because of the ground fire and darkness the porter wasn't oval island of trees three
paton's could man the pervarication of our people and papendrecht there was no unit cohesion colonel lidded slumped against the tree he
looked exhausted he was exceptingly silent major frank henry his executive officer was reassuring the active a short fire plug of a man had
re waved a welcome work in the radios captain joe price the fire support connate corneto crouched beside him conservir sprawled inside the
perimeter including several company commanders lieutenant larry gen washed the reinforcements arrived i saw a brick restore lu come
swaggering into our lines with a smile on his face and in seventy nine is an hissar and his en sixteen and one hand saying good good good i
hope they hit us with everything they've got to night we'll wipe them up his spirit was catching the troops were cheering as each load came
in and we really raised a racket the enemy must have thought that an entire battalion was coming to help because of all our screaming and
yelling major henry directed that round up some men implicate amo reed to ply which the choppers brought in on the last flight it was lying
in crayon the far side of the eli somehow we got it all into the primer as i came back with the last load i passed right over the body of
that north leadened killed early in the fight there wasn't much of him left and i didn't give a damn so i mean there you go there you see
one one leader makes a difference on me to make a difference here these guys are completely surrounded dead and wounded everywhere and rick
restore la comes in and says good i hope they bring it to night we'll wipe em out back to the book with it a papago the recompt was just as
happy about the reinforcements goin when rover surprised to see those helicopters come in we were only securing one side of the elision the
guides were jump off the helicopter we helderen which waited come i had a feeling weedall been rescued that in the fact that the cavalry
had arrived just like in the movies i admired the courage took to land in albany lieutenant rescuer look was one of the best combat leaders
i ever saw during two tours and vietnam he walked around it pepped everyone of my telling them that done a good job that there was support
now that things were under control he never raised his voice almost spoken of whisper we are awfully glad to see him and the others from
bravoory we got an entieres did be job didn't get all negative although he is actually in etalant it i think i think i'm going cover but he
talks about what he was actually thinking was like a thesis going to be really problem that in his mind he was thinking this is bad really
bad but he didn't show that he showed he or good bring it your years you're good now good job get ready to get it on taka little bit about
the the air support the they're getting back to the chief warn off ter hank ainsworth had been overhead in the second potanon chopper all
day and here's what he says i was overhead when the fight started in orbited overhead till late that night i was on a freak talking to
major frank henry later that evening he called me henry said we have critically wounded down here if we don't get them out their going to
die i called matoaca came out made a pass drew fire and refused to lamb to land frank henry knew exactly what to do about that situation he
told hank ain't worth to call the two hundred and twenty ninth he is slick the old gayals ain't worth notified that two twenty ninth pilots
told them that elsie alone was hot but that the second italian seventh cavalry had critically wounded men who would die if they were not of
that hated says ames worth the whole damned unit volunteered i told them we only needed two ships the spite ain't were called for only two
ships for he was sick lifted off from camp hallway turkey farm at nine fifty p m for the forty minute flight to albany captain bob stint
was again in the lead followed by captain bruce thomas chief will offer tanfana of sir robert mason and here's what stint says no man that
he re pilots thought o back the engine as soon as they touched down to conserve view fuel not to night something told me not to do that to
keep the engine turning in a full flight to all pem's they told us the wounded were ambleton we got in there they were all stretchers might
crucifige had to get out and raise the seat so we could get all the stretchers and then all hell broke loose fire was coming in from
everywhere i made a leap pitched i immediately pulled pitched anne with the arpent flight the ship instantly jumped thirty feet in the air
and kept going up we went so fast that the crouching down a got left behind on the ground and i even know it we just flat left them we had
the wounded inside when we got back we counted thirty holes in my machine that was enough for me and my huge the left of three that went in
after dat after me took in medical stuff and brought back more wounded and my crew major frank henry was on the flash light at the time
gelsen's watched it with awe the brave aviatress everything for the wounded at albany i remember thinking they were to brave as pilots id
ever seen they were sitting ducks and i fully expected to see them shot down to date moment they were guided in my frank henry you could
see the traders the air craft didn't hesitated a bit they landed loaded and were gone and seconds so again you see what will that the
american fighting spirit oh we got a hot elsie where we probably going to get shot down but we've got one an american from the ground were
going again em every one in the univalves we only two aircraft detwiler for back to the book after midnight several shots rang out from
inside the perimeter a trooper twenty yards behind recorees inside the perimeter had rattled off a panic three rounds rescrewed back and
cast out the group in the middle a primer if i hear on more round out o you we will turn our weapons around her open up no one fires from
inside their primer if you want to fire out to the perimeter if you want fire get out to the privelige whispered communication took place
all night between iceland element outside the perimeter if there was heroism it was out there in the tiny groups of wounded and those who
had bandaged and protected them through the night they were just like hunting buddies said roscorla surviving ballantine looking out for
each other but then it larry guanabacoa recalled the late that night one of alva's missing men crawled into the american primater and
here's where he said sergeant james a malory from our first potone back to our lines his story the envie had been shooting our wounded one
came up to him stuck a pistol in his mouth and fired the bullet accidentee back of his throat knocked him out and they left him for dead he
survived and when he woke up that night he started crawling to us the next day was a real nightmare as we went out to find our dead and
missing i think each of us cracked up a little bit that day as the true picture of the action began to one fold then it came across the
radio brabacons found on wonther survivor from our second potion he had been badly wounded in the legs and a propense up against a tree he
had been burned by nay palm waiting in the night and some north levees had put a pistol to his eye and pulled the trigger shot him in the
eye blinded him but he was still alive i saw him being brought in by stretcher smoking a cigarette all faced up so at this point things had
backed off a little bit they had backed off and they actually did the madman it which is something that hackworth talks about in it
something that they did he in the first part of this book which is pay everyone in the permeters to shoot a bunch of rounds like at six
thirty the morning boom everyone fire a full load out or a full magazine or a couple of magazines a likely targets and they did that and
that seem to come things down the lickin did that once things that already calmed down a little bit and it was it was it indicated that
maybe things were coming down a little here another thing back the book the enviame into the ambush ere that night two recovered their dead
wounded when they found any of our guyele they would beat them to death a bayonet them or machete them to avoid shooting and drawing fire
from us that was during the night they did that like i said they did the madmen and here's well here's what we gonta roscorla said about
the madman and he said this decision was regretable rifle fire shattered the silence in the primin was ringed with reckless firing little
fought had been given to that the remainder of our survivors were shtroll among the trees and and hells within five hundred yards of the
effect of range of our own sixteen what the folk is happening are you shooting at us the frantic radio call started coming in how many
troops were killed or injured by our wake up call will never be known thank god for the trees the ant hills and the uneven terrain captain
at dudley third brigade fires support coronado remembers flying out the alley at first light the next morning timbree niketas took a wild
to get through the smoke hanging over the whole area not much it really taken place in terms of placing the area the image is still vivid
in my mind is the carnage folks were still sitting around in the days they hadn't done much hadn't even taken ponchos and covered up these
bodies i could handle the conversation i could handle grown men crying but we were talking twelve hours later sitting there feeling sorry
for themselves colonel brown was very pissed off even if you do get caught in a bad sitwation you have to do something to recover it was
young kid who paid the price in later years i used to stress that to my young battery commanders it is an ash die in combat it as young
kids who die those kids we are responsible for training and leading it's ard job to get the job done and get those kids home safe and here
the rapping this again now the titathat turned and and really to viamede after the masterest ikes had started and here's another image of
the clean up back to the book specialist for john willinawaugh's cavalryman poterin and most the rest of de derichman were involved in this
makar depressing duty it was incredible carnage we went in the areas where lots of arterial come in during the night and we saw our guide
had been blown up in the trees the bodies were already decomposed and at no yapped night before we were in shock it was the first last and
only time i ever saw anything like it in i pray never again the stench was unbelievable re started hauling in the whole body's first then
we brought in the pieces and part two chinonian we loaded one with about twenty corpses neatly arranged in litters the pilot began
preparing to take off one of her officers boyesen at the pilot told him to keep the board on the ground we weren't through bodies were
loaded for a ceiling when the ramp find the closed blood poured through the hinges i felt sorry for the poor bastarnae allow his chopper
back at half away the night mares bored of this battle has never faded in the final division head quarters account reported that the two
seven alphardians and the one five potalon suffered a hundred and fifty one men killed in action a hundred and twenty one wounded and four
messianic and on april sixth nineteen sixty six so quite some months later how more who was at that time had become the third brigade
commander went back to elsie alberico ered the bodies of all for members of two seven who were brought back on the hilo and began the long
journey home to america now this was as i said kind of the d d tipping point in the vietnam war and this battle had a impatiently one thing
that came from the battle and i will talk about a little bit more and then the book but the body count came back and the body camp came
back a basically as ten to one he may be twelve to one so for every ten or twelve no vede soldier that was dead there was only one american
kilt and our general liked that ratio they thought he you know we we can win a war of utica and one of the comments that comes in in the
book as they go back and an interview general gaps the the senior general of the north edison's got a book actually are going to go in the
potestas some point either master mind of estranging he said we thought that the americans must have a strategy we did we had the strategy
of a people's war no part what that means is that the the strategy of a people's war means were an organ suffers some counties work with
that so our strategy of saying well will get them into war attrition there o with it then i'll care human life has less human a human life
has less value for them at this time the the the commander sires held in care then we talk of the last time there losing eyes on the from
thalarion the trail you're going to lose five six guys they don't care they have got a word winds talking about some of the other sort of
stricti things or strict tic implications from this um night nineteen sixty seven so isis a couple of years later back to the book in mid
december president johnson convened a white house meeting of his top advisers will bundy says that macnamara's option number one get the
hell out of vietnam now while the getting is good was never seriously considered nor was it pressed by macnamara option number two the huge
build up of american combatants support troops was readily approved by all including macnamara ever the numbers concer macnamara the
gathering the military solution to the problem is not the certain the odds of success are worn out of three or one out of two macreme did
push for a bombing post prepare us opinion public opinion for the coming escalation so again won't we i'm sure it's some point of this
pocatel dive deep into the hole litical menippeae political decision making that happening to venomous this what ter talk about its
interesting her macnamara even back in nineteen sixty seven to ten have were out like a bone in fury may be one in two odds of winning the
this not is not nenolo we don't like those odds here's here's hell more talking again back to the book in late june nineteen sixty six my
turn was up as commander of the third brigade when my replacement her colonel straight out of the pentagon showed up to take over my
brigade was in the field fighting near don tray it would have been criminal in those circumstances to rip relinquish my command to him to
man who still who still passing state side water and i flatly refused to do so the change of command was to lay ten days until the fight
was over a month later on august eighth nineteen fifty six my replacing since sent my replacement sent alpaca first petion seventh cavalry
back on the hydrangea by itself and twenty five men were killed in one terrible day so not a good turn over situation in again this is were
of the swore beautye always sackingen i talk with business as they hold you we have a big progray here and you don't understand what now we
understand a military understands proximate neighbor we probot the biggest and most most for in place of bureaucracy in the world and this
is part of it right here back to book i hope that my next osime would be to the infantry school at fort bending ricarda along when i had
learned in vietnam the young officers who were headed for combat it was not to be in fact only one of the hundreds of walters who had gone
through armouring and a year in the field with the first cavalry division was assigned to the infantry school i was sent instead of washing
ousehold my nap next job would be latin american desk at the u s state department this is this is embarrassment right here's this guy and
basically created or help create or how test the the idea of a mobile how a copter was sold and then he did it for a year in the field come
in and at the italian and that the brigade level and instead of putting them in the infatuate he could teach the stuff that he learned they
sent him to be the the falanara desk and ottawas as some this is awesome in when i was in seltings i went to revonde when i came home
gesserit went i took over the west coast filtring file for the gatherer big ready to play ran out to attain i did what he wanted to it
which is perfect and wally we have the a little a little less bureaucracy and i was able to talk to my boss into hay this is one i wish
should be doing this year you're right and put me in opposition but it didn't happen in hers all this knowledge gone to settle one off her
out of a hundred that's another thing like when you hear the elope in the business well they sent the military discreetest on a military
has all kind to problems militaris no perfect no perfect example of the water run things part of it are but you can't look the military to
hole and say that that even remotely make sense in any way shape or form and i could point a thousand things out to you today the military
a same way do dumb stuff i mean it's a great oriston is got great people there's there is unbelievably there's an ever the also idiots the
military is made up of people of human beings brilliant wants dumb ones back to the book for the next year i watched bob macnamara and john
mc notabilia men go through hell as they struggled unsuccessfully to get a handle on the war and the pasification progress in vietnam at
the end of that year neither of them was either eat neither of them was any closer to finding a creating such a handle then office wit
summed up it was happening in vietnam sat by and susan although we have redoubled our effie have lost sight of or objective to colonel his
troops in their promontory in there put all this all these actin there we've weave redoubled our efforts but weavest sight of our objective
back to the book what then have we learned with our sacrifices in the drinkable we had learned something about fighting the north leades
regulars and something important about ourselves we could stand against the finest light infantry troops in the world and hold our ground
general was more and thought he had found the answer to the question of how to win this war he would train on american life for ten or
eleven or twelve north riotous lives day after day until ho the men cried uncle west moreland would learn too late that he was wrong that
the american people didn't see a kilrain one or even twenty to one as any kind of bargain but we had validated both the principle and the
practice of armorbearer a million american soldiers would ride to battle in hereoes for the next eight years and the familiar who of their
roaders would be the enduring sound track of this war finally even though it took ten years cost the lives of fifty eight thousand young
americans and flicted humiliating defeat on a nation that had never before lost a war some of us learned that clouds its had it right a
hundred and fifty years earlier when he wrote these words no one starts a warm or rather no one in his senses ought to do so without first
being clear in his mind what he intends to achieve by that war and how he intends to conduct it cossets be clear in your mind in what you
can tend to achieve no what you are going to do that doesn't seem like too much to ask certainly in war and you wouldn't i think it would
be too much for people to ask in their lives either their precious lives as precious as these fifty eight thousand that did in vietnam
heroes but how often do we see people going through the wives without knowing what they are trying to do without having any intent without
having a clear mission on talking on an individual level as a person people go through the lives without knowing what it is they want to do
what they want to accomplish so no what your mission is no what you're intent as the commander of your life now what your intent is and
then fight with everything you've got to within that's olivet for the night so tecoma be if you want to up set the wife on helpee can maybe
help themselves wind that war suriname deport the pock asif they want to they want to yet dead point though he might be as a good ah to
good one they fired my think about you people go through the lisander trying to him yet and it sounds the same thing as going to war
without knowing what the out come supposed to be yes you go but it sounds kind of like a bes when you say it you know like he go through
you know when you go through life should you have a go robust yes you essanay should tough orgall kind of thing so seems obvious but you
know you live day to day you you know you might have a gold for the day maybe two maybe three but belike is full it ivell spectrum stuff
what will get so shock is what you're saying is absolutely true you wouldn't think that people will be going through life without knowing
where their trying to get to but you wouldn't think that a nation would go to war when out clear intention of where they want to end up and
how we're going to get there and we and i realise you get out i have a little bit of like when closed says how you're going to conduct the
war that's not necessarily too cause you don't know you can't know how you're going to knock to war before the worst of you can have an
idea but you can't know fully just like if you were to say hey my gold is to act in my life you don't know how you're going to be over the
doe that la cause he accompts he had a juvenation to tell you answer on a come up things are going to change the hatfield change as your
life changes things papermaking happen so i think that that idea that you're going to know how you're going to acoomin is is far fetched i
think he now actually i should you to what i get you at an idea of how you're going to do it you he's never ideal like okay well this is
what i need to get down this is what i want to achieve in my life i want to make i want to do this what simple i want to own a house that's
as yet ontogenetic to start ere i want to own a house okay well let's think about how we're going to get there you know that's that's the
thing by how were goin to get there you have to build your credit you have to how you but you redictated to orwise people something they go
to buy a house they never borrowed money before you can't borrow any to never baroney you can borrow any for house of you never bored money
for a car or a or some smaller object before so you got to establish a credit than you got to have two years with a income then you got to
have a big fat down payment said rick to there's things you gonna do this thing and now now that my cane acron along the way the idea is
that you got a move towards that goal to that's all so nice about hearing the vitamines and ten get close split em up new boom you go make
it happened they guess what you want to buy a house one day save money have good credit ye did we get to make money how you like when he
might make it drive it ober you might make it deliver in piazza you might make it you got your real job to that supporting your family but
then you need a lactation there lest while you re in a driving over you in monate as you're going to do you inmate your some money on the
side that you can start stashing away yes yes and at the end of the day you have that gold you know so it is yeaow you conduct yourself
nothiu in driers but you know in these examples like er you know you want to buy out that's a goal that ses the cold but that's just one
teeny tiny goin life if you're on of course you're not going to run into somebody who there only go in life is to buy noosheerwan yeahlin
don't buy house estupid you should rengaine yea he not ten every want they're going to sit behind if you want keep renting keep renting
maybe that's royou ye yes fully not ome yet not take it i may be free of this other thing you want to put your money that's cool you're
doing some other something else smart with your money that's fine yell like buying rinsing like that either way the if you arconte like
just what we impossible constance tis what would he say and compared to life right where by now sure that's one of many golding and have in
life because life is full like merit but so it kind o when you really think about it bright's hard hard to like designes specific goals in
the that's all you're going to okay let's say you're you're in say you're going to be financially secure an independent ooktee a much
bigger than affrighting in and of younger you make that good better chance you have a vachettes connie not wasting your money or actually
saving for how seineus payonnay don't have a more itinerants like i do that that's a bigger go at a broader gold to cycle in you when you
go to war you need to know what it is you're going to war for what are you going to do and when you go to stop and what your intended
result yes so you get a in a way you got a fill life with a bunch o gold you here don't get jim because they are you have small gals that
lead to the big gold right sir for instance you want to be financially secure in fable what you can to do you can assavoir money okay
that's one thing in a by a house that's another thing you to pay off your car and you're not going to buy expensive dumarsey keep cars
intil you have the money to buy him with cat you're you're goin make all these often you're going to work extra you're you know you're on
duty things so you her right you have you have your broad goal yes you have your long ter go testante you've got to short tongoa lead and
are sutaine with that belong to no it's the same thing in war you have to have those but those things on on ye ye and then on toppeth he
shot hanhart last word to day don't you know a note aotonaka the peveril i can fitly close out while you're trying to lean you you add the
adit not that i mean it is that but then you talking bout life now then here it is kind of the point where you say i'll get you a futile
example his financial umluana by house you want to be financeer that's one goal but in life is more to life than just financial so you want
your health you might hear in a relationship you want your like this all these things that you you kind of hope or want to be saw it yeasay
so but most people don't really put it in perspective that clearly like okaiontonhstra this i warn saying if we haven't go of yes if you
have to indore then you can you know you can yoganidra exactly right a void the shacks and allesandri and flight towards the cold sadovia
what i'm saying it's like hard to like designate each goal in life irises ah that's the adattar if you sat down for twenty minutes i bet
you come up with some solid life glass kind of the debts kind of the point elman where i live assequin ayont olive longingly discidisse
osasti think that's what it is you know and if the clear your goal the more i think control you can have over being destructive or not
because i if you're gosnole it's almost like it's not tenable or it is you won't really be clear when you're being distracted or not kind
of thing people don't and i am sane people i mean myself you owe don't live our lives like just in constant pursuit of all our specific
goals we it's like a lot of life is minute to minute and no no i have jelly allow i is your gonnosutsu sections at you can carve out seeing
the like that but it asks not where you want it hangehow your rowing yet no no it's not should be as wenaston notice in life i think like
any any solid gold that you achieved you'll notice that that it took that clear goal and you just didn't get distracted in in just my for
it so he like you done it for you and is also just like being on the path ye that all there an about jugeait my goal and juice was never to
get a bat i ever said like i want to be a black one seneve i never even thought that ye as wanted to get better at this thing ray all okay
so you you not take it at wasn't no you like never you mus never meleas down cube cat a black but my gold was to tradition get better
judith and therefore comes my goal was at my seven finances i wasn't like hay i want to make examonation to be able to do whatever i want
to do yes let's move in that direction i did that might not even have a financial value like there's some people that do never they want to
do but they have a very low income but they set themselves off in such a way that they are allowed to do what they pay on to do jack all
right you don't last word not on ontareeyo yes support drittas all were an we're talking about iris yeah you can supponato hear you
shockingly pursue goals teased you may i not need support i recommend support so morning yourself supported others from others for others
to a street kind anyway if one your gold is to maintain physical shape and capability important i work out right you are out yet a angoos i
work out right and you know how so my wife will give me grief sometimes cause i'll just like work out at the wrong time you know cause in
my mind like worksop an right so i can like long value yes so i can loosely justify oh ye you know yes dinner time but he my health right
and sometimes so she'll frame it like oh you re you choose to like work on your own work on your body or something like that and i say not
help capability true but the point there is it's important the matter how you frame it or your way frames it it's important to you wanted
to its tatiyana while doing that you take cruelities that helps maintain the structural integrity of your body and the good news is jockies
for that crilloire and joint warfare amentaceous ently and solid leathan you jocoseria discipline in a pre mission if you're if your
mission is a work out it's a preecious ion is a studying to prestay studying pre studying so emanation little a cognition answer is in
there some little bit caffey microdots ran like the maracanatena to be astronaut i'm carin it's just the perfect amount essentially also if
you are ailette you where to get these things opponent not de floating out there in without or demand dotcom that's where you also in
organon you can get cold gee loof people still now still asking me me not every day in that every other every other day but they still
asked me what he should i get a sort o did you to a dictate he is one origin yes hundred per cent not even ninety nine percent hundred
percent ordinis a a big raid is to choose from in the littrateur on their compression gear for any other activity like from ashenton this
thing into fashion in no morellet no little bout at all little bit also now he meant a plain black victory and the mate sir the wheat or
could at my love let ashuelyn jackal store to come but i'll get to that first things first is cheif your doing as you say that origin of
the mad to hear america no big deal yet he was no big deal this made america yes i think it's a big deal but i like to you're not
infusorius you know the quality kind of leads with this one or they could go hand in hand is is a good quality because it's made in america
the or is it made in america because it's good quality to above a alesia's get hold cause to madame ca by willified crass neeshing that's
really the case she and some of it is in one amariah's he was on the pointment had an orgy shipton the point and i came home from the poet
and he been training while he was on the pointment and he sang brabantoises began or of a lady it is i for sure so and he was animatical so
yet from the cotton the cotton that's groaned here in america whatdoyoucallums here in america woven in america lead into again america
ocnai wherever you want but one weightily more er latino with no anielating oover and degree and a club no bets restore no de yeah an er an
get a rose you start now menyie i've never worn my gee outside of augite academy me in confirmed what abright now what about the kind you
either going to together let overindulging there ye you sanehat of i do start a wrong in the guillotine like and i were outside yeeeeeing
fayon little kids do it yet that's what my daughter iesewenh she's no friedlaender on the supermarket no she's wilten artie's ready
representing sagicho somebody is heileger in the store he metastic sound in kowshing the goldsternstrasse on stratena now being tistracted
got none the less i gonna get a gay again i'll say it now say again only to merit in america or gingham boom select whatever ye you want
get too i have two to three actually mano then you discipline equal freedom get that down so three altogether boon origin to get a black
one too by the way that you know also working out you doing you giomate you doing wetly then may be your running whatever i say do
kettlewells and when you do katabolic from on it on that hat on it dot com flashed copal for the primal belt mihintale this all be ones are
pretty too to surge those that's what i think makes a work out more interesting i did when yesterday i interesting ten a heart too oh but
none the less ye get the gettin from the other they got a lot of cool stuff on their four interesting work out to an asset it up you and
the same like it if you're wore out his boring or something like that get like a get some battle ropes go through one of those work out
there didn't want like that before for of that rope work out betoi have her teasing it kind of makes you like surracuse you know what that
is you are intercostals ye i think i there benledi's lest you had a three get em solicit also when you are getting this look we were
soldiers once in young actually i had with me were soldiers one in young and other quaint no it's we were soldiers want and young and young
and by the way we were young tenneseean watterly i that book good book upstanding book go dracului you she like my wife will old will do
something that there'll be like young seals at her and i was always like clanahan yet he's young you know that you yank yes think that
these kids are so young and then i i was one of those kids ye and ye they are young you know not sir fights wars young kids well that's he
and it twenty twenty two years old twenty three years old that too fights horse yeh yeh in its crazy in japonico this where you mercurite
tennees on this like fast track when you jump as you military it doesn't it doesn't in some way it doesn't it doesn't because you are also
institutionalized oh yes the siyou don't like when you're in the that's what hurts some guys in the hat autometry or like wait a second i
don't wait was my pay check full come over two weeks now is not there at all i used to it yeah yeah oh you have a mission here's a young to
do an that ye will your in the military you just here's your calista you're goin to wear we ah you are the man an here's the hair cut that
you're going to have no all the military else i now like you don't have this direction any more is so you do get it matures you in some
ways with in other ways you could stunt to do growth that's why he omfunda shifter years all thirty eight years old forty two years old yet
they're doing the midlife crises thing be on you being when you millionenth mid ether dusting to figure it out yes haven't had right latin
do that like that to him is that when e but you know you talk about your wife looks at em ette younger guys were the fultonville they
looked so young that i think that's like an indicator that she doesn't feel old you know cause you know like when you're when you kandaules
i do same thing one i look at college football when i watch colleges i remember when i was on was planful yes there is a nitenti six years
old on a tea twenty six when i aureole it didn't all he's kind of going to aldini at but not alessio twenty six twenty six is young by the
way and depending on her all your oncas when you're sixteen it you don't think you if i try to ask my son whose fifteen like what what how
far away twenty five years or how long was it until he was twenty findelkind erstand ten years he is no he would not be able to like
cognoissoit a twenty five year old human heating is thinking about tea he's fiercely alais not got a going on yet but i feel like you'd
still be able to figure out o k twenty five you know people when do people die of old age quite un cote would be what eighties it may
maritally dusting on never so you figure twenty five set less than a thirty year life and twenty six less than a third that would be
considered old technically if if there is a thing about thinkist year old wingrave's all he was ill yes i thought so when i look back and
then may i don't feel old as old as i am i don't feel like old old i think that one is in my college whatever and i think about the number
of my current age and i think dangtha all that's older person being that older person now i don't feel like how i thought that older person
he felt right and i really think that night really comes a gets put into perspective on to watch college foot wine i seem take off their
helot might day ned as a child great there pain collegiall performing out performance superatur pauloo so young i'm just like your wife pay
look so young but it's because i don't feel like it old person that's all enter good day i guess so but cause you lie you feel like
operating you like and they look out as there young ergam an old horsington you feel like you she gobenheim to new i althaea then you see
all cases eyung in a wood you know sornething in the less back to support when you buy this book we were soldiers wit and young god a
jackpot atacoma we got a second that all the books that this book listed by episode all the books listed aside perfect you are the ones on
quick through there we go you tis you directly an amazon prime your primate i do one day shipping same day she rotinonsionni get at her to
wit a part and if you in the other shop and carry on good wasp also juister and a montaubon it but before i do not i think if you subscribe
to the bogasses good wits support since so scratify even already seems obvious but subscribed livery view on in tones if you subscribe the
items if you want to leave a review if you feeling reluctant disciver leave the review also you to subscribe to be you virgin of this part
yes also excerpts various types of the serbs you know sleek and share legal you don't share the whole old two and a half hour podcast with
people dare exert as you wanted to share an individual a concept would people that can pulmante that concept in you of pharan internalized
it you know in also jefferson collocutor a dunderton sure its teachers rash girds who does some patches on there pats on there just it's
the stuff i'll say it's cool stuff i wouldn't be good pushing stuff that anything was cool and stockwood but kind of the pink shirts aren't
ackerobat none o some o lassie you want to get sureties that's that's where it is jocatore out come ah they are good state are good they're
not like the cheap ones is what i'm saying so but you can rest a shirt but yes so much think you you have one hate people take pictures of
themselves in with the shirt on and they say this is a good shire and that's good encourage that and if you don't like the shirt let me now
to teris also good way to sport yourself one of the better ways i might pinion depends on what kind of person your is psychological warfare
you do know what that is it's an album with tracks with joan each track telling you that in your on your campaign against weakness when you
re when you hit those road blocks that's what it is rope that's what they aren't road bucks mental fatigue a distractions all the stuff
these tracks will help you through it jocote you pragmatically giving you practical information and advice how to get over those road
blocks around looks rocks or through those rollocks on an termagancy le logical warfare tracks and then kind directed toward a hate you
talk about this stuff faster and halloaing when i i you know i come across this a part right near very annihilate compelled to share the
valuable points that i think are valuable that i've used or that i felt with each thing but then i'm like a wait thou to olonto explain
soon dilooted care sometimes i don't but i comelier down jack no nothing i think is valuable i will go with that now with all fast i do i
have tongoni in a whole of dan you know like the jackal what to you o you didn't undemonstrated at demonstrytion yet it jackaway guarantee
to get you deadlights pounds both that's it done next austry books you can get water or kid gets kids on the path on don i would moniot
more about wagered that's cool no need no men but i think if you like i read we the worry kid too my daughter every single night they one
or two chapters not too long just one or two chapters so she wants to read the next chapter she wanted she wants me reading excepted that
night i see no to morrow she's looking forward to it everything it is just the mantra the whole way on the warrior kid is just a background
for life life yes giving her no don't be we like work hard at all this stuff out explained the whole thing to the other i decadently
comtesse the value that is a where the warrior kid if you want a longer an explanation you can eat all ashore'll give it to you treeworship
saying think come babyship or business and life that's deversant came out has little cuero you all from the pocasset's in there so you can
get that also for individual perspective disponibles freedom field manual it's a veil whatever you where there's no better gift than
discipline the audio vers of that which people ask me about a lot is not an audible thought come it is on it's it's an album with tracks
actually you can get it from i drew and was on music bolla other imp three platforms for leadership also beyond the pacas beyond the books
we have a beard princeling company to me lay avenger you can email in feniton for dark home if you want to book a speaker don't cause
speakers bureau or speakers agent don't just go to it as in from durham philopator and one was to come to to you your company on top of
that we got something called the master also known as the master were you into from this year only why we don't have enough room in the
schedule to do three again washing and c may seventeenth and eighteenth san francisco california october seventeen ten eighteenth coming in
it extremely not come that's where you register there's some video stuff about it that that's that also if you want to ask us more
questions or you have answers to questions or points to make outside of the poast and you want to get in touch with us you can do it on the
inn into webs twitter in strigam that is where you can find us echo is at either and i am at jocko willing and to those people out there
the soldiers sailors airmen and marines around the world right now standing watch thank you for protecting our nation and our freedom and a
police and landforce men thinks or watching our back here at home and protecting us from evil in our own back yard to the fire fighters
that walked into fire to keep us safe and the paramedic that keep us alive first responder thank all of you for what you do and to every
one out there mauravian make sure you have a gold made sure you have intense make sure you have a mission and then get out there and did
after it and till next time this is echo and jaco how
