this is jacopo cast number one o seven with lecheres and me jack ailing giddying echo it evening so the battle of e dring valley was over
for now and we depend to poast talking about it and one of the things that you forget sometimes about the military is that the machine
rolls and the machines are theirs a work to do in the cousin it doesn't matter what you've been through or what you experience or a many
men or friends or leaders you of the machine is going to roll on their still work to do at least it's goin to try and roll on and that
means normal things are going to continue to happen meaning that beletre signed people are going to leave the army people can retire people
going to transfer you don't stay together you don't you don't stay together with these guys that you so went through whatever you went
through with and as much as you might feel like a family with that group of guy you're not going to be treated like a family in the
military it's the machine is going to roll on and with that mind to close out la book we were soldiers once and young that again was
covering parasitive and one of six men read one more passage from that book and he we go back to the book every morning during those final
bitter sweet days of my command of the first betinseled cavalry sergeant major plumley where appear with a group of men bound for the air
field and the plan that would take them home for discharge specialist for pat sellick of the recompenses colonel more shikar hands and said
thank you and go back home i was the second or third guy he spoke to and he had tears in his eyes i remember what he said i see that your
married yet a wedding ring on us go home take a epices and started life all over again then basically that's what i did acome to a
wonderful wife tried to readjust the decent job at it i did what colonel more said i tried to put the war behind me i served i did my job i
came home i did not worthing no fan fear no parades i went back to work back to school and did my best he might be a general but he still
colomorano me if it wasn't for him and all his knowledge and training i don't think any of us would have survived the i drank valley on
tuesday november twenty third the day came for me to turn over command for the change of command i requested a full battalion formation
with officers front center the division band trooping the line honours to the reviewing officer of colors and then pass in review
reminiscent of our weekly retreat parade back at for benny i requested that captain de dear exbrakeman second battalion seventh cavalry and
lieutenant systems potion of applicants second of the cement pincott parade of first batalion seventh cavalry in token of the fact that
they fought bravely along side us in the battle of extra and so it was the band played colonel bogey and the washington post march and
garin general cunard pinned on my eagles and i spoke briefly and with deep emotion speck for ray turner of alphian first petaline said we
stood in formation with some unit hardly having enough men to form up colonel how more spoke to us and he cried at that moment he could
have led us back into the edrige were soldiers we were fighting men and those of us who were left had the utmost love and respect for our
colonel and for one another as i reflect on those three days in november i remember many heroes but no cowards i learned what value life
really had we all lost friends but the bravery they showed on the battlefield will live for ever well we have tried here to remember and
display and spread the word on some of that bravery that was showing on the battle field so that it does live on and i beg that is the
least we can do that and learn try and learn we must always try i mean and we can certainly learn from a man that had been through so much
and was so respected and revered by his man and so to day were going to to deal into another book and this one is actually by general how
more and corentin by another army that younger army that another of author might garda and the book is called how more on leadership and
it's just that its principles and faults about leadership that how more learned and then implemented throughout his life and his career and
again if you haven't listened to pacas one to five and one of six yet go back and listen to those poast first because i don't give you some
contact as to what general more lived through and why we should pay attention to what he has to say so again the book is how more on
leadership the subtitles winning it went out gun and out man chickoff a prologue says all of one's life is a learning experience i learned
a lot of lessons along the way an still learning these are values principles lessons of lorne mistakes successes and my faults on
leadership from watching studying and reading about leaders in action good leaders mediocriter and bad leaders so he wrote this book this
book only came out i actually have to check it came out very came out in two thousand seventeen so this book is at the end of of how more's
life and here we go to jump right into some of these principles he starts up with four basic principles of leadership princepe three
strikes and you're not out in the game of base ball three strikes near out not so in the game a life three strikes in your not out virtutis
leader can do we can either contaminate his environment and his people with his attitude and actions or he can inspire confidence good
point there's always another way life right sure three strikes for stripes ye can keep swinging is no empirical you back the book he must
have have and display the will to prevail by his actions his words his tone of voices appearances demeanor his countenance and the look in
his eyes he must never give off any hint or evidence that he is uncertain about a positive outcome so that's something that you know we saw
an action in the book we were soldiers wants young when he don't rickerson up in taste they at good in big bringing everything they got
today of this even to inside he admitted he was worried but and then you hear the reactions of the other guise they were saying while
that's what be this guinegate look among me that he's game looks go yes do you think that that could elicit some sort of a blow back and
doesn't at you that it definitely know in fact i have my note there rose my no right there so in you re that it says really i think the
little thing at first sure that you're right it of you all in and you're getting smashed and you show you can you can see obliviate he
addresses that stand by he regard acted the book it's struck me early in my reading and school and later in life that is a common theme
running through books and stories about great leaders was their positive outlook positive mental attitude pomfret's bad brains for an out
there they were aware of the pit falls they were as it is the year point they were aware of the pitfalls in negatives but they refused to
fret and worry about them so there you go the rebuttal in like a this is happening over there like remember bagdad bob or you will
nougarede that but i think you minehead bob wall tanks were just while the iraqi army was getting a bit rated in the first golf war he was
sitting there going on yes we've had many victories sees completely oblivious to what was happening yet in and there's the i think there
was little like bombs going off with a range back an bob okay here we go back to the principal number two there is always one more thing
you can do to influence any situation in your favor and after that there's one more thing and after that there's one more thing in after
that one more thing the one more things you do the more one more things you do the better your chances are for achieving success in any
situation a leap this is interesting a leader must create time to detach himself mentally and ask one of my what am i doing that i should
not be doing and what am i not doing that i should be doing to influence the situation in my favor so he takabout the tachment i agree with
him queerly that's a good it's good to have those like specific things to ask yourself when you detach you know how like a haidala s asked
herself like o ka what are we have here but even that that's like a broad clerestory yeh that's like that's bad better that's good ye if
you think about if you think about loulie yet and you your constant like what watch what should i be doing right now and which i now be
were all doing things that we should not be ingrate you know not me but yet oh you're you're a perfect perfectly so we're all doing things
that we might if we we know we shouldn't be doing and were all know that there's thingthat we should be not were not so detached look
yourself doing acess en ef i'm sure that like a gold mine things you can change it there for sure to question her owner she here's a here
says a leader's paid to do three things get the job done and get it done well plan ahead be pro active not reactive exercise good sound
judgment in doing all the above to get the job done the leader must have a clearly defined mission along with specific goals and objectives
so thirty go brannick word had me up sir can the last pot cass i was talking about gold and ed sent me attack to bout getting belating was
but getting belt in judith and i think that's what it was but any ways he was basically calling me i had ocrite antero know my my my thing
is the cat you trained to get better you don't you francaise you want this thing right you train because you you have a a i should say
she's not that some there's no older but your goal is different your go isn't a material item of cloth ye your goals to get better as you
did brandon yes you're a locked down in the hay here of very seemingly far fetched in haulage to that but it's not so the other night i was
a making arts and crafts ah with my dog with presshious joliot drew him tetrameter so so ah what did she do so she won't least misargue in
and then she laughed at no law she said a joke and then i laughing and then she will she said i'm going to i'm going to say this joke again
and laugh again to lialui before if so i had this thought about their fore i did it but reek a story in my life rebut ah so she says it i
do it right monotoning like isn't that interesting she got to laugh and now a big pay off through her the thing in a way she shouldn't be
focusing on the last she should be focussing on saying funny jokes the lastest groswater were you caperata lit a insculptions no shame
think you gits focus on getting better at getteth bell come as it that ere kind of a like a result to little by product if you will i just
like the laugh so you know when you tell him jokes go for the funniness not for the laugh the laugh will not occupes i'll tolerate
avishawella be in a breeding pickworth et maybe he you know find that very enlightening as destination him up he did by the way he did do
his hundred buries in subteniente he actually got a pack he with holes ye i never in war that there to to do that man did you get it easy i
do it i did it i dentlemen by easily you did it or not in it or it england with the middle one say with easy had as yet minute despair i a
i i had a minute spare if i remember crackly at one minute to spare and i knew that acted like the last song to come cruticized into the
finish line where the still anessou the next day i actually sores brandon warn his videri good burial give him that luccadives er buries
the mind nor malversation his burglar he a clean yes yes the mind at a didn't mar it like twelve minutes flotation yeh yeh if you would
have sold my berries and said he those are full all of those are full buries i would not be surprised but it outlasted are going back to
the book the smart leader should always think true the wharf and have a plan on how to handle them before they occur time so spent is never
wasted seeing do not always go as plan to so again talk about about planning in his oathings on goes plant and and we all have to remember
that the smart leader must also be mindful as organizations constraint and center of gravity there can be wander several constrained that
inhabit getting a job done and i think we all kind of understands that and he says it's constraints most accurately lead a fine but the
centre of gravity idea was i was a little bit more interesting to me where we go to the book the center of gravity is the principal thing
reactivity that must be in balance or under control for organization operate is the oranienstrasse gth in addition to understand in your
own centre of gravity to protect it you must recognize an attack and imese or competitor center of gravity to defeat them in that battle in
vietnam my centre gravity was the landing on his together all in the evening dew that and locked that being down and fought hard for being
i was trained with dean on an off he montagu and then he was teaching a class and one thing he said that was really interesting and really
smart about jiu is he's a hay when you're on the ground you can't have your balance attack metif you're on the bottom as you can't have a
boy ordered wn there so you have to have messed with a person's balance on top as if they can't masseboth could hurry elmer you need
assertion a good point a dear exactly thrown another i loved the lot to detain his allot to death is incitingly as like valerius you're
talking about like a really deep fundamental concept one thing a runner and a lot of times we don't learn all of them you know we injure it
through in an obvious in life too but we don't learn all the fundamental concept so even you can go through life and be successful you know
varying levels and then get introduced to one fundamental concept that'll just like saying and ononteeyo know i know we all know if you did
you get you you know that i fear on the bottom you've got sweep her on top o you you know that you if but would he was he wasn't even
saying sweet yet he was saying you have to you have to attack their balance it cause you can't have your bounett cause you on the ground or
at it you would hack their bouts and i just can open things up he en't tall you sweep every time no you're not you're on to get on a walk
though you're goin to get em a position change on to get rammento a heel hook right yet but is interesting what he talks it like wind when
how more or general more your socket and not inly you have to know your centre of gravity got it now your opponent can of gray silk that's
what you attack is that which is interesting because people would most heavily defend their sento gravity you would think and therefore it
would be counter to the sun so principles don't attack to heavily guarded area but for have we defended her but you got a fine way can you
get trotter sent gravity otherways not computable in not going to win yet like that's one of the goals you know attack that cause some
people i mean even it cause ding to totally clarified the concept for you in her is like this is going on in the game dear an you know may
be that may be in certain circumstances intuitive like o cameta is goes bounds because supposed to be clinging for a specific sephar maybe
it'll come in and out of your mind but if you have that clear in your mind that that's part of this whole game that we play on in and go
back to the sunset well just because this is me figuring out right now is just because you're attacking their center of gravity doesn't
mean you have to do a frontal assault arite don't find it exactamente what but now at the end of it now that's part of my goal you know my
goal isn't just to kill every one of whatever it's like okay we're going to tack this this centrality with civically because that old ben
up with it you know for an everything else i come with it to what it's clarified now it is back to the book while getting the job done the
leader must plan ahead and create a future he must be pro active not reactive truly great meters have a city or perceptive aggressive
enthusiastic once trends analyzed them carefully incorrectly have a vision have confidence in it and can inspire motivate himself in his
people to make it happen that of big vauntest of things for a leader to be doing that's why meters that's why we are so hard of fagots
things i just rattled off he must have the positive attitude i must hate the word now he must have smart well trained people to run dat to
day activities he must check up all them and make sure the job is getting done while he stacks the deck for future success he is here in
its not micromanage he's getting people i can do the job an then he's looking forward prince bemember three when nothing is wrong there is
nothing wrong except there is nothing wrong that's on a leader has to be most alert complacency kills leaders or paid to create order out
of chaos history is replete with examples of leaders who failed because they became too complacent in the days and monthly ing up the
palarver american military beaters were confident that the japanese could never strike american soyer or naval intelligence said that pearl
harbor was too far out of reach for a japanese naval task force they were also convinced a harbor's too shallow for a torpedo attack
instead of prioritize the threat from an aggressive naval enemy the army aircar commander at we learn hicetes but a higher priority on the
threat from spies and sabbatus they drooped the plains together at the airfield to make them easier for walking centuries to guard on foot
patrol but when the japanese bombers arrived on december seventh the clustered american planes became turkish shoe targets did no that hum
didn't know that wrong throatiest ye and now you're doing something that actually i help your enemies real attack but it's complacency in
princelier for trust your instincts instincts are the product of one's person noway experience reading and education that that's
interesting right he put reading in there you're actually getting experience or reading a new upsitten l madisonians he he breathes i think
yet the personal book lection of like five thousand or seven thousand books personal book collection sand he said he that's to prevent him
from being surprised to because if you know history you know a future but that a great the definition of what instinct is because people
think instinct is this something that some mysterious thing right benoit's your personality experience reading in education years context
heftin it in an instinct obviously clearly to find us something else what is it clearly defined as it is say i knew oh let her not and i
you know how like animals have instinct to only a aweare instincts to procreate like all this stuff they do in an obviously is talking of
it specific county i have told about the indictor annatom thing else but only you know what i mean it's not there is mystical yes at his
tarring is not musical ye tache read learn experience that adrian then yes you you know like hallam ou know that you're got feeling kind o
there so ye it's me like if you don't have any experience in any of like you're not reading nothing to an you ave any you're not going to
have many got into things no no no you still have you been way off here he is at your onias talking about this with some one who in a
sometimes like with an injury let say he an injury and you take aptitudes but what you're doing is actually completely wrong yet he that
happens to me sometimes he have an injury of the you know what i'll tike stretching it at her a little bit but it'll be okay aetat helping
it and in the raw if at that wrong yes and the soul lit say you were you did that just over and over over and over and over and over now
over again would you probably have put em said loafers on he did over then the instinct will cut a recalibrate itself and they are
inventing head as aeswar yet or in how we addington's ay on mobilized at broken wing or whatever yet yearly check is like if you don't know
do you think you get into a fight with a huguenot be our instinct they didn't he know which is not an by the way in her in six or genteelly
wrong completely wrong tell you do dutreuil me yea i that there will power out of the tents all you know all go off all super hard on that
stuff sir great example ye and then when you learn to do to it recalibrate your instinct now now you're instincts are good yea and proper
unless you get one of these tricky guys who knows your instinct so he's goin to bate his instincts of her and i unsanguine strategy though
ye that's true all right back to a book it's a contagion instinct it's a kind of six sense when seconds count instincts and decisiveness
come into play in quick developing situations the leader must act fast in park conference to all around him must not second guess a
decision make it happen in the process he cannot stand around slack jaw when he's hit with the unexpected he must face up to the fact and
deal with them and move on when my head tells me to do one thing in my got tells me to do another i will always go with my gun why because
my god because my god as i've learned is rarely wrong now that's that's a bold statement right there if you got a my if my instant or tell
one thing and my brain is one something else that is to me that's time to reassess will go in on hellas i got some conflict even happen to
thee go and because i fairly logical in thinking to things and if that is getting completely countered by just some emotional feeling which
kind of that's what it instinct is right that's that communicant be emotional a right you get a watch house watch out for her it seems like
one motor at less situation predicated on a motion strongly like a a an a relationship with some dobody oh i'm stickit my inducas that you
go on a hard have you ever one laugh at the fingoes my god yet you're wrong now that a a you follerin on now and i'll think about it
combatting it wailed yes back to the book instinct is a kind of caution light an early warning or a gut feeling which i can on occasion
result the far better decision in one based on a logical process one rule of familiar more than sixty years ago a west point is if there is
the doubt in your mind there is no doubt at all in other words if you know in your heart that an action is wrong don't do it one of my
son's calls this the rule of doubts above all never try to face out deceive or fool the people under you not only is it wrong but the
troops can smell bes from miles away see that start to make more sense if it's something that's wrong yea when that away your lives and yet
it makes a lot interessant rat did the way her what hear this in the teams and anenome from west point but they'd say if there is a doubt
than there is no doubt which i guess is the same thing would isssue if there is a doubt then there is no doubt in that means what like a
marrying any doubt than the men there is no doubt that is wrong desierto if you're saying wait i'm no father right thing to do probably an
out o a probably not instinct like one duck fly south for the winter waitest north or south replied sautee that's an instinct but emma that
is is that an instant ye go trate just like like if your baby out like suckling you know ingineer that instinct gunterson say back to the
book back to the boche disappointment that makes an effective leader begins in the home in most cases learning comes though observation and
experience it is through the parents and or legal guardians where we first begin to understand right from wrong and success or failure in
having guide lines and expectation set before me as a young boy having to toe the line with the standard of every day why remember my
mother and father requiring discipline and proper conduct there was an equal balance of love of fun fishing reading religion and day
dreaming yes day dreaming discipline who degreeing makes sense but you don't automatically associate that with disipline no you don't you
don't but if you follow your day dreams all the time then you won't end up with anything i ave them both ye next one no job as ever beneath
you in whatever you do do it to the best of your abilities next the best leaders try the best we destroved to create a family environment
within their organization a good leader aims to make his seboran feel that they are valued members of the team the same loyalty that goes
up the chain of command must also go down the chain of command and across the net work of subordinates and and by the way of course as
always a not reading this old book there's all kinds of better detail in the book itself and explanations and i'm hittin the the wave tops
this sir i like this one a little bit the first person you have to lead and discipline as yourself good verses poorhouses make all the
difference in the world concur tackleton to be leary must be willing to be a life long learner the leaders who fail are those who think
they know everything or that they have nothing left to learn they resent having to learn something new or adapt to a new situation god be
humble it this is interesting i like to do a lot of listening that way i pick up a lot of good ideas many from subordinate when you listen
you know twice as much as the other guy what is yknown what you know just also whenever the boss talked i not only listened but i took
notes i still carried three by five cards to day so that's that's a great one and you let soonest i was doing a security detail in iraq my
first opponent over there and i and we picked up a a high high ranking officer and we were the security detail form and he was picking up
some subordinate officers along the way and it was so interesting how this iranian depending on who got in the vehicle cause we met with
multiple different subordinates of his and to the barking a what yeh desrame hialmar but this senor officer he he would bar le say anything
and the guises would get in and you can hear them you know at first they sort o listen for minute and they couldn't handle it so they just
start talking then they tell ye they'd tell the boss everything the great technique you sit there quietly in your own people are still in
their cots ye said that in the gosain thereto for sure i were you just don't tie me to go out in ntoniella does if you make it a one come
from a new year but that's a great way of looking at it when you talk you're an i sainting happens in any situate to obsede before on his
pocket the more you talk to less people listen he just the way it is if he had a kind of some challenges getting into west point and he did
get in and he had a couple of lessons learned from that and never say no to yourself when you need to ask for something made the other guy
say no that's that's that's a good point right like im not to con say echoed never say yes it is so understood not in asking you i'm an ask
him echo can you make a couple of more videos worse thing you can do he say no which is likely yes i i i forget if i read this listening to
it but this two kinds of asters people who ask for stuff right in as one who thinks like that were as like those i can say it's no one i
ask or at the second kind who is like he you know he might say no but i you know how i some people i don't know if you're like this maybe
you're a donna but some people there uncomfortable in it like saying notice someone like you like you're the bad guy there you know can i
can can you retreat this charity or something like that and there if you say no you back i and that's intimate of course but the people are
like that but some people there if there i forget the name of the asker but the if you're the pentanas or that's like all the worse they
could say no if you're that kind of person some one ask you you have no usually have no problem saying no but if you're the other kind
worth i being now he put me into the inapposite to be the bad guy there way less likely to ask for stuff o cosgate i where they don't want
to put that perwersion so it's like ether were thin then say no but i don't want to put him in that position because he's going to feel and
i know i was assuring him there's like two kinds of people but it's weird when you get the clash of the kind of person let's say i'm the
kind of person who at a want to put you in the position the same ones like i do i'll be real shirase but you're the opposite you goin to be
asking me for some nominoe like i won't answer you shall be bothered by a few dean a horse days an be like man i can't believe he's asking
me to do this you know her i can't believe he's asked me to come to you i say no yes no but in my mind if i say no not in the bad guy now
you're in my mind you're at home senegalese like he won't do this for me you know i go through all this ado but oh yes that's when you get
that grass tormenting your hand for i hear my no naturalist i see but then even when you say like no lengthy tech message fully with tex
message in a iliou say the relief at least i can see the look on your face atropine have joy i see you are in all this stuff but his
exoneration no perierint that's it so like no one takatoshi at his like in the side it like that i should want you know but so ye you make
it really hard and met people read and do a lot of stuff then up toby you have to read in some stuff to to you what's going on but i'll
miss you ll go crazy with that fear even married be you that i read into everything every little thing you never eaten to hay allies will
you go you know all right back to the book never quintius next one of find a way to turn every mines into a place good there is a solution
every problem some are more complex than others has always away ah while he was at west point he learned about toxicaria and here we go
they were they were putting on under the command of their putting the squads in her regola squad had two different squaretoes one month
with each andevanne er forgotten those two men the first one was arrogant was a was an arrogant sadistic person who screamed and yelled us
made us do unmerciful physical exercises apparently with the gold of driving the weak to quit the academy i despised that man a leader
should never be arrogant spiteful condescending or engaging gossip to the contrary he should always act with humility and treated
subordinates with respect and dignity as a leader your words and action have greater impact on your subordinate than you realize thus
choose your words carefully avoid sarcasm and flippancy do not insult or take digs at any one's intelligence remember every one processes
information differently and at different speeds don't automatically assume that some one is stupid or indifferent because they haven't
mastered a particular task yet that stuff is so important this is on that i screw up because tell being in a grown up in a albion
everyone's always like picking on each other a what's that called verily sparring in oulton you know let's just the waits and i still have
that in me lay the ice still have that in me halidon now do i not do that so what but i can do that sometimes when i know i should i'm not
ill do to my kid sometimes we have to my wife's some eyes and an inn sometimes i don't realize it until afterwards and the thing is in my
mind i'm kidding yet i get i'll do like i'm i have no ill will but you know you can't do that he so that's one i need to always be careful
of cause i have a tendency to treat other people like their he fives tisiphone's not always good yes such the wife to ingeminate the light
her oh i said it is as the oida generosa for tanner and i forget what my wife did oh ye for what you did but i'll sack a what a lover it
oyaner the thing that's said that pony time then you know whatever to her not indeed it to me whatever imbuti not increase but no one
either way it was cut it's not like with you if i said that or so or something like that whatever you now jokes i there would be consistent
a reaction i think there hundredandthirtyeight where belike it's obviously idle really think you're a loser the fact i said is part of
verbal smart whatever the consistent kind of interpreters you shed year and am but so she said bachelier first and salt of the new year
kind of like sort thou sir obarni you know the fustigation if still a little like me and what i interpreted that ordered into it oh is that
dang like it didn't take you much time to start messing with me like that you know like is like no ateleutaion near she had near a right
yea i realise from i raifel it immediately i i think i got a geometre ful with that pen stuff if i said that did my brother you in care
dear no this continues back to the book contrary to popular belief yelling and yelling at and berating your suborn at will not make them
move faster nor will inspire that a loyalty in fact it may encourage them to begin plotting your demise many years from now your suborders
will not remember what dead by nester met what sails were closed what products were shipped or what training schedules were executed what
they were members how you the leader treated them whether you inspired a climate of trust and dignity or ruled through fear metrics and
intimidation contrasting it and again that that something that i don't do like i might take jabs at people in a fun way that sometimes are
not as interprets as i want the new but then lyell of people had done breathin ah don't do anything like that and i thessonnet right when
you see people like that it's not good and i when i started on this what working with civilians i think they actually people actually
thought i was going to come in yellowgreen you know and i'd be like no i have been late not used to be like a lafe when we worked together
for eighteen months how many times did i raised my voice a year when he be like the zero and we read some as make the audience gas you know
or whatever finally cracked the joke of like there's a lot of times you wanted the onfairly know like all that does doesn't work oh ye that
is interesting how people think that year going to do that i know i may be beclere seatmate's kind of part of the whole thing the whole
pictures you know finite think that d may because you yell and scream at other situations i don't though well i vitiosa yunani the only
inscrutable io stuff when you get into other stuff you never youngest some oh you mean like em by golly fired out oh okay well that's a
little bit he had even raising and my voice as being a little bit more poignant tasselated yes a lady that's not screaming though he at the
till that's not yelling and screaming at some one you know now so maybe they just like feel that the tatao am fire coming from this guy and
he's real effective in leading people may ain't hard intense situation so the may be draiton tion may be toward simois make it there ye
could abeona boot camp here we go to another thing from west point this is a show fields major general john schofield of civil war fame
this is his definition of discipline said ateists this is coles were too but a god from the civil war right here we go the discipline which
makes the soldiers of a free country reliable in battle is not to be gained by harsh or tyrannical treatment on the contrary such treatment
is far more likely to destroy an make an army its possible to impartations and to give commands in such a manner and in such a tone of
voice as to inspire in the soldier no feeling but an intense desire to obey while the opposite manner and tone of voice cannot fail to
excite strong resentment and a desire to disobey the one mode or other of dealing with subordinates springs from a corresponding spirit in
the breast of the commander he who feels the respect which is due others cannot fail to inspire in them regard for himself while he who
feels and hands and hence of manifest disrespect towards others especially his inferiors cannot fail to inspire hatred hagainst himself so
that again it what's cold that might sound on new whereby this britain civil war these right that's old school and he still talk about hey
you got a respect your people you got to treat them well that's a great that a great definition of how to how to impose and i use that word
i did it not imposing that for to you not as holding disappoint your your opening the door and showing the way and leading that's what
you're doing cultivating and environment of the very modernise olie that now he goes into the various brands of taxies all a burn through
these bully leaders those who inflict an emotional pain deliver threats and ultimatums harlan sold and involved at the opinions of others
narcissistic leaders those who are arrogant and self congratulatory this brand of topical leader will often contrast his own abilities
against a subordinate short comings look at me i can do the so easily why can't you in solo leaders this brand of leader forms click and
goes to great lengths to ensure that his followers are shielded and enjoy special privileges these are all different brands of taxicheaters
hypocritical leaders is the one you talk about earlier levelers live by the mantra do as i say not as i do and rarely practise what they
preach the hypocritical leader will hold a subordinate a high standard but won't apply that same standard to himself as a leader usually
you should be applying a higher standard to yourself than your people first sure inforcement leaders this is interesting inforcement
leaders this middleville der seeks the approval of his superiors without regard to his subordinates welfare he will consciously follow
orders that are bad unsafe or elegantly to stain the good graces of the organizational culture that bad those guys who are bad leaders to
simon the military there just they only lead to only with a only do with their told to look good but everyone hates him and is interesting
that you talk to someone etwas above man chanania they had a kind egrisu er he's occasom other blow i hate that guy this nettete that
schofield's definition he said you cannot fail to inspite your hay tritonidis thing thepeople dishonor that that now what that is i think
that is psychologically right human beings we want to be free we want to have we wanted to turn in or a path right to when you take that
away from some one and just crush it the day the spite you for it at a hatter whereas if you can say look even do this we can accustoming
you want echo charles nera you can do what you want years a goal you figure out a way is as opposed to hers how you're going to do
everything my way my way o next one cowless leader in similar vein to the enforcement ly the callously there has a bladen disregard for his
subordinate welfare or desires credit hogg leaders these leaders show exist show there taxis by taking credit for employees successor
contribution they resent the notion of giving credit where credit is due blame shifting leaders the mirror image of the credit hogg is the
blame shifter the fears quicked to point the finger for anything that goes wrong and many times he actively looks for some one whom he can
assign the blame the blame shiffen maliciously accused some one of wrong doing without evidence or probable cause at the person that does
not take extreme ownership bunch of toxically ears that he talks about there here's another thing he talks about as a leader of any strike
you cannot simply give orders and expect your subornation ow them blindly to the contrary you must disables a clear intent addressing the
why and the desired end state it will never suffice for a leader to say because i said so as a reason for performing tasks if you can't
justify the ration elvan order to yourself don't make your suborned do it reevaluated your reasons and find another method have you ever
said that as a parent cuthead neaera sat a ole you got an no no if stupid it doesn't make sense to do that well and when you say every
one's while you got to bust it down like like selina's in on a learner and she situate on we look i'm telling you these computor us all we
ate on like a hen on nicaso you mean that that's what happens and you know what happened to the military too were you you don't always have
time you know we if you are not if you are in a combat situation you know you can't say ay take that building over there and the reason why
i watched that cause bumble it are you not find to do that is so but you have trust with your subordinates they know where you're coming
from it all that and you stay so really wouldn't when you really break it down is you never want to do that ever ran never one of his
juncus i said some ever weighed but like a hard one eritis the maises all the stuff this is another thing that lay in my talk about is
there is times definitely rouse like lace pin that belinda i and this is what's cool there is also times i was the guy who was tucked her
sassinate looked in music he jacko miserabler their onerous needs me to do something so we have a mutually supporting relationship i it's
not about like a i'm the one that's out here barking all the worst were doing which ring to get something convicteth er right and if he
told me do something i i know he got to the reason why because it if he had time to tell me why he would tell me a can you put your humber
there cause we're going to blow about to you know move eyes out this with whatever but a baboon need to hear all that i'll less i'll mess
i've got my hobby there for reason and now he say to me like hay moon be holdup i've got good cover down this rock oh okay i didn't see
that you push it back eight feet yet we can move it okay go you now that i mean to tearfully so it's it's good we work recruiting like that
sir to yes but that's gotuias far as like the actual thing at max of why you shouldn't say because i said so because this not in your case
lips you don't have time take plain wise and you'd be e d say move on by it in in moby still even if he didn't explain why the reasons
still isn't because i said so and you know that the car of all that challoner son the reason is because there's some tactical situation
that you know unfolded yes of course yes so it's one of those things where ultimately he never it never i never should be like because i
said so never thereto but in the event of not having time to explain whatever even though this is excellent on needed in the event of that
ever happening you need to kind of built trust is so you kin kin alleviate that out at the uniform the lack a dime or whatever you would i
explain to people on in talk about the laconian the battle field that we had trust with each other so if we you know i said to do something
he knew it and now that i had a good reason for it if he told me to do something i would do it because i knew he had a good reason for it
and then later on it a a you know and see that moved at homeville and we we were black in the field to fire from inside this building cakes
when i moved it for age so with thou that trust being built and you put that on top of my expectation of you to just follow my order m
though asking why m esteban or whatever that is wrong but you say under you should not say that should not be a leading flathering and an
asserere ber even get away with them from it a while liane chief checks into a soup toneses you know do this the gadaren to do it
telekinetics there is a chain of command there is a rank structure but if that's the persistent met at all as one eritance a work for the
atirhagenrenrets and when you do occasionally say that like one i would say to my guys to do something they do it like they do it because
they becushioned em that i would utilize like some sort of the oca do this now i very rarely exercised that that power over the gods and
would probe omening now but and it's probably because you never went to thee because i said so yes nornine on't think i found then i
actually ever said that so the leevin in such a ations where i would have won to say the like riiiiiight then esme of the im right your
wrong is and i would i remember there was a weird running a block a training and the guides pulled out this certain element of training and
i said he why did you pull up this element of training and the look well you know that so big gave the reasons which were all wrong and i
and i was like i was like a well no here's here's the reason why you're wrong there you'rre a yearlong but they were kind of adamant and i
wanted to to say like hey shut up than you and i'm telling you to do put them put that element of training back in there now this and i i
held myself back from doing that i'm out i did of ours some glad i did because because because here is the deal if you are right and you
can articulate it i mean eventually i i just took me more time to explain the guys hey look that element of training it might not be
happening right now but i could very easily happen again in the future here's examples yours in place we are in the world here is other
elements that are out there that are doing that same thing right now that we could easily get folded into so we need to continue to do that
type of train and they were like ye can make sense but that was the old that to twenty one that's a twenty minutes i knew i was right i
landed per cent no no no no doubt in my military mind anal if i wanted to say a shut up and put that on the back of training still then
into it but i didn't do it here i wanted to lay in eats on an out so really almost i arrived at cally the less that you do say because i
said so the more you can guess the absolutely just what i just said before the more you talk less eve listen to same thing ye are you
demand people do things to less you can demand of them the last you demand people the more you can ye to the more use that too very
sparingly as a leader very veryly and you don't you kind o went down that rabbit hole at this one if you can't dis other thing going back
the book or read it in redgate can't justify the rest now in order to yourself don't make your suborned do it this is something i get asked
all the time i like well if all your surmounted you you something you do want to do with a gun thing was right in an i wouldn't do it
they're like we really sitaceni and here's the this well they don't realize they think that every one in the military is a cold running
around giving orders that are stupid and don't make any sense that's not true no you know when i got told to do things that in makes sense
one good example about was was taken iraqis with us on about filled never saying we had to take a race of a seven to one whatever the rate
was at the time and i didn't make sense and it went where i can do that and i ran up a tame they're like yearyou right husmaend you in a
duet akasaka and were like a day o but there's a bee's a perfect example been like you know i'm carrying the wine on the company guy of all
on board for the big wind but if you tell me that you something that stupid i'm not going to do it you know at the funny i heard that about
you for dear that that that's the wish what do i friend to you i see i know but you'd be like jackasses to bed as he will like you the way
he talks to the superiors is like it so gangster like a alike no not on to do that doesn't make sense you know whatever and now that you're
like explaining it you nathariael wouldn't be that gateway you now as you were in your other like oh my god you have because i would be
explaining her to ye and i and got to be very careful but that you're not coming across it argante not coming from seas not all which is
sometimes i would have it entity to come rosie that and i had to be very careful i to check myself sometimes because you want though the
same thing this like you just like you i want to tell my subordinate shut up and put that elementary back in this you want tell your
superiors the same thing and you don't have shot up that's a dumb idea but you can't do that and all you're goin to do that is won't you're
goin to do you connamaughe matt use that same thing that i just talk to a godown check angles up the chaimito so if if i treat if you're my
boss and i treat you with this respect you're going to hate me and it's going to work out worse for me he i'm on the bottom side of that
deeper men we've built yes so you will we talk to guy to my spirits and say that something doesn't make sense i would do it a very
respectful way and again i had to be careful cause sometimes especially people that didn't know me if you didn't know me i may be that that
usually the people that didn't know me well i might come across his moregoo know and which is that i'm not saying like that that's bad i
wish i wouldn't but if i didn't believe in something i wasn't going to do it and i wasn't going to be jerk about by the case here's is
going on if we take these number of guns in a field with this may races were not going to all the people that we should have in the field
to be safe to you talk about leaving behind a corn in your talking about leaving behind us a radio man you're talking about leaving behind
up a close air support fires guidos guys i can't go on the field without or as a long to get killed and the opportunity of like the right
cool eh and understand again there would be a casional things but it doesn't happen all the time where people are giving you stupid orders
my bosses didn't give me dumb did tell it to you dumb thinks yes and i'm sure that's kind to one so that i think told me to do dumb things
at her little dumb things you don't ride at him yea and late little paw and low things you want to do something you on an do some stupid
but it's small and small stupid ill do it and i'll save my my objections to things that actually matter me in this act paper and lay talks
about doing paperwork and i was at an at lyone to paper work and i like a we knew this paper work cause it to little things we don't care
about the yellastone hour and do so paperhangers ye when a bill that trust and that way when we have come fondosa no for i will be able to
say no for i and ten the bosses will i hold to us a year i'm sure that that added to the whole case though you know where where when you
did say something or did push back whatever it would see still get the result you know where some one who may not understand that fully and
on you ariaeus witness kind of the canoe the end and be like dangerous game relationship pen of the cane you cause you don't to my guys in
my book in it were not doing that her rider has gone would do this i do were not doing that and then it oh she then i go to the god to the
you know that all is of atole you know anteater son about this plan a gathered his unlocked then i come back were not at you entails you
may be that is you know level three gamester all right here's another one lestang formed of current in events and asunder challenges based
on those events to be informed of what's happening that make sense here some other west point lessons learned i was able to function
meddlin physically in top form with only five to six hours of sleep a night to say i take that for what it's worth i knowed advocate sleep
deprivation but of just saying there's an example thereto might want to listen to another thing that you learn at west point read i love to
read books and have and have since a very young edge at west point i discovered a magnificent library loaded with books on military history
muteshin ever since then for more than sixty years now i've been fascinated by the study of leadership military political business athletic
et cetera and within that a focus interest in wilder fail remember of good beaters a lifelong learner who continued le studies to perfect
his craft it's interesting to hear these grave leaders read you know again general matisse classic itous and books his personal library
hopefully can give him on the pot cast to discuss some of his favourite books okay after he graduates westpoint he miss ward war two he
goes to japan and he's in the occupation of japan back to look i was flown up to japan in october of nineteen forty five and was sent north
on a train on the eleventh air born divisions jump gorfou eleventh harbornes division jumps go arriving in tokio central train station i
was struck by the cleanliness of the place and by the hundreds of japanese soldiers in uniform sitting on floors lenia inst walls all
unarmed no weapons and showing no anger toward american soldiers a japanese rail conductor showed me to a spot was alcove with a short bunk
in clean sheets the train left on time and i arrived in the next morning exactly on time here was my observation these people were six
weeks out of the five year war and they had already began cleaning up and disciplining their services when they get back on their feet
watch out even in the midst of defeat carriers professionally and maintain your discipline that is the quickest way towards recovery
interesting story japanese we just lost a five year war we ought atomic bombs dropped on us guess what okay we lost sign unconditional
surrender unconditional surrender that means you have nothing you have no powers eronti unconditional onegonsera you know what keep you
tofore and be squared away get the trains running clean this place up we got to get back to radiate gether got to get back in again this
penetier breaks up with you right now he has not an unconditioned alone i'm not here and mesurier salacious not far on yourself in
queretero covery for sure cleansing letting his purse first you if you get back in the jam right the reading telling when you when you're
not you're a hundred enrich you aren't right when you are defeated the best thing you can do is maintained your discipline you that's the
best you can do may danger discipline yeah be surprised a quick he get back on your feet oh there's very few people the only some people
are the reason there there jammed up is because they're not paying attention things they should be pangani to how like their there a
working out seventeen hours a day and i not paid attention of family bosomed those guys get in the scrubs right and i kinder got it an look
man yurensha you need i spend him time with your you know with your wife with your kids little bit back cause that that happens to de guys
in times ye got to careful at one we were we tend to be more all eyed the work is so fond that it is like an take over everything wait till
so what is that out of that diet contribute to their recovery in other situations well or look eleseus there's a family problem going off
right yerirahis he's he's he's in the game right he had to he's got work now even more heinriette you more but what i do is not helping the
problem yet he seems an this is the art most people don't have that promotie at the opposite problemette get down to when they got down
they go too you know i'll feel it worner yet he on don not streamest people do a lot of sciences or be like am not finical work out harder
eam family is not funning did jim is fine it is fun i was curing on a nine tetrigona like a a a feedback loop kind of right in a way
thirstily the issue with my girl for i will make it less hears the issue of a girl friend in him or friends give me grief whatever i have
not a round or something like that or i'm not sensitive to re feeling far you know how and i would that i montagut and darwin goes which
makes the prowost now cause you pain attention letter nan less it or emigration is to want to go with a wife is another thing yeh yeh cause
the girl fundabit is a difference nor yet in a kiss the intention is to aietes you're able wasn't good it was you need he took a big you
took what you thought was a small step but his big into this too much of a different one geminien leap to save example wiping kids and a
supposed to girl friend but he backed lo ye ye you this is what i'm saying instead of instead of the guy going because normal person
goodenough feelin good cause my cause my wife my girl friend unnormal guy it like hay will you need to get back in the gym get your game
together get up early get on the program yet i now start feeling good not so fingo about themselves in the north are being a better person
and being a better husband yes you say it to tengelyi worry out a iours of day or in the other five ill be to together next a good better
study the culture of any location where his playing to go and insure his subordinately educated on the same here's a good one when in
charge take charge but treat your subordinates were respected you dig and common courtesy here's another one a worker's performance often
reflect the attitude of his leadership if you want something done castilia subordinate forgets to perform a task don't take it personally
just remind them nicely in any organization every one has it to do list while juggling these tasks some things will never be fall from the
crack when this happens donnacona this aborda lazier stupid simply re engaged them all the task and if necessary emphasize it why it's a
priority if a subornation attack in the outcome is not what you expected don't attack your intelligence or character politely explain the
deficiencies and offer an idea for solution support its quickly lose respect for a leader who is all problem and no solution speaking of
problems wherever possible solve problems at the lowest level when leaders are confronted with disciplinary problems be it wilful
disobedience negligence or honest mistake they must resolve these problems at the lowest level before raising the the issue to higher
asolani the problem can be fixed and remedy instituted at lower levels it will benefit your relationship with your subordinates improve the
health of the organization and not ever higher level resources away from their priorities to solve things at the lowest of lots the lot is
a state to exact same thing to my guy especially when it calantica to anything but the topic would come up a lot of gazetting in trouble
the cat if i agitate solve it in the soviet your level m and if you and if you don't think you can contain it tell me what i mean get into
relics it i get into mongolia the new york well if you eyes are pretty big one belieft yes i i i to do it out in town naive you can a young
punish him you know the potencies hears about it and the tiniest or upon ish em he's going to be doon brass pick up or whatever he can do
it something cleaning of military vehicles as always only no one of that all enwax the six by him that that's the big can handle it there
you don't need to tell the pelton commander double tone of the the task in the commander now he could be different the guy gets a fightin
now you the rest it has now we're going to hear about it cause the dey're goin to find out the guy's military they goin to want no time
contact jane command because that's what they do that's there that's their policy and so now there going to go that chance said now
kennecott ained that's the question if he can't be contained then you got a run up cankerous you don't want your postage did hit a what's
it got blindstone fully it won't you jack away your gardens a rest in guester day why you tell me you don't want that dad there if you can
contain it contain it if he can't be batterloo tell the cancan you but you should time contain it be like hay well out o handled boser's
guy got in trouble as to day hers upon his man i dealt out and here's a you know here's a rat no one wants to be the senior guy with a
secret of your very abbetone feenou guy with his precarious with a secret meaning meaning if you did something wrong mum an in i find out
about it that means i am i have the secret now ye and if i'm above you in the ganimed and now my boss finds out will now meet get drunk the
ear beyoutiful me to do it is to be a canada's wrong gontrol i did my boss now as to secret yes he it is all his last fully right that's
like the friend nonootch is his friends girl friend is something to note and it's like shoot it don't want a down ruin their relationship
or win the relation it was already rutley not a good exam no kind of a good idea he was there was a movie called i think it was called the
orinoco the secret but that's what is predicated on and so that's the whole thing he did it an a heap put it this way he told if he was if
you tell this secret he would like and in a ruin some relationship and if he did it it was like bad behind but years the senior with a
secret or that of course at the end of the move you know they they find out you know cordelia it was that insanest anyway talkers someone
else about that i nevoocheem the reviews i read the thing consequently he praise in public bractons in private it every one knows about
that here some years mother left less as he learned when he was a occupying force in japan be confident but not arrogant m self conference
humility or the keys to getting any job done little by conomy in those two obviously there is always a way either you find a way or you
make one he can't think of a way don't hesitate to ask for help take counsel from those who have information and experience is so funny it
some people won't ask for help supervised check up on things but don't like roman edge make sure your subordinates understand their
priorities of work meanthes i imaus realized is almost reading those as if like hay we already know the they then like our own or of things
that we know it ah not that not that they're not important yea and obviously how more knew him before i did he learned them in the
occupation of japan here he talks about some of that he worked for the officer under whom i served for longespee in japan was major man's
field he was always cool never raised his voice very perceptive took no wooden nickels and was a natural leader he told me he that what he
wanted to be done and let me run with the ball he trusted me and i went and extra two to three miles to make sure i would never let him
down never do a shabby job or never lose his trust that right there is the like you could just give that to people and say he think about
this man iteration be in leadership position think about this ye always cold never raise your voice give people what you want to do let him
on with the ball like that just basic stuff but it's so important but a wooden nickel wouldn't nicholas i is it means i minutae you take
things that are worth anything oh yeah sakehou more lessons learned tell your subordinate leaders your standards at the outset and what you
expect that pretty good one if you let people get away with stuff for a while then when you jerk the canes acuter some more purity down to
make misitions but keep responsibility for results don't blame support as for bad ersues blame yourself for not training them properly or
giving porticos stream oneship bemother parent in one for sure always met olesen then idea feel like it done a good job in being conscious
of this you know how lookin so if i say so one year old four year old for an atwater and i say hey you now watch him i'm going to go grab
the thing for my cork whatever watch him don't let him climb up on that bike and felt on his winsome you know came back for his climbing a
bike if falls doubter pay i thought i told you not to let looter your old in i know red that's a makeable even more powerful if i cause
look hey luchesi my failure that emphasize my failure even more seffora year old tasmile unthinkers besashed be dead honest we those above
you and below you totally cantabunt harsh straight talk respect your people taking care of your people is not just about the obvious things
pay working conditions concern for their welfare and that of their families but seeing that they are properly trained and have the personal
discipline and desire to get the job on age at donwell carry a note book or three by five cards and take notes when being given
instructions or winter basselin in his philosophy or guidance on a matter aloon that when running or doing other physical exercises ideas
and useful fought or pop into my head possibly related in some medical way blood movement goes to the brain so took scrawling notes with
running that's not a bad i've done that before i'll be like working out and i'll in my work out book i have a little like four words of
something i follow a like ye antecedentia interesting but it's a word noting it yet he never that tree you know like where like the
carrying and no book around now dead nowadays poppie would not see from deponeret i put not smetana yet voice mamoodies no i i i as some
one nineth ught it was so cool but the had it didn't didn't sisterant bad i usually type in the notes yet but sometimes are from driving
voice not ye dingo now he's a company commander in corea so kareno so i you know he does again were jumping through this book but this is
this i thought that was awesome he takes over his day as a company commander one of my first acts as commanding officer was to move six men
out of the worst bores nest in the place these moreman had been billeted in a derelict bunker which was infested with road i moved them
into the officer's bunk and i moved down there moved us down there into the first mortemarts old bunker i had some crenepo troops
crinkliness though and it was very adorateur te for my gun ryoseki on a sea myself a few misenburg but not bad one corner of my end was
dogging to an old korean grave which was immediately covered but there is still a lingering odor i keep my feet down at that end and
liberal use of an aerosol balm and opened and opening the door it is not bad sleeping at all these graves are hard to avoid to their
scattered helter skelter on these hills where our positions are so but i thought was of maut that he takes over is company command le
enlisted guiser living in the scrappy stinky road and filled barracks he kicks them out moves them in the officers verifies the officers
into the crafty barracks that's what i'm talking about that is agitha some more points from caria good beaters don't wait for official
permission to try a new idea in any organization if you go looking for permission you will never do we find the one person thinks it's his
job to say no it's easier to get forgiveness than permission but the welfare of your own troops above your own the e before you eat they
sweep before you sleep said place of course you gracious visit from profound impact on suonate moral self perception and performance to
every leader is put through an informal process in the first few weeks wherein his people judge him and decide whether or not he is worthy
of their trust he must earn their trust how a leader must prove himself by his actions appearance to meaner attitude and decisions i like
that you're definitely it looked on you take over something for the first time you're getting looked at hard the leader must be visible on
the battle field he must be in the battle but talian commander on down progative commander on occasion he must exhibit his determination to
prevail no matter what the ober how desperate the situation he must have a display the will to win by his actions words tone of voice on
the radio and face to face his appearance his demeanor his countenance and a look in his eyes he must remain calm and cool no fear he must
ignore the dust the noise the smoke the explosions discreshun ed the yells were the dead line around him that is all normal he must never
give off any hint or evidence that he is uncertain about a positum even in the most desperate situations so again i i you know what you
brought up earlier of this day will not goin to show any fear when otonashi any possibility of ever losing you know i don't think he's
talking about that ah i think he stockint even though you might be thinking that an even now you might give the indication he look if we
don't get her act to get a week could lose this thing but were not going to some more korea examples i been taught for years that leaders
my set the example and i tried to do so but in battle is absolutely man to tory in especially so during the corean war at the company level
i learned that i could keep common functional in the bed the stress noise blood and killing of fierce battle i had no choice but to remain
calm stay in shape when we were not in battle or another operation i took a run in the late afternoon for an hour or so the first
proportion about a field here usually exaggerated for good or bad and are not entirely accurate this is normal since they are sent back by
leaders in a moving battle in our fragmentary for support or always wrong the totally used to say that's usually pretty true here's a good
one be ready so you don't have to get ready a good leader will preposit in his many assets and people as you can before an event or as in a
contingency in case of disaster thus when the alert and or mergency inevitably comes you will be better prepared to respond to it be ready
so you don't have to get ready he talked about when things are quiet and here he talkit when things are quiet all the wine nothing's going
wrong tighten up security be sure the listening out poster alert especially at night in particular sitani or snowing that's the most
appropriate time for the enemy to close in its interesting how he talked about that told he talks about it a bunch but you know for him
when it is nothing going on tiresome thing right you've got a day off do something to make your position better you're not going to attack
good improve your position every moment he thinking about that when you draw up a plan of attack or defence you must have information on
the weather to rain an enemy capabilities but you can not coordinate your plan with the enemy therefore you have to think through all the
water then he does this what happens if he does that one happened this time well spent i was had a aniceto not to he said to you you you
can carl you can make your plans but your plans aren't coordinated with latinities going to do with the energies liers in battle fight kill
and dying and die primarily for y other don't complain your boss he wants solutions not just problems right sir and that's not just your
bothas up and down the jacomyntye i'm saving private rain when he said you never great down the chain a command bio deftly may think does
the different point us make you but well it's it's i i just set up or down canine say don't grin but no you think don't great down he's
like so up he at any at anthea don't drive up and you're saying don't drive down and i'm saying don't drive i will he sing ah don't come
your moselikatse yet well yes and no to the way took it and said paranoya was great meaning like i have a complaint about this that i need
the answer to cutting is more of a comprehensive thing to do you cannot see he cannot do laryer i torghatten well i feel like complaining
cause oh no income warhounds i complete an them a complaint is my be a little bit more formal than a gripe a greatelector can lever or get
wiliam food again that i but is also complaint yes i think you're at but now a complaint or ilsewhere low on ammunition that's the gown a
complaint right that's like a critical situation grip is less youghall bit less letter the same freelancing yes you had no ethonoe up what
imagination as you bring solutions with you okay tilphusa is what i think was kind of like give in what i felt anyway keeps soon piriting
like if you have a thesophical complaint like a family to change this i have any in you my bride cause he wont he doesn't want you to do it
down because it makes you look like a week leader kind of thing i'm assuming with miss he sang he don't just come with all your complaints
in isolation to your your superiors the conspirators one answers to the wants alone but we great down the chain of command there there's
two things no more if you just complained down the china command then the guys are going to take that and rung with it but that doesn't you
don't explain things down the janetta doesn't medium say hey guys were long ammunition hears what's going on our vessel transport got yet
in sunk by a torpedo that didn't deliver the ama were not then people dash thee this lass as opposed to just a clever name yes yes we'll
have enough amalfitans maybe that's kind of what he meant that only goes up so yet i do think but both of them you have to tell your guys
don't have no amenities as a hay guys we are having of amanition here's what's going on i put in for more the the transport got sunk and
and this is the situation where it we need to use our anopeline as possible that's not a complaint no that's a nice explanation of what is
going on and a commander's intent about how much am i mention were going to use a inserving ammunition ye jack back to the book were
getting into vietnam shortly after nine eightounce twenty nine nineteen sixty four hours handed the collars and second potate third
infantry excepting the collars means that commander is now responsible for all his command does or fails to do one surecure your
responsible framdin now if you remember and we were soldiers once in young there was the loss potarch was led by henry t heraclitean henry
t harican this guy was known to be aggressive aggressive to the point of being reckless right overly aggressive and his sergeant major and
missus isis from the book here sergeant told him colonel a few polite harricane he will get all them killed his senior and listed ma'am his
sergeantmajor told him he don't put this giangurgello put him in charge anyway and he regretted that and he said that that was one of his
leadership let down that he failed to remove a toxic leader from the rank sand and harecide openly with ones that that paid the price and
therefore he says when you identify a talk i subordinate leader remove them if you cannot remove them resign them to row with her talk to
speak and be minimized so and i mean haricots a in again you have to get the book esodon young segetes in cover it in enough detail because
it's one thing that's going on in that in that whole senario and inherit kondo redeemed himself getting the gustate to at least defend
themselves for days out the field being attacked like over and over and over again but it was his hyperdrive ness that got them in hot
situation in the first place this is an interesting one he talk about is true conness dare duty at very level is just as important as my
duty at my level that's that's awesome and i talked about the before howers wanted like every gun my potent think that they were the most
important person the potent what he said and is right it's not to sekile manipulating it's like no you're a radimere need help you the only
person is going to get it out he eurooea fongy between a union a person's going to have the same you the machine on you an ossipo an job on
the pontoon i without you bland down over fire we can move i said every one every one a most import every one's job was important now he
he's actually a critical and and i got some feed back with with on we were soldiers once non you know here here's a guy that led his troops
in the situation in a bunch of guys died and how is that in any way heroic and that's taleri imean a valid point we don't know the the
counter that is look you don't know you're goin emersonitis you know you're going to get him or like that against you know fifteen hundred
soldiers the enemy soldiers than you would make this different it of but we don't know that we don't know that we don't have a christobal
were but here is so moved how more is criticism of the way the vietnam war responded innesmore hackworth in haworth eventually stood up and
said this out loud during the war which is why he got so much criticism from the army and also on the reason why i like pack worth so much
is because he did what our sockdolliger he's like not an believe in doing this and we were not going to win this way he said that here's
what how more says for nineteen sixty four and three american withdraw nineteen seventy three or objectives kept changing from political
stability in preventing an enemy take over to preserving the independence of south vietnam and training the aranos at first the us port the
south vietnamese army aside and took the war over with a brand of fighting that only american forces and american logistics could support
when we left a nineteen seventy three our heritage was just that a form of war that the south vietnamese and its armed forces could not
sustain in the late nineteen seventies the army chief of military history general douglas canaria book called the war managers he sent a
questionnaire to a hundred and seventy five are generals who had served in vietnam his book as the analysis of their replies melisande per
cent of those generals were uncertain and unclear as to what the us objective was in vietnam pay that's horrible that absolutely horrible
hordered five generals and seventy per cent of him didn't know what the objective was now if you got the gentles you take that down a step
to the colonels to the batanians to the company commanders to the poonan or to the squab beaters you had done it for insinuatin ideal what
they're doing their hobby expect to a compass the mission where no one in the chandan really understands what it is that the objective is
what the mission is so with that colmor says a leader must have clearly defined objective he must insure that these objectives are clearly
understood by his subordinate leaders lessen lord here's a speaking of family life there are at least five activities that must be kept in
downdroop time management these five activities are the job physical fitness personal time alone recreation and social relationships also
if they apply to others religion and family if any of these get out of balance than life gets out a balance for my own personal experience
and observation of others being a work a hollick's the most common area of imbalance in the ganahadi saw lot with with with the guise to
work with the theriere all and all at you know you meet business guys all the time you're not you're not after so many business guys that
are work a hole business men business women that are out there there grinding day love it and then on to stop in that again that that
problematic it's not it's not the most common but business leaders hum why oldtimers p position could they built something why they built
some togas they wanted to win because they wanted to take over well that doesn't do stop at a certain point a keeps going you keep it owing
you reach one go you set another on a higher one to the hard ye that keeps going buterful that one balance after the nom he went and took
over a bay where they were running basic training and hears what he said about basic training of goal was for every man leaving basic
combat training to be in the best physical shape of his life and to know it to stretch his mind and his muscles and to assist him in there
by gaining more pride in himself more self confidence and above all more self discipline a man who has more self discipline has more
confidence in his ability to do the job and go ask a while back me answered on the poncas foot you know that i i took over a unit the one
down train what do i do to get there their pride back up you work them hard do hard training that's what you do disappoint hard training of
them something brag about give him some of the take pride in he was dealing with vietnam protestors when he was running that base and he is
said guys don't even show your weapon to wound don't even we're going completely under react not on give what they want is one it is
tenterden over acted never over act tonier reaction and in a close this out in a pretty big junk here but this is when how more got back
from vietnam he wrote a little piece called lieutenant leadership in combat then here's what he says this is a compilation of a few my
views on leadership of and by tenets specifically infantry eltonhead ers in a compasion it will be somewhat mixed in perspective and is not
possible in these few words to get across my full views on leadership in my judgment alledged over time his own unique brand of empathy or
lack of it with his subordinance at his own leadership debits and credits with those under his orders see for regal about leadership
capital sane thing he saw about their leashes and credits he is not he does though he does this through personal contact and shared
experience based on the interplay between leader and lead working with mixed perspective shaped by the benami of real time and real life
leadership is a highly personal individual matter each leader must establish his own approach based on an internal compass using a method
dear to his personality his capabilities but always oriented toward accomplishing the mission while knowing and taking care of his men now
while he says that you got to come up with your own your own method of leadership there are the fundamental princes that he talks about
that we talk about all the time that we wrote about those don't you got a fine your method alogy of presenting them and carrying yourself
but the fundamental principles are fundament as officers we are given groups of men to lead other officers and cos and enlisted soldiers
each has a different background different problems a different outlook and different duties but no matter what their background or their
previous experience no matter how much love care and effort may have been spent over the years by their parents and raising them when they
are thine over to us our now or take care for at that instant the parents teachers or system that brought them to that point will be in the
past their lives and future are largely in our hands this is a terrible responsibility for a fire telegram not to speak of a battalion a
division or a core commander you got all these different people coming in and aresouns for now and i'll tell you i had this conversation
with business leaders to business leaders of the same way because when you're paying some one's pay check there feeding their family there
pigeron their mortgage their saving for their kids to go to school their paying their car payment that's their life and if you as a leader
are not helping them to achieve your letting them down now is it the exact same thing as having their actual life or defined notoge same
thing but the pressure is there among other attributes i feel soldiers of any rank must have confidence in four directions the first is to
have self confidence developing it leverages many resources the primary sources expert knowledge of his assigned duties in readiness at any
time to take on the next higher job so you undered people distrained to do their job you want them to be all to step up and do the next job
above them in the chain of command in addition to create in conference to individual expertise his superiors facilitated development
through trust in how they treat them this is imperative every person's dignity must always be respected i feel that if any one under me
fails the fault is at least half mind a man should never be cause to think poorly of himself and this requires a subtle and sensitive touch
by the leader especially when taking disciplinary action so the first thing you want to have a self comederit and you develop it to by how
you treat a second but not priority or in non priority order is the necessity for each to have complete confidence in his personal weapon
as well as any other weapon he might have to handle to include using radios and the knowing procedure and knowing the procedures for
requesting in controlling mortar and artillery fires developing this takes leader control leaders supervised training so you want to be
good at your job he you are to be experting your job the the moon the more expert you are in your job the more confidence conahar the third
confidence in the unit and the men who are fighting the third is confidence in the unit and the men who are fighting with them at whatever
level the leader must strive to develop an intense a creed a cour but never by running down other units then example what not to do is to
permit internal sub units to be so disloyal to the organization as a whole as to critique criticize snipe a run down sister units be a
squad patoon or company on up it is self defeating and tears the unit as a whole terson's you want them to have a predacious by cutting it
down other units that are within your team four and so vital a man must have confidence and trust in his leaders he must know in utterly
believe his leaders are competed professionals who know what they are doing and are not careless or casual in their outlook look toward
their responsibilities for a subordinate be confident in his leader the subordinate must know the leaders aware of and appreciate what the
subordinate face and the life he must lead in performing his job the leader must make every effort to get inside the heads of his men and
see their problems and the world from their viewpoint got it get the perspective of your people you got a hunderstand what there going
through yeeked about and we are soldiers once on young that in the in the civil war of it the officers it was a bad if you can ride your
horse all the time besitun derstand the guys who were marching with their going through it in vietnam some as a riding heliopolis some
commanders would stay over the battle field at two thousand feet out of a small arms range were safe up here nothing at harpen but you
forget what those guys are going through down there on the ground yet the gems she gideons tructed gamesome time n you know when you freyer
to keep some one something assertio be called the curse knowledge where you don't calauria you forgot what the white belt is going through
if in his learning you know she start teaching stuff and you know they you forget that they need to know this stuff first before they can
pick up the other stuff you know you need perspective yether perspecto i back to the book this takes some doing and will be leader can not
be intrusive in the personal affairs he must help solve personal problems if he can especially if the problems penalized individual or unit
performance for example in garrison and to some extent even in a combat area most disciplinary problems stand from women alcohol firearms
control money and vehicles this is this is for for my old job this is a hundred precepture women alcapar's control monomach money in
vehicles for sure is crashing cards guys do eyes guide crashing motor cycles guys getting trouble with girls it a drinking as is
encompassed in all those knowing this a leader can perform a lot of preventative maintenance as an ice of lighted but not so example pay
proms often arise for separated families at leaving on limited income many of these can be eliminated in advance by real leadership in some
ry my views are take care of the troops developed four away confidence and be professional this insures witena out our first duty
accomplishment of the mission finally concerning professionalism i believe even now the clock is bringing us closer to some few seconds
minutes or hours in the future when the professionalism we will have or will not have will make a life or death difference for the men
placed under our leadership and whose families can only trust hope and pray that we know our business and again there's more that book but
i think will close it out there because what a thing to keep in your mind this kick that in your mind that even now the clock is bringing
us closer close sir to a moment when your leadership will be tested and it is your professionalism and i mean your ability your mental and
physical strength your knowledge your judgment it will all be tested at some point have we done enough to prepare for that moment have we
trained hard enough have we studied hard enough have we read enough have we learned enough are we prepared for what is coming then i think
that's all off got for to night so echoes speaking of being prepared sure maybe you can give us an advice on getting a little more berbers
be glad to prepared for i'll start with kit preparation for judiciaries visits life grapples you the life by the way there is a lot of
marie i would say sons i you do to his life well he say that then that's cool to men afoot and on no but for some people you dido is life
yes the distraining yeod for them yes maybe on beyond is the asamayama way i mean to like joe reflex life is like a metafore for life she
of a shell in evoluting to like many people are and more before becoming a lot of people asked me what did you get i know yet i'm going
into and get an origin ye that's it mum i'm an idea for four looketh ree ka everything a one of em is out stanyer does i'd allstein the
apes i designed her to here in a marinaia and the rigidly ere by the way ye git to players so i was i watched em one of their one of pets
bees and is at the if you go to their eutychides the enthymem vidette and it made sense immense everyone that's part of the the factory
they can give their put in the video little bit and it may set so like you know like this lattices that are made you know kind o thing but
if it's made by judicial people marrying then and not like when you put on a gedaret tergon to know the difference between a gee that's
that wherever designed it had this in my there when you put your hands up what's that giganteo know if you're just armed to sodom and make
a get it and they don't necessarily do to disaster might not pay the pittance that tenetur there or um you know when you do you just let's
face it like if you do curate your body goes through a certain thing right well you're doing crowdin whatever capacity if you do you get to
your body is going to go through a certain thing and more properly your gas get a go through a certain cause here and you can't use a
carrotino that you give that's one of the things i'm saying so use the way you put on and keep on a curate or aggie is good a vis good a
player roll in when you do jujitsu likely you tionontati opens or something in this how your pants are hide matters when you do you do to
true dislike how you beldonald it matters any p and these and origin take kept that in my own the inedit shows too by the way and so anyway
to over some of the resents said you should one under per cent ye don't wording if you're still wanting what kedge more important in that
if you don't do you ditto an that's why you don't need to gie start you genoese need i in you need a den thenmore or he start to jessie and
i oronte parallels we tenotome and you'll get in good shape and you'll you'll learn a underself real situations recalled at your instincts
recalibrate your instincts which are completely wrong by the way they are are wrong yes if you right now if you're listening at your
thinking nemine things in that bad no a'telling you tell if you don't think they're wrong couladis you carry an tell me got good instincts
let's roll a outseen life do you want to turn you back to your problems in life no you do not in you get the you want a thing ouac to your
pen you do not i'll ay but your instinct might tell you no naviget and sometimes a life do to a cause that's what we do sometimes see
that's where i that's why how more or sorry were not less in touristing all the time not all attilio weaneth he reade don't we follow them
yet you go unto it in at a caution repute he sang if their predicates on your education experience learn reading reading a rag so
essentially you are as bent alister to your re calibrated instincts after you train in judith your origin gesitain you can get causes a
best one straight up to make samiano but it's the straight of fact you get these pies an organ man out from this mother stuff on there some
apparel rashers compression dear m that being said this also ah there stuff supplemental foisone case crew oil though you was on that
suplement that i think joculator your right now what a good supplement crill jornado warfare these are things to maintain her a structure
bodily structure that to scientific owning no one that you have the capability of sending two scientifically think he might be right not
the lad i was a loose digs i was talkin about erigido mean it in a bad way but it kind of come across lake in a jerky would you at stupid
you know we belong to say i do yon real son difficilis not talking some etherealise aanyway supplements yes academies in this achates at
their mouth there's two camps yet did the acolytes a bigger camp hopefully d cohetes is a louder came ashure and animates sense nor are the
grapes i think they come up the can or done both the yeah man makes sense hate to me furones your ones burtis not less back to supplements
joliment their good supplement supplementary takes see that's a big deal do i say not what i do to imitate all cutting you could get
egalitarian bring you stuff back cosmopolitan learn these things to do apply into my life and i then this particular situation life is
telling the people but joint warfare and super creole in it's a make a three in the crowle oiseaurie oil i think that creil ended up to be
one of those sleeper what he called sleeper supplement and enough something where you like it it's been going on the whole time to it and
now you didn't know about her you defalcation it you know kitten that's me noteless marjorie takes it i take it and i will say quite a
present effect in this my opinions ordinance tificate scientific eternal blind erfeared dat come there get it also for a prey mission
supplement new supplement jocko's called discipline like a pre work out cosmetic in hander is that accurate rolette it's pre life
liliaceous what your mission cause i just don't need cananite ain't handmen when i do when i'm going to get in the game sir i also need to
have physical yea force multiplication yes said that's why we made it yet because i wanted because i because when i do stuff it's physical
and mental werish sical and mental you need to be both those and need to be two up be suntilia if ye will be it at the very least should be
squared away ye well and the good to you can feel it ye see an that worked for gigito colgius one of nothing alliantie benches you know
people asked me all the time i could you take a pre work out in the morning cause i got up lyman and work out i do not take a free work out
in the morning before i go to work out the morning no oh yeah you don't want to do a distant no i don't you dranigo in there to water a
rush at you at her walk so they're goin to an do my morning work out so i do not take a prey work out or a new tropic prior to work it out
the morning how ever finished it a together is a i would say i'm about sixty or seventy per cent of the time i'm on on the discipline when
i go and here yes yes because you can feel it like a you can feel better what one an have good trade yet in that nothing like do you see
one of those things like life is one of the things where is the vitikind of supplement makes harder set since because it is physical in
mental and that is hooklike thing's bent to i get here you angrier i get it's true even if your doing you know bentabole it still mental
for sure but did you thuslike your mind has to be going at the same pace you you your using you my justish it it out more during juister
body by the way i think if you were going to do lookeron the mornings i don't need it yet brai don't need it like i don't in the morning
i'm ready i wake up it and an i'm like readytohalt i'm amanene men to get all get it yes i will say this during a over the christmas time
some one work out in the morning cause i had other responsibilities during that time period cause you got early morning tactical things
that you're doing a rundreise exeas hands because you got kids and what not as here some who work as were at then in the a when i was worn
out the afternoon i was getting on the display afternoon because it's not the morning time any more n i i have been oh so you're like
andreassi you know certain people they have their there like ah what you call it like time day where the heated a peak or patent i don't
have an i think my performance actually peaks in the afternoon like most people i think that's the most common time but in the morning when
i get up i am ready to rock and roll was on him saying i don't i just want get in there and get it down like i'm i feel like i've missed
out a bunch of stuff when i was sleeping or for life or what happens kind o feel otasite feel like one of our coming than i could be
sleeping in a fernery neck onvisible land none the less it's called this man the pre mission called up premission yes supplements good good
initiator gently dot com that's reget it also for kakas said miss care on it do come flashed jocko i gave the cattle bells i have the
katabolism collection is grow i'm going for all of them that's my collect that's my my my goal clearing consiglieri you want a if you want
to make your work out in ten more interesting as a lot of colstaff on there that hope may is and you can look up all the work out through
on a do i think these a big deal for people unlike you by the way who don't mind doing the routine tenor tea you on a mix it up that's what
i think he sought it doomless of austrehem possom stuff all so when you get the book we were soldiers one thing young and also how more
unleashing waning when out gunden man for it's cold when you get in his books don't worry i have the list of books and godington by episode
on the website jacopo cast dock while you're doing that make a no yourself that you need to put the link to the new extreme ownership cause
somebody treated me that you have the old extreme ownership linkin there from is not good grey a liar you in selling the old one i don't
think you can get any more deif you can get it well now i don't think you get any more just then new one i get so out i do he'll boomed
another book on the list and that list is at like i said jack parisian would a top of the men you there clickings boom all the books
including the ones we the one who went over to day extremeness i'm a college denoon what ye call with the official the new one the non that
did not alterers the release a black one the black one don't the black cover yer catteline yet there it is anyway otherway yes it had
another new one has exterarum the pot cast when we talk about the ship on the poncas the greely prominence tions room puts an uncle there
is here included in there and there and there is also a new forward and the new pictures in their color pictures that he he he he i
jonathaned and work up flouted picture in colour pitcherplant through them at the step up for me to step down if i don't find the coloured
pictures i think they're cool um but yet there it is not less you can get it all on deck by a acome in the book section click on there for
good way to support boom takes an amazon do some shopping on there with these books here or whatever else i carry on that's all allsordia
idesthe google play all these pot casting pervading platforms if you have already levering the moon if you're in the mood if you're
compelled to livery also you too we have estocade i haven't read any pot castries on the pot cast in a long time sort may be this or some
really good ones yarotian pontion yattering one we set like em like good doesn't mean my eye this is the best part cast ever going
rinaultrie and still good yes of course well to go in your way of same good it can still be a negative review as long as it's good o good
one thestreen but as far as your higher for the word good in this specific good good the good review good entertaining i should get
entertaining an entertaining tiresias mason amazon to the spheres a entertaining reviews all innative read some of those i read some
morales caserio put time in affort of the little sea yet they do for sure and here and there sent of humour yes i support that too by the
way also like i said you too scrieved gentle job about as otasite you too gentle boom that's the extrasolar if you do want a necessarily
watch the whole two three hour paces video form at sexton there and take specific lessons boom all in the eocene most of them all of them
moulines um all oline fraction of them actually avenging some of a foray also they are are deleted scenes there be once in a while up its
intiled scenes if you care or interested in what jack dig at me about m while we're not eclectically were recording but it's not part of it
the arias pre recording for recorder yes if you're interested in that kind of stuff on the you too are one wellpleased joculator i called
jocasta obviously this is where you can get if you aren't the sure sure it's whoites made some hat on there rathgar stranger life people
been eating me up for asgard and i've been seen on out in the wild to me way more recently there people are getting ugh tobigon where cures
cars are on there for the youth youth sideward or towards a later kids yet exactly right pomereu up shipping goin out already um i'll so we
have a new one on there just an it you aneantis stuff this is where you can get jocatore out come some good stuff girl stuff on the women
stuff on there all so syclopedia i know exclaimed before but in the event of unit hearing it yet is what it is said alba with tracks not
songs they're jocastas ly what these rocker for are on your in your have thought your venice at considine t a now well here's the thing i
think is it important onion i tificate i could not and do in texas said six nominated are he told the disservice of making a consecon on
your itineris is this product was made for me this my productively true savored to it so when you cut okay here's what is when you come
across your moments of weakness and life sounded like er at the little resin life like you know your waking up early right you want to keep
it consisted all year new year now me waking up early every single day maybe none of sunday or maybe sunday too i don't know whatever
either way when you wake up sometimes you alan a feel like it i am iceniana hit the snow ball put in one of these tracks it's jocko on
there telling you pragmatically giving you practical advice on why you shouldn't hit the snow same thing was giving work out same thing
with cheating on the diet he called it cheating on the diet dinnerical can eating donation at a slipping on the diet you know feedingspoon
weakness be bumps what are speed bum as an a generation chocolate cake with mentor to bryce scream oh no day any wise good holloa more than
once no i you on your wife i had twice in the same situation a tingling in merely on a back again but bolero here and boom said is like
chocolate cake whiff men chacobsen which is not normal so that's why kagami i wasn't listened to shoot more fectionate perfect example
where actually it's not a perfect example because i'm sure you were kind of like hay freedom thou the freedom you were freemason cases you
are exercising the freedom part this is for times were like your out work for actually fasting right now fathers and having some docetism
discipline i'm fasting ye people some people at custodier i go right i won't eat even thousand calories a day to loom for callers a bit
till not hasty i think far zero i don't know i'm not a hasty expert either way what this is about what am sadagora what what you were known
who it for none you are now but if that don't for extention that i been done were still in her well well is not in on you how tragedy is
sitting on you said you use the example of you eating chocolate the narakan major love can with ice cream as one of the anaesthetic had
like a hard shell of chocolate on it at this late is it war the reason i asked i only try me comes kind of melted a little bit yes that's
all else good or you do with like a brownie so it melt oyata on to it kind of the same there is in that there her restaurant in san diego
ob california it's called agin and they have something there called the evil eye because it's so good that it should be to leyret and it is
it's up it's no big deal right this will make it a good is it just the uh a little cast iron pan a little cast iron pan off and the cook a
shot of leitoo at ye and in they put venison that thing as he telessated yet that might be you know what my pagoda or for might not work a
connate hearing ten or a santillane at saint accuses the rain thinks one hundred per cent successor actually hundred one per cent it so i
hear i heard it in the field reports but you were sick you are saying for an what that that's the example when to use it it's not of
example is when you are on the path but you feel like the moment a weakness o ka i don't think the tarlatan was agonyess of egnatia a ado
this and no kind of thing of texel my freedom because of on my discipline all that it's like you when you're at work it's not lunch time
yet it's almost lunch i but not quite yet full they got the donaries it's some big office meeting and one in caterina it's that kind
situation cause you no soada's what's good fasting recalibrate that that little hunger i unless you hit a speed boat weakness during the
fast the then let you feel you can litheways i petulantly she will die fasting a vigiling that i think the biggest thing for me asking
about the other day and am the thick the reason he's an what's to what the hardest part like the first eight hours the first twelve hours
the first twenty four hours of pen all like the hardest part of a fast is the part where you're not doing something ye ye like i have a
hantou eating one time during while we've been according poncas haven't thought about eating one time when we get down and we re square
slewey and eleve in marie itongo bonelli i was to go from here and like drive go do something i wouldn't play about it talking of the full
ye got something hot o o what a fate how long is this oi see a matinee this afternoon this seem also her like her i'm just going to fast
what do you a mite o amount i'll know you lecty four hours yet you twenty four hours once a month an then i'll go to seventy two hours went
to quarter yet is i'll have i'll have a few handfuls of mixed nuts like drop it down granahan for next month i'll have some tea some
chocolate tea but i revisit her first one rope on disappoint which i think is really good cause it's it's made make me feel great so and
like there's no calories in orders one cowerer something or any man there incident how ye but ye and end recalicitant sensitivities and man
i feel good i do it say you done it yet what if i or from you if you'll go i go now i hear he is thing were a twenty four hour ours yet in
the team play only i do twenty or i actually probably do twenty four hours more than once a month because a lot of times i'll just wake up
i'll be traveling and i won't eat yes and so i avenione wake up real the morning i go i travel i get somewhere at night and then i get
dinner while that means i just want tony four hours about eight year yet and that's the kind essentially kind out happened for me early on
but after a while you like you know the kind where you like dan i totally missed lunch but i do an eat now because i won't be hungry for
dinner with the family kind of think so i am nothing to eat than i'm like watches in twenty four hours you don't want i've noticed it this
time and like i said it's only been thirty short o no but what i've noticed this time as the actual i felt good about exercising discipline
like i felt bit about like i am not eating that because the ais because i just i'm ointing or as of a cat only do right now and it feels
good i've been actually enjoying the discipline of it yet which is a only i don't enjoy the displanement i haven't finiront i never in
toutou afore this time i been like yes yes he makes them all shucked you polkinghorne don't talk about seal training a lot but when you go
through hell week which is like when you stay away for five days one of the things that i thought botanising through her he was like all
onafiel so good to sleep when i get to this that he had a made me feel good to do it like i was an all man can you radiobeacon a feel er
i'm did ride siklohlo and right now i'm kinda like to saint thing i'm kind of thinking of so so good to knock too not eat right now cause
in two days i'm gonna eat in the iedies same we feel strangely not strangely but simwa if you want to go in vacation or like you i didn't
to all a lot of work for the you know the past months or whatever like let's say work is like an acre will say like you didn't like tessie
you don't like if i shoot all day like at the master i'm kind of shooting all day from the hard third and elating everyone start on ticking
for turenne you sinewiness de shot gun for i not all as we do you master as you make some big you know in my case you know you do work and
then you're like all you looking forward to that vacation kind of thing i do like all yedicated not her you like de proton i like on a
stock upon a bunch of hard hard work so i can enjoy that being he yokohama on the vacation of his more appealing santerello to have give it
a try checkwith your doctor's right i gainst whalefishers sure by no males in back to the seat bumping if you hate your monoinoy can carry
this transision wi psychologic warfare he is good because sometimes you hit those moral that now said about it you never said hey you get
it on apple i june ten was on music you never even gave up the goods not yet aebutius about to demonstrate whole thing but you already did
in a thank you for it cause i don't lycardios on em as on young jack away tea which ah you know there's been a lot of scientific studies
tone and a lot of people have tried it we have wetnesses you can absolutely dead lived eight thousand pounds in good ingyons n by the wagon
he's but now dead letting his only deleting seven dousand pounds before and missus coming from him yes now is dead lifting it thousand
pounds is maso that's good jack a white tea there's a great reviews on there you may want to read those ah we got some books were the
warrior kid showed kids the path led next warrior kid book is coming out april twenty eighth so you can only you know and you can get that
on owen you can't re now but that's one's coming out i'm done riding it just doing editing now and all so there's the book doctorate
ownership remember me my brother lafe babin and the new editions out combattero for business in life there's a lot of lessons in there you
can learn from it i learned from it also the dispenser edom he old manuel and when you say that you got a say it like that sir beyonet
people coodn't tone i say field manliness pointed on now is there was dispendarium yes there's where was from field men whom a guy said to
day and social me on twitter yet he hit it up and he said he it's a field manual not a book he don't read from cover a cover is a field
maotoo take it out when you need it yes you refer to it you go through it may be go through one time cause it's not a long not a long reed
this ain't about face by cannondale you can probe read this and two hours three hours sir then once you read it you go back to it yet the
field man teaching you how to gaster it mentally and physically the thoughts and actions that you can take to get better opportune time but
people got it for christmas now their implementing new years good new year's resolute she ye also a lot of people still asking for the
audivero of the distance riom field man it is not an audible it is on i tunes amazon music bolly and other m p three broad casting
platforms that's where you can get it if you need further implementation in your business or your organization or your team beyond the
poncas in beyond the books we have atalanta was arlesians lt in company to me lay babington dave burke e mail in foe and i shall on front
dark commore check out the website ash on from dark calm on top of that we have the master the master is a leadership gathering yet is in
washington d c may seventeenth and eighteenth it is in san francisco october seventeenth and eighteenth coming get it you can register
extreme ownership dot com and if you need a follow up with us with questions or answers or comments or just to cruise let cool we are
actually on the interweb twitter instigate and hesba cho is atiochus and i amajoni k you for listen to the show and thanks to those i you
that are listening that mate this show possible those of you in the armeris that are out there on the front lines warned wide keeping peace
and protecting our freedom to police landforce ment fire fighters paramedics and other first respondes thanks or holding the line here at
home and keeping are families safe thank you for your services well and to every one remember that even now the clock is bringing us closer
closer to that moment so train hard and work hard and do everything you can to be prepared so when that time does come you can step up and
get after it so until next time this is echo and jaco owenheghkohna nineteen o nine eeeeeee
