this is jacopo gasped number one away with that caters and me jocelin good evening i bidding good by you do not get to say good bye that is
the way it goes in this line of work you do not get to say good bye one day you are friend is there you are a brother you are shared
experiences and shared pain and shared thought one day your friend is there to share those things and then there going of course we think
we are all going to live for ever and then by the bullet or the bomb or the ocean or the sky they are gone the memories are there but they
are not enough they are not enough because the story was not complete there was more there was so much more and now there is not a hair
cannot be and i did not say good bye not once i did not get to tell you the things i should have told you i did not say the words not even
a thank you but you know because as i knew you know amadis good and i am thankful but we did not finish the story the story who is not yet
complete so now i finish it alone i'll do my best but the story will fall short without you in it but i'll do my best i will one last thing
thank you anger biandrate down those words thinking about a question that i got asked for question was as an operator i know you lost many
brothers i lost my wife to cancer my question is how do you deal with the inevitable flash back and the toughest moments for me it would be
the hospital visits emergency and beaneries or the moment of her passing which i was at her side for i struggle a bit as those memories
continued rise to the surface then you for any advice you can offer and my advice once yes this does happen you will have flashed back of
those tough moments and you will lose control sometimes then you will break down and that is the way it is and that is the way they will be
and as you process the loss and you had depths new reality the bright downs will become less frequent and ellen somewhat to control them
but they won't go away completely ever and atoka because they will be a reminder of what you do have life so living and that's one of
hardest things for the losses that are suffered in my old profession there was never any kind of good bye at least not a spoken one because
even though it wasn't spoken underneath it was there we lived at we said good by every day and how we lived in how we trusted and how we
gave that's the brotherhood so to all of you out there that of lost one of your comrades in arms even though you might not have gotten to
say good bye even though you may not have told them what they meant to you don't worry they knew vay knew when you know beats going to be
okay so like i said that was a question i got and disonore some perspective that i unfortunately do have but speeching of questions echo it
ah cunada sir enogat a few questions if you more questions here to go through eyeholes in it i will do it first question i'm a young
officer be platoon commander i deployed late but the time arrived on deployment there had been some problems and my company commander had
been set sent back to the states and the company first sergeant had been re deployed to another country now there's a new company commander
and new first sergeant they are treating all the soldiers in my potin and in in the entire company as if we are all messed up i don't like
their attitude and my god tells me there ought to make themselves look good by crucifying more people in the platoons i want to take care
of my soldiers how do i best stand up to the new leadership and all right so i went say the best way that you can take care of your
soldiers is not too stand up to the new leadership but instead of build relationship with the new bearship ah you know if you confront them
you can front the new eeriest over automatically there gonesse you as the enemy right they're going to see whoever got sent home for
whatever reason maybe there was some kind of a problem maybe there was tethered on onorevoli someone got trouble something happened back
that's why i got oisin out of country or back to the states if you confront the new leadership that means your on the the bad guys side
that's not here you want to be because you're on the bad side of her on the bad list then they're not going to listen to you they're not
going to trust you and they're going to be suspect of you and of your soldiers so so that is not confrontation in this is not going to be
helpful we want to do it if you can build a relationship with them if you can try and understand their perspective which is important
because they don't know you get you get put into position your taken over for a catunao or a bad boltonia company you don't know what the
specific problems are so you're pretty suspect on everything and you kind of have to be so that's their perspective the perspective is a
gal we don't know was going on in her own knows dominga happened they fired the last company commander they fired the last company first
sergeant something bad happen here on no what it is but i'm not going to let it happen a me some suspect anything so as to understand that
perspective and in listen what the saying try and give them some kind of support right trying to gain their trust and so that way they will
listen to you and they will start to believe you even you will be in a protect in a position where you can actually protect his soldiers
right if you get fired or not taking your soldiers if you go go mister for you guys don't worry about you goin hey you guys you treat my
soldiers bad oh really you're fired snowking care o your soldiers so be careful that now you could be also be right and these guys could be
really really bad they could be out for themselves out to make themselves look good and if that is the case well it still remains that the
best possible thing you can do for your soldiers is to develop relationship with these guys and make sure that as their trying to make the
themselves look good you protect your soldiers and much as you can and if they and of being a good guy right that were just like i said
just had a coming into a bad situation will then you've got an opportunity then you form relationship with them in and as you get through
that then you onereuse your dear good to go away as well now this is where people who fret out right because because i'm sitting here i'm
saying got a play the game right people think on the saying a like you edbron no resume the one he hears the deal i'm not talking about
that i'm not talking about brown nosing and poking about being professional i'm talking about being respectful of talking about being
humble that's what i'm talking about i'm talking about understanding their perspective not talking about brown nosing and that those things
that that's not how you build listens and by the way you don't build relationships through round hosing either when if you just try and
brown those people they they don't respect you that does that's not how you build uation you don't build lehiron knowing all you do is some
men you don't build anything you're just here just on the receive side but if you are respectful and your humble and your professional
battery build relationships and a better relationship you have up the china command at the better you can take tea of the people below you
in the change come and that's the way a work of ours this doesn't mean that you're o k if you're supers are doing something that is legal
moral or unatic or or if their putting your troops or the mission in danger right that they were were not playing the game were not playing
the game now you might still even then as the play again if you were my boss echo and you like he what's you to send your guest rud battak
that bunker on the elevated position right there and my bunk with a with a machine ultimating guns in it with interlocking fields of fire
an i'm like we're not doing not the demising i never heard now if i tell you i will not do it and you say okay fine your fire you come here
you take the poonan go tack and alack i does they all get kilt maybe what i should have done was like a acheson do that sir good plan and
you go now you do it anyway i go stay that's not a good plan and you say go do it or montoire you okay i'll go i'll go do it and now when
you do it you go out and you find you do something different you know i mean you make something happen you mitigate the damage as much as
possible so you that's that's a designer after make i libellers art because that's a really hard decision to make right there um yes that's
a tough one yes i member at the muster laughed moster you talking about like that that very thing like you you you build a relationship
with them and you know some people every once in a while they empathizing ken what you said where some people will all look at it as brown
nosing her hand you're like but it's you build a relationship with him every one sitwell it you might brush for you you'll brastias it lem
you ever one a while then i'll come back or whatever but um but the mission is worth that ye if i get a brush up against brown nosing just
for a second to the complish the mission whatever then that's what i'm going to do finishing in that's what a good oui can't mean that that
makes let makes good sense and really so when i thought about that elsinore ally what that is is a lack of perspective or people forgetting
about the big picture you run on any one a big over all things were to want where you're to win were hitting yet that if i got in a fly got
er tell this guy he's got an you know that a great plan sir you that you've you come up with some brilliant plan erromango execute that
thing so that he says i see jacklett no ongole him excuse on his own i'm not going to bother and cause the cause he never stands my
planning to go back to my guys they go hey here's we're doing do different point the boss said but don't worry his intention was that on a
taratarantara to hay this with a boss one do i think this howaga get get it on you to to talk about but your busyday were making some
adjustment space on his guidance netive him credit eh saisho you get it done you rushing up against promoving a little bit but again give
you just a form round those car you're on developing relationship you're desires an as hierat's not at oidor you hear you this to think
about that i think about that here's a why and i just found this myself hers away a brown nose he isn't developed aricinian good to just be
a round those does this superior listen to the brown nose cause he respect their opinion no no really yes these looking on like a iustitiae
body yet ye ye you can do whatever so you nicely esmond cool yes you give me a pot on a coffinieres over her trying to talk and you can do
a usee you know ye don't want it not like that you can oneguine you know like the theioi picture of the gifing the other guy he angry day
like that guy coltrone ye ye but ye men pete's not giving any excuse to get on to the operations and not belligerent so yeah elderton ship
an don't confront build ye inartistic ted by that right that that the feeling you get when these new guy come he did like the way he said
that to me even though what i said he's really important i don't like the winter said it you know what interesting his wind a lot of
leadership books and we discussed a lot of bearskins will say if you're a new leader coming in he is don't start barking orders to us don't
start to eight do this were changing that you assassin you look around and you measure now occasionally this doesn't happen this there's
things that happen if you're taking over a totally messed up you did or teaming have to go in there and and lay down some wall but
generally you come in and you assassin you make me then see what wrong easy were some just in command nothing about that from the other
side from down the chief command you also should jump to conclusion is and be like all the new bosses in iditor new boss has this plan all
you should not oasis planes e you should both have a little period of like a like a like a cooling down period of sir but i warming up
period sir the opposite a cooling on a warnin up it's getting to know each other years is way out that left feel but by the shansi greg
back entire head he deed to he made this one comment where it esteeming like how he rolled with like some some payment on her son and am
like your eligio was that you know you know what you want the full report i come under relator get who was with you was like his tennis a
full on you know first date grow tolerated never heard that before whether in the atlantis was like i'm not going to go hard in the mill
hurt of the bad men he i can feel he's not even a good hard and it's a kind of feeling out you know into a lot of respect throughout the
whole wieve dossat start attenuate would me like a one what how good do you have to be in judicare you start like having a little nice
gentle for that for you if i i or a callus respectful yes i like he's example just don't die on the ankle walk if you two seconds into
willow sake all really wrong i hear and i i've had that happen and when i had it i had to you know take appropriate scale measure at his
tenneseean even of that far as whole reason for the first date roll really and because his life to you you start to run that you've heard
of him and i heard a you and or whatever whatever the situation is and he guys role and in your mind your kind climate is cesare for and he
does it he goes all out for a thing is god like you kind of got de hat offended a little bit not major ly but there's that little inkling
of all right tenement noisome thing but compared to just some dot you know i say were all training some desmene person whatever in the gym
and you guys are all been hard to tag god you gonna hard that i know how sic'like basically purple but they are common at me from a son
bacheville ye you know it's like mutual respect all rolandsen we and a saint don't roll hard and i'm not saying you don't asily because as
he gifferting as a lad and it all that you know you get to know each other now took a the to after a little bit you that's weird the weird
little unwritten thing at induction i i don't really i guess it's just respect yea i think you back so yes i got up and on the chain of
command to ye elesthai that for an it like peralta periods get in now a little warming up perinolo en up urinalysis give your bosses that
slam the filly i'll respect the nice you know nectaria jocko i got a question regarding the cat if there is a doubt there is no doubt all
right remember that navigables look at this would seem to indicate avoiding taking risks many many businesses are many business decisions
in volvers often there can be a doubt about either of two options doubt that each should maintain the status quo and doubt about pursuing a
new opportunity to frequent or you frequently talk about dicotomy would you mind sharing a thought on this principle de this is this is or
classic saying in and it's a great point and that's why these all sound bites can be a little bit dangerous sometime realite power sound
bite because they are that simple of course i low i like things to be simple for it that's the number two lavocat is keep things simple but
sometimes things like this new little of amplifying information and yes this could be consd as being extremely risk of her and like a if i
have any doubt about the safety of success of this mission that would not gonna do it which if that was the case then i would have done a
zeroin during my deployments to iraq ah saying with business never would have started victory on a man of wouldst athalonian cause there
was risk involved in starting those things never would have done anything really because it's always going to be out so this is an accurate
statement in of course every business has risk and so so i guess that idea that if there is a doubt there is no doubt is not to be taken
literally winnington to rest when it comes to risk don't pick it literally but it what it should be i think is like a a warning right like
a little warning that's in your head it if there's a doubt like okay we edict what's going on here we need to understand what what is that
risk here because and i just had this conversation with us ye accompanies matter fact is talking up that i can't be earsplitting about it
you know but giving him example for like a frinstance he in and he was in a technology company and i said you know if you didn't take rest
you wouldn't you would make any progress but if you took too much rescue what it be where you are right now was their dominating so it's
like oh bur your balancing that dicotiles if he were to sit atherston there is no doubt he never would have got off the ground now where i
think it becomes a more solid statement is from like a moral or an ethical standpoint and that is if you would think that something is
wrong on the probably i think or doing something that you probation be doing then there's doubt and you probably shouldn't be doing it i
think uneasy way to keep yourself in check and these days it's a very real possibility is just a few think it you're being recorded all
times m by ousting oh i'm being recorded which probably some of his recording you like have you decided to think you can get away with
something you probably not going to get away with it let it all just go with you to nonaginta whatever he is an all time so whatever you do
i think that there could be somebody there with honecourt you and i think that's keeps you a morally and ethically in check you use to tell
my guys that you could be getting washed by sea then or algezira or some reporting to whoever you you could be getting watched and if
you're doing something that you shouldn't be doing you're you're going to get campesino it not to igneas we got the aircraft overhead they
can see everything so do the right thing that's what you do you do the right sick you have eight out that what you're doing the right thing
did you should probably shouldn't do it a lot of those a lot of the horrible police actions you are you know recorded by some random person
with one now of course i i always need to point out that there's all these good actions that take place every single day millions and
millions of police do right thing no one polishes those none o pothos on to you to preface book but the bad acheter caught they're caught
because someone has a chamois like that's great advice for a cope act like your beatitudine ye yet it eetest let make it mesery well might
be yeah yeah so do our think expression thank god i have cameras when i was a kid for all the dumb stuff i did oh yes oh i i i always want
to make sure that i'm not sitting here saying like a everyone out there i should do the right thing like me ye ye i'm not saying that in
forefoot was saying that i diagonalise for you sounding at like i was in em and stupid as the next person i still do dumpster try not to to
tidetime you don't do usurious bad won when ah when we had charlie plum and jim conklin now and i'm like thinking they're like you know hey
this is the way to act right i'm like i don't put me in a hadwertisin heroes and i'm just over here i ever thee i don't say that about me
you guys can say like they talk about character a new map character impove your hennerietta shed mac map that will call him mac madam i
manoevering car martial art program should make nat belt carry over in some way to do you so belts or should every one start out as a white
belt no matter what kind of training you've had before ye hotori out florie out a joint know what make map is mac map is the trincomalee
program in good program solitood deplace start the marine corps put together good program the army as a really good program to the
areopagus program a great stuff and boossa button specifically the marine core mixthir marshals programma belts you get like a can bell and
then i think a green belt and then a brown felt it a back dog pretty legite right nave little program um but there is no equivalency tuggit
like you ould no some stuff but it's you should just when you go to started you to you go to the hitalian is same thing with you to do
losely close to jiji's we know jus really close to jesuit you have a backbone cool wipe out guitar ah sambo simpering in very similar did
you get you wipe up so you might your otto get promoted faster because you have a lot of experience wrestling at the same thing like you
just don't go oh i'll i'm i'm going to show is a peplos i've been grappling for eight years none the net work that way she'll my eleanor
big deal you'll advance fast don't care about the belts man if we talk about this all the time doesn't matter he discontented and that
effect having a white dots kinnic because it is no pressure whatsoever liked just enjoy that in july not worried about getting tapped out
in joy just being able to roll and well people that are better than you are worse than you you the lowest on the bottom of onpleasant and
that's it cool it torrotti ye agree yeah i mean that it henskin self explained tory but maybe a little bit because you know it's like
anything it's like an accolade counsel was the delicately is like a accelarated you can wear i think the belt actually is a sign of where
you are on the one higher archy ye right yeah and anissme ye not redentore it was the sign because we know that their line the key yet an
angari cause we know that there's there's there's the haousekeeper black belts and to decant just an indicator but what about like the
purpose you know as i could like a little thing like a badge salarino i'm trying to figure if i can count with that on hinatiaiani i'm
trying to figure out for sure like what it is i like elpsy the lani like you dig them thing oh but yes you get kind of that badge in in
something specially something specific like even like relage you know specific exectly en wen come do something else it's like you you got
to get that specific bad you're sure an you know um dudoit right resuciate have judo and you get them judaine so you know if you're out in
ivory just a glass you know at noon and then you go to the judicatory your changing your bolt to if you differently and just oh i'm just
going to keep on my genestet re duorme nine than not be echange about the town you know the therinne he says there solarite fifty vice
first at two in your bracketing good judges a belt experiences yes you but actually this question he said should it it should translate em
carry over in some way yet to carry winsome way run up some love skill yet a skill does not the belt though you got your somevere now if
you're a black belt in nimai all you took was mc map you will not be able to you won't you will get you and i have a good time you will not
do well against a agitabant juba off me at your knockowen let in that's just canope k m more for the like o me gaiety as rossini it is time
or time or training her time a train if you can training longer you're going to want ye that's the general rule aye you know of course
there's athleticism in the strengthening you've been training you geting heroin a pretty much an next question i run a five men team two
men down was at me intumescent rosalie so i mean team so lad it's able seven now five words it's a viventem now there's only three we don't
know who not well either way we we figure that he's under man sure no lamassi oh yeah under man teatime tin to mend o i'm not meeting
performance expectations no sport coming from my command do you see a way out other than just gaining after it i know you also talk about
playing yourself in taking extreme oneship because the people love you may have different information that leads to prioritize different
areas however when i question things like why we don't have enough people working in different zones when clearly there is an imbalance in
zones to the point customers notice or it makes a difficult for colleagues to do their jobs than i'deed argumentative and that i don't have
the best intentions this was this was with a manager that is in charge of a interfuses and i would think understands my po perspective more
were supposed to have a culture of feed back but he is in a receptive i'm not the only one who said that about him as well this all these
to me to me this all leads me to think that i must just be fake and go through the motions but that disgusts me on from year to ah i would
we do hear how we take ship of a aware you take all hership of your boss not listening to you not hearing what you're saying well but would
the way you take ownership of that isn't to say my boss isn't listen to dostun derstand what is it otahiti to say that i'm not a in not
doing a good job of getting my information to my boss and not doing a good job of convincin my bosom under your golovin pomolos so you can
i be mad about that ere you can change your proachest ep on or not back to the again to day i bilderatlos ip of the person now there's a
jane that that disgust child there is right sir i've talked about that before i've literally said that i had great relationships with
people that i had like a misrated for i see a good latinship with him at work to very well with something if it discussed you and you can't
do that then there's other jobs right read not the interact with other people you you be like a long hall truck driver you can be a
technical writer we just look at it information and turned into words you can be a lapaccia we drifted interact waterfront people met colum
there's a lot of jobs out there that required very little human an action that's fine because if you think you're going to go through life
only a working with people that you can along with errant's not going to have as nessi you want to run teams and you want lead you off the
learn how to get over the fact that you might have to work with people that you don't like m and bidaa on top of that it veneta you don't
like them that is not going to make your job easier to come knock it to make your life better in fact it's going to make your life more
miserable the people that i had this hatred for that that i worked for they wasn't that bad because at least they fought i liked them and
and i acted like it and they liked me so it's like okay as a little padful but you know what if it's pretty low impact as a pose to like
head to head conflict every sing to day and by the way when you have had the had confected your miserable you're going to advance slower
you can have less control over your face you're knocking to get promoted gan bon top your ontogenesis the crabbiest possible jobs because
your boss doesn't like you and he likes that other guy over there so he's going to get the easy job he right you're going to get godounov
the princes jooglar the dragon right capocorso we now hateful tracking this cenevieres they but that's what i'm saying like you want to get
along with this pertinaceously the one game and here's at you when you play the long game if the person socks as bad as you say they do
tell en up making their own bed and having to win a endellion for you now a ah also make sure that you compitales with solutions not just
complaints i promise it you could see the dis guy stalked about we don't have enough gysinger these ones well what's your solution
apromisin what's really smart to do an you got to be a little bit careful to spokane very smart to do is kaif you can solve the problem
with your own internal assets just go and execute on it and salvioni you use your own internal assets to solve a problem made the make the
change make it happen implement of new god abovestairs what we did there was his problem on our sons or whatever the chewee made this
adjustment i took two guys from this mamma in moving round and now his worried better you know results you you have to be careful because
you can say that in such a way that your phone on your bosses face your absolutely do that now even though you were trying to build a
laconian trying to help the mission you still and up we have reservation ship or your boston noting he negative against sin to got to be
careful and to do this are you going also just present the idea and present the solution be like a moses will on a deal which is that once
you've got the relationship trust built up that doesn't there that you can just go present a proud resent a solution of how you got to do
is knocked because he intrust you i got a reseravit you you see what he is yet see how the work denote thing he says near he he says ah he
said ah i would think of the manage this was a matter that is in charge of the business and i would think he understands my perspective
more right so here oh you want to take orders with age and how you and you look your bossant blame my perspective or does onderstand my
perspective that's fault you know who i look at that if you don't understand my perspective as my boss my fall i met emeline as you mean it
i give you nothing formation needed not convince you means not bellaston ships so you can see my respective that's what that is so don't
blame the boss step up your game bill delation ship teaching the prospective and wind and i'll pay you one more little thing on this from a
to get away from the disgust mind set because i understand that you know the one good way to get away from the disgust my set is to get in
the game and set the game like this is the gin and this guy i don't like em into become best friends with them at heavylike all gay oh you
don't like this cocachin was us that's sounds going to go and you're no fond with it and you going to ring when the game ye which is good
sir when that understanding perspective uh i think that's the every day almost every day kind of thing where okasi my wife were on our way
to the park to day by the wind and she's like a chesapeak is one eating go straight this one you can make a right and to make another left
assent parks and at onkwi one or going to amory mind which one and we go to oh so she's like elicited the other one right and she mentioned
the inanition one is the other one but whatever i'll follow you dear so she can make her said she goes staying this lane she doesn't motion
though she goes stand this light something ill careworn to stay in this latin she goes okay a turn here but then so she's not like pointing
like turn here it's like as the turn right here than this one like right here you know turn here can apply to like a bunch of stuff but in
her mind is super clear you know so if i would have got mad or actually a can see people can get frustrate there right so if i would
express myself at your not be more clear boom now or were again argentieres ye because i didn't in my mind of my i can't read your mind if
lamberhead on her funny stories he was they were on night visions in homeville driver he's no tecalco and erse which is the basically the
pat the front passenger is and he's the heat pointing these going hay turn here here here i and and the guisian any librarian and the guys
like i can't see you to a liaison you hope her hellish is that a hen see your fingers and lives like a arihat you proposal is right turn
thirty meters a right right turn five hundred meters right turn the hundred beaters right turned coming up a right turn tom and now he the
person can do it yea but lay was pointing but the guy could say but there's this a very demeter wife who's not pointing yes you are the
point at the time well here's the thing too in intestate not take too long in this one but the way girls in your time were on our urtheil
the male females girls take you remember the last time you talked about you generalize females go ahead at your peril do have night wasn't
a bit partly because that that was same thing but it was a joint at my scriminate right succeethe same thing and no one to lie no you like
it's no electorate to no oliver you on a crianan i made a sledge was very not aged trait separate to the point but it was good there was
also some there was also some pretty a non working bicycle that work drawn curtain it and this fight i mean says you know that sooperiority
or inferiority of any of this of the sex at all de san that canady girls in guides interpret and give directions in completely different
ways because of how they of their brain formulates like a like a direction now girls kinaragird regeneracy sigils require like land rochard
by peters and bacon the cocoon i would i apoloito so girls bathe prefer like landmarks and you know you know like the the voice on the
thing like she'll be an ass they can win mean the serivce hervise whatever whatever the i mean boldness to or whatever the that that
navigation voice was in part of this study so i should not run in in the voice but the paper for like landmarks like make a right in range
at innate ewen when you are flying a jet plain sure i could have come that were which i have done a back seat ride in a eaten before but
the voice that talks to you is it is if he malvoise and that and i was told that is because he relaxes it gets the attention of and then
cinereous of the pilot so it says like like when i was flying and in no i i i wasn't like we were going to die but am at all like a month i
sate at all but the thing would lay warning it was a girl's worship warning warning you know to tote i'll fit ut ye and if so they say
relaxing a little bit he could dig it um you know typically if my wife is giving me direction to it's not relaxing how noiratres so but
it's not a relation a little every your going with a snarl which you said was going to nunanger ous to do the direction sting the
navigation thing with your wife or your a girlfriend or with a girl with a girl next like if you let in you and a girl in whatever capacity
is sitting next to you and you guys are you know how like one wear wild looking for the hotel here were both sort of looking for the hotel
you are now and we're both kind of navigating and then life failed and you just jump me in or remember that it ever actually deep rest me
you like hey what it was time when i failed to move you to like i got this to her right turn coming at five hundred meters for it during
two hundred meters ye right on wan hundred meters ran turn right turn right in okay get it right in me and you are just a a yes yes so he
still considered that type of situation before and you took over considerate situation when you we were both training again you do that
with a girl you you are more likely to run into problems because of this they in ternate this is a vain terry in give directions in
different ways because the brain works different they required like landmarks got kind of died them like oinak a right at this elevation
that helps sure but it's more what it guides go off of it they build a map in their head so if they're like okay i like if they looked at a
map they be like okay they'd have a better understanding okay so sure i can make a right at that at the building or whatever but when they
make a right they're like okay i made that right so here i am physically oriented you know and the kind of gem makes us to that way more
than the girls do i mesangerie one is bacon's wife i see we one other one one one doesn't more this yeah it's more than ten minutes tend to
because it's how your mind works ok this is just the tidied the study if it anyway to redress this riff and on atossa media and are there
dressed to aconite i'm out of i will say the firin'll believe the study i sure will cause i haven't feedin as if you ever humus all upon
cast coals said that girls cannot draw off hand a functional by psychical current and he got a lot e got a lot of attempts is and he did
get one person that put a gift to give redemanded get an animated gift of achinese riding a tricycle in the claritas very often go again
beside the point but it was very youthay idea what the point of anything that we said the last few mates and i don't even want you to try
to work talking love miscommunication like i can't read your mind you got a communi in like that on this any perspective his splender stand
can of think you know god or on the ayes currency to be clear as one saying like how you were on your finding that take place ereunate er
er else word take it yes i next question do you think we indeed think you would take up doguin your forties if you had been introduced to
something else in your twenties like mentioning as said i'm starling with gito aspect eloout of it i have been easier time with boxing and
kick box deelerious make laike a go i have an easier time with these things do ye so that's where i'm goin a focus on oh yeh a retaining
your most recent admission that your you are boring obviously you're not because of your popular do you think i'd pick it up later in life
do you do to me is the chore boxing gaucin is fun i think because in my youth i figured out how to move my body in that way unfortnt by the
way ah so ferial you i think i would go to digito starter get into judici my forty i i had an if i had been yes absolutely honour so ah the
power of egesias very real the real thing and once i recognised it i wanted that that power the power to joke people are walked them
dominate win like win with no mercy now the wood what's interesting about besister ain people like certain things right and he even says
like i mean easier time a capponi a barancas ye'd be heart of that cause he done it for a long time since his wentested for him and i like
judicanti a car for him cause you know what else he's gettin beat up you know if you hadn't just got into it how he's getting beat up he
could to at that a gorman the tower part on the ego um ye e i thought of an interesting rule if you don't like you git if you don't think
you like you may be what you think of this work if you don't think you like jugeait and i'll try shikake it for six months take it for
three months and is it take it until you legitimately submit some one that is comparable in some way to you i you think that's a good li
think that a sudra yes teepees i'm a hard on you you cap some one out that a week and small or a weaker than you and small as than you in
the hole i can tap on the equator no tacoma someone that's equivalent to some one has some comparable like physical ye atreus to you
because i believe that one somebody gets the taste of the paper and also visit this also implies or is actually if if you train enough that
you submit some one benenato netted thous probably five hundred times you you think it's a good number five hat of you by the time you
submit want someone injurey probably been sooted five hundred times okay for or hundred ten three hundred dogs three hundred times yea did
ye that if you go to jigitivka as a white belt is zero train if you're going to get submitted four times five times six times all class
rife all in destinies other white melted and that at our first second hers once a day for for a month so i you couldn't and now you you
could be an i undelineated or oh an a time lay you're not thing that all its feriander tis two hundred times now he's definitely more than
a hundred but i wouldn't say be heretofore dimes in a weak way before he can it wait was the mother in before well you have other anybody
yes yes then that's goin to be pen if you have other white elsenford day dies let say you've yevorechecho three weenton that hasn't
etrangeres you can learn your district where i for the first move it i learned i didn't i probably knew like a monk's worth of jeopardy no
one could hang warned because i knew like the base to an old even knew what to do yes yes i consider real naked choke all you have to do is
you can learn the vernice one day in the mooning a class and all you have to figure out when you roll if a guy doesn't have much experience
all you have to figure out is how to get on his back all you got a joy consekins doge like you can say something like you could give them
the class on how to pass the guard in writin they would start to do what you told them to do or you could say okay your goal is to get out
of their legs and get around the tirandel figure out how to do it in its pretty awesome and then you went you did you have a appelle
plainer sir because they are instincts will be a little bit off but you can a cup a little pointers up old things to work within the eleven
those in the same really goose of a it's in i don't know if he's at this before but that even is true not as much but is still true with
the deltoids because if he teach em the technique first and then then you say he that those technic i touch you that's passing the guard
and it doesn't it's weight easier to like get it's almost like getting a big piece of clay and to be my okayama the head make the body make
the arms at it and then he like okay now you got the arms as cool now make the fingers now make the you know and then start to go with the
details there s far as the the technical technique with like passing the guard but i that's all actually that's how i learned from dan
where he would peach stop but i would just see him like getting pass and i naleenah gets past you that's like hard to get out of so that's
what i want to try to do and won't guy would you not for if i hear so i i thought i thought that it really worked better that way to just i
teach that way someone in from deer oecus it's hard to put into contact when you don't know anything you like yet i'm doing this cool like
bracelets rather doing the into class at the master because you have a lot of people that he never dungeon that's that that cow and how
you're saying to each is exactly how we teach me africani is the concept and then we set you couple a little moves of like what to do there
and then you watch people get after it and they do get to brill but yes here there's the reason for this this call for anything by the way
if you are successful specially if they're all if there penissiere like in this case where he's like okay marcher's right you did to the
men start did you to waylay meanwhile i have experienced doing we time boxing so if he has experience assuming he's been somewhat
successful not asserting competition but not not competition to secesh's doing when he throw the penheim have level of success of that
punch landing you know like an is going to be pretty often if he has twenty is six or encapture so he is experiencing little hussey little
micro success is when he jumps in the boxing situation on we take editor's getting novenaries all day all day huge cork an that's life so
if you look if you're if you're going in with nothing you have now my clou know success is no nothing you're just pining out training then
i go in shure i'll take some hint till take some failures because i'm learning this new thing but if you have it compared to look in
lecointe victory mime of the sea the keep boxing situation but msigissa uation quin not my brain is automatically going to be like okay
what's going to be the best experience for you my covetors it all matowe the victories are i'm going to go where the pay off is you know
those paona land punches i can do aconiti delaine dan when i move my body it does what i wanted to do and it yielded as if esteate or i can
go to jugend where everyone else has success everyone else is getting their pay off not me by the way everyone else is i'm getting tapped
out and that part in it of itself is like that's inspector guidance of personality thing were some people as soon as they get soon as they
get tapisserie my god i need to learn this mediately like esarhaddon people get the gouge jester yes that i would now everyting was a
sidetrack and right not everyone in a waterpipe donwell what present to people give a to bug then i am noisettes but i present depends like
to be at twenty for santa of all esalar human be distant as probably not even twenty percent yuadit it's sitter as much as in her there is
gigi as much as it we talk about it in a very positive way people normal people have a hard time with it its weird for me to admit that
it's in for me to say that be but if i think about it a facetioe like an all the people that of introduced she just over the years i would
i think i have like maybe four backets of people that i fully like the they started to do to because of my intaking so that with those
percentages it's very very small people that actually stick with it to get the bug fer when i exeford and but you and you king get the bug
and the buccaneer off you know that is where you not i i remember did not stop the bug the tuft the real but hatita's like to be it a diet
he is felsenburgh batata at all to fugitive purple vale and the neosho any more people to a round up they don't hear people in gatewood
they don't chop any more yes yes that is it just the atoll get asoke training the sassetto and engauge asked lily i used to think like when
you dureable you dream you'll learn it in an you'll dream of a alistenin being you think up in your mind you know contenson cious i thought
that that was kind it but it might experience that dagoes from tintypes on what you're into and but one no yeah but none the less he that's
it that's what i think cause that's pretty common at your ease the sureness was italianate yet like a hank you it gay wonota to my answers
are yes i would have stung cause i would have to beg and my advices if it's a chore keep you again i aye that i gottingen to get beat it's
fun to get like it foditis fun to have so like my favorite people to train with other people are give me the hardest runs ye and my
absolute most favorite people to genitale at actually can get me you know but it's again than we you have to have this the those this third
factor here where the kick box see in boxes right that i could be right there right now and in an when he nyundos it and when but i'm not
i'm over here in this guise malemaison in stuffs man i i day at men it makes you as weak reverse this question tannian wouldn't wit why
radyo in boxing and striking all the time the men that's a pretty it's actually not that heart of an answer i don't boxing in striking and
the thing that he is different is it boxing in striking even though you're talking about mironsacs of the nights of training boxing or or
kick boxing there the micro winds are against pads and a bag right because you're not spare every night i and if you are spared every night
you're young an oak ye and your name going as hardly an you're not going to marry totty i i mean you can have fun a week we do that to a
wee we call it playing tag we you're like you're like touching the person here or from lake sapit you know but you can't do that ever you
can't spar every night and and you shouldn't sparrin and if you are sparing every night you're wrong you can roll every night as you can
get but you can get full victories not mike rovori full law of mission sir yet o yet e e n i agree and i think that if you then i did say
it really depends on them you are but to me that was the the the big time appeal and still is that the legitimate appeal of jugurthine
people even now they'll be like a but this marshal are superior because this and that but really digitus kind of being tested the best
carigan seniority sperandum enemy put on hot enemy he was finacue repellite how would you ever get some one's arm there enemigo like all
you you got to get each at all watch tryout of means i okay go what's that just reading about it didn't um gordon ryan just beat somebody
he let called it yet even all but memoree yea he is like i'm goin to beat you with this and he did it within this amount of time is a
that's slightly yes and not of halitatio it the high loowit go rinovo ously one of the best guys that reinault that that is kind o how
digitis you know unless it's like seas ouglat like football player just spacing and ring away the whole time if you're in something in me
that's kind of huit is where you like oh i can choke if they don't know you you through and you know i reiterate sure they're like riding
on my arm the ring did not do that to some one that didn't notice know only a assuetus that's those a dose hakon stories you know white
higson would be like i'm goin to every all of you fourteen black belts i'm gonna arm walk your left arm all of you and you do it all of
them black tho ye then not that he eternelle redeye arolind and are about that before he ainsell good educator but yes but at another the
what he do though like what what you notariat mind it is a like i said that's why i think my new rule is train until you submit some one
that is legitimately comparable to you and then if you don't like it still then don't drain like a newson on social meditate kept calling
back to me like a no i hate you get to you i hate it i hate it i was like after while i coalition yourself against you know i take down can
you get up for the bottom okay didn't go find something else to do in cork complaining to me about it like everyone is not bent for justice
at it ye find ye i allbut it still is beneath yells like it is for wittitterly's like that's why i was at fort phil it you and me and to
people that we hang out with and that's why when i was in like some people don't like you if honey weird for me ye talkers fade i have a
hard time with air perspective yermolay mister mister onderstand their perspective having lit on willie to do thou take a why why would you
not like it dreda megadont like it makes life easier for me one person a theory about bein able to choke me if sure okay i would say this i
try this if you in this situation is what i would do try a forget about but like when you're like ochementone forget about boxing as a
content forget about keebo forget about it like don't don't think about that like your whole thing right now is like its just judithe
loathing of it as like just this complete learning experience forced but forget about the boxing because in time like that's a that's
what's going to happen when you keep that boxing on your mind or the keeping of your mind are like for why am i doing this when i could be
doing boxing with you like bad as any way you know kind o thing but just forget about it yes i think that's the thing you know how like
guys in the europe that all that will happen sometimes where there so for good as you get and in the treebox in it like i own it and its
vice versa to yeah yeah yeah that i was a saying like some people and and the situations some fighters don't like striking they don't like
to get a hit specifically no one minds plunging people some people like it some people like they be truly like the punctuation the head
some people are good with it most people are good with it cause i feels good some people don't like to get hit they really don't like that
some people don't like to get smashed on the ground the very cost you fodick right then like that and so different people have little
different one of calm weaknesses but preferences here and you can see that very clearly especially in the earlier you have sees nowadays
you're not getting the u have see if your super uncomfortable and in any arena of martial arts fear if your jusif you're to super
uncomfortable stand up you you you know maybe you might make an under corberly but you don't see that all ye unglorified like that run to
in tell you out somerlid megingarder to you in case he has what i think happens won't you do that way like a holy you aglaya and you got
the benefit of getting tapped out which is a bat which to me motivates me more than just opisweni yes then how did someone control me take
bollitant er human being can control me completely i deemed as that me sometimes and i'm i'm senior thinking myself in like a man i've been
training for i'll really long time me and i'm a grown man in good physical condition relatively strong or any even hold me in a position
where i can not do nothing and i can actually do that to him though not as clearly not as often if but the like we hev got thet he's got
three positions he can do it to me and i think he can cross side mount and on all force right order the defaming one of those positions or
he's one of those pins on me the o'donel for me if only i don't have me on him at his monteschi awesome in my mouth not really good so he
is he can get out of that since no big deal but cross eyed or was a force i'm going to torture him and we both know we're going to be
tortured those positions you have to pose for him either to eisegonto get orderin for me there's three visions of a get torture of tortured
ye tortured yes sir h o eye seen it yes yes i'll torture he an you fell to it the one had both examples all of them except on the mount
though keneset moynette yet no man is cayetano is but yet not bad i did it that isn't that we are do you have you know twenty five over
twenty five years experience train very strong and big by the way like convertite a normal judicial your big europe think the huge plate
jugular beeston extremes noeton one not to do all that doesn't mean anything at herat momentino her holly cuddeback scary thing the next
wise getting i'm a fire higher paramedic and i'm still the root my station the par services notorious for politics within the ranks and
roy's often get the worst of it my question is how can i implement extreme oorip in a situation where the blame falls to me any way how can
i have my superiors view this as a positive trait when every rookies the short end of the stick and when none of my superior willing to
engage in extreme monarchic i'm taking ownership however the tip response a long is along the lines of that's correct bit is your fare to
yes you know what but that is correct it is your fault that hoexter ship it is that's what it is that's what it is that's what it is that's
what i tremorden it's your fault you're not just saying it's levyers it because you're taking aldershot it then you can fix what is wrong
that's wordies so i have tell you the boss will notice he will alloient above you in the chain command will notice they will notice that
you are taking ownership then noisesome promising notice that you anthat will then give you a good reputation but taking extreme ownership
does not absolve you of the blame satupaitea that you are at fault at the whole point that's the whole point and this is one of those
classic questions i ask all the time i like one if they say it is that would be saved that's right it is your fault athanor vanes he at
doesn't matter it's true in business it's an it's true in life too if you blaming other people for things at a going wrong you're not goin
to fix him you can't fix him because in your mind you don't control them the night your faults so if you wanted take extreme recheat work
and in business and in life stop blaming other people and blame yourself and realise that i eat actually is your fault to that correct on
it a new something about it the dandy think that sometimes um like this you know how some people will at like at the master's opeless to
ask you this and they'll say it'll be similar to the wanterwater they'll be like like i'm trying to take it to moleship but you know
something like dissoutes and then you say well yes like you take extremes you actually take the blame and then you talk about hiring an i
fix a probe retineatur you do you don't just take do you don't say yes my fault then boodwar aware on my hoss kind of thing it or asked ego
it's funny because you're eager is like if i say like echo this one wrong it is my fault and that you go yea yea you should have done a
better job i get that too i can alone my defamation will i you know i would be ellerbee you done by my haematogen on saying i'm taking or
some not actually taking ownership yes so they was actually going to be custodian shall you i feel so it's almost like a eolus it's almost
like like lily say i did something and i messed up i caught my own the state rain the milder in leslie man i'm so dumb and it was a
domestic when her ham so dumb and you said yet you are dumb in a bilak don't call me dumb right on hand like that right is like man you
just say you're dumb penny know what else is funny is to as you hear people make you so like oh but instead of taking the blame he sad of
taking owning the excuse that they so like let's say ah i wasn't prepared for a poast or lets in no i said he we're going to we we can try
a record on wednesday but i don't think i'm going to be able to do it because i have this going on in my dog do this and my kid did that
and i'm i'm making excuses for instead of saying like pa i didn't plan well enough and i didn't anticipate some things that i should have
anticipated and now i'll not on to be ready redi's my fault now if you get in what this is what happens and this is the difference man if
you have the habit of actually saying like hay i didn't anticipate this and it's actually my fault then you know what you do you plan
better ye how many times of our callin to a achnatra to record the poncas yea he turned no actually no you said i might not be ready and
then thanyris but matter yourself ye got mad oriana but i i was actually giving you a warning of lace i'm going to be is going to be tight
but i knew i was going to have to work to try and get it done what i'm saying is when you truly say like everything that's happening in my
world is my fault and he don't make a houses any more up for you you any man if you do you say i have years will go on and this one of no
doget over them yes it's a big difference man has a huge impact you're saying a year's a good one i like and this isn't one of them the
pimos common thing of anything in any excuse if i don't have time as the most is there any more commenced or a time said the dog at my home
work right an don't not that i know of no other way one time the dog is literally at my kids he work it was all set off in and i'll get
your home work in it ome from some eve you do keep your anagogia ye so there's no eater's no bigger excuse that could use more common at
least for like a long term go like a like a a i want to even it you i want a linen go in to play piano on a plegathanees a book i want a
testudo wanta get my degree all this stuff right anything it is that roughhewn to get shaped right iowan to run aryanists all he even even
i want to send what i with my kids my time you so that's that pre giving excuse but when you blame all these other things the time it's not
your fault that you don't have time reif's the fault of the schedule is the fault of of the weather it the fault home is the active the
fact of the matter is if you take ownership of that if you can't ownership of the time you will have time could you make time ma'am and
when i call you up and to her i might not be able get ready what i'm doing is a sane o k i'm giving him a warning and then i look at my
schedule where can i finish prepare war in prepare for this ye when gadget this done that's the old timid excuse for so many people i don't
have time and the minute you say that you don't have control over the time you do have control over the time in desate are there people
that are working three jobs yester are in my abating they're going to have to edit out of the schedule yester or one of the first things
you should add it out to your schedule you to social media surfing internet surfing rider ah what else do we do waste time you know what i
mean like no wasting doing think so that we if you if you have an excuse turn it back on yourself and take control of it that's all i sang
we got you meet the time ye make the time yes a little set time saving element on even of its tip exist little being to consider when you
cruise cruise extra hard you can get it done in half the time that i'm dislikes i can crop yes sometime in equal cruising yes that's the
freedom part greeting the time is like a i can be kind o like a balloon on a whiplike little leaks in it that where you know you want a
like time will just kind o leak away right so if you're not you know hallicardin you were the one who cut it told me where he's like you
should i shouldn't like plain kind of everything you got to go just plan it all and get it done and then the rest of that time is all if
you are on free so if you're like okay i saw stuff to do to day but i'm not going to plan it necessarily i'm just going to sort o get it
done to morrow at some point you could get one thing done you could just be you know messing around in whatever and then he get another
thing done in and like tante took me kind o all day a lot of time here you know secoli three four things but all those like little in
between times you if you can add em all up but sure i can't work out take lita you really want to go hard and say on a work on for an hour
and half every day but i don't really have a free hour and a half in a row right because i got to go they can my kids and i got a good dis
i got a drop em on i and all the stuff but if most of the time if you're like o came scedule all these things in a humble manginall done
then it's almost like you your shifting your time so doesn't just leak through the the little things that you have to do when you allow it
to i think recountant originally talked about this how much work people get done before like vacation like they know what are going on
vacations tangential ever anything done do that every day yes one more free time ye just eaten like when you leaving his isfahani this the
other day i went i actually went to twenty four fits that good work company so i went to in for with domework out of whatever came out
giein my truck as checking checking the crepitus but so i hold my truck chekitan elschen it and in a like checks some other alert you know
a check in a bemoanin then i laughed so i remember when a pompon down and i started it up an i left i kind of looked over and and you could
see the window of twenty four fitness and you know the people at work at the heart as fer there in for whatever he's nothing to myself i
wonder if they were watching me like oh another burst in at taketoit fallen in their head just had that thought in now that i thought about
it wait there that was like a good may be ten minutes or all ye that i'd liera right there hey if if as sartified if i needed to check
these things for sure i could it like if that was on some sort of a schedule or if i shii chose to do that at a specific time i would have
got the ten minutes back somehow like that ten minutes when elite move i actually by the time i d last the jim at that particular cut time
if i didn't let that ten minutes i would have been home or adendorff dotata shade as gets de at work doing you exactly right and we do that
all day that constant don't let your tilly but nothing another thing where another kind more for another situation with this work what
you're saying about this um takin ownership in ferial take on a dear don't be like hay oh you know you know i it's my fault that it is your
fabulation kind of thing i'm nothing he said ataman neon is apologizing when you apologize someone you know like some one slice he look a
lot men you had a disagreement it filled out her then the next even my came in i'm sorry you know but but you did kind of fire on you know
but i but i am sorry you know have they your you're pretty avon there yearly it's not real art to apollo it's not affected at all like you
yes or if you explain like but alajuela this sir you know it's just yet the any time there's not a like a full one hundred per cent full
speed apology towards someone like don't mention the reasons why you felt that way don't mention in a kind of justification on why you went
there with your mind who whatever it's all just like this what it is all like terrible and whatever in them straight up sorry to see series
speaking of apologies next question i'm sorry for taking so long with that and you don't but you rude me on him just saying next asia jocko
the military top made did never apologize speaking of it because it's a sign of weakness had a conversation with a co worker who says that
extreme ownership is the same as apologizing as a first of all not apologizing is actually not a sign of weakness and whoever was putting
that out who were taught that was actually too insecure about themselves and their leshi capability to admit when they were wrong or made
of stake and and really in scuro of a lot of other things most likely people is actually the opposite people that can't admit their
mistakes are weak and people that can't apologize when they screw up are weak the scared the scared to take oneship and their protective of
their ego now that being said extreme ownership is not this same as apologizing but their definitely similar you know remorentin the
therefrom in your taking ownership of that problem if if something that you did wrong than you are your taking ownership in tispak they
keep part as you already said is not that you're just owning the problem you're actually solving the problem and yet you screw something up
or you make a mistake then upon dashour short pause and then you can moorad ah carampane she said a couple of times on tweren't like a sara
she said ask for forgiveness too i haven't i haven't tried that one outlet she seemed to see it seems to think that that is another and you
when she says things i listen to her she seatmate i don't quiet talk to a that a being might have been sir armstrong oh it she said a long
time of the ring long okay eh you see we talked about the afore and it's mine take on now sinking again i'm not a hundred per cent on the
one when i gasp for free oneness raynell because it's this if some one i digitis far as i do it i feel like it does feel like like humble
kind of approach but it can be taken like this how it dick and i don't think i'd be wrong list of the time were on its like okay i'm i'm
sorry you know i'm i'm i messed up it's all me whatever right so it's almost like he's a you throw the ball in their court to be the bad
guy can like so it's it's almost like a guaranteed way to get forgiven that's what it is and is kind of like i know that so i like this is
me strong arming forgiveness from you is like shaming you into forgive all see your sami you are like if i say he onboard about this do you
forgive me yes oh i that is i yes if i well now i'm the hamayoun or posing to goaming me interesting this is now to get some feed i'm sure
sir will do some feed back her its subtle but um it and am saying that really the the more present identical ever asked for a person's
forgives of said the obsederunt sorry apologized for all kinds of stupid things in a done but i don't think i've ever asked for forgiving
is it may be if this was something really big yeuten than man yeah that's that's how fun i am sure she has a olgate aton behind it was a
tin ferdinant ions yeah i frasilah of that because that considered like an that in famine satan whenever that in my weiners situations of
too much ye you know anishinaba sorry will you forgive me like no matatitiahoe like saying i know you know i know i may you bet or
something like that i know i may do matamore it all whatever are you still mad it's kind of like that because if you say ye am still
madisonian hey i said my peace you chose not to be met are you chose to continue to be mad and that's your problem kind of thing it's like
do you please forgive me please for you mean like what kind of but dick doesn't give someone you know it's kind o like that air and then
the ring that folks like a little strong ercordin interesting book athebeck from cromer is interesting to think that there's people out
there and you know there out there located not apologize to sight we feraind ye don't you note a hersovac for to day don't be dumb ye if
pinnacles its tiapolo gazing and taking extreme or ownership i say not in my think this a pickle later our suit'll do not i didn't say they
were not similar or not i'll not that not to think things sarthe other not they're not the same thing yet ye underssore like um well back
to the thing when you were like yell if if you don't apologise that week or whatever that's kind of like the guy who says like hey this is
how am taking a leave it kind of thing like it there are yentleman if her decease hing like that and the like take it or leave it some
people love me some pop at me it's kind of thing and brother to the body that before hate you because of how you are all kind of thing i
have got rector yeah you know so it's kind of weird i mean i take it you know be you for sure but umthank that's something not nothing
people hate you through one more quest as a person in a leadership position what should i do if i consistently notice one of my guides
motivating the team and leaving them successfully through projects a mission better than i can the completion of the mission being the top
priority would it be better for me to back down and let my comport lead which will benefit the company and its employees and how will i
regain my status among them i've intestines actually pretty straight before word if you've got some one that's doing a better job leading
then let em leave but lead give it some room learn from him support them the best you can and the best way you can most likely support the
misbegetting out the way and letting them do with their doing and then get them to support that they need and what this is going to give
you the benefit of this now you can instead of looking down in the inn at managing your team you can look up and out and forward and see
what is going on in the future and practable field and in the future or preteema et era or look for recruitin you can move you can lead you
acutely and let that you know young buck handle the things that are going on pace on the boutaniers this to the to the sea leadership i so
say hey the inlisted seal leaders handled the problem that is in their face right now the tackers at a faster now the officer should be
looking at a what wigged neck that's kind of a really simple not always like that but that's a real good starting point and so in this
position i be like a got a young buck that coming up and leaning well cold that's got a willow me allow me to look up and out and be ready
to move forward and planned the next move now as far as regaining your status is a leader you won't really need you because if you do this
properly you'll be seen as a leader who is confident enough to let a subordinately er step up and lead while i go moorworth you'd after we
gain if you were there shutting this person down and try to micromanage and doing a worse job than every one of the tenos back i could do a
good job let him do it yes to that's about confidence billingate do you have are you confident and archduke in our leadership all yeletpos
ide isenstein do asked no problem love it pay you your real good of the school you used upon them to it don't rot will you get ocasional
person a thick oh look jaculis jumaat that gideon now he's doing occasionally can't want out at twenty people will be that big mister
negative the twine ye in know then then what's cool is when you're on the outside just what you are when you're when you let someone else
rontheim guess what you have guessed have he tested as oh i got charles a valerian in a asthetic ment and is a auront be able to see things
that even that bleeder that's better than you can't see and when you come in you look like the tackles beating point something out but they
did notice because they were in the fire fight at the gieseler things good yet it's hard to do that man was one to doing better than you in
a man ye that's the emanation take confidence in lessons a good example of the keeping your ego and jack cause he ought he just said a
effendi but that's new alce i might yuesen out of control time you stricken let this person leave and i'll move you don't check out what
we're going to do next i'll look ahead on a battle field she don't aim tenting but like all you said there occasionally there'll be a guy i
be like all he doesn't always doing for letting i i i'd be enough situation here my boss actually a been the guy who my susprise like said
ollie like you taddletale this you know you got this one cinating and i'm like ye you're doing because you annoy you doing kind of thing
and everyone knew that and if so i've been in that josian where i'm looking at im but he now tinamou this thing about it instead of him to
say he you can run me in thinking he sat he echo you're really good at this you're better than i am yet you step up run this i'm on me over
her looking where we next what would you think then ye so he actually said that before like capitanes and everything with time it made me
feel way better like a otelne the i mean of course the truth will set you free ye so i feel like if i was one of the giant of the deep
bysantins thinking that i think i wouldn't think that if ye if he did that kind of stuff notorious long as he didn't act like i'm biding
arenarious onarati yes seeing that if you hide it you better and a better thing to do as we like hay echoes really good at this is better
than i am when he's goin to step up around the thing and he pronounced as looted banderoles in their head that rattatattatt feel like the
only theresienstadt in carey's running this thing he ushered scuds it's a watch out for that peterborough just keep you going jack is sir
at all times all right let's have a pocasset's less than nineteen hours long ah so how can you maybe give us a hand with helping be
prepared and getting better in our lives arrochkoa be of it do no problem will get in silk were working out were all working out yes
conebearers day are we work not every day they don't have not necessarily have to but a lot will say i recommend it ye were not working out
in incruento month so we're all working out look bringing some lemeneff jocko does has supplements now that was kind of the plan the plan
has come to fruition the word right fruitatives e so used to trickle the a s iritates o po kill right that's the iman one for a joint
actually good for your eyes and brain to your eyes away so worriting to worry about your i say any more after you take this one saying you
can worry less sick that's good ah so ye jocoser is what it's called and joint warfare thou olisipo the joints specifically but i'm trash
i've noticed my even interesting up quickly i like not like noticeably each day and i have to attribute because i've had this similar
injuries before right it's nonacris and as bad as this one was and aye little noises a it it is no resolootin that too don't worthy indeed
tall the other day i dentol me exactly like like his vershinin and i know that i know that move that shows an even when he shows it on me
so kinsons guys were i think sometimes he doesn't know his own geraint he's doing a superficie by the way lightyears what he's doing it's
like the though what he did to me was a straight or long asked so that's what it anointest everyone knows all just make his roer this was a
isende being was actually showing a move he wasn't even we weren't rolling in it wasn't life he was showing a move and he shoneen thousand
moves with me as the dummy and i'm shown many many moves on being with daneshead he got this position i had just arrived man an inner and
an i know that makes it worse in up an i was defeat cold you know so i was cold and no warm up and he showed a moorehouse the thing as it
is a come jocka's got a good defence to her so you had to be ready for guides this and in the slike as he was saying that i think he
thought i was going to attempt this movement and i didn't and discommended are any or so is that pretty much how he derived it you ah yes
but it annette thing the reunited it more that can disguise you know it it's a bummer yes that is i guess he thought like heine i know i
know he had a fact he didn't mean to do it on whatever yet it's one of his basically how he explained it and he's done this i like i said
as me as the dummy and there her holiday you don't it's iolaos the rose i didn't realize you weren't that flexible ignorantly egomaniacal
you libel will it must have been a miscommunication just like i said because this what it was is like it came when you go for the comoro
across it on her nestringam you want to get is our behind his back bend his arm basically and benefactors what he said not to move he had
showed to me before it's one of his things his tricks to and he he said that like in he did it in a naliele a mist coming you know like you
any you do it it's kind of like you just it's just leverage to bend your own behind your back but then any was you it was your shoulder
then japonel and i'm thankful about that shoulder injures a worse than elvira's like a hell i know and even this he can do like i am he
won't be find ye no factor a that the joint war fer ye an i ain't rebut the quick healing ye to jon warfare which i was dick that don water
yea and that and these you one of those ones that is kind like man i wish i would at it would have saved me a lot of pain in the page you
know like if you're going to just holding down here it's more a big deal and gored and it's like i said i mean i had my shoulder where i
couldn't do muscle up for like six months and then were when we came out with the first like experimental milicete and experimental ah
doing one far and i was on alike altinati massepain ye which is that's awesome right that's awesome oh so ye doing my lepper it is awesome
cause i haven't attained muslemin done moslems were decades really my woltersdorf i think of tried to do last euroa like three times will
go lighters george so usolye teaching the evilest technic well there's sacnoth's live at a strike obviously yeah but if you know the false
grip which is this maddening that he's to be learned keep it in tight your chest but your star bomber cessford your there a cool she knew
sal willow a muscle up they are if you want this i dont wore for an jocoser cruel it is at origin means dot com men like the state organ
man jacob also in origin man is where you can get your geese oh but before these inimies now so i can't listen new supplement called the
discipline cree mission pre work out prey life activity free life supplement on the a good un cognitive enhancements in their is well
physical premission ye bear going to need your brain and your body a boom for the minion boom that's some one to take you i get on one's
good by the way taste good too so haighhall made it taste good to will be as the big figure i watch it for is you know we don't want to
spike or insolent level with cigars yes but we have monk fruit which is this sweet nerve and and monk fruit taste good delassale also a
solinus a summer positive impact on your physiology as well so double to be within her we say two birds one tone that i eithteen on the
tankettes taste get let in it the flavor yearyou go get down by that and do organum briton also organ man lies on a say is geese for all
the people who have been asking day bert to day called me to day about yes like what i would be emitting my yead all this stuff you do not
owe you was even questioning he was actually asking more or yet is he was like what gesagt but then i was like old okay you you go to our
dominion now that appealing my sheristadar the traditional gesties just like a one eight two rome you get it this one is kind at more
suited for you do you shaskay bai got a mature i got to post this picture the picture of dave burg and me the commander is on the commander
of the u bruiser he the commander of lightning six his anglican and i got a picture of us in remote together on a roof top and were both
asleep she must be the iterative now he would say on but its very awesome in it ah shows you like like a a in its iealousie were both a
sleepable have all of our dear on sitting there out on a roof top a sleep so what is that like you i disconnect your for sleep reading and
i and now let me discuss this great probably we my guesses we had moved into position we stayed there we could a clearance was going on the
clearance was done and now we were kind of in a stand by situation and were just like now we get a chance lycas before we'd go on the field
he basely you'd be awake for basically like twenty four hours in unanogo in the field better fact some of that when you got in the fields
an when you got your first sleep like aft you give the field and then you get your four hour of whatever to three hours some one you get
your head down and you get him to sleep finally easies me day with fatal bellini's not like you like i used to three for as i always he
asked piaster you in you this talk it's like men at not like your coming home from a hard day i work in you know now you you've clocked out
and now you have some time to settle down watch the news and go sleep for the night and not like town on all got a catch some yeah you got
to catch a eeheetoy so's not that he does or just fall in ugly from the jar home in a reladon her lover you know not at all yet i had some
so shut in ten at that one is we are probably on the tail and a bob operation that we have conducted and we were now like a stand down load
and maybe we yet we are probably getting ready to move to another you know another cadover sector and we are sketching some braces but it
often but it's an all obituries you all like tired you yet were both sitting in chairs all over her and holding our guns and where sleep of
ouaye men that unless a bereaved me no less a that's very does matter you on to get a key he still looking a get a give engaged another gee
get it from orient come in in america hundred per cent men men in america from the seeds of the cotton the sedate content all over to the
gearing people like what you say cousin sir and they like when you say in portantina the yeah and manton hatamoto of a mountain yerbas you
and i still wear if i see mountain or manor important it's like i'm not important in her for me that's just like a man in me ye ye yes i
use yes i i did doesn't it weird when you do it is on sipuleni but less i or jimeno that is they have a lot of cool stuff in all made in
america that's a good part salt metamar also for work out stop cannabis battle ropes may says your switching up you work they doing
creative stuff boom on it undecomposing the kettle bells the artistic one primal bells demon bells let them build zombies as with the
capuan pimodan promos valid legend the plant pick from was the coins a palmy darter on a few months ago by the west she is after no less a
tree you let octon there let a good influence well on it to come flash jocolate one also when you buying the books that we occasionally and
occasionally men very often review on this part gasattack the the peace little top manuelito books on puckachee good way apart that's where
you buy we have organized for you so you know you don't get lost or whatever list did buy episode sick through their get a eminemment day
do i read best way to do it my opinion also subscribed to the pot as if you have not already on i tones go stitcher spot o fie wakeness on
spitting he can try to now and earnestly but if you are on satified you can subscribe subscribe also a new to be over an others to guess
all so excerpts from the spot on the benefits of the of excerpts i think the kind a self explanatory and eveline in plenty time to sell a
not contades time oh but yet you can take you a little eh lessons individually sodomis is all bagatelles ascribe good way to his support
also cacciatore called jackson jackson at come this is where you can get the shirt displenished om assert with jesus head on it with a word
good written backwards a onsay wirin backwards but it is renbeck with em purpose useful has been emailing exanimate isaure with the good
written forward it's a secure it's a knock off it's it's called a tower fit no oats bad actually ugger an somebody posted a picture of a
man i forget what it say it's a jocose one of those you know little katherine's like companies hertha they got you know they form store all
on ammonites little sampling my one comfort or anything and they bade the print or in their like locality i earn one that said you would
understand it if he argonauts one i saw here and there lay i you know i can i beg cool payment round good you nayburing some random do out
there and i i the to me the colt was a miud never put that qaton their it i don't think you would oneself something you would put a looey
know kind of wolstenholme it in the yet but um good notation good intention ever sure hundred per cent and i'm signing on in that way but i
think began the it's a situation where these come in assuming as a company i'm sure it's not just one due but it's companies they get
trained stuff and they just you offer em for prey and in on amazon or wherever there and that's different there so they called
counterfittin not golf jock only for the socotora you definitely supporting the box yet do started a come that's it and there's some origin
at like a back organ man he got the rash guardy know so origin stuff hundred polani the game you know offices the it other than that it's
goods on be kind of hard to find he not the tea julie tea john awaited fording a outcast a bunting else can be knockowen in a lenify net
everyone in a while so there be war if you care if you hear a diet cause the to me if if some one were it to japuin you and understand
there like a good evening something like that i'd be done i'd be my new durance worse i mean ye so i deinoteron either way but i think
that's more just insult you know yet be your eye or information yes when i backed jocatore you this desensus on there to slimiest shirts
puttees hats poltiades the beanies youbet in on monday you know that i know the winters in most on a you know is one of those things you
can't just carryin wherever your mainsheet you away of the season to the same every year they held to like a spring beatitudo oh to
mahaderi now since it's negative forty degrees and new england in minnesota and a oaklawners in conclusion a norman sorry cassandane coming
a tall good am also rascarse rash guard sylvia one essence of jugum and bereton you know how and that at pointed out to me after i started
wearin by the welsh or someone applied on layer a layer ainslie to the black to it was keeling taylor who in it and he was like a washer
resaca said is this manchegan and go peasecod gitana like her let the whole eversince thing of a danger you deep jaspe king of judah and
docile yeah he bodoeri youpla yeah but yet not less new westgarth coco oh the worry kid rash cards or out and in circulation in the while
as amail jean iverson while but i've seen them there people truly yes i atcherly ecided saber in the tiber space while yes sicurissimo ye
that's coolin people did send etheric but yet not less you have tocktor dot com patagonia also psychologic warfare course if you do know
what that is on the toy said alba with tracks jocatore sedentary plain it is was for on your path to a woman like concisely a good way to
day on your past in great miss it's a weapon against weakness kanakaised and still working on a ominous now inside yet cheesy somehow he
half irenaeus again are sestiad you called the creative um process yet is it lingister rosanlind the potash worse worse feel fight will he
look on your path have i that on the path huron the pen on a path a working out were working out well getting up early some of this
moscovite of us in uberly as am sticking with the de dietary guide lines that i keep us in the game poppily we better be none the less
every every one in lie'll at that little road last little speed bucentaur speed but mooween's all it is a distraction like can when you get
hungry you on a fast or your own you know like a really solid diet and may be newer something you're thinking long term hopefully your
thinking long term long term away my dies get bring me my work out my whole thing is going to bring me to this long term go right you kep
you is and i go you and stand the path you get distracted by a fact that you're hungry at one moment the fact that this thing right here
don't not whatever taste good you distracted by that if you keep your eyes on lalong turcle you won't be destruction mean anything i know a
hungry right now as wells yourii met you of course don't statehood always tasted as nothing degousse's wi these are distractions of this i
gottorf is it like a little helper to keep you from being distracted and is jocosely us why we should not be distracted all right thank you
that was psychological warfare on ioiada's exactly what it is that's the best latipinnis explained it seraient you know and you know why
you don't understand the value because you only send to it no yeadon cause some timber ye like i like you having to use it i think is like
the kind all your ugonde's noronja among for us your i have listened to but i don't like to utilize it on the regular and you witches you
to you to lie some pain in it that little wind with it you bridoon to be like okay this thing work is things legit just like you just to
it's an out on itonian music ugly that type of stuff that's where you can get it speaking of amazon also was an you can get something old
jackal white key which might sound like its simple during jeypur water you put some tea as a water what you don't know is that once you
drink the tea you now have a guarantee deadliest thousand pounds so drink joceliande life more for yeenoo wait the warrior god did gito
studying reading working out rotis but adults can get something out of the to somebody posted a straight up rocky training montagut it was
like an eight year old kid getting after it and it was all he's like a itting intently reading or or kid and the neshemet nesaean reading
oreades in pushpiration get that book where the warrior kid the next warrior kid book is coming out aplenty eight out tell yallower it
comes out and is available for proriger what's the name onananiche as the other natives and of the name is waiterkind marks mission yeh
mark mark learns new lessons i'll be to axes from it on the podcast in the coming months just you know some little taste sure scamore
mission tremors of course that is the book that rodamonte lay tabina combat leadership for business and life how to take ownership which i
talked a little bit about to day dusponeos freedom the field manual how to get after it mentally physically yet some if you want the audio
version of that it is not an audible it is on empyree i tuned amazon kuikaa other empetre platforms as alan fond is arlesiens company i had
a guy somentathe tial client company was a kakiu help us establish a cultural leadership in side of a company elitha is as what we do so if
you need help with leadership at your company rejouit us it's me it's lacefringe done dave bert he mails in fuller as alan front dot com or
you go website alan from don fondaco if you want a a keynote speech you don't need to go to a speaker's bureau can just contact as a
athontaton that's the more efficient effective way to make it happen on top of that we have the muster we talked about it a little bit to
day for they muster is as beatership symposium where we talk about leadership we train beatership pragmatically tools you will be you
willessly better leader when you come out of mister you will be harabee in of you'll be a hundred per cent better to leave it friendlily
have a hundred per cent chance or one hundred per cent chance of the anlingo battle better leader how much i am not a hundred percent sure
on that fagbutt you will definitely be a better leader and when we got done i think a factor the we are done in austin and we are
ajuatangilat like this is such a good deal is he to get the information that comes at the muster to have that opportunity to learn these
lessons from the battle field that you can intake and apply to your business and your life and on top of that like the icing on the cake is
is going to gioaning it interruption of that so the monster to it also it's been awesome to see how it affected people afterwards that have
changed their lives from comingoer's it's awesome come and get some atomist it is this year were only doing two one is going to be in
washington d c may seventeenth and eighteenth when there's a mean francisco october seventeenth and eighteenth we have had four of these
events up then they all sold out these will sell out so if you want to go a lot of times when people and companies companies have
bureaucracies inside of them and so they're trying to get the approval for in the you know an we we need eight tickets in the ring run that
through the canican an get the propending for the eighteen and bubblehead we've had companies that have started their process too late and
then we sell out and were sitting here saying a sorry but next musters in six months you can come then ye know what i mean so give it enow
take wild get through your berries stem that your company to get your team sent to the master will see there extreme ownership doc com is
how you can register and if you want to contact maybe me may be echo if you want to share something with us you have some kind of question
you have some kind of an answer you have some kind of a comment you want to make her actually of vailable on the interweb on twitter on in
steam and on that other one is called to face appeoach he is at echo charles and i am a jackall can find leave thank you for listening to
the show of thank you for supporting the show thank you for spreading the word and for those of you that serve thanks for your service
those of you that protect thanks for your protection and for those that have fallen those that we never got to say good by to those that we
never got to thank to all of you thank you and good bye in a til next time this is echo and jacko out
