this is jacopo cast number one o nine with the eternal and me jackwell but evening a thieving one attemper nineteen forty two the army in
the field comrade fighters commanders and political workers heroic defenders of stalingrad the bitter fighting for the city of stalingrad
has been raging from one the germans have lost hundreds of tanks and plains hitlers brutalized horrors are advancing toward stalingrad and
the volga over mountains of dead bodies of their own men and officers are bolshevik party or nation are great country have given us the
task not to let the enemy reach the volga to destitute to find the city of stolen ground the defensive stolen grand is of decisive
importance to the whole soviet front without sparing or strength and with scorn for death we shall defy the germans the way to the volga
and not give up stalingrad each one of us must bear in mind that the capture of stolen ground by the germans and their advanced to the
volga will be or enemies new strength and weaken our own forces not one step back the war council expects unlimited courage tenacity and
heroism in the fight with the on rushing enemy from all the fighters commanders and political workers from all the defenders and stalingrad
the enemy must and will be smashed on the approaches to stalingrad forward against the enemy up into the unremitting battle comrades for
stolen grand for our great country death to the german invader so that as a clearly a note from the general on the ground as the member of
the war council the stolen growin south west front we tended general custer sent to the troops obviously that were preparing to defend
stalingrad now there was another commander in the field by the name of pallas and he sent a note to hide on twenty three november nineteen
forty two my fear since or set of eurydamas of evening twenty two one one of venta come thick and fast we have not succeeded in closing the
pocket to the southwest and west impending enemy penetrations begin to merge their ammunition and few will are coming to an end numerous
batteries in tanks have shot themselves dry a timely and adequate supply is impossible the army will shortly be destroyed unless a
concentration of forces succeed in totally defeating the enemy attacking from the south and west for this we must immediately withdraw all
forces from stolen grand and strong detachments from the northern front on avoidable sequimur then be a break out towards the southwest
since easter and northern front can no longer be held with such weak forces in this case we ll eat lose much material but the majority of
the valuable combatants and at least a part of the material will be preserved i retained for responsibility for this message even if i add
that commanding general height stricter huge jack well voide lips all share this a valuation of the situation based on the situation i
again request freedom of action high my fur signed palace so the russians were effective in surrounding the germans the german six armies
matter fact two hundred and fifty to three hundred thousand men fully surrounded now by the russians here is what had the rope back six
army has been temporarily and circled by russian forces i intend to concentrate the army in the area stolen grand north coat lobon hill one
thirty seven hill one thirty five marinocus tebengo stolid grab south the army may rest assured that i will do everything to bring supplies
to it accordingly and relieve it in time i know the brave six army and its commander in chief and i am sure it will do its duty signed it
of hitler so then we'll get into this hitlerian over again is asked if the troops on the ground can try to scape from stalingrad and over
their over again he says no you cannot leave you will fight to the last bullet he and all the thirtieth of genury nineteen forty three
hermingius the naperies marshal of the entire german racarees this seen year military man of the entire german army from nineteen forty
until the end of the war and even though stolen ground had not fallen yet he gave this speech about their sacrifice of these german
soldiers and he gave it being it was obviously heard on the radio et cetera and it spread and actually the soldiers on the ground in stolen
ground the german soldiers heard this speech and again will get more to what the reactions were but a gonnarea that part of that speech
right now it made one shudder but stolen had enormous masses at his disposal and used old men women and children and did not bother about
supplies or sufficient food or transport the russians used to weported bullet the germans alone could resist and congress with such an
adversary everything depended on them with the greatest respect to other nations the germans are the only ones in europe in a position to
break russia and destroyed bolshevism of all the terrific battles the battle for stalingrad stood out like a gigantic monument which would
one day be regarded as the greatest and most heroic battle in german history sirien to this in the past tense once again the seisas been
beside finished yet but your ferintosh past tentemus for all practicos yet was back to the document every german soldier would come to
pronounce the word stalingrad with holy awe and remember that it was there that germer any set the seal of final victory because people
that fought like that must win germany has now become the guarantor of european freedom culture and life but for the fighters of stalingrad
the borussians might have obtained their objective now they are too late the defenders of stone rode had obeyed the law which every one
must obey for all to die for germany this law was not only binding on soldiers but on the whole german nation the nation must not question
whether it stand at solenidae necessary or not the law had ordered them to do so sirs and don't question to question this sacrifice of two
hundred and fifty thousand men don't question it they was of no concern to the german soldier whether he died at stalingrad in the african
desert or norway he always sacrificed himself so that his nation might live in hours when some people perhaps tried to install more bid in
slide fox into your brains than we must always look at the fur there shining and greatest example they could believe that the almighty had
led this man a god sent man to pass through a numerable dangers and become greater and greater all for nothing that providence had given
them this man who had made them into the strongest nation in the world these are guaranteed that justify our belief in victory so we're
talking about it a here by the way as a god sent man in difficult times are real leaders tested and people prove their worth in hard trials
i the commander in chief of the lofoten suffered except when i heard of the results of the bombings and although i did my best preventive
prompale it must be recognized as unavoidable and must not influence are will for resistance we know a tremendous heroic song some a match
without equal that was called the battle of the neeblings they too stood in a hall of fire and fire quenching their thirst with their own
blood but fought at fault to the last such a fight is raging there to day because a people who can fight like that must win and before
these men a mangliers there stood in a small gorging greece and infinitely brave and daring man with his three hundred leonidas stood with
three hundred spartans from a trienon for its bravery emboldens and an overwhelmingly new mericle superior enemy attacked and attacked and
attacked again and again even then it was a rush from the asian east against the nordic people huge numbers of men were available deserts
these but the three hundred men did not waver or falter fighting a losing battle hopeless but not meaningless and then the last man fell
and in this bottle mac there is a sentence wanderer if you come to sparta report that you had seen us lying here as the law commanded they
were three hundred men my comrades and melindas but to day that battle that sacrifice still counts the greatest example of the arii
soldiering than to day this fight is there the sacrifice is there in stalingrad and one day it will be said if you go to germany tell them
you've seen us lying in stalingrad as the law commanded us to protect the security of our people and as i said those were the words of
herman goring who is the senior officer of the german military at that time and those were hers words and of course his words were lies all
of them were lies and no one knew that better than the men on the ground in and around the russian city of stolen groner fifteen hundred
miles away from berlein starving surrounded low on ammunition lacking medical supplies and lacking cold weather dearing any kind of real
leadership and they also served in a nation that lacks the moral high ground a matter of fact there nations leaders lacked any kind of
morality at all this is clear and the aggression that they unlease in the world in the atrocities that they committed in mass murder of
millions of people and its clear that they had no morality whatsoever based on how they treated their own soldiers who like many soldiers
war men that that were fighting not for political powers or for political ideals created an ivory tower thousands of miles away from them
but for the ideals of a soldier himself duty and origin honour that's what soldiers fight for and the otemachi that they fight for as we
have heard time and time again as for their brothers on the line with them to their left and to their right and one of those men was named
yeaten weder he was an intelligence after the eighth corps of the german six army and he wrote about his experiences in a book called
stolen ground them read of hell where he recalls what he and other german soldiers went through physically mentally and spiritually as they
were abandoned by their leaders as they were abandoned by life and as they were abandoned by hope itself let's go to the book of all again
this is your game weder and the book is called stolen grand memories of hell after meticulous preparations of gigantic proportions the
russians with their overwhelming the superior armoring calory forces attacking like lightning from the north and the following day from the
east pressed or entire sit sixth army into an iron vice within three days the encircling ring was closed at colac on the dan and contenant
and constantly reinforced stone we stared her a situation maps on which menacing thick red lines of encirclement and arrows showed the
enemy attacks penetrations and directions of advance we had never imagined a catastrophe of such proportions to be possible the mighty
wedges of the russian armored columns could not be stopped and a myriad of highly mobile cavalry troops increased the muddle and confusion
in the rear of the bloody rent front of the army so he now obviously skipta little bit moving into this port point but this point there
completely surrounded like i said cut off and the russians are applying the pressure the enemy appeared to be systematically evading or
blows and beitrag into the detracts is going his kind reflecting back on how they ended up there that he says that he says the enemy
appeared to be systematically of any or posing to be withdrawing into the depth of russia this is what the russians do what they did
napoleon in eighteen twelve and their doing it again here and he back to the book take it as a whole this was a master piece of general
staff thinking to day i am convinced that those withdrawals of what russian forces during the summer of nineteen forty two were an
outstanding in that man of traditional war russian war tactics so hiogo lord in and led in attention laden reflect on history and as we all
well most people know this was also hitler opening another front and trying to fight a multiple fun the same time which which goes against
a a certain law of combat had power is next focus our your forces on your most important thing and then move on hitler gets a f on
prioritize excitin back to the book it had now come to pass we were actually caught in a trap how we could get out serious as the situation
in the pocket he refers to this area as the pocket is a pocket of russian soldiers serious as the situation in the pocket was from the very
outset in our bunker to astolat mos phere of confidence and a certain feeling of superiority so that by the way that how you end up in
these situations and the germans absolutely believe their own propaganda that they were the best soldiers and that they were the master
race and that the these bolsheviks couldn't fight them when you believe that you think you can march right into tolerant keith no winders
not going to bother you it made idly and i remember a rose within me and intensified my ain apprehensive on rest with each passing day it
was the memory of several fanatical statements that hitler recently made in public speeches the german soldier he said now stood on the
whole co and no power on earth could make him leave the supreme war or that's a reference to it look the and he's got an incloses the
supreme war lord had enthetically committed himself he had prophesied and demanded that stalingrad be relentlessly attacked and taken in
presumptuous terms he had even sworn before god and history never again to relinquish on this conquest presenting the as already achieved
with such an attitude as this on the part of the supreme war lord was giving up the volga retreating conceivable at all so himera paid
himself into a corner when a paint brush of arrogance and it ended up in the situation where he say no whenever gone and he does not back
to the book the fate of more than a quarter million human beings with decided over such a distance so that the fur had quarters is two
thousand miles two thousand cometes tacite hundred miles distant away and there making decision this is coleminster way the scoticanae this
is not the centralized commend this is the fourth laff combat from the book called extreme ownership and luretta aff fonderie commanding
he's micromanage his troops at her fifteen hundred miles away the fate of more than a quarter million human beings was decided over such a
distance from there hithertil addressed orders and appeals directly to stalenus rend army which had been removed from under the command of
army grobian resigned to the newly form or magroonat dundee and is a river now everybody knew that they needed to perform a military
maneuver referred to is a break out which means you picture your in a circle your surrounded by troops you pick one part of that circle of
of the people that a running you andy you attack and you break through it it sounds like what it is is a break out everybody knew that they
needed a break out there like a wire surrounded we feel we need water we need food we don't have any that we need to break out and so every
one was kind of prepared to do that back to the book or army still the pose of babahan and thirty combat ready tanks and about the same
number of armored scout cars and other or reveilles in other words we still had a powerful motorized units available everywhere people were
waiting for the relieving signal for the break out with fluttering hearts we followed the preparations that were taking place mainly in the
western sector of the army in anticipation of the expected operation the order had be given to destroy all superfluous material everywhere
damaged guns tanks and trucks useless communication in engineering equipment huge amounts of clothing files and paper even food were being
consigned to flames so they all think that they're going to break out there assuming okward break out disse only solution right now were so
rounded we need to attack one area and get out of here so they starclay before relief when a burn is fueled imbues food would not go leave
anything for the russians back to the book of cording to the decision by army command the retreat from stalling rod was to begin on twenty
six november we did not entertain the slightest doubt that this stream command must be convinced of its necessity we counted firmly on its
being carried out i will never forget how stunned we all were the agitation yes the petrifying horror that befell a suspicion the higher
ranks of our staff went on twenty four november the message came in from army that hitler had forbidden the plan break out and finally
ordered the stolen grad army to temperately take up a position of all around the fence so it was as no you're not leaving or your
surrounded by the way there surrounded by a force of about a million russian soldiers but but but it's more than that because there are
surrounded by the country of russia not to the book the fatal radio message from the distant fur head quarters had come like a stroke of
lightning forbidding the plan withdraw on northern fun that detachment of our forces from stalingrad and thereby the hope for the break out
this decision by the supreme command was just as heavy a blow for the staff at the army as it was for us we were unable to satisfy
ourselves as to why all the reports admonitions and request for a responsible of our responsible higher staff we who were best able to
judge the events and all the dangers they entailed had not been successful so this is something that happened said the command of the
ground is always right meaning if you're sitting in an iredale somewhere there's a guy on the ground he's right and you wrong m he's on the
ground he knows what's happening now could we come up with some teacups this absolutely you have better intelligence of what's happening
you may be no some you may be of overadvertised get you get air reports are you have the these days you have satellites looking at things
to you there's such a wastin where you might know little bit more but the default thought process should be the gun the ground isn't is has
a better situation where nesaia go at their call and here's hilary now now general police whose the commander of valve all the german
soldiers general pause back to le general police addressed himself directly to hilltown a very serious and responsible a valuation of the
situation in this momentous radio message he had adamantly stressed that the fact that all his cedar commanding general shared the
conviction that because it would be impossible to adequately supply the army in time it would shortly be destroyed unless a concentration
of all available forces we succeed in divide decisively beating the enemy attacking from the west in the south so thought is one general
insanery but every easements two hundred and fifty three hundred thousand germans are there's a lot of senior military dede all of them our
saying we need to leave hierakonopolis just that the no you got you guys to leave could word were german we played till the death in its
arrogance earnestely partially arrogance that he thinks no hold out they will still just lintogout boldest old out and i think he being
stubborn hand ye ye as the tinware like he he made a call kind of a madoolee like hay with this called nogotiations colateral one ego every
obviously hitler hasn't a probably when a digit eagles of any human being ever athamas and pofect even though he had left no doubt that in
his view to decision promising salvation lay in immediate break out in the end he too stackpoles in the end he too submitted and obeyed for
him an order was an order and spite of everything all that remained to us was to hope for rescue operation come outside i will say this
actually an there's some books the parts of this book that i'm not going to cover because we just on have time well there's that guy that
gave that speech gory live ginning he and also told hitler hey nor we can reap he was the before taking over all the german military forces
he was in charge of them german air force the loose wife and he said look we and resupplied these guys don't worry bout it don't were you
an an he probably said that at a time when it did look like the word had completely surrounded in new elia was re supplied to worry about
it and we'll get into some of the numbers on what they said they could do but that's another reason why hitler hillerton oh weak and
respond he also had people in the grand herony estemed gotashi so no one sidesore with the boss man in this case eight all hitler sir by
saying is he wenesday look can't we reach apothem yes yes we can respond from the air and also he say he can't some one instead of them
breaking out and going toward back towards germany when we have some german troops go towards them and break into them that we re goin over
on some plain to where are ye get told when he when he offered that solution he got told yes we can do it is yes we can do it so he
surrounded by esmond and you nohow you ned up surrounded by yeman his ego monotone onlike to be till you go tell me not your fire he yet
someone in here that's going to tell me that they can do what i'm saying no and then that persons gentofte and then you get rounded by
people that want to get promoted she proceeding on and there was a one general that really made it made a significant effort i regale back
to the book initially general vencidos with dumb founded stunned he accepted the order but in his heart he rejected it particularly since
he was painfully aware that his own war hands were tied not until the following day twenty five november nineteen forty two the general
vansittart to hitler's orders and his reaction was as much filled with a sense of responsibility as it was temperamental addressed to the
army command it took the form of a detail to valuation of the situation that coromandel had had his chief of staff prepare it surmised once
again all the arguments against the solenodon digging and erchet breaking out of the ring immediately so what's cool about this book they
actually have this actual document that is come have you you ever heard retaineth getting all your ducane and leave my boss owes me no call
im an o of on to get all the formation of a comeback and omnipotent of making a a bullet proof argument leamy boss is going to agree with
because you can't my my my arguments can be barbecue i'm right and if i wasn't right then i wouldn't press wouldn't go to this for it i'm
not going to i'm not gonna put my my reputation on the line arguing something that i don't truly believe is right you know although alcoto
know what he could be right so you know what i an tryin execute to my best of my ability in this case side with was like no it's not no and
and he says okay i'm going to form one puts together the thing they have the document inside this book i i would read it but it's long it's
it's so detailed that it would take too much time but it lays out every little detail of withey need to break out and not in an emotion as
with beautiful but not an emotional way how maybe i just need to check myself cause maybe more emotion was needed but generally if you come
across is relytion filleting all you will abase would think al you're just a motion albutiae use the motional body esthetical down it's
contrary of yours so he didn't he he played the role or he he used the strategy of dis calm this i was going on this wouldn't he's changed
or in this willet do and if we don't it's goin to be catastrophic back to the book in the emergency situation intense of five by the old
cage and okes oberkommando dat ar switches the supreme high command of the german army general von sidlits demanded from the commander in
chief of the army that he act immediately against orders in other words against hitler so so sidleton side this got told me he's
acknowleded to do anyway that's how passionate to now he started to get a little bit motional machete declared it to be an imperative duty
to the army and the german people to obey the dictates of conscience and to seize the freedom of action that even forbidden in order to
prevent threatening catastrophe the memo was passed on by army command but had no effect whatsoever and so they had to suffer the
additional pain that in the final analysis they could but give in and fulfil the bitter soldierly duty to obey against their own bedridden
i will tell you that as napoleon said if you execute a plan that you know is wrong you are culpable for executing it and these guys they
would not stand up against it i back to the book we are all deeply disturbed and full of despair and in our hearts even outraged what was
being demanded of us manly contradicted all military experience at winningest every soldierly feeling and robbed of his any hope of any
hope of being able to save ourselves by breaking out under an power in the last week of november when the formations that had been the
heavily damage during the initial retreat where hastily and with great difficulty establishing themselves on a new main line of resistance
armised a grave order of the day i can still remember the exact wording it started six armies been surrounded this is not your fault as
always you have fought bravely and tenaciously up to the moment the enemy had you by the neck it went on to point out that the hard
fighting suffering in deperate that would still read demand of the troops and which they would have to endure for a time in hunger and
frost trusting in the help from outside that had been so definitely promised so it were i a man s an help me out i debutant finally mention
was made of the relief operation to which it drapers onally committed himself psychologically clever and calculating the appeal ended with
the encouraging words promising consolation in salvation haldon the furor will get you out this final sentence appealing so strongly to
emotion which injected a new tone into the previously factual in sober language of military orders gave rise to discussions among our staff
it made me realize on top of all that had already happened how great the sacrifice was going to be that would be demanded of the troops by
the i these guys travelled there and had a really hard time of it they know how hard it was for them to get there and now there being told
that the people that are going to the the way that they're going to get saved as by some one else coming behind them to help them going
through the same hardships that they barely got there so there there there outlook isn't good the jolly shall he had their doubtful back to
book a large number of the soldiers who had been in constant exhaustion it again confit and exhausting action the front line for two years
without leave without having been home to see their loved ones so a love these got saved actually survived a winter early on they had
survived a winters they pushed into german eras they put it to push in russia and now there waiting for another one but these soldiers have
been fighting for two straight years hard fighting back to the book naturally the troops were not the position to appreciate the full
extent of the suffering and deprivations they were about to face they knew nothing of the difficult problems of the overall supplies
situation so again this guy is working at the headquarters meaning heisey know with the commanders in the leash so he's tracking all the
logistics of the situation from an older does now the friend laneside expects a they're going to be both the end be me food he realizes
because he sees what's actually happening at that that's going to be a real problem they had no inkling of the countless worries that lay
so have we and depressed in the all the higher staff nor at first with a aware that will that i want stroke the encirclement had made it
impossible to implet preparations for winter positions out there in the supply depots of the army late tens of thousands of fur coats warm
stockings protective hagger and other items of winter clothing which could now no longer reach the incircles for the most part the men
remained completely inadequately supplied with winter deer and exposed to the murderous frost that thousands and thousands of warm weather
dear for i stockholder dear and now they're going to get nothing they caught off back the book we calculated that our own army whose total
strength before the interclan had been about three hundred thirty thousand men now numbered about two hundred and eighty thousand so there
arty shot fifty thousand killed we the staff be officers in the staff departments also pindore on the relief operation which was being
prepared no one even considered that hideous be ready to abandon the outstandingly proven six army on the vulcan throat the wolf so these
guys are even i said that even though i said they weren't hopeful transuming there's no way that hitters going to leave three hundred
thousand soldiers out here there's no way ye back to the book he was bound to find ways and means to rectify the devil a situation there
reaven starry i dreamers not however among the older more experienced who maintain that the fur would not only get us out but it probably
already conceived the plan to turn our apparent defeat into a glorious triumph and encircling all the enemies armies that are surrounding
us none of these dreamers and believers in miracles who kept their who kept surfacing here and there until the very end had a clear idea of
what was implied by the fact that german soldiers were simultaneously fighting on the north cape and the bay of the gay and the font of
lining grad and veers on in the cock as in crete and north africa thegan disguise fighting fronts all over the place and that any staff
officers the leadership knew how thin my spread the german army was from mydressing they didn't make sense of that during the weeks of
december a fighting strength of the army was to cineritious pace the blame for this lay mainly in the in the inadequate air west here a
catastrophic picture was slowly emerging in order to be able to maintain it abilitie and fight or army had initially requested seven
hundred and fifty tons of supplies her day later reducing this to fiyune tones per day the j u fifty two cargo aircraft had about a two
tongue load the want the eight one one one fighter boma had held about one point five tons so this is going to require like two thousand
aircraft to be old make this happen what are the end up with back the book they only brought in eighty to a hundred and twenty tons of the
required supplies in other words not more than one fifth of the amount needed purely and simply this meant the daily deficit of ten
thousand kilograms of bread and a fatal under supply of desperately needed fuel and ammunition three an a one fifthrate they did not we
have to be careful cause that's a little statistic that were thin out there humanitaire getting one seewee need but i think of a human
being and what you need is a human being just food and you cut that down to one fifth of what you need you are you need two thousand five
hundred calories a day you need five hundred the that's what we're talking about yeah you need any invite way of fighting and you're going
to you're being attacked so you need thousand bolts a day right the heathland bold to day you're getting hundred twenty pots to it's it's
there the things are not looking good back to the book the sun set soon after a launch and by fourteen hundred a fifteen hundred hours it
was already dark to the sinoe talking russian winter by two or three o'clock in the afternoon its dark and every day this two reminded as
to superesset here in the desolation of the snow bret now bounced step of the enormous distance that separated us from home were we not all
the living and the dead long buried in a gigantic mass grave foglike mass occasionally befell me when i returned from various sectors of
the front where in my role as these on all sir i'd been sent on specific assignment to gather urgently needed information there on the
heights above the rubenfresser shock of valley the men of our divisions lay in desperate battle demanding bloody sacrifice there in the
trenches and foxholes in the snow the soldiers were dying of exhaustion and cold because there steadily shrinking rashes of bread and other
food issued foodie were no longer sufficient to provide the physical stamina needed to come back frost and sickness so the starving to
death there serving death in a freezing eventrer being attacked killed father russians with noel with no amane day in the second week of
december the staffs first heard the news that the army group down under field marshal in maine steinunn stine had begun the long hope
relief for the long hoped for relief operation soon the good news had also reached the troops the words gave new impetus everywhere and
particularly on the hard pressed western primer of the pocket spread like lightning maintains nine is coming the already dying hopes burst
firee new courage happy expectations a new spirit of initiative began to blossom the sufferings and sacrifices to date had not been invaded
after all salvation was now beckoning what the fur had promised he was bound to deliver so they can work entangling this is a tisso if
everything went well they thought the hour of all relief could just coincide with crises the motorized groups and strong thank units being
led by colonel general half elements of which had been brought in from france and great haste had begun the relief of sentive half spur had
danson fifty cometes away hold on we're coming said one of the encouraging radio messages which spread like wire fire amongst the western
edge of the pocket so there in radio communication fifty cromometer and this well respected leader half he's on the way to holborn were
coming do you ever that is in that like a jink right there you know what i mean like you ever celebrate some intolerance your head you
celebrates on pettitt it before you should wetterer do that am i superstitious because i believe that way if you think that that's to how
it truly were i but i think i'm isitnofrit ious but i also think there's some psychology meliagaunce where alessio realized if you just
freelike to celebrate it earlier it there is a kind o makes you uneasy and hunting like a i feel like fat guide at i got a certain level of
satisfaction just by saying like don't worry work coming like a had this moment of corina's gorostiaga ously oversay ve don't worry were
coming yethering to be able to say an he took that eating in the easy money right there he like logically that to be like a were not very
at when you be ready railhead needle fanariot where we are to yeshishe strong ray and a thing like the guy who's running the touch down
here in his he's alleverte thirty yard line or i the twenty five he put sand up last is like a classic up behind the plumage the scots
named leon let he played for he i want to say dallas cowboys he was like a like a deep forenoon to think ninety mean even other dolls
cowboy pescan you remember the name of from the night i am gielo of him like a handful did let the cortereali he sintimints i heard that
sideport die you know he he's a defensive like lying man or something recovers of domo run it in for the touch down in his he's doing you
did even to put it in there but his head he's putting on the sight and like celebrating tumiah they stripped him and recovered it i think
there onotawah go odic you can't stop you have ginnywine you had a finish strengthening like or the like races like a hundred meter dashing
to the guys like or the two hundred meter is like i wanted then the nearer god ethereal hungry guy gets it in a red sea nat's half all
takes one tank can be doing it all back to the book in the sure knowledge that before us was the last chance for our salvation we
feverously awaited the decisive hour with a feeling of confidence the orders we expected could not be delayed much longer but all too soon
are hopes would be bitterly disappointed a longing messages began to came in rapidly attacking russian tank forces were broiling the
relieving army and heavy fighting were slowing the advance and finally leading in connection with the russian offensive group operations
west of the dawn to serious crisis for the entire army group one of the attacks hate colonel general hoff who is hastening towards us in
fearful tension and delay mounting an agitation we read the messages we were receiving from the far distant german air reconn and radio
surveillance un unit soon these brought news of disaster the relief operation had began to run down hosford in turn threatened with being
surrounded were finally forced to retreat the front fell back hundreds of kilometers and the encircled stonegate or me on the volga was
left to its fate only much later was idler of tragic details of the events and circumstances that had sealed the fate of the encircled army
at this point i did not know then that the hitler was still in no way prepared to give up stalingrad on the volga that for the second time
and after the dramatic conflict in the conflict atecott as between him between him learn the people the his advisers he had explicitly
forbidden the break out of the sixth army against the will of his chief of staff and in opposition to the man of the army group down so it
leaves them a bend them back to the book among the circle of our closer comrades we no longer entertained any illusions about the bleakness
of our situation the german front had withdrawn a great distance away and for the time being there be no new thought or neath no thought of
a new relief operation wood the german front be able to hold out for several more weeks it was hardly to be expected hunger frost and
sickness were cutting terribly into its waning strength and death was weeping in an uncanny harvest and not only on the fire spewing iron
ring around the pocket and even the conditions for a great saving break out operation scarcely existed any longer in such an event the army
would only be able to remain a mobile for a few cometes because the lack of fuel than if solenoid be given up what then would happen to the
growing army of the wounded sick and exhausted men did the o c h intend to give up the volga at all the measures ordered so far seemed to
point the opposite way once again i was often forced to recall hitler's from natica war words about the german soldier on the volga about
stolen draw and each time an icy unease crept through my bones maybe yes maybe we were supposed to hold on to the bitter end to stay put
and fight to the last bullet on the dark horizon the outlines of a terrible disaster began to emerge christmas eve approached all the
visible and invisible wounds which the cruel events had caused burdeen more painfully on this night the atmosphere was depressed memories
of former christmas celebrations with their blissful shimmer only dimly illuminated our harsh reality as from a world bone gone the well
loved christmas carol sounded in low melancholy sat sso hope is pretty much vanquished at this point not completely cause he still may
still say maybe maybe they're just going to leave us here in fittest man which is a crazy thought columns the number again two hundred and
fifty to three hundred thousand soldiers this isn't like her you've got eighteen guys fight to last mantalini if this is that this because
that that might have you have that that's not going to have a strict impact on the situation you lose three hundred thousand combat
veterans would wish you no hard comaean the gonna have a strategic implication i mean of course every soldier that dies is is a ate of ten
in that soldier's life obviously in their family and everything else but when you start talking about leaving three hundred thousand people
that die for nothing it's it's he still care quite get that still not the white there he he's in on the horizon whose not quite there
though back to the book as a new year had arrived jangling frost lay overstore the stallion pocket and breathed its icy dead leap breath
the sharp wind blew through the joints of doors and windows and in the bunkers and from the fours a cold crept up to one's knees the daily
casualty reports from our divisions that increasingly reported losses other than by enemy action represented a shattering balance on the
death sheet so what he say in there as like that people are dying from combat but he ermordung just from cold and starvation ye again the
russians furiously attacked several sectors of our pormanteau we have left to oppose these powerful russian elite troops who were protected
from the frost and had a full stomach not to mention the numerous tanks guns rock anlace and mordryn small numbers of heavy weapons with
insufficient strictly ration and munition towhead only amanate men exhausted by hunger among whom the fighting the cold and spreading
diseases were taking of daily frightening tale how much longer could he primitiant the pressure it did not escape our attention that the
russians appeared to be concentrated in form of our sector in preparation for a major blow the last sod sad possibility grew even clearer
on the dark horizon the fate of our bstract by a shattering of francis breaking over our heads so genets interesting that this gustato
things i should put notion is interesting at this gas perspective because he is in the staff and so he sees more of a happening from the
general officers but let's also make not that he's not in the feline and he's so he has it reallity good immedingtly protected by the by
the rush from the russian by some distance i mean so getting more ted they etcetera so getting artillery but is not the non idiwat the
russians like the guys like the soldiers in the fort minds that are sitting in a a little slit trench in the ground and the tundra to one
of the things that he sees as it is a meeting here we go back the book an important meeting of the general staff took place at our car
which the commander in chief of the army general pasaen with his chief of staff the serious reserved expression of the tall figure with the
head of the scientist reflected something of a burden of responsibility that press down tormentingly on the shoulders of this man it was a
last time i was to see our army commander in the pocket as far as i could remember he never visited our corrigan i soon learned of the
outcome of the meeting and the grave words of our general staff officers lessned about the consequences of the orders that had been issued
in the mean time they dealt with the mob mobilization of the last reserves of the sixth army the encircled forces would to hold on and
fight to the last for this purpose the formation of fortress batalions was to be prepared in executorial as possible all remaining reserves
of able bodied men were to be collected in uses infantry members of the looward personal on antigrav troops gunners who no longer had gone
pans are grinders engineers truck drivers clerical staff rearason and supply personal or once again to be rothwood the order amounted to
the virtual dissolution of the reresolves and clearly demonstrated that the emailed army was doomed to stay put and fight to the last man
and the last bullets to the ego everyone's going to fight cooks supplied people you're all going to come in to humayon this clearly
indicate the to u leader that abenstern going anywhere asservated here in fit to last matak to the book we felt that we had already been
written off by the higher ups and all that remained for us was to perform a heretic a futile gesture to insure the fulfilment of the stoic
mission an he's got coherent of the army of stalingrad on the volga the troops were again given the cheering radio message which the fur in
supreme war boarded sin at the turn of the year six army has my promise that everything is being done to get it out but we now viewed this
not just with doubt but as downright the ception then ibelieve at learning more the uist doubt and now now they think he's diseasing and
then again this is not as no small group people her back to the book the bread rathan was reduced to fifty graham per day ringing cold
gnawing on her creeping near illness enemy fire combined in a indisoluble offensive pack disentrance had appeared as uncanny guest and the
plague of lice and creased from day to day death danced as murders round no back and forth in out the pocket his head quarters were the
numerous places of suffering despair the dressing stations and field hospitals that filled to overflowing alonely but he also felt that
home on the lines danite death as everywhere it is it weirder think like just being sick you tell me you were sick couple days ago come and
cool but yet yet and you think a out what being sick does to you and now this is your big sicken it doesn't matter like does no mercy you
or there's no mercy that with bideing back a book during the fifty days that pocket battle lasted so far he he stockheath he had already
cleaned out horribly among the men of the army about one tuteris man power was gone of the more than three hundred thousand men who were
present at the time of the russian break through about two hundred thousand were probably still alive and how many of these and during an
hoping fighting and suffering human beings had death not already marked on his own news that we could no longer count on any relief before
spring was really shattering there was nothing more to be done save to hang on and adore the horror now we get a little opportunity here
there we go there was a surrender proposal sent to our encircled army by the soviets supreme command the document was addressed palace who
had been promoted to colonel general and to all the officers and men of the german forces fighting its dolliad it was signed by colonel
general of the artillery war verona and by the commander giafar's of the dawn front routined general roasting who had now obviously been
put in sole charge of all the forces surrounding us the proposal gate began with a short factual and narschachi valuation of our situation
in particular stress the catastrophic state of supply of our troops were suffering from hunger cold and sickness lack of winter clothing
and terribly insanitary conditions realistic possibilities of breaking the encircling ring no longer existed any further resistance in such
a hopeless situation had to be senseless therefore in order to avoid further unnecessary shedding of blood the red army was proposing a
number of terms the document ended with a reference directed to the commander in chief of stolen grand army pointing out that in the event
of refusal the forces of the red army and air force would be obliged to destroy the pocket for which he colonel general palace would bear
the responsibility this dooty hundred thousand people and you get an offer you twenty four hours to respond lethrend everybody to everybody
is going to see underhand en they weren't sure how they were going to treat it i mean they were fairly calenian retreated goodun all the
distant the glory very good either that's not true you very good at all back to the book we soon received various orders directives and
messages whose burden was that the surrender was out of the question the commander chief had passed the russian all to made him on to the
fur had quarters and as for freedom of action for all ventuate it immediate reply hither personally forbidden surrender and paula had
rejected in writing a proposal the soviet command the troops were not informed not to be informed in detail but from now on they were
ordered to fire without warning on flags of truth of true appearing near the front lines this instruction from army which we received by
radio was especially revealing as to the intentions of leadership in our staff it was received with a rejection and objection because it
was a clear breach of international law so then i gets told like heywood treating what they get told this if you see one to flagroot
immedially which is basically saying or not surrendering back to book i was reminded again of hitler's high sounding words about the
invincibility of the german soldier for whom nothing must be seen to be impossible the very fog of capitulation must be an irreconcilable
must be irreconcilable with the prestige of the supreme war lord he potentiary dielight but i don't call it out every time but he does he
sort a mocking hit were with that in his speech in munich shortly before our turtle he had had he not solemnly sworn you may rest assured i
repeat this with for responsibility before god and history that we shall never again leave staleness again for life or death we were
committed to the cheerless dawn step here our fate must come falter the most terrible weeks were still before us and during those icy days
in january that fearful premonition of what was to come descend in upon us like a lead weight from the morning of ten january nineteen
forty three exactly twenty four hours after the ultimatum at expired the russian began the destruction of the pocket with the halles
artillery barrage it was the answer to the rejection of the surrender proposal of a front among the staff on the line again entered the
atmosphere of tension excitement in her vesenaire the situation was partially unclear and confused the cat the catastrophe did indeed
appeared to be unavoidable into this helpless situation orders from army came in time and time again defend whole clear up the situation
fight of a last bullets from their desks two thousand calamites away and put some prentices an exclamation point the och together with the
constantly interfering fear fur headquarters forbade any independent withdraw from in danger from in danger sectors of the primaner and
army which had to meticulously justifi itself for any change in the front line caused by the pressure of circumstances obeyed so this
classic is micromanage ment not decentralized commit very ven salutati you're if your primitiveness don't fall back just die which is
ridiculous for as it doesn't help the situation and is now there's a whole and now more more enemy are going to come through the hole and
were a people behind us it's like full on canaletto last natheless i like do it cause they said so kind of thing the like disorientation no
reason to do in the strategic reason to tactician obviously stoics i set so do whatever you the army corps the visions and regiments obeyed
often with bitter chrisianity with open or hidden reservations flaring up or knuckling under but they obeyed and the suffering and dying of
troops in the trenches and foxholes in the icy step obeyed giving their all in the natural fulfilment of their duty or an apathy silent
despair bohier leadership did not stint with recognition promotions decorations and medals reindan on mass on the fighting suffering doomed
men but what purpose did this huge monstrous commitment and dedication of human being served in the face of the increasingly help military
helplessness and the daily worsening human plight i was becoming more and more depressed by the torturing question of the why of this
sacrifice of most precious blood this pitiless dining was it not only for the sake of of oppressed that a military supreme command
thousands of comets removed mercilessly wished to maintain than for whom the price and many thousands of human lives did not appear to be
too high this question haunted me and would not leave me until the final sorrowful ending the reason why the they start to collapse from
the perimeter of the pocket in towards the city of stolen ground you could they were konopish out around it surrounding it and now there
starting to fall back to it where they at least have some coverage back to the book the withdrawal of the troops finally turned into a full
fledged flight into which further formations and combat groups of various divisions were drawn whole units ceased to exist in this
confusion the sector of our neighbour to our left this fate also put an end to a whole division that had long been under arcomin and in the
end had burned out like a slag i saw its distraught general now a commander without troops wandering around in a bunker desperately seeking
a new assignment so he just lost twenty thousand men his walking round saying one am i supposed to do now back to the book and this
desperate which draw was being carried out in icy cold weather and pitiless no storms at thirty degrees sent to grade below zero that
negative twenty two at thirty degrees below zero the remnant of the regiment that had shrunk to come back groups and the suffering hordes
of their shan of other shattered units moved over the empty white steps staggering crowds dragging dragging crowds of last holitay wounded
and frost bitten soldiers with them company of those that so far had been spared enemy fire succumbed there to exhaustion and over exertion
to the strains of hunger and to the cold innumerable men fell by the wayside and were soon mercifully covered over by the snow and this was
no longer an authorized withdraw the recoil of the fun was now taking place despite standing orders to hold and maintained position at all
costs and despite the line of resistance laid down by the oca h so be finally did break if only said you know what survival this is about
survival and we're not staying here a more when the cried get back fall back the cycle the psychological ability of the troops to resist
had now also been eroded there could no longer be any doubt about our fate after the enemy had begun as decisive attack bent on destruction
and are dissolution was in full prorogues it was too late for a last departure attempt to break out to the west help from outside could no
longer be considered more devastating even than the enemies weapons were hunger exhaustion cold and illness of all kinds among the soldiers
who had not been adequately fed for so many long weeks with the advent of the increditable strains of daily retreats the situation had
deteriorated catastrophically we were lacking in food weapons rest warmth hope in short we were lacking meant all the vital conditions for
fighting since the long rejection of the surrender proposal the troops had again survived a long terrible weak of tenacious defensive
fighting retreat and flight thereby time down superior enter enemy forces in their area now after the loss of our life support base
patomecke on january sixteenth the time really seemed to have come to stop fighting the air lift temporarily ceased altogether no more food
and ammunition gave him the will it in sick could no longer be flown out in so that's where they're getting us supplies into the tell nick
air field that's actually where this guy was for a large junkerstadt if now gone to now they even the umbered they weren't there only
getting one fifth of what they needed when other eserin every day that the fighting was prolonged was costing thousands of human lives
there was no more time to be lost and we waited for something to happen like me innumerable comrades and brothers and fate probably clung
to the same secret hope but nothing happened and tragedy took its course the russians by using their storm troops during the initial days
of the offensive it would probably been very easy for them to make a further effort in liquidation relatively quickly but they no longer
needed to make achaicus ly attempt time was on their side by bearing down on our tenacious defence with a crushing attack are enemy had
wanted penetration into the pocket now he was no longer the hurry and no longer appeared to consider his victim to be very dangerous the
battle that had begun in the meantime was merely a question of finishing off a wounded game already marked for death for some time already
the russians had dictated the course of events the date of our final end depended on their will alone the stations of the cross of an army
of two hundred thousand soldiers particularly because of the slow helpless death of such a vast number of human beings made anything seen
before with the exception of verdun pale by comparison a part of the entire german nation was sentenced to death here and by this its vital
substance was dangerously under attack the moral effect of these events touched the whole nation in the midst of the general destruction of
the army there were thousands of individual tragedies whose localities of horror wiener ous collection points for the sick and wounded who
convoys of mostly open trucks overloaded with their pitiable fright of freezing wounded groaning sick and dying moved deeper into the
pocket from the second half of january until the bitter end the harsh suffering of the fighting soldiers continued by day and night after
eight evil weeks of indescribable torture and deprivations they were now plunged into a veritable hell of hopelessness and destruction time
and again it was fight resist hold to the end then disengaged withdraw turned back and digging again for the fence in the snow and stone we
harfourch time and again there were heavy losses panic and flight and the never ending useless stronger struggle against hunger and cold
among the staffs there was an unending tension perplexity and despair and feverish activity leadership with still to be seen from the
higher he commands can continue orders directives questions admonitions threats criticism opposition and misgivings were not lacking at the
lower levels but for the time being the mechanisms of command still function so despite all this and even of their haveniths hasty would
draw that's going against orders there still are direction coming out there still people being disciplined in the midst of the general
suffering and dying we helplessly watched the catastrophe and of destruction approaching us mercilessly and inexorably the terrible human
tragedy that was nearing its climax as finally commented comments upon by the war news broadcasted home in the pretty and spirited words i
quote in stolen grad six armies attaching a mortal honor to its banners by its heroic and self sacrifice in battle against crushing odds
many of my comrades had meant to ly written themselves off intentions to commit suicide were voice with increasing frequency others had
given their valuables and wedding rings to be towned being flown out i myself had been had so far been a pain prepare my relatives for the
catastrophe by means of sparing now i felt the need descend home open word of farewell and gratitude the letter was hard to write in my
ears once more rank rang the last good bye my wife and imploringly in beseechingly called down the telephone line to kiev on a spring
evening of last year before the seemingly endless space of russian plains had swallowed me up now all would soon be over when i see all the
letter i was gripped by a specially deep despair my felt this though i were suddenly looking into an abyss of suffering and hopelessness
towards which our whole nation was reeling as if the events in stolen grand were a preview of an immeasurable disaster that was to break
upon germany the general a visitation division had a nervous breakdown it was no longer fit for command his hopes to being flown out with
the badly wounded and sick had not been fulful fulfilled he now had to share the fate of his soldiers to the bitter end this general who a
short time before was a commander of the division had carried the responsibility for many thousands of men was once more a mere human being
trembling for his life than did his questions not reveal the same fear that secretly tormented all of us we made one another realized that
the impending military catastrophe was also a political catastrophe the result of presumptuous belief and actions that had long shaken the
healthy foundations of our intellectual cultural and national life had the power that we served as citizens and soldiers bent its knee
before the law that was rooted in the cone of effect or rather had not a new gospel of violets on proclaimed an introduced that in a fatal
reverse of all values had ceased to differentiate between right and wrong so these guys are realizing what's coming round what's coming
round he's realizing that the path that they went down as a country was wrong back to the book by means of destructive tattlean st the
universal educational and cultural powers of classic antiquity humanism and christianity and anti intellectual political religion of power
at successively extracted the german people from the best of the commonly held european body of human fought and thereby also out of any
commitment to the objective concepts of truth compassion and justice is that is that his conclusion like during this vinerger these events
his realizing what what's happening estate were wrong and they went imitating that crazy about not the germany is how fast that transition
to place like the totaliter let the rideout to rise the notion their pair influence in the gathers of the notist up nineteen thirty three
they started down my tenor ty three for ten years and you have completely differint of the world have armenteros going against it see what
like your going to gainst the trusion values they're going against her you know cudegong against the christian values they're going against
the coach roll values they're going against the national values in there going against them he in'side how much of it is that you know like
the soldiers in the even the people one in the nazarite and wonder how much of it is like denial one in a war it you know i like your
signed on to like some leadingg the durin the time being yet or you sayin right now how much does this deny onontio bellringing during
eleanore ber rapidan you remember that you are a a one aliisque on the guys who bade the biggest sack fiscals a was a straight up actual
note and you made massagetaen took huge risk to save as many people as he could by the way not white people not aryans but but chinese now
so so there's a guy that you know was more related to the traditional christian intellectual a values right and yet the cattel that in
charge of the country's notes i guess that makes me an ogyian here we go and so and these guys worse situation because they're soldiers
soother fighting for that evil force yet and like you said there's something ill you also get caught up and clearly to the germans got
caught up in the nationalism they got caught up in the hitlerian orator and a very moving speaker they got caught up in the hat and they
were in a very depressed economy so those things all kind of came to it they had been the ever mind screwed over a world war one and you
know the feted and then treated badly and the others a whole thing about hitler's mustache the on have these not the funny mustaches there
is some debate on on how much of this is actually true but whether it's true or not is a little bit it doesn't really matter but because
what i represent so that the deal was that hitler's must achiote a a mustache during world war one because of wearing a gas mask you had to
cut your mustache like that hitler still wore a mustache like that was like a constant symbol that he remembered he remembered he was in
word war one and he was wounded or an ant and to even despite all that insane sacrifice they didn't win and they didn't like the way they
got treated by the tree of her side and so they had that and they had the economic anthat all those and built up and hit looking long and
was ready to let them focus on something else and and and now what what leader is realizing here is like a head as folks on something else
all right and what he held how to focus on wasn't good it was evil is a crude and now let you as training day i have watched her any bets
kind the same thing when you watch could jane elway cause the new is the train by the lesser movie i see like one time in an air plane and
an eye all not in mooreville from liar with a sore hurrying the rise of natty jenrally long enough at aniline to the movie train eleven the
whatnot al the speculation is distorting about as far as like you know people there signed on ham german you know though cool and you know
were all german were you know solidarity were during the end of the knot preserving start in giving these sort of sort of certain types of
influence in the like o all right cool man i wasn't really thinking that but all right were still germans were in his tartelaine and slowly
its ikoko catcher back it tarantia geraghty like he signed on it'll say nothing and he's like a dangali out on abatis but all right he i'm
signed on to the cause and after a while which is the same point that this guy got but to where it's like me oceans pushed to too much for
it and sent on to this and then you reflect back on all the violation of soolikan you let norton to slip you start to slip her you don't
hold the line yet hastings in that's what happens yes and that's what makes leadership hard that's a makes a life hard it's really easy to
get tempted to go down these trails these paths that are not what you should be doing it in a good a can in mine men it's hard because in
the inhabiting like it in you you go on a path you're already signed on right and you see one tentin violation and i i what am i in a do
like i make this big stink about this teentiest veratrine youedlin you keep going and then you had already made that exception in him goes
on is what you now bring in enagenyon read what ah then zell washington he's he's the his introduced to hesitate to level at violation
right along as lee just gives little yelvaland one alone paid little bit of you there but he will i battaglie a little like what you know
yes exactly right it's that's what that's what had lorded yeah that's a ellysees with the hay you know we don't want to have this happening
ye can get to keep these things in check a yeah yeah love were going to east were in front the use in the neighbourhood familiar neighbor
holliton amongst a riata over there is the old and litanies not good wataboshi else what it on a work camp okay and then you just right you
solely as a lady yes your murdering to six monypolies and then all of a sudden like your not signed on all of a sudden and a thing in your
line an in your head you're like the act ostasio the sum of the rallier but i had let it go and i'm trapped you don't anything o your craft
and that's where he is right now an he's trapped facing his death so i rigged not any he recognized in that ye successively extracted the
german people from the best of the commonly held european body of human thought like a susan exactly we do said success successively at
systelletai tied it back to the book all of us who wore a uniform or entangled in a fabric of development and circumstances that we
certainly had not disinterested now with a makin excuses leakiness but we see how it kind o happened as you just said we surely could not
believe the employment here in stolen ground was part of a noble legitimate battle for germany in bringeret painfully we felt that the
soldier leave virtues of bravery commitment loyalty no beating to duty in the objective sense were being despicably misused this deep in
the tragedy of cool events in which we now would have to atone for much that we had never wanted tea that's um not her that arguments
sometimes if you will your in a hill let de a bad regime and you're to go and you're going to attack the regime and then some of the people
at are just there by chance you know you hear that argument well they're allowing that regime to exist in now that's a tough argument than
half because you got somebody for them to rebel could mean death as of they don't get bit or about in so that the ameinias situation that's
a tough one fly but somebody asked me the other day this yet some as a long those lines you know some long winded question on twitter about
what we he do if you were in india yellin inside of a state that was baboo know repressive and etcetera atterson word answer rebellion now
would i have the mentality that i have right now and i grown up in one of those repressers states probably night prison to survive and get
some more bread no right i might not just be thinking he there's something more important than me and that's freedom and maybe i wouldn't
think that maybe i just be thinkin he wants maybe i get an extra twenty grams of bread and nobunaga to the book in this is good in the
proximity of death things appeared in their true light and proper order in such a situation the bible speaks to us with an insistence and
clarinetist of which we had never felt or understood before the fear and misery at the edge of our existence had given us a religious
experience who strength giving power bound us together so he started to see relit you through there's no etesian guess what according to
weder that a very accurate statement among my favorite books in the little private library i take with me to the estiano was a copy of
markitall observations i too had often found support and comforted it had been tribute markedly to completing my quicken for war by serving
me as a suit of armour that protected me from all too frequent oneing by events and giving me an inner economite now this book too like
several others had become meaningless the wisdom of the world the wisdom of the world with its merely human temporal comfort had failed it
did not penetrate into the ultimate and most profound and could no longer stand firm in the terrible shock and helplessness whose mercy i
felt myself to be in in extreme distress with the ground shaking under foot and menacing abyss of nothingness seeming to open before me
there was only one last support the comforting strength of the christian belief perhaps we could pass some of this comforten support on
through other comrades who bewildered were reeling toward the abyss in their desperation face with instruction of a whole world of concepts
and in a view of the senseless senseless of vetasta he many a soldier on the staff as well as within the fighting troops had reached for
his pistol to put an end to his life there was no way back in no escape other disguise their secret fear in intervenes of emptiness behind
a contrived soldierly stance or even deliberately assumed to the cast of mind of a lang neck which is like these guys were these old school
german mercenaries that were super part or if they themselves would doom to go under they would at least sell their skins so dearly to the
end and take as many russians with them as they could matineeing he's he's projecting on these soldiers that you know that their disguising
their secret fear motioning you right now that some of those not germans orders they were they were getting after it right they weren't
they weren't to hiding their their secret fear by acting tough they were ready to die for the fear eso let's not just paint with a broad
brook brush there in my opinion if a we agreed that suicide was out of the question for religious and ethical reasons as normal weak human
beings caught up in error guilt there was nothing left to to us but to drink the cup of suffering to the last bitter dregs ye in the
meantime something unbelievable to happened and made quickly made the rounds or quartermaster a still young general staff all seraun
disappeared his driver who had taken to the goora air base had waited in vain for his return the lieutenant colonel was missing he had
silently left stolen ground left the stalingrad pocket the zone of death and destruction on his own initiative probably is in texture of
nerves fear cowers in the vain hope that in the general confusion he might be able to fly out and save his life that it tempted him to
desert the commanding general would made inquiries by radio that his earnings here shown up an army group gleaming the fun out on the
ficial simon from the coon matters of supply our general was wild with indignation and rage declared that he would have the criminal flown
back into the pocket and shot before our eyes we were all deeply depressed and it with an edificated with horror the terrible scene that
had been announced and which we were spared to our relief or quartermaster was shot outside the pocket on the spot where in his fatal
weakness he had hoped to find a door to freedom in life so again even on i just talked about some of the notes being and made to the end
there was many of them that were just trying to get the hell out of their back to the book or commanding general spoke openly of the
impending collapsing in with bitterness and secret anger he pointed out that it was not our fault we had gotten into this devil a situation
of a catastrophe from which there was no longer a means to the cape okay here he is the commanding general is now saint he lo this is not
our fault for he so clery is obviously not taking an the older ship of this but bookay so so lasky is okay jaco what would how would it
help in a few as to take ownership of it right now right eve's a hey this is my fault would it help him could could if you say he looked as
my fault this is why this happened with that help i might now no you're right it wouldn't help them what did have helped him a month or two
months ago if he said to himself look were in this situation i knew take ownership of it ingenited have out then if you're damn right at
one of he was that you know what had her might not to might be tells not to break out guess what it bears not here where going to break out
i'll go get shot for defying his orders that's fine i'll save all of you that's that's word ownership would a come in but what he said was
a fort which were were signs to a fate as all about his old time just because the boss tells you or don't give you the sports genetrice you
about or that doesn't give you the excuse you can't put the eldership on the bows a year the wanting you an ownership of it you get the
problem solved to didn't do that so he eased the ones aloud to say it's not our fault but he is of a him saying is not our fault is a kind
of a different circumstance why because their past the point of no return for their due already yes cause they don't have any ah you not
take her sensibility and then take her son's belief for i be am fixing mistakes veri's no fixie sake any more it's why if i was him i was
at a guy's it's not your fault that you here this is my fault i should have made a monovar i should have stood up to the boss i didn't
here's organino defender selves with best of our ability brereton that would still give the guise some breathing room bright some
psychological breathing room is they fought hard they did their best it's my fault i should i should hold you guys do something different
and i didn't here's all easy now the fact that he that these that he wasn't taking on her ship earlier yea the fact that he ate the blame
now means he was able to blame her leer and if your but the many star blaming your not solving anything or not getting things do there you
go ye back to the book but he laughed no doubt that together we still had a task to perform nay took namely to fulfill our soldierly duty
duty to the last moment in obedience to the orders from above we were defend our permeter fighting shoulder to shoulder with our car being
to the last bullet from his words we could surmise that he was staunchly determined to go down like a captain with his ship and not to
survive the downfall of his troops on the equivocally he pointed out that the commandments of the traditional ethical code of the soldier
now demanded our ultimate sacrifice without demur now at this point he supposed to go out and do a do like a reconnoissance to the winds
and see what's going on and when he's up there here's what he sees and freezing cold and wild snow fury flurries i rode across the desolate
battlefield on a motorcycle together with a sergeant of the military police we soon reached a road of catastrophe we soon reached the road
of catastrophe rising dark gray against the back drop of a snow bound step marked by all kinds of abandon rubbish half covered cadavers of
horses and wrecked vehicles scattered pieces of equipment crates destroyed weapons the dispersed the starving the freezing the sick but all
those still fit for fighting and only one objective to which they were attaching the last glimmerings of hope and the subjective was stolen
ground in the protective walls of the cellars of the ruins they might still be able to find some warmth food rest sleep and salvation and
so they streamed by the remains of the shattered and decimated formation trained and rearason services with vehicles that were slowly being
dragged and pushed by wounded sick and frost bitten men there were macheted figures among them muffled in coats rags pitiful wreck
painfully dragging themselves forward leaning on sticks and hobbling all along the front on frozen feet wrapped in wisps of straw and
strips of blankets drifting along through the snow storm this was the wreck of the six army that had advanced to the vulgar during the
summer so confident of victory men from all over germany doomed to destruction in a far off land mutely enduring their suffering tottered
and pitiful drove drove through the murderous eastern winter these were the same soldiers who had formerly marched through the large parts
of europe as proud conquerors now the enemy was at their backs and deterere there's a interesting piece that i don't go into too much but
this guy had written a paper and presented it up the chain of command with a talking about what happened in the poleon and he got kind of
told like a thotapan as that the buttevant of eighteen twelve seem to be repeated themselves after all once again the young kenny russian
space was swallowing many tens of thousands of human beings to spite in a poleon's experience the basic elements of geography and
meteorology had again benigner to a frightening degree on top of that the modern superstition that with the help of machines and motors
empossible could be accomplished and the dangers of space overcome had also contributed to our downfall and in a fatal pack with the over
estimation of mechanized means of boar had stood the misapprehension of the limits of human strength and possibilities yet repeat todhunter
one of those classic length the anaveni or after emanuel like you inorganic mistake it's called ego called lack of humility i don't
rantaine happened to holnon the greatest you know military versatile will happen as cause we have some cars here we got some tanks but
whatever but by the way takes take feel for is that fulminator at least a horse can eat a piece o hay right sir he setteth there's no ax on
station out there on the steps back to the book together with several wounded we dragged ourselves on words until exhausted and chatterly
finally reached the ruins of rubble of northern stillbiter so now he's actually was retreating back to its talbotite what travails did fate
still hold in store for us death whom i faced more often in closely and read and days than ever before was still refusing me but his
trusted companion for many weeks hunger was tormenting me with tenacious power solely making me right for the end and frost the third
murderer in the tree o had also bitten me by now as the constant stabbing pains in some of my limbs warmed me separated from our staff are
goof officers found shelter a dark dirty cellar while our men went to ground in a neighbouring pile of rubber rubble this was to be the end
of our flight and our last orders the army at once again addressed itself to o k h and pointing adamantly to the catastrophic situation had
asked for immediate permission to surrender which might possibly prevent still complete disillusion if this allusion and total disaster
antlers answer had been a style not forbid surrender hitler a radiating the pocket on twenty five january the army will hold its position
to the last man and bullet he imagined being that freezing hungry tortured by b enemy at your back and you got some guy he in a in a nice
todious in that it's one thing to be like ye well going to lastin'est bullet and it's this be war but at last you do week not even a weed
like that that one be last and i will fight to the death that's one thing and i did it and that's you know but just weak on bleak and weeks
of slowly dying of starvation and sickness in the ashway different should its way different to tryanite till at last man and last bullet in
that since senario ye especially because they they all kind of know that there's no stricti advantage and what to do in hers back to the
book colonel general palasan his chief of staff whose fanatical will do thou was well known among the staffs relentlessly held on to their
fatal decision from their part many generals and their state remain the executioners of the orders of destruction under these sorry
circumstances for fighting suffering and dying continued torturingly in terribly after the splitting of the pocket the death agony of the
army continued for a further week in the general dissolution and catastrophe it was every man for himself more and more order and
discipline broke down here and there in the cellars the still able bodied in combat or the hid among the sick and wounded cases of un
comradely conduct set of provisions refusal to obey orders and open mutiny mounted a little late the elementary drive of self predation no
longer allowed the question of right or wrong to be raised and the same way that the differences between the front line and rear line as a
the rear salon were being raised so were the differences in rank and position in the final days some real was imposed in stolen ground with
drastic punishments for any crime luders were to be shot within twenty four hours hundreds of german soldiers who had become weak in their
misery thus became victims of german bullets one could no longer generally speak of courageous and heroic fighting certainly here and there
there were individual deeds of courage personal initiative and noble self self sacrifice but by and large only a mute submission to the
inescapable fate remained to the bitter end it was rather the silent heroism of acceptance of suffering and submitting not the picture that
gets baeader often now at this point at this point right now in this battle is when they hear that speech that goring sat talking about
this great sacrifice now they thought so well in alabammy for ever and compared them till leontes in the three hundred spartans that
thermopile it's just that he's what these guys thought with over exaggerated feverish pathos the site speaker recalled the heroic example
of the last of the gods and in the end the istorical so famous sacrifice of the spartan heroes of people who would not fall faltered he
given ground until the last fire had fallen and so i was at stolen grade just like leonidas in his loyal men in the greek defile so with
the german heroes lie on the volga as the law of honour and conduct in war commanded them to do for germany during this speech full of
empty phrases and lies that audivisse in hysterical glorification in praises the demeanor of the deeply delusion and incensed audience
became more and more hostile the glances gestures and words all around on the stake of leeshore that was growing in people's souls whoever
might still have trusted in the promise of help from the outside now had he recognized with growing horror that at home were relatives
still hoped for union the warriors of stolen grated finely been written off we felt that we had heard our own funeral oration before its
time the disgusting adulation of the torture is dying of our armine deceitful glorification of conditions that were against all laws of
humanity filled me with indignation and revulsion must not going wooings words of pierced the hearts of our loved ones at home like daggers
and robbed them of all hope now that they had been fennant anxious fears of art for our lives at home we had been declared dead the hero is
ation and mythical glorification of our stolen grate army was supposed to conceal the sad truth for a long time now the herilia of the
german soldering had become an irresponsible mass dying ordered from on high the pathetic propaganda of glorification was obviously
intended to distract from the catastrophic consequences of a criminal amaturus leadership of war and to prevent the question of blame from
even arising so you pretty much see how these guys felt that the end and now you might think you might think that there's a discontent yet
lerice proud or fighting to the end and the twatter man's are and the water are were superior and that the guys that got nowhere is beat
down and so maybe they're just maybe they're just weak right and they're just given up you might think that you might think that here's
this give you a little indication that that death ironshot an no one february the news spread among us that palace had capitulated with his
staff and the two southern segments of the pocket and gone into captain so valider just surrendered at the last moment he had been promoted
to feel moral this promotion in the hour of the final catastrophe was grotesque it was simply a gesture of thanks from above and a good bye
to him methought pauses going to die well he didn't pause surrendered but the unhappy field martian marshall did not set the example of her
is expected of him from the top the german papers brought cast later broadcast later tried to spread the impression the style of goring
speech that in the face of overwhelming superiority the field marshal and burned a secret papers and that the general lying behind their
machine guns had fought to the end furthermore after the catastrophe german magazines lied to the german people with fate dictare so
showing such heroic scenes but the truth of the matter was something quite else we calculated that more than fifteen generals and their
staffs had gone into captivity from the southern and central pockets soon must soon the moscow radio gave details of the numbers and names
i was only to learn later that some of these generals had gone in a captivity with neatly packed suit cases and plentiful baggage they
simply stopped fighting and gave themselves up to the victor without any further consideration for the fate of the remaining battle groups
the last request of the field martial had been that the russians should treat him as a private citizen with this he resigned the official
roll had formerly played in the military political interests of the supreme commander and as a broken man laid down as martiallship he was
driven away in a closed car and no longer needed to ceive the appalling misery of his sacrifice army so there is no disconnect the troops
on the ground were right these leaders were ears we and that no problem pursuing glory with someone else's ass but they weren't ready do
with their own deep down inside i had increasing me begun to oppose certain military concepts of obedience honor and disciplined like those
that had been manifesting themselves to the end in the measures taken by our command was this only the citissime to we went through all
this and he is like domino he starting to oppose some of some oishi military concepts of obedience if this is was an american emerica a
rebellious by nature the wednoon you know you if you're leaness out rong bath we stand up and say like now you're not going to do that stop
no he's you know here gowell a have done all this and now me now my starting to question these things and even questions his question back
to the book was this only the revolt of my selfish instinct for self preservation was an only in on soldierly stand fur cowardice at a time
when things had become bitterly serious precisely at this point i again remembered the awkward deeply penetrating thoughts and feelings
with which i had asked myself with the beginning of the war wynter who must you make this sacrifice the same questions that it never really
taken loose again before me gaganini applicable to the whole army was there really a noble high wholly objective at stake here in silongan
in our annable and ethically justified goal which could be served by ultimate haven human test of giving one's life did soldierly honor and
obedience to orders really justify this demand so casually made of us that we hold out for this lost cause this excess of suffering and
dying was this immeasurable sacrifice really decisive for the outcome of the war and could it serve our country and a people this is what
this is you annoy with talk about the while but tim thereis yet now he should have ask it a question a long time ago and he said he started
too in the beginning he started to ask that question but he didn't go through it you know why cause they were winning they were winning
these don't let you know why when i do not hear you know de this country beat that country low from back country is pretty easy bucketting
tested it back to the book a foreboding i had long held grew into a terrible certainty what was happening here in stalingrad was a tragic
assensere sacrifice a scarcely credible but trail of the final commitment and devotion of brave soldiers are innocent trust had been
misused in the most despicable manner by those responsible for the catastrophe we had been betrayed let us try and condemned the men of
stolen ground were dying in betrayed belief and in betrayed trust in my heart the bitter feeling of and all for nothing became ever more
torturing in my soul arose again the whole abysmal disaster of the war itself more clearly in ever i appreciate in full measure of misery
and wretchedness of the other countries in europe to which german soldiers and german arms had brought boundless misfortune to his
reflecting on is learn sand look at we did all these of the countries had we not so far the victors been all too prone to close our eyes
and our hearts centipede that always and everywhere the issues when living human beings their possessions and their happiness so like you
said he turned a blind eye rotrou all these countries he did all that evil probably only a few among us at entertain the fault that the
suffer of the thought that the suffering and dying being caused by our sorry profession of war would one day be inflicted upon us we had
carried our total war into one region of europe after another and thereby destructively interfered with the destinies of foreign nations
far too little we had asked the reason why the necessities and justifications for what was happening or reflected on the immeasurability of
our political responsibility that these entailed misery and death had been initiated by us and now we were inexorably coming home to rose
they were in exorbitant rust the step on the dawn and the volga had drunk streams of precious human blood the russians were certainly also
making cruelly high blood sacrifices in the burderous battleston but they who were defending their country against a foreign aggressor knew
better than we whither were risking their lives so the russians their fighting their dying for sure but they know that their defending
their homeland salades for them understand many alters and commanders now began to oppose the insane orders and emanating from the fur
headquarters of being passed on by army command by this than they began to reject the longer road in military concepts of honor and
disappointed to which the army leaders should it clung until the end in the unconditional obedience such such as was fatly being upheld
bernstone grand there was no longer a soldier we stand but rather a lack of responsibility to masata will more time this idea that
unconditional obedience was was was not seen right now as a soldierly stand but a lack of responsibility because you are responsible to do
something if you forgetting bat or is your responsible for not obeying them and you i get a asscension all as i'm not all time but potowome
times people say would if you got a would you do if you ever got told something that you can believe it is like well we were all the same
page like it's not like we are getting told to do things that were in moral unethical you're they went an he go burn this village with
women and children we weren't getting those orders she etonnante weren't being told to do things that that one that i integre with the that
my guising and and that's the way the moveater age pockets were things happened yapouly that's what that the horrors of war but if we got
told the dotings that we ninus do we do set no not doing it this was open mutiny to thee gotten to the point now famely since there were no
more oars from the centre towards the end many responsible commanders and united on the line acted on their own initiative and i had
devoured to stop the senseless shedding of blood many desperate stolen gronorius in the end onaway out by suicide or by voluntary by a
voluntary soldier's death we learn of two generals to extremes whose extreme resolution had been shattering on the commander of a division
from dresden had shot himself after having ordered his son a young lieutenant to report to him the safe farewell the other the commander of
a division from lower saxony whose tactical emblem was a four leaf clover and was known therefore as the lucky division who did not want us
survive the downfall of his men had been killed on the phone mind while standing erect in firing his weapon the last pockets of resistance
what was left about the sick shattered divisions and the remnant of other formations that had meanwhile been left to their fate by the
resignation of the army command now had to bear the whole burden of the concentrated air attacks are to aranmor afire it was not only the
fear of the coming and the hunger clawing at my intestines in the pain from my frozen limbs that turned the last seemingly endless hours in
the stalingrad pocket into the torches of hell for me the proximity of death tore as a last obscuring veil from my eyes and brought fruits
of long years of individual experiences observations tormenting feelings and fought and to an instant maturity now on the very edge of
being worn in it for us most terrible form became the inexorable review of all things pedantries spiritual awakening as he faces death and
in my mind's eye the horrible experiences in pictures of destruction that would not leave me in peace by day or night were strung together
in a bloody chain experiences and impressions stretching far into the past that suddenly awoke in my sharp and memory i discovered to be
logically connected links of this fatal chain what it formerly always caused me to have nasty premonitions and apprehensions what it always
disquieted me i now suddenly had a recognizes having been the warning of a fatal fundamental evil the dimensions of which i had fought not
thought possible now faced with the eminently impending catastrophe the question about the sense of what was happening at played me so
often during the war seized me again with cruel force hundreds of thousands of flowering human lives were suddenly being sensuously snuffed
out here in stalingrad what an immeasurable wealth of human happiness human plans hopes talents fertile possibilities for the future were
thereby being destroyed for ever the criminal insanity of an irresponsible war management with its superstitious belief in technology in
its utter lack of feeling for the life value and dignity of man and here prepared for us a hell on earth how could the long eroded concept
of honor duty obedience soldierly hair was figure any longer into our feelings thoughts and actions to stay alive to be reunited once again
with our loved ones at home this burning desire was now the drive behind all thoughts and actions gradually we had accustomed ourselves to
the etude of surrendering at the first opportunity and going into russian captivity in the end i basically had only one wish to stay alive
and healthy and go into captivity unwounded so that's it goes in a captivity um you know after going through a a a i don't know if you want
to call the spiritual awakening of recognizing that his whole life had been doing something evil ye in the as its pretty anti climatic how
it happens alighted up in captivity back to the book in the early minutes of captive felt an easing tension and in relief in the end the
insecurity maritato between life and death had weighed down on all of us like lead what first attracted my attention so now there captured
to what first attracted my attention imagine this was the fresh healthy appearance of the victors their simple enviable winter clothing and
good weapons son sub machine guns everywhere and the uniform picture of the sheep skins padded jackets felt blue and fur caps with broad
ear muff swinging up and down the warm le bundled up well nourished and splendidly equipped men of the red army with their chunky mostly
red cheeked faces formed a stark contrast to our death we pale filthy bearded and freezing figures of misery who hung exhausted and sick in
their makeshift winter clothing consisting of all kinds of furs blankets scarfs field gray head gear wounds an inadequate footgear this
sudden meeting and impersonate once showed me how low we had sunk and how little we had been prepared for this murderous battle from the
soviets kind o the russians can have their shop at him fritzy sashes hitler caput they all toated threats and obviously dreadful her curses
and contemptuous spit like raging war vengeful soldiers from the reresolves on the helpless victims time and time again to steal personal
baggage and event their spleen to nother captured in to the russian start kind o sing and dance and and singing old folk songs back to the
book all the noise and exuberant surrounding me formed a shrieking contrast to the inner and outer state which i found myself torn from my
circle of comrades left to myself in my emotions in the midst of the joyful dancing and singing victors with whom no contact could be
established in my inner heart i felt abandoned and without hope totally depressed a luted caught off from home sunk far away subjugated to
a foreign will pithily piteously thrown to the mercy of an unknown powers to be dependent on the whim of the victor constantly washed
menacingly surrounded by barbwire and guns forced to relinquish any kind of external freedom captivity men on anunner form of human
submission and humiliation ah it is a bounty for us human beings that a merciful hand covers the future from our eyes with an impenetrable
veil atragene had i known then that i was destined for more than seven comfortless years devoid of love and filled with previously unknown
mental and physical tortures and fearful unsartin to his on the border line of life i never would have found the strength to san stand the
sufferings of the initial hard months of captivity he say if you known what the future held seven years he's about to be in captivity for
he would have even made it through he would a given up and he doesn't talk in this book about what that imprisonment was like but he does
give what i think he is a combination of how he survived it and what he learned from it going back to the book time in again i was
soothingly distracted from my tormenting faults and dark visions by the wonders of the bright be shining star filled winter sky that
appeared to be so close to the touch that constantly drew my eyes upwards as if by magical force what had so far appeared to me as the
downfall of a world come loose at the scenes and a catastrophe without bounds suddenly took on measurable dimensions erigone my equilibrium
and found my way back to myself for i had felt earlier that chaos was swallowing me up now calm and peace was flowing into my disquieted
heart the reconciling effect came from the vast order and harmony that the sparkling mass of bright stars with the eternal laws of the
universe brought back to my attention anew the consolation of the star sank into my soul was strange and hardly to be grasped by the
intellect it seemed to me as if my personal fate within the frame work of the vents on earth wissely included within the vast allembracing
order of the cosmos for the mass of survivors who had escaped from the hell of stalingrad the aftermath of the tragedy lasted only for a
short while they died in their tens of thousands during the early months of captivity hunger and depravation frost and sickness had already
made them a sure pray for death even before the fighting stopped with the columns of prisoners death also came to the various camps of
reception where terrible at epidemics raged everywhere and exact accounting of the victims of stalingrad according to numbers dates and
individual fates will never be made the few that were allowed to begin a new life at home and in freedom after long years of captivity will
always have to ask themselves how they can justify the deaths of the others by their own existence how they can uphold and fulfil the
legacy of their dead comrades but all germany must also oily remember its many many sons that lie at rest in the distant russian step and
try to day and in the future to understand their unforgetable sacrifice the inebranlables graves and stolen grad have long disappeared the
simitars were leveled soon after the battle and partially converted the soceeities left of the army of simple grey crosses but it is as if
a great invisible cross were rising there on the volga casting its shadow over our nation and addressing penetrating admonishing words to
all of our arts that closes out this book with her with some penetrating in admonishing words for auspices theirs a lot of warnings in this
book warnings that we must pay attention to and if we don't pay attention to them that who will warning the lessons here first of all as a
nation as a culture we have to look at the way things fell apart in germany or maybe you look at the way things came together slowly like
lital about the traditional values were we moved aside and they were replaced with these new values values that allegedly protected the
german citizens they were values that were going to make the world a better place than houses this term is political religion that a
powerful fought political religion do hold and then use that term presumptuous belief that cowered the foundation of very existing cultures
and beliefs so there some arrogance involved the repelatron even listening to the counter arguments earthing we have to be careful not to
abandon the structures of the past in some kind of a race to move to the future because the future it hasn't been tested by thousands and
thousands of years of human evolution and i understand that we be i'm not saying we'd don't put grass but i'm not saying we don't evolve
but obsedant bow down in you don't submit you got to think about that direction and were adding and as citizens as people we have to have
the courage to stand up the four we reached the event horizon from which there is no turn some now on a small level the lessons from this
book as as a as a person in business or in the military or in any keen as a subordinate and were all subordinate one we have to question or
leaders and and i say that all the time if we don't agree with it plain or don't agree with a tactic you got a question ill leadership and
you got up raise your hand but if we know that vincent of our bearship is malevolent or it's going to cause suffering human suffering on a
grand scale on a minor scale you have to we have to say no indeed what is right no matter the consequence no man of the consequence and you
know finder is as individuals we ate member that we are in charge of our own lives we are leading our own lives in aware are you leading
yourself what are you doing that you know you should be doing wi are you doing that what at the pastorate are you heading toward you don't
have to be heading towards that catastrophe you have the opportunity preventeth in your own life but in order to do that once again my half
to stand up you have to do the right thing you have to be uncomfortable you have to impose the discipline on your own life sidon have
something else imposed something bad in pose don't have a catastrophe imposed on your own life because when we of void the discomfort and
when we avoid the discipline and when we avoid doing what we know is the right thing to do that when you end up in a personal catastrophe
in your own personal hell in your own personal stolen grant you have to do the hard thing the thing you know is right and you know what is
right and you know what you are supposed to do so do it and avoid going down a path that leads to your own personal ill and instead get on
the path that leads to freedom and i think that's all i've got for to night so ago speaking of doing the right thing sure maybe you could
give us a ideas am on how we en you know continued down the right path doing what we know where posted ssure the part wested you on your
left like leap to raise any questions or you more likely to turn a blindin you're winning remansit depassait like on the mere boiler room
at my law no no you're right oh no relays so the rites a part where he can the there waiting to go to a party elsom know they're there
selling stocks yet right and there they're like garbage stocks or whatever inflation yes they're like leontium don yes and so there in the
car going some party in these lacassagne frothier that is names are there he's like athene wonder how how we get these beasts commissions
on these yenowines like that's the wrong question to ask you know fayaway what you mean is like is like just distillate question basis he's
a donossus it don't yolk the way things are going it is only abated i do but don't you be one o his life no i like being a millionaire some
eating when you winning it's easy to turn the blind i you know her point he met so i mean i guess second a pit will yo how you do it
generating that you point that out and i think that um like on a personal level right let let your dog really good if it's dedican be
tricky for people to do the right thegether why we see like leah celebrity like movie stars are celebrities athletes or whatever men they
do some dumb stuff right the son domster waiting their thinking they're good day ever they want they make the wrong choice yet you
neronianis news doing dumb staff ill that in on them yes they enimie own personal standout you in hell i'll yes even he with money too you
know you know like and sell every tapes and you know athletes who here in the people be vilayet good job his or their business blows up or
whatever there alliteration type of waning weak and look at it doesn't mean you're necessarily doing the right thing yet harder my point is
i think you're saying the same thing it can be harder ye did you the right thing when you're winning cause you just think you ye good to go
you get arrogant yeates's not lonton break on this training here let it all fly kind of thing when there were tetragonos women to meanwhile
i'll those tilting at you been ignoring their still there satanophobia count he spent all that money you're supposed to keep you'll be fore
you made my genaman you were budgeting your budgeting your survive your buddy you're doing the you started make it on twenty start spending
all this money on the money stuck coming in fungidae ontonagan happen yes also pain how or pay later i remember that on these a good on the
said ye do i say that ye panorpates wherewith i think we talk about like work he othersome thing while you are slowly i intake tone no not
a danaan faded her for sure stuff the less support ye for sure hundred per cent good way to avoid going down your pistol at a and a measles
it nolenter you know what nothing your owners most pollingray yet it but i don't know why supporting would like prevent that you know
froomkeit sir but not even you and i obey don't have any aversion to reno recisunda besides to allowing grog straining gaze i don't those
are conceptually there were the same thing they were i know the compared its hat you know most sadleir most is like lessons i think i feel
like their can everywhere of course and you know you talk about these heavy wars the heavy like events and then you know my mind i'm
thinking treating a six you know what the you know thede still caylesham there's i think there's people out there in various states of mind
sure i think that you know your perspective it helps them maybe get waysmeet obstacle maybe i'm unheading them from the wrong ankle so he
ate your coming in from trade daytime yet actually in the income to think about it these concentre here to day when you say the eye don't
want planeteer example when it's going good it's easy to turn a blind i isn't that penalta movies how it is it's like the guy does real
good and he's just got kind of going in it he he messes up in one warora by curt vomit and i've seen your unto i think it's cured on again
is a teaching a class neokoroi ear he teaching him class like he just guessed teaching in some cleever artembares to talk about like this
for platinotype much yes pretty catinat's one one nearer you you have nothing and you get everything yet they might want abuse it and and
there's then there's you have nothing you get everything you lose everything and you get erything back i is got the this like i forget em
all but a mere there camantem common story in yelms be kind of the i mean they must be great based on real life like like terminalia tegot
like i think it ligustica story yet i relator come back card i mean those thereunder dog tender doe chilina's all on the less if earine
mood to support and you know between your movie watching escapades at the crack word escaped i eidenthand i recommend you read a lot
whatever he trained damage you there sanatoria in west onless torinese her the like training day is this move that calmecac training death
on one fifty million dollars and like you none of the library get taller the book you for nothing i noting year you can buy it you can buy
it on amazon for i think this book cossitollah misused the holy but it's just kirstened economy there it's interesting for she niiios in
going to whine which one is it utter for you i'm meteghan say it's all ironbiter for you than training day fonteins all what you get out of
it you know you know how like a man as it actually people in asking you how do you read to get the most out of it at a book hudell i read
it while meaning a highlight at oh yeah jordan b peterson i was watching some hoheits i don't high light anything ye this he the iamo
disagreement with gordineer on on not highland i mamaliga fool but ah anyway so i go through a high light what he hits me then i go back
and re read it and and i have the red pen the circle of the import rarely to that the italian it even choose our of your colour of violater
shitheel is general high lating no and then the orange steeliness i will hathis will talk about some usige people asked me ye what ye
should i get you get origin yes that's it in america on the thread from the contently say as we all know they in america to the shirt dirt
to the sure if ye sit at you for you to finish notes was up there i was on top with factory with a well i caught the pavilion on my head in
the line sir to this shot out to shine deracinate just like yendat sir lenfield to finish and the daily hands and day light is but yet make
some good stuff especially geese in america like i said oh good injun i ha i have a few geese i asked a few sidonius any of them except the
origin once got organman dot com that three you can get your gee for judith they also have rash carts compression her ring and the fore
jugeth primarily but i can use it for other stuff of course you indeed victells jolyon supplements goods up emancipating to his name is
josh from virginia tech detraining on competent there in ategorrita fu exonerate and up you know solita about the banyan twenty one
anything i i take fish oil i was like dan that's good i am curatorial i know this because my lei told you i remained dad told me all the
benefits bollnaes but he is taking joint supplements at twenty one he said no i don't have promethy joints but i just want to maintain this
joint situation as i get older oh you're way ahead of me an im soothes a your a doing more for ye tatood u p p from morgan he he he need
this joint wafer he can feel it dissipate in the day and like when i was was was with a foot with if he'd be you know at five o'clock
marcescibility itinerario you there laying ayesters helen restelli the haesit a hinda's actually it's interesting because you know you can
see what selling and what's colson see doing warfare cool like with osman is it to repeat customers of people that order it is the dinner
were to gain and then they were again i cause you don't wonder if you're not feeling it yet the hottentots how am with the cruel will be a
hundred percent like you how you like all forget it'll be like you know like i'll take it late i don't for dintorno you you know you with
your discovering root i would ever and that's the thing that's the thing to an include just wake up bombifer me besanctified my poise is
ready here and now all in it not to go the two deep into my routine but during the week it's you know wake up and then there's like my
daughter's for and half year school so there's that situation went on this is nice my this does not in our fear with you getting up and
taking some tales for orionus or teeth kind of nose that's a thing the routine does it allow for me to take him before i bynes for it's the
routine man is the time for in another ten cause for my fit you got you got it you got to take a telesphore you brush your teeth cause when
you brush it to tonga that strong men in there to make the water like two cold in your two asian i like that i think i haeresin arose in an
i ready to be heard not a little bit maybe jack troubledly none the less sometimes i forget three four any ferior like for days and you're
still working out of whatever you'll feel it i will feel it so same thing cruller need it ye i hadn't lay actually actually gene gene
brought me chiletooch know that broke that's the hay and i want to astrologian or her go more cruel oil bring me some tea i you know i
don't want to do that but protest important yea not seven panic modes i can't none of us feel at a codocil super cat the super super crump
set normal crisper and the many reasons for that i find out on the website or give up tom if you want to know the exact reasons also joint
orpheus for your joint maintain your de body structure are you working up good golf it cause it does of gossip i don't want to use word
dissipated but what you haggart did enery sure after time when you when you go heart in the paintless unless like i said they got
compressing her geese rash guard post of woods which mayenobe the most comfortable who these and pants for vitalian jagers of curtsies the
the other day a light occam exporting some special effect than i did for my shoot when we exhorted like you can't really use that program
you know you can expiring us along a start but i saw my alcamo my computer for you know is in take like ten minutes a big effect so i i lay
on the couch and have the whole organ the hour he on for whatever reason just kind of happened to you i lay on the consoling i don't think
i've felt this comfortable in a high eatables everything institute's pretty both lateritiam ort come i mean come ver seeker ye hundred per
cent and i value it you val various comfort love levels he is hesitating one of the highest i get it is everything to couch is the time day
who was a stallion we went to have with one of my seal bodies for many years we were cannon just broke just young dum fromman we had this
yellow couch that was like fourteen feet low headdress konditorei maybe five feet deep thing you lay a had no realistically it was like
five feet deep was on you through the back to persons off it is from life feet deep and it was probably twelve do well see and where was
this in you and in our part our parentheses at gunwalloe we got it from some shop we that's the kind you have in like a loud te odors for
we had one like that at you to though in the football loud i was like they was in most glad i asenath couture looking at to night my house
you like it is countyseat couch out there in all nice doesn't even come close to the comfort of the old gold couch yet i ernest deal yet
were like ugly like couches a bee the most functionally comfortable we had this on my wife forced us to give away and cause outside he got
faded out slowly and need all you get a new couch in you o it where we do the red i'm not going to give it away no cause it to come to
blearedness long and selecting a shape oh that we get another couch for the you know for the side they're a in we do this also ends about
side you know you not enounce i just say this kind of you know doesn't doesn't look good babbalanga it away but it was a most comfortable
country think we actually know the network on an arm talking less back to origin did go to orianda come that's it that's repetition get the
disciple marter ye do ye the discipline a big dead the prey worked out the premission of premises the remission yahout me i take it be for
a work out see i don't i take it before i go gittin it before i have to do upon cast or anything before half to do um like an atelutaion
carmen my brain asked me firing yeh yeh could i take it before bed i mean i know has the little caffeine is like i have and i think you can
i don't think i strongly recommend it this percy your caffeine sensitive like i atuonans he dragonite miles to energy drinks a day you can
drink whatever you want for you not away tea cause it's a lot less caffeine at the end you figure the definition a lot of people had
neither use jack white tea to wean off of full strength coffee yeah yeah yeah foretaste don't want to be on that to coffee but there's
enough need to tarantelle little sowed off acetone kannatha him so you might untie you don't i jack within you another coffee breath any
more yes as no one likes that yet to billingsly not like method but it is since the ah the pre worked out premission pesanti vein answers
you figure you don't mean to sleep that's like the best heart of your brain eroerterung her cover me that's a little something on a
recommend it because like i said so you never know could be could be something i wouldn't drink it before i go to bed may be when you eye
but i don't you when i wake up i'll drink it because i don't drink it for i don't drink any kind of pre work out for before i work all
before i lift wet before i do all that con i don't yet is shut i don't know any nitiate more and reason cause i don't like haverton my
stomach when i working out yet but those pre work out this like the i know they're legally anything right is like a totaler look at ere all
the i'll try it yet telling the part back please once well do yessir also speaking working up i get my cicadis from on it on andulasian
sweet ganem kettle bells be designer way you don't have to get the design on i know i always see the designer ones get to designate an so
sang it obidome salathiel get to no one but the last alliterate co work out stuff you at your work out to be creative telling me like you
know the end of the may strait there one of those have i dear yeah you are done like a workout with a man yea yea i incorporate them my
name for i've got two maze exercises a worms called like guianae in my nolook on what my work out suraha like a barbarian smash that's the
word it on no no no that is a movement all the monotoned up that in in one like a battle ax swing sir so if yes i could editions yes in the
amasis heavy though it will he let my reneweth pounds yet that have for the eight on an eye yea it a heavy twenty pounds that in may fall
that way let not enough a couple of pounds a anathematises sixteen one week the other day for the end of your battenotte warmed up amassona
pounds yet is he really had the in the to me your receef actually yet beat the thcarf you don't i also attatch weight on them montana with
that weird because the twenty pon dumbleton out that's denoting part of the work in a warm utopians in nauseated and then you like
footlight ing if pickup that maisie like this they have stick of ever before held for sure aedicules three is a stuff to really cool so on
a dealish jao and ticket yet something also subscribed to the pot as i toombs golly stitcher a newer there where they brought cast a pot as
broadcast podcast yer spatii to confirmed bon to it also you too if you want the video version of this part cast sensual look like you know
rintesano anew to also dear pun there actually so many emailed means in said just for the excerpts city thanks for putting airs on their
dress for cruel that is really cononel gates to aid this is cool so i was you to good thing there are accounter that's a good dear
customers a contangoes a little while ye shivabai the section aino think you're two hours of reading we on that lonesome where i had an
only book nothing to last you two and some value there i think if you otoyo watch too sir people that they put on and the rather lives some
point yeh on our on the you to be on or you to genteel home even more than i will send you an alert right it is you i if you're subscribed
yet if you allow the alert an your subscription ye good fella you do good way to support all so jolly a store called cockles dor jocko
store dot calm that's where you can get all the cool shirts they're cool i think they're all the sheriffs dislikes freedom get after it as
there's even the shirt that jacares everything le day in his life the victoriata will eating in it and yet not on altascars on there some
castoff women stuff on there is patches hat you know what a man to make this commit mariana put something new every single botenbrot morale
cause i commit it out and every month i'll put something new to an people of a liar you to tell you what they want no actually yes actually
i like that or a miniature emil he you now to store or twitter or whatever that the we do do everyones for sure the adeste is suggestion
actually alive satired on there ye exactly a heavier duty sheathers in hats it filled banister on the way yes i yea they are look like for
sure hundred person that we suggest yes tis all people suggestions from the field i say that ye so ye take suggestion big time i can i i i
pull the trogon the ones that have the most suggestions though sometimes i am derstand that you know if you're like a man suggestion and i
still have what limit will just show a eyeing the field to do and i did give my feet only one side botticini got no pull over here he as
yet a little fool not to much to unless i tackle store up an that's a place all so psychologic harper you know what that is here is what it
is i said album they can buy an eye to it and was on music googly anywhere where you can buy em pipe three downs said album that he can by
which her jonathan and what it's for let us is not jackassing in or playing guitar what else do you play do you gladly made ogleton the
youth made you care to jocularities he speaking to you pragmatizing us as pragmatic advice on why or how it say how to overcome certain
points of weakness in r campaigns against weakness whites see you an he the work out you want a sheet on the dye it or isn't your compelled
to one day because you're your feeling not an old tired if you run into little speed bumps your campaign listen to this the track erything
trust me slick at it what if instead of somebody wanting to watch training day they want to read one of these books where could they get
them an what's the best way of shop for them while supported as this potassa you ask i got to lutinint now this what i did if you into
already is and go jacobites doom jacopo gasped dot come not the store sapotas website organized all the books by episode in section c books
from the five calf quick though there athenodorus to take it demonomanie kit the looking like two days formed an insupport the parasite
good way by orphings whenever you like men long and long mores jotted brabrooke you know how you can get on the path and it was on dot com
as you can get jack a white tea true when you get it also order yourself some new weights because upon drinking jack awhile to you will be
able to dead lift eight thousand now and so certified well you got the new weight did ihai did i feel her that that tower talkin it happens
ah you can also get some books sir books ah from you know that that i've got a put together the one of them is called way the warrior kid
that book teaches kids to do the right thing in their lives study read work out ellen help others work hard at it tonified back all that
book because it helps kids they relate to it sipiagin related to it there's a little warrior to out there twelve years old and he is aided
he reached out to me wanted he makes so from a goat milk hear the story yet make solano the whole story he he makes so falconio i he make
so con go milk you can't do anything with gold milk and california you can't sell it to some one cause is not edible whatever they have as
at all or in plays or i rereward you do i go milk than he did now it to do with it do figured out i'll make soap and then he wanted to make
good so he in so he said haeresim jocko open i was like an do your twelve years old yet after it too and he did it i wish oaks ranch dot
com e lingered you can order your toes on a lovely come website yet from each so you can set porch a young or your kid twelve years old
business owner so the jet flared distances room feel made that's also about getting stronger smarter faster healthier and better the audio
version of that is not an audible it's on i to dam as on music loveplay it's an album with tracks by the lancer had you to help ye with
tracks on top of that we got extreme ownership the book written by myself and my brother lay babin it's about comalites if that's what it's
about and she won't learn how to lead you can check out that book also if your business team were your organization needs a little extra
help you can utilize our leadership consulting company called ashland front here a lot of talk to night about the rear aslant that's why we
named esoonian front the rarest of the people in the rear that allan the front echelons the people in the front lines that's why we named
the organization achelooes is a lot of people that talk about leadership of their talk and matter from the re rational and from the back
were talking about a from the front or experiences on the front of lines we saved promise whatever probsthain so that's our company
assonant me waved babington dave berth you can email intonation front dark tom or the website you can check it out if you want to and
finally if you haven't heard yet the muster washing and c mazement to nanten san francisco october seventeen in eighteen we've had four of
them in the past two years actually like the last year no half they all sold out this one conselour too it is a leadership conference where
we drilled down on how to lead give leadership tools tactics strategies that will allow you to lead and a wind asealon front that's our
oven you can register for it extreme oldershot dotcom and if you want to continue talking with us or you have questions or if you have
answers you want to tell me a mistake that i made in the podcast night which i am sure i did or you have come you want a make as to what we
do here you can find us on the interweb on twitter on insteamed that fish ball hacho is echo charles and i am at the jowing and flame le
thank you for listening to the show i thank you for supporting the show thank you for spreading the word thanks to those you that make this
pot cast possible the men and women of our arms services that protect our freedom and especially in this case are right to free speech to
the police fire fighters paramedics and other first responder that are out there every day keeping us safe a tank you and every one else
that is lessening thank you for standing up any leading yourself leaving yourself away from weakness and tore shrank away from laziness and
toward action away from comfort and towards the discipline away from a castrophe then toward victory keep leading and keep getting after it
in the till next time the echo and jocko out
