this is jack a prod cast number ten with a hothers and me jackwell ink a soul into hell we waited a seeming eternity for the signal to
start towards the beach the suspense was almost more than i could bear leading is a major part of war but i never experienced any more
supremely agonizing suspense in the extrusion torture of those moments before he received the signal to begin the assault on pell i broke
out in a cold sweat as the tension mounted with the intensity of the bombardment by stomach was tied in knots i had a lump on my throat and
swallowed only with great difficulty my knees nearly buckled so i clung weakly to decide the tractor i felt nausea in fear that my blatter
would surely empty itself and revealed me to be the coward i was but the men around me looked just about the same way i felt finally with a
sense of fatalistic relief next with a flash of anger at the navy officer who was our wave commander i saw in waving flag toward the beach
our drive or driver read the engine the treads churned up the water and we started in the second wave as shore we moved ahead watching the
frightful spectacle huge guises of water rose round the anthrax ahead of us as they approached the reef the beach was now marked along its
length by a continuous sheet of flame backed by a thick wall of smoke it seemed as though a huge volcano had erupted from the sea and
rather than heading for island we were being drawn into the vortex of a flaming abyss for many that was to be oblivion suddenly a large
shell exploded with a terrific concussion that a huge guiser roarest right next to our front he barely missed us the engine stalled the
font of the tractor lurched to the left and bumphards against the rear of another amtrak that was either staller hit i never knew which we
sat stalled floating in the water for some terrifying moments we were sitting ducks for the enemy gunners i look forward through the hatch
behind the driver he was wrestling frantically with the control levers japanese shells were screaming into earnestlie all around us
sergeant johnny mar met leaned toward the driver and yelled something whatever it was it seemed to calm the driver because he got beginin
started we moved forward again amid the guisers of exploding shells abundant began to lift off the beach and move inland our dive bombers
also moved in when with their strafing and bombing the japanese increased their volume of fire against the waves of anthrax above the din i
could hear the ominous sound of shell fragments humming and growling through the air stand by some one yelled it to beach geldino's before
the machine lurched to his shop the men piled over the side to faster they could i followed snaff wood climbed up and planted both feet
fondly on the left side so as to leave as far away from it as possible at that instant a burst of machine gun fire with white hot tracers
snapped through the air an eye level almost grazing my face i pulled back like a turtle lost my balance and fell awkwardly forward down on
to the sand in a tangle of ammo bag pack helmet carbine gas mask cartridge belt and flopping canteens then off the beach did off the beach
raced through my mind shells crashed all around flagito word slapping on the sand and splashing to the water a few yards behind us the
japanese were recovering from the shock of our preventing bombardment their machine gun and rifle fire got thicker snapping viciously
overhead in an increasing volume up and down the beach and out on the reef a number of an tracks were burning japanese machine gun burst
made long splashes on the water as though flang it with some giant whip the guisers belched up relentlessly where the morgan are to resells
hit i caught a fleeting glimpse of a group of marines leaving a smoking an track on the reef some fell as bullets and fragments splashed
among them their bodies tried to help them as they struggled in neeate i shuddered and shook a wild desperate feeling of anger frustration
and pity dripped me it was an emotion that one always torture my mind when i saw men trapped and was unable to do anything but watch as
they were hit my own plight forgotten momentarily i felt sick and to the depths of my soul i asked god why why why i turned my face away
and wish that i were imagining it all i tasted the bitterest essence of war the sight of helpless comrades being slaughtered and it filled
me with disgust that right there is from a book and absolutely incredible book called with the old breed by eugene sledge eugene sledge was
a marine he is a marine and wallwort and he ended up being a university professor of an author when he got down he wrote this book i read
this book for the first time when i was on deployment to iraq my first deportment to rack and it it definitely it definitely kept me in
check because it it made me always remember that what we were experiencing this this war that we were in was something that men had always
experienced and actually they have experienced much much worse than i ever experienced and this book was later used to make thee a
documentary a pepito mary called the war and in two thousand thicket came out in two thousand and ten was the bio miniatures called the
pacific which is an edison absolutely epic epiceries and if you haven't watched the pacific it's it's fenomeno get it and watch it it's
completely realistic one of the things that struck me when i watched it for the first time was you know he talks about the waiting and the
very first apposed of the pacific you you waiting for something happened or showing the guys propine actually landed in your waiting in
waiting for something to happen and it and it doesn't end in it has this ah this feeling in and i remember that feeling especially being in
remade when you be out me streets and no shooting it started yet and and i would be you know every one would have this feeling you will
waiting for it to start and every step you waiting for to start so it does a very a very it doesn't incredible job of portraying that in
giving him that feeling now what's important member of bout you en setch and and as another great thing about the the the pacific is that
they do interviews with these guys they do interviews with him and you can see when you watch this you will see that you jenledge and as i
thought about how i would describe you gene sled she is yes he's a marine and you you know you get whatever ideas you get your mind of what
on malin is you know a tough guy in a boagy sod with bravado you gin sledge just would the stray that image because you gene sledge and in
if i think of the way i would describe him it would be to say simply he is a good man and you can tell when he talks that he is an upright
man and that he's a moral man and he a gentle and a kind person i mean it it is his gentleness and his kindness loses out of him and he
seems like an i don't use this word very often but i won't use it because this is how i would describe he seems like a lovely human being i
mean just seems like a lovely person and so as we going to this book romer that this guy who went through this was istanbul lutely
incredibly good human and also an incredible warrior now the last pot cast we talked about patent and wars i knew it and that is a general
is a view and if you are rendering to about when we went to shreelane that was that that god just scribed the the foot soldiers view as
being a wormie because you're so in the front line that i i all warm and that's what this is this is the soldier's book is is a trooper's
book this is the absolute from minds and it is a book that really unveils a lot about will and survival and the cyclical nature of war what
it does to people and what people are capable of doing and also i think it makes it very clear wide we fight against evil that i think that
is something that makes me think always about where we are in the world in a in a war against evil sir going back to the book we started to
move inland we had gone only a few yards when an enemy machine gun opened up from a scrub thicket to our right japanese eighty one melite
and ninety mile metamoras then opened up on us every one hit the deck i ovington shallow crater the company was completely pinned down all
movement ceased the shells fell faster until i couldn't make out individual explosions just continuous crashing rumbles with an occasional
ripping sound of shrapnel tearing low through the air overhead of months the roar the air was merited smoke and dust every muscle in my
body was as tight as a piano wire i shuddered and shook as though in her having a mile mild convulsion sweat flowed profusely i prayed
clenched my teeth squeezed my carbine stock and cursed the japanese ieutenant a clareace gloucester that ring who was near by seemed to be
in about the same shape from the negro protection of my shallow crater i pitied him for any one out in that flat clara the heavy mortar
brage went on without slacking i thought it would never stop i was terrified by the big shells arching down all around us one was a bound
to fall directly into my hole i thought if any orders were passed along or if any one gale for a cormenin er heard it in all the noise it
was as though i were out there on the battle field all by myself utterly forlorn and helpless in a tempest of violent explosions all any
man could do was sweated out and pray for survival it would have been sure suicide to stand up in that fire storm under my first brangeane
fast moving events of paying the beach i learned a new sensation order and absolute helplessness the shelling lifted in about a half an
hour although it seemed to me to have crashed on for hours time had no meaning this was particularly true when under heavy shelley i could
never judge how long it lasted orders then came to move up move out and i got up covered by a layer of coral dust i felt like jelly and
couldn't believe any of us had survived that broad so that feeling of helplessness and that something that is his thais little worse things
for hugonot human emotions right helplessness and i have i've overie ced a just a minor amount of shelley of being mortared and it it is
definitely i was in a isn't a rack in my first applotment and we were on a fire base and we were trying to help with some slip over watch
because this place had been being attacked and we in a wee this as early as his early in my first to poliment my first time going to war
and you know where i think and he these guys are getting more cool we'll go out there and just kill these people that are more than room
and where we'll take care of it so we went out to this base on the outskirts of bagdad and sure enough we started getting more here and the
god lived the insurgents that were fire in the morris one exactly what they were doing and it was it was horrible because it was in the
city and so the mortars were being shot at us from three or four hundred meters away but they were forbesi buildings and weald actually we
actually hear the orders being watched so you would hear the one tone so you'd hear the noise and you can actually see the the fire trail
of the watch so you knew said now there you are and you're sitting there and you you're just waiting to get to get blown up and it was it's
interesting because if you have overhead cover which means if you have some kind of a strong forehead of your inside of a building a strong
building is made a concrete it does not to be a bunkering for for small remoras you're basically set you know your your find it we didn't
really understand that yet so we add guys myself included that works poseter outside that wrong rooftops and this is again i want to
emphasize this sisenna missis nothing compared to what eugenette only reason in bringing up his cause i did experience it and my point is
that even though one night where we took maybe i don't know maybe can mordern in a night it it actually effected the gusle bit run night on
one night and you could see it actually would we got back to our compound we are door on our taxation cater that was a piece of plywood and
it somebody mounted a spring on their to keep it shut to his hot there was air conditioning in there and it was a a strong spring and so
when you walked out and you let that go it would lapini with make a very loud bang and i literally after one amasement of getting more i
watched guys shudder and at this lack of that noise in so to imagine what it was like for these guys for you know i have an a hour of
continuous shelling is it's just it's unbelievable and i'll tell you something else if you go back further than that and you go to world
war one where those soldiers were in the trenches and they got bombarded for months and if you want to know what that does to a human go on
to to and gogerddan one or going to you two been search world war one shell shock and it is a renditch psychological damage that it did to
these guys and the worst part of it was was that to day we understand that we understand what it does to people psychologically and we
understand that it's it's it's a psychological damage and in woodward one they didn't know that so these guys that broke they were cowards
they were called cowards and i think about that is sickening to me knowing that my guide after like i said a miniscule amount of receiving
more artillery fire is mortified but the same thing is indirect fire that did know that that already had a little bit of effect to imagine
what that did overtime was was crazy and i was a antidote moments in time that i remember that that i had the feeling of helplessness we
will sonofagun this is in bagdad and we've gone to the space to side up some sniper positions and help them of liminate their problem boy
were we wrong so it this roof tromples kinda divided up by concrete walls and to get to this and furthest part away on the roof you had to
go jump up once of these walls and you know you were traveling from ably i don't know fifty meters across this roof top to get to one of
the corners and so i had you know a shacknasty of all the guys and walking from position oposition see where they are i see with their
field of fire was and making adjustments if needed checking with him etcetera so i get up to this i i climb out get on the roof climb up
this climb up this stair to the roof jump a bunch of these you know little for folwell just and getting over him takes two or three minutes
to get and if i do get to this position whether as a one of the one of the gunners he sitter and as i get their hey how's it going to what
you see in her having our little discussion and all of a sudden he heard the motor lunch she soon shone and one of the other guys in the
potion gets on the radio and he says ah he says that's three boys count em out municates going to be three booms and again we have no
overhead cover as among the roof and i look at i look at guy with and he says he think we could make it back inside because you have time
you know the the the morrow on the ear he said you think we can make it back inside and that's it no beneas well what shall we do said and
i said i hope it doesn't land in our quadroon meaning the little arete act the land there would be dead but that's the feeling of helpless
at that you have an end luckily that didn't land at our quantitate situation this was now on the on the baggage in a national airport where
are they was and there was an attack on on where the gates and we went there as a quick reaction force we get out there and as the attacks
happening and work kind of showing up to see what we can do to help out all of a sudden order start coming in and again i get down behind a
just a normal like a jersey barrier a concrete jersey verrier and it but werner open area other than this cursey barrier and again an i'm
hunker down with one other seal and even looks at me an he goes what should we do and i go there's nothing we can do the city and suck it
up and and as really all you can do and any easy to look back and be like that it that's funny you know but but that was that was a three
minutes of mordelement right and and so just to imagine the psychological drama that these guys experienced it was a it was just it's it's
horrible to imagine an and the key point of all this i think is a think about as as a petanelle as it pertains to individuals as a pertains
to us now to people in the civilian world what causes this intense ingleside and fear is the complete lack of control that's what causes it
he would earn a fire fighter you're getting shot at its coming from somewhere and you can hide from it and you can get down he could
menerent when it's when it's not that when it's just ran domanda that you cannot control it's it's psychologically much much harder i deal
with and thank god we didn't have to deal with it very often now again when we were remonte guise that war over with the first the five or
six on camp corregedor those guys will get more downtime i mean they were they were feeling it you know we get out as bad not world war one
style but you know they were it mortier day there was more to it in the buildings so that that just randomness is what makes things so
difficult he those the mortars when you hear that first ignition of him how long is the taketoit depends on how far away they were but you
know in this case it was probably like a minute madeira a little less that i have to stir and think about obiit was like a minute maybe
thirty seconds a might have been imitated walk boticourt that but it seemed like a wallering there waiting for the hitch you that was
another ill on the one that was in baghdad i was sitting there in a home and we had this we had weapons on the humped at could reach across
the river so we are by a river and we were looking we could see some activity over across the river and so as we sat there are gone
residence you see this and he like a can i can kind o see it i go do you have a shot and he goes no cause we were behind of behind of it
bunkos kind of wall i go to gee shop hegoes no i can't i don't have a shot yet so i said he pullovers tricotrin re pulled the humbourg i
don't know thirty feet may be thirty five feet and a minute later a morvaix where that on the was ohuli was only a sixty mile metronomic is
a training little tigeroo an no one even got frank but i mean you know we were we were thirty seconds away or a minute away from just taken
him or around right in the humpata we were all in so it's a it's again i don't want to put any thing that i experienced on any level with
what these guys experienced the only reason i'm saying is to give a minute psychological impact that it has and jist multiply that times a
billion to get to where these guys were and the end what they went through so going back to the book you're after the fighting a kind of
settled um sledge eugene sledge come across some dead japanese soldiers in other kind of patrolling and there's some other veterans that
were with him and he standing there looking at these dead japanese bodies that a guy comes over and says letham don't stand there with your
mouth open when there's all these good sea seiners lang around so he sees these dead japanese needs going to get some word booty he then
who moved a name bouesto slipped the belt off the corpse and took the leather holster he pulled off the steel helmet reached inside and
took out a neatly folded japanese flag covered with writing the veteran pitched the helmet on the coral where clanked and rattled robed the
corpse over and started pawing through the combat pack the veteran's buddy came up and started stripping the other japanese corpses his
take was a flag and other items he didn't remove the bolts from the japanese rifles and broke the stock against the coral to render them
useless to infiltrates i hadn't budged her set a word just stood glued to the spot almost in a trance the corpses were sprawled where the
veterans had dragged them round to get in their packs and pockets would i become this casual and callous about enemy dead i wondered would
the war dehumanized me so that i too could feel strip enemy dead with such nonchalance the time soon came when it didn't bother me a bit i
think again it's it's important to remember that this guiseley man a kind soul and he knows that he's in matting that i came to a point
where this this did not bother him at all back to the book within a few yards of this seeing one of our hospital corner a work on a small
shallow deader defile treating marine wounded i went over him sat on the hot choral by him the corner was on his knees bending over the
young marine who had just died on a stretcher a blood soap battle dressing was on the side of marines of the dead man's neck his fine
handsome boyish face was ashen what a pitiful waste i thought he can't be a day over seventeen years old i thank god his mother couldn't
see him the cornet held the dead marines chin tenderly between the thurman fingers of his left he left hand and made the sign of the cross
with his right hand tears streamed down his dusty and grief contorted face while he sobbed quietly obviously again we have a vision in our
mind of what a service man as like or what a marine is like an certainly that picture of a of a carman was is actually a navy corner if few
don't know navy cormon or with the marines and go into the field with marines and train as marines but you picture this navy cormenin
trying to treat this man and losing him and out there in the middle of a bad field battle field with tears streaming down his face that's
what combat is moving to another section where hereabout to see some near friendly fire here is just then i barentatico our rear a man or
just then a marine tank to our rear must mister coster enemy troops as soon as my hand went up to drop the round down the two a machine gun
cut loose it sounded like one of ours and from the rear of all places as i peeped over the edge of the crater through the dust and smoke
and saw sherman tank in the clearing behind us the tank fired at seventy five millimeter gone off to our right rear the shell exploded near
by around a bend in the same trail we were on i then heard the report of a japanese field gun located there as it returned fire on the tank
again i tried to fire but the machine gun opened up on us as before a surge of panic rose within me in a brief moment or tank had reduced
me to from a well trained determined assistant mortgager to a quivering mass of terror it was not just that i was being fired at by a
machine gun that a nervy so terribly but that it was one of ours to be killed by the enemy was bad enough that was a real possibility i had
prepared myself for but to be killed by mistake by my own comrades was something i found hard to accept it was just too much and that is
what we call a blue umboo when friendly's shoot at friendlies and fathers eye is on its votes called wind brother kills brother and you
know this is actually the opening of the book at last and i wrote extreme ownership the opening chapter is about with this this happening
and happening under my command to my guise when on the senor guy and that's why this idea that to be killed by mistake by my own comrades
was something i found hard to accept the use missus mortal sin of combat in sometimes when i talk about my deployment to remote and what it
was like for as i i say that basically every bad thing that could happen happened this is definitely one of them this is being in a
situation where they were trimly fire and we were in numbers situations like this none of them were as bad as i as the first one i talk
about in a book and here is how these guys get it salt a volunteer called off to the left and soon the tank ceased firing on us we learned
later better tankers were firing on us because we had moved too far ahead they thought we were enemy support for the field gun this also
explained why the enemy showing was passing over in exploding behind us tragically the marine who saved us by dentify as to the tanker was
shot off the tank and killed by a sniper definitely one of the war things in war you think you afterward about the enemy and things are so
confusing and there's such may hamot there that you you have to spend at least as much time if not more decondition with your friendly
troops as you do try to figure out where the enemy is and killed him it it's it's it was definitely a fastening curve for us in remodeling
and understanding in deaconing and wanting to be so absolutely certain of where everybody was and the term we would use in it usimare front
line trace where are your guides were as the most forward that they are everybody needs to know that in fact and this might sound crazy to
wed down you don't people have in their minds of em of a snipe or position being you know two or three guys hidden very tactically and
clandestine in remotism times far slipperettes ispir of all sooner at twenty or thirty guys in there to secure a building so that the
snipers in the missing gunners could work but on top of that in order to avoid their being a blue on blue we had giant aircraft the marking
panels so for rest in orange ten by ten pieces of material that we would literally the guys would literally hang them over the side of the
over wash positions to say here we are every one don't shoot us o bad gie you want to see us bring it and will kill you but that's that
deep stand that that we would go to two and sure that you weren't going to get shot by american forces and there's you know lay contained
in the book is well a story about that almost happening in and i telling on the one that that blue omble stuff was a nightmare it was a
nightmare to deal with and you know one thing i will say as we had that horble one that resulted in in and iraqi soldier killed a friendly
aracoeli er killed very early on an unemployment but we learned so much for it that we we there was bloodlust happened after that but they
we never had them get out of control like that first of that but again for those people that have never been in combat before and was
wovington our right in the book i know we got done i said man we've got three stories that are based on some sort of buonlatenti in and we
did plan it that way but again just to realize it you know that's that's how much we were thinking about it that when we wrote about it
three of the stories were unjust about a preventing the long blue as having a olonto homer a preventing bloomers and if you never been in
the combat you would you would think about that it's so confusing it's so confusing that there were such a wains in remote where hume fired
on other humpies on so this is abarian and is not like the a d insurgents had how these amid alias a very distinctive looking vehicle there
situations were in the confusion in the may ham and with you know mathewites humpies shot at other humvee that's how that's how crazy and
chaotic combat can get back to the book moving forward and this is going to go back into the shelling and i almost wasn't going to talk
about this but i had to there was nothing subtle or intimate about the approach and explosion of an artillery shell when i heard the
whistle of an approaching one in the distance every muscle in my body contracted i braced myself in a puny effort to keep from being swept
away i felt utterly helpless as the fiendish whistle grew louder might chief ground against each other my heart pounded my mouth dried my
eyes narrowed sweat poured over me my breath came in short irregular gasps and i was afraid to swallow lest i choke i always prayed
sometimes out loud under certain conditions of range and to rain i could hear the shell approaching from a considerable distance thus
prolonging the suspense into seemingly unending torture at the instant the voice of the shell grew the loudest it terminated in a flash and
a define explosion similar to the class of a loud clap of thunder the ground shook in the concussion hurt my ears shell fragment tore
through the air toward the erhart as they rushed out worrying and ripping rocks and dirt clattered on to the deck as a as smoke of the
exploded shell dissipated and this is something i need to point out when you went when i when i before i was ever in combat in ever saw
what morteros really did when you think of shrapnel people think of shrapnel but like how big you think of a piece of shrapnel take agasti
so acosta the half to incest hackles old up encinal to interstitial thought small roanault you know what is a little tiny thing and you get
a scared to gotta watch out these old penny things on bigger artillery shells or more drashes the the flag of that comes off of them is a
half an inch thick and it can be nine inches long twelve inches long jagged share of metal you know they're just evil thing and and and
that's why what scary is the shrapnel oyaikan i can hit you in like puncture you like a bullet but it can also take your leg clean off or
take your hartelford just just completely a man to kill you instantly if it is you in the torso but it's a it's a lanrevel he so it's much
more horrifying than that than what i ever invited to be he and an areson out that reboundeth reasons this sticks in my mind so well as
getting more there we were at in combat out post falcon in down down to mary and we took some hundred and twenty montmorrises in there and
we you know the the accompanied commander who is an awesome unbelievable guy he he brought in a piece of track and the thing will i
couldn't believe it an i saw i was shocked and out huge it was leaving a piece of friendlike a random piece of epeirae that i go off the
mortal self set below off in an you know bounced down the street didn't hit me body and he picked it up and brought it in he said arsat
flying round the air wait till early things that they loaded into the to the shell on till she outjest avisawella enacted in metal and
that's what the metals for the wenables up it just agrees more and gets people yea you think on the like when you see on t v about these
indents criminals or whatever the goat pipe bombs you have put me up many notes if you think so this is like that time an ye it's big and
it's it's freaking horrifying thing as another or remember or one of those same situation got it with some mortars in cap falcon and lay in
his his team were like three hundred meters away on a rooftop of a belding and fragg landed on them you know if it wasn't a i did have a
aloert me body but it was raining down on them at you but the all hot too oh yeah i august horrible back to the book to be under a barrage
of prolong shelling simply magnified all the terrible physical and emotional effects of one shell to me or the rye was an invention of hell
the on rushing whistle and scream of the big steel package of destruction was the pinnacle of violent fury and the embodiment of pent up
evil it was the essence of violence and of man's inhumanity to man i developed a passion a passionate hatred for shells to be killed by a
bullet seemed so clean and surgical but shells would not only tear and rip the body they tortured one's mind almost beyond the brink of
sanity after each shell was wrung out after each shell i was wrung out limp and exhausted during prolongation have to restrain myself and
fight back a wild inexorable urged to scream to sob and cry as pallura on i fear that if i ever lost control myself under it shall fire my
mind would be shattered i hated shells as much for their damage to the mind as to the body to be underhatch fire was to me by far the most
terrifying combat experiences each time it left me feeling more forlorn and helpless more fatalistic and with less confidence that i could
escape the dreadful law of averages that reduced our numbers fear is many fasted and as many sub sub nuances but the terror and desperation
in der under heavy shelling are by far the most unbearable in a think again the key point of that if you want to take something from that
and apply life because most people that a listening to this pot gasp won't have to endure shelling other than those troopers that are out
there on the front line to day god bless em those guys are out there they may have to deal with us and they will but for sibilants from
rolapp it's the feeling of helplessness in stiffening of lack of control that makes it so horrifying in set when you come up against things
that you cannot control that something to recognise that it is something that you cannot control that's what scaring you that's what the
fear is coming from and making it infinitely worse than something that you can control yes you know another thing that vayate them deal
with the fear was nacomori talks a little bit about this talking about his company i realized that company c will kilo i realize that
companied c had become my home no matter how bad a situation was in the company it was still home to me it was not just a letter to company
in a number battalion in a number of regiment in a number division it meant far more than that it was home it was my company i belonged to
in it and no where else most marines i knew felt the same about their companies and whatever battalion regiment or marine division they
happened to be in this was the result of or may be a cause for or strong e spreetoo the marine corn wisely acknowledged this unit
attachment men who recovered from wounds and return to duty nearly always came home to their old company this was not miss place
sentimentality but a strong contributor to high moral a man felt that he belonged to his unit and had a nice among his buddies whom he knew
and with whom he shared a mutual respect welled in combat this sense of family was particularly important in the infantry where survival
and combat efficiency often hinged on how well men could depend on one another a spree decor and now there's a section that a moving
forward to and this section is called the stench of battle the sun bore down on us like a giant heat lamp occasional rains of feline how
coral merely evaporated like steam of hot pavement the air hung heavy and muggy everywhere we went on the ridges the hot humid air reeked
with the stench of death a strong wind was no relief it simply brought the horrid odour from it a jicara japanese corpses lay where they
fell among the rocks and on the slopes it was impossible to cover them usually was no soil that could be spaded over them just the hard
jagged cor coral the enemy dead simply rotted where they had fallen they lay all over the place and grotesque positions with puffy faces
and grinning buck tooth expressions it was difficult to convey to any one who has not experienced it the ghastly horror of having your
sense of smell saturated constantly with the putrid odor of rotting human flesh day after day night after night this was something the men
of an infantry batalion got a horrifying doov during the long protracted battle such as pelle in the tropics the dead became bloated and
gave off a terrific stench when in a few hours after death whenever possible we remember it we removed amended to the wear of the company's
position there they were usually laid on stretchers and covered with ponchos which stretched over the head of the corpse down to the ankles
i rarely saw a dead marine left on covered with his face exposed to the sun rain and flies somehow it seemed indecent not to cover our dead
often though the dead might lie on the stretchers for some time and decomposed badly before the briseus grave registration cruise could
take them for burial in the division cemetery near the airfield added to the awful stench of the dead of both sides was the repulsive odour
of human excrement everywhere it was all but impossible to practise simple elemental field sanitation on most areas of pello because the
rocky surface field sanitation during the nevers and combat was the responsibility of each man in short under normal conditions he covered
his own waste with a scoop of soil at night when he didn't dare venture out of his fox hole he simply used a empty grenade canister ration
cans and fled out of his hole and scooper over it the next day if he wasn't under enemy fire that was not possible on peleliu added to this
was the odor of thousands of rowing discarded japanese and american rations and every breath one and haled humid air heavy with countless
repulsive odors i felt as though my lungs would never be cleansed of these fouler as i looked on at the stains on the coral i recalled some
of the eloquent phrases of politicians and newsmen about how gallant it was for a man to shed his blood for his country and to give life's
blood for sacrifice and so on the word seemed so ridiculous only the flies benefited so as patriotic and brave as eugene sled was the
madness the madness even made him begin to question what this was all about and think about what these politicians would say and say that
only the flies benefited the gradient the detailed in the in the small coin when you watch movies and and that's a part that you don't take
you on an every one o hottentot guys tempering his nose or something like that indicate the smell bad but that doesn't stick in your mind
the whole time maybe if they add like flies or something on a oh but how he how he illustrated how this was going on to the point where i'd
never even thought i had ever catch a a fresh breath you know basically this is going to stay in it really add that element of of hell you
know any say that smell is one of the most un like impact senses you have bacon vein like spark memories this oraino no doubt about it and
there is there is a smell or is a smell in arack obviously was in his bad as his beresina's a bad smell you and for sure when something
hits me if you are a you know of the strange place or a place where hers to wasnot sanitary you can get that momentary remembrance of that
smell and this section called the stanchion at is beyond just as mellish will get into now the grinding stress of prolonged heavy combat
the loss of sleep because of night nightly infiltration raids the vigorous physical demands of forced on us by the rugged train and the
unrelenting suffocating heat were not to make us drop in our tracks how we kept going and continued fighting olever know i was so
indescribably weary physically and emotionally that i became fatalistic paying only for my fate to be painless thinking he's going to die
that is only prayers that its beingless and that's three to believin it is you know you're goin to die in addition to the terror and
hardships of combat each day brought some new dimension of dread for me i witnessed some new gaslamps in the calidoscope of the unreal as
though designed by some fiendish gul to cause even the most hardened and callous observer among us to recoil in horror and disbelief late
one afternoon a body an i return from the gun pit in the fading light we passed a shallow defile we hadn't noticed previously in it were
three marine dead they were lying on stretchers were they had died before their comrades had been forced to withdraw some time earlier as
we moved past my buddy groomed jesus i took a quick glance into the depression and recoiled and repulsion and pity at one i saw the bodies
were so badly decomposed and nearly blackened by exposure this was to be expected of the dead in the tropics but these marines had been
mutilated hideously by the enemy one man had been decapitated his head lay on his chest his hands had been severed from his rest and also
lay on his chest nearest chin in disbelief i stared at the face as i realized that the japanese had cut off the deadline penes and stuffed
the into his mouth the course next to him had been treated simmery the third had been butchered chopped up like a carcass torn apart by
some predatory animal my emotions solidified into rage and a hatred for the japanese beyond anything i had ever experienced from that
moment on i never felt the least pity or compassion for them no matter what the circumstances my comrades would feel stripped their packs
and pockets for soovenirs and take gold teeth but i never saw a marine commit that kind of barbaric mutilation that the japanese committed
if they had access to our dead like i said if the glimpse into the darkest part of humanity and i want people to think about that and
remember that it's real it's real that dark part of humanity that we don't want to exist it exists evil exists and it is coming from a guy
you know when he says that he never had any pity after this i again in you if you go on watch the pacific you watch interviews with his guy
you can absolutely feel like i said that the the kindness loses out of him but even he when confronting the darkness had to explore his own
darkness and of jumping now to the end on august eighth we heard that the first atomic bomb had been dropped on japan reports a bound for a
week about a possible surrender then on fifteen august nineteen forty five the war and it we received news with quiet disbelief coupled
with an indescribable sense of leaf we thought the japanese would never surrender many refused to believe it sitting in stunned silence we
remembered our dead so many dead so many maimed so many bright futures consigned to the ashes of the past so many dreams lost in the
madness that in golf us except for a few widely scattered shouts of joy the survivors of the abyss sat hollow wide and silent trying to
comprehend a world without war war is brutish inglorious and a terrible waste combat leaves an indelible mark on those who are forced to
endure it the only redeeming factors were my comrades incredible bravery and their devotion to each other marine court training tones to
kill efficiently and to try to survive but it also taught us loyalty to each other and love that a spree decore sustained us until the
millenium and country sea trying to enslave others it will be necessary to accept one's responsibilities and be willing to make sacrifices
for one's countries as my comrades did as the troops used to say if the country is good enough to live in it's good enough to fight for him
with privilege goes responsibility and that is another look how war and it's something that we can never forget that war is awful and that
war is the darkness that i talk about and as you gene sledge says the only redeeming factor is incredible bravery and devotion to each
other and i've talked about that before what made war to me an incredible life altering experience it wasn't the darkness that i saw but
the light of the bravery of those on the battle field and i will add another redeeming quality to war and it's a question and that is what
is the alternative to what if we had not stopped the brule imperial japanese empire what if we had not stopped the notes that if we had not
fought a war against ourselves to enslavery and to day there still evil in the world there still darkness i ses the cult of child rapists
and say tis and tortures and murderers and if we don't unfrettit evil and that evil goes unjacked then darkness prevails so we have to be a
force of light against the darkness and as you gene sledge transformed partially in his brain we after used the darkness and the evil
ourselves to prevail that's the paradox and we after a member that when men get so close to evil it leaves a market and at least a score
and we must forgive them their trespasses and help them to feel if they need it so to the men and women through our fighting or have fought
against forces of evil in a world thank you if we are going to dive into that to apply or think about that in context of normal people i
would say just remember how horrible things can be and and enjoy that sunrise in the morning again that book is called with the old breed
by eugene sledge and i hit some high lights but the entire book is incredible the h b o many series is called at the cific watch it it's
incredible and remember remember remember all right let's get to some questions from questions for the injuries is in questions okay and by
the way to the late in the game but goodeve ning echoed charles good evening and an fidelity say ye aimin know when inserting in it can't
with a widow book like this i mean i'm coming over here at the studio and i did in my mind i am i am fired up and and i picture when i want
to listen to a pot cast i want to sit down i want to put on a put the head phones on i want to press play and i want to get it i want to
get after it i want something to get in my brain and cartama me think and ah that's where i was to night when i got on the one track i said
i said he this is the diston cast and here we go and i just went into it in a oathe was no echo charles in my brain at that pope a apadno
eterou i want to be in your brain read fitting i like to listen anyway i don't know when the time in in fact i do know into timon when i
have a question that transit dutroehet's the reason show no one here you say hey a howe as to how to go in he had nothing less cut out the
small talk and let me down to the mess we a small tip me now you know that i have released the the passion that i add and i just ad been up
in my breakin remembering meetings so i'm going through this book for for a week or two and i'm delving into it and i'm doing other
watching you two videos of the bellone it's in my brain in its wanting to get it's wanting to come out there fully so you just get trumped
by that no an lope makin light questions jack and you balance extreme ownership with holding others accountable for their actions and
avoiding them using you so this is actually question that i enough responding to on a fairly regular basis and it is really a couple
different angles here that are going on the one of the the point here is the balance of extreme ershi versus holding others accountable and
what that really means in or another way of looking at that as it's really extreme ownership verses decentralized command so decentralise
command is it's one of the laws of combat that lay nigh right about the book decentralized commandant that means is everybody lead set men
to everybody a leader and that's what you want and that is a that is a the complete opposite of a stream ownership so if tremenheare
everything decentralized command is i mean a let every one else lead so there's a real a real contradiction or real dichotomy there so what
you have to do is balance it you have the balance if you only wait to to sort of wreck defy or red or reconcile those two opposing forces
because you do will you do have to have a tree more ship of everything that is true and at the same time you have to have decentralized
command to because you can't be if reverence you have to let your front line leaders lead so you have the balance them so that one part of
it is that you should if you feel yourself for instance if you feel like you can't get everything done and you you're losing control you
are you're not able to execute everything as a too much on your plate it means that you're not delegating enough i mean that you're not
your front wayters on stepping up and leaving now that so you've gone too far in one direction now if your leaders or ate sudden your
having to tell you leaders a he had to get his own hey what are you doing won't you take in initiative than that means you've gone too far
the other direction we have to find the good balance and that's the that's the goal and the gain of a salavera that's what makes leadership
hard leadership the hardest thing about leadership is that there's a posing forces that you have to balance and if you could just pick the
extreme and go with it and that made your good leader anyone could do it but it's not it's the balance that makes you a good leader it's
the balance that's challenging so that now the other word so that's part of the question the other word is a count of bility in holding
people accountable for their actions to this is where onginerous something else that before not going to expect me to say because people
always talk about a count ability and i hear that all the time in business is and they say ah we really need a countability accountability
accountability an years the issue i have with that you don't want to have to rely on account of ilyat ability is actually a right it's a
total and i not saying you never use it because sometimes you do after you it yet to impalmed if people are doing what we're supposed to do
you have to hold them accountable but i will tell you this what you and what you don't want is people that are doing their job only because
your holding them accountable that not what you want you want people that take a nishiate an ownership of their job and they do it not
because you want them to or because you are going to inspect them they do it because they own it they take extreme owners of of it that's
what you want so if you were to ask people that were for me a i held them accountable and they would be like m m not really i mean for
instance weapons inspections do you know i'm in charge of a potion or amachure of a task you up and there's yet a couple of hundred weapons
or whatever a bunch of weapons and if you don't take care of those weapons and people don't maintain him in clean him and little bite them
properly they can rest very easily and so we do one of the things that you may have to do is to weapons inspections to make sure that my
ties are cleaning their weapons and i can tell you i rarely if ever conducted actual weapons inspections the reason might eyes my husb my
guess on it my guys wanted to be the best they wanted to always have the best possible reputation and so i left to go around inspecting
their weapons because i knew that there i do it i knew that that mine eyes a cool on board who understood a word we were doing what we were
doing who understood that we wanted to be the best and who were on board with trying to be the best he said you know what do you know we
are going to make sure these weapons are the best possible and i learned this when i was in my second polton my boss was an awesome guy and
this is a guide on a thought about before he used quaintunce on me he was a a prior in listed seal who became an officer he was a combat
veteran from the worn renata and he was a very humble guy and and he's actually the guy that inspired me to become an officer peasei said
to myself what this guy this guy made our lives so good maybe i could do that for sixteen guys in a poltoon some day but what i realize
thou him as he never hold us accountable for anything but at the same time he infused the count of booty on us because what we wanted more
than anything else was to do a good job for him and for the button that that's how you get troops and teams are lined not by holding them
accountable when in pose accountability but where they are inspired themselves to hold themselves accountable and it had a coach and call
with a team the other day that he was they they were said he you know we really we really we would like to have you you know cocasse were
were lacking in these areas and we really need we know what to do that we really need someone to hold us accountable to do it mum and i i
was like lestage a lot of money ain't you guys would be stupid to give it to me you guys just simply lack the discipline to work for the
team and make it happen i had i threw this example i said you know if you were competing against another team and what i did was i moved
into your house and i woke you up in the morning i held you accountable for what you're supposed to do and i made you do it so we put the
old to me in account of bility on top of them i said of cowld do better you guys with me waking you up in the morning and being you until
you accomplish what you are supposed to do i held you to the ut the highest standard of accountability alitem that was hungry then the call
that was going to go the extra mile that was going to do more work it was goin to stay a plate that was goin to git up earlier not because
somebody was holding them accountable but because they had the desire for victory who's goin to win that contest and the answer is very
simple those with the innate and intrinsic desire to win will win over those that have imposed discipline and accountability put on top of
them now now because there's a taconite thing and because as a balanced everything there are times warned ershi position you do need to
inspect and make sure that you hold people countable and an example i have that is we had when we got to remanded or radios and generally
the radiomen knew how to program the radios and and get them sink up one could talk to other radios and all that and i told the guys on my
cosen avery body in the troop needs to know how to program your radio yourself never to all okay and it was so critical that they know how
to program erata's because if you're out in the field that you get separated from your unit and all of a sudden your radio gets souris or
have a problem and you don't know how to fix it yourself will even i do you can't talk to anybody in your doom you're goin to die so
because it was that critical i actually after the first brief thing i called a couple of guys up and i said give me radio and i zurie the
radios and i said okay reprogram it now and a couple of did not do it i said okay listen up guys no one is going on operation if you can't
reprogram toledo and so the guises had to sit down and go and figure how to do it so there's times were you you do have to hold people
cannot ananossie i knew that even though i was say hey it's important tatini how important was because you'll he was on you got in at a
word your gear they kinda took it like that i knew that dies didn't really understand the nature of how important it was to be able to
operate and reprogram your entire radio and sink it with the army radiosole that i knew that they didn't quite understand how important it
was and so i had to i had to hold them accountable but generally ninety eight per cent of the stuff i nethewode people countable i didn't
inspect things i expected things and they delivered it and and that's that people will follow your lead if you take ownership that's how my
guide have always been it is always the see that and a known what the expectations were and famely if if you're sitting there and you keep
saying yourself i can hold people count abayi got hold people accountable most likely you don't need no elthemen able give to lead them in
need to make them understand why they're doing what they're doing why it's important how it impacts this strategic measure how it impacts
the team how it impacts them that he leadership not accountability is leadership accountability is just a tool and it is a apait's otoo
compared to real leadership so use it if you have to but try and use leadership instead next question jack i'm entering the police academy
in a few short weeks and i'll be a police officer after six months i have no military background and have very little experience with true
confrontation in violence what are the best ways a police officer can condition themselves to violence and compensation i currently trained
you giebt i'm not i i am but i am curious what else i can do to keep myself and other safe from unpredictable of violence is not self
defence question or other mental conditioning question very cool question i appreciate that question because this individual recognized is
that there is a little bit more to it than just the physical self defense contentement an i's a hundred per cent right so here's some
things that you can do when you get the opportunity you've got to get some realistic train going and i've talked about a little bit on her
with a kind of realistic training that we did in this oullins there's things that up the intensity greatly seminatione or the compagnoni
another good thing is getting of berely heavy sparing equipment on so face gear you know and really go to town where you're trying to
attack some one and take him down and do it you know freedonia got to be careful not to get her you want go bad extreme but if some one
puts on headgear you know with a face mask and a hole nine yards shinar's in patted out fit on and people can attack them and you have to
react to it the other good thing to do is do it nessitated where you know you don't let the guy know what's going to happen you know he's
got a keep his eyes closed until you say go to open his eyes there some one ever the ifrit for our fannie right in front hems going to stab
an he's got a draws weapon and shot or defend himself sooner hit him with these unexpected drills but with your weapons without your
weapons shooting in moving so those are those of the kind of things as soon as you get the opportunity to do it an it's even good i mean if
you've been in a in a in a buisson drill with like a barricaded shooter which is me you put sutor the end of a hallway and he hidden but he
shooting at you with paint ballou get you can give the intensity of very high it's dishonoreth and if you're getting now and you've got to
do something and people are like agronome call go do something he's got make a happen agin is not this guy you can get your intensity up
and you can get used to that you can inoculate yourself somewhat to that stress and learn to detach yourself from it and not let it affect
you and not let it grind on you so that's the realistic training and an honestly i when i watch some of the police videos of the bathers
now we know police officers a few out picante every day are under a burden of hostility and they do an outstanding job over over again
making great rest and helping people and saving people that are suicidum incredible amount efects right of course no one releases those
videos and they don't go fire the videos that go violante that people watch or the the bad wants it the bad ones and i hope that the police
departments across america are doing something to a knockout their troopers from the stress cause that when i watched these videos that is
what i see happening the the stress level and the the the inexperience of the stressful situation and there's one video that i watched
which is awful and the guide gets a call ah you see as you see is the first thing you see on oath whole thing is a body care ranieri me a
someone pulses fitton amount a hundred rosinante but he gets a call it that a seven eleven die with a gun guipunaves the cops and oisivete
en as he is geet out of his car and he sees a guy kind of walk in one direction now evaleen walking another direction he's got a hoodoo
he's walking away so the comets out he's yelling out i may stop stop stop to die does it stop finally he's now approaching him and he
standing in the open in this something that i i see and a lot of these videos these cops they stand in the open when if you imagine that
the other guy has a gun of wide would you stand in the open take cover you take cover that's the first thing you do if you're even if
you're chingtoo somebody or try yellow some one you take cover so they turn around and have a gun you only a small portion your body
exposed and you don't get scared because your hanging out in the open it so is it so any way this guy is approaching he standing out in the
open he's yelling at the guy finding the guy turns around and when the guy turned round he reaches in his jacket and boom the cop shootin
the guy falls down he can a rolls into a curve the cop comes over as soon as the cop comes over you very quickly realized what's going on
and that is that the guy had had foes on underneath his hooyun hear the copy lonato and then as the cop searches him he pulls out of his
pocket his eye from an so he was just listen to music reached in his pocket to a sternitur an offing and he got shot horrible situation so
how do you inoculate yourself to that you've got a put yourself from the training situations where you do have the instinct to take cover
we do have the instinct to see what people say and so we do einstein to realize that you put yourself in a better situation where if then
thy does pull out a gun you have pined to react to it he and you can react to it from a safe distance you know as a so there's a lot of
things i would love to a start to and a annahow you know anna halantow how to go about this but i would love to start walking with
blastopore in some manner to get some training set up like the training we had in the sea pens which was the training that i set up in
sophias psychotic stressful we would make it so that these guys were overwhelmed they were explosions machine on fire panels sitting emma
smoke everywhere screaming civilians screaming wounded a actors we hire actors that were amputated spurting on visitas incredibly realistic
and that way when goes gottom like one the first time ever got shot on as a okar's a noon so i hope at some point i can i can help the
military with that now in addition to that as your trying to nourse oreto this finance and get us to this watch those you too videos
anasthose you two videos of street fights of stupid and counters with with bars with drunk people and bouncers with the shot or don't shoot
scenarios with cops military situations were they have helicons on and you can see things happening and what you weren't as you want so
that he was and you anapa attention to the people to the human and watch the reactions and wash their movements and watch their body
language and watch their expressions on their faces and see and judge and predict and gointer video and put pause and say this is what i
see read here this is what i think is about to happen and and educate yourself on human nature you because human nature is what you're
going to be dealing with and violence is a part of human nature and sometimes things go violent and sometimes they don't so how do you
predict that and if your unsure which you will be how do you protect yourself first and give yourself the maximum amount of time to make a
judgment call so you don't have to rush on top of that it's awesome that you're doing you get to do boxing do moitie du wrestling so you
get used to getting hit siesta to see what a person face looks like one there are about to hit you so you start to see what changes in
their terterter posture makes winterbotham upon those are all things that will help you gegesa's ly great for the grinding physical
grappling situation but a lot of it hopefully as a cop most the time you're not in that situation you are standing at a little bit of a
distance and or or you know you you've got a little bit more time to judge so fight as much as you can watch those landforce men of
military videos again seetarun season now is see that fear see the panic look at people's eyes judged them predict what they're goin to do
press pauseie out if you will write a wrong watch horrible violence happen so that you can understand it better so that you can handle it
when the time arrives ye em and this kind of pittaitoe of stuff your saying i would even take compete if you can cause a lot of times in
training you can't especially i your training every day or pretty often you can get into the mind set that i can distrain casual today and
in iodides me out which are well says it doesn't matter that much you know so when you compete that's that's one of the significant things
that i got a door that i realized when i was competing it's your your rear your senses or heightened because everything matters if you get
taken down it matters if you go for a submission and you don't get it it matters in in competition so you have that that mind set more so
and you'll get used to that my set and to your point i i tell this guy at did you you when you're training for a composition no matter what
we do just about no matter of nineteen eight percent of the time i can't get to guys in training to go as hard against each other as their
going to competition somewhat when some one gets a grip of your deinoteron ye eight is ten times stronger than it is when you're training
casei you rip ivied grab your gee collar and you go through some effort to ripen way in war training on the lettergort i don't care if it
happened a competition and i only have seven minutes to work and get you submitted myanoshita my anointed hardy not mockingly go and so you
end up with a much much much more intense seven minutes in a competition or three minutes in a boxing sparring matches or nanmoins you
cannot simulate the intensity in contenting that you're going to get in in in competition and take that one step further when you get into
a life and death struggle you are going to have the same level jump in you the intensity that could obe there so that's a good point is
well yenta kind o god for motiwalla not even early saying competitive but mitia good one because bayou get cracked in your body and your
legs and you get to feel some pain um an if you're not used to that cave before even started went i went and am i remembered terry so could
you he was like hay you know we we've trained jutteth those camp training emma to day come let entreprit me my other partner doing it is
the cat don't have any striking trees i had don't care you know doghouseten storage punched me in the face really heard and that was you
know houndlike men just how you're talking about this crash grenades before he was kind o like that just the fact that i got mitnick me out
in it it does me in that way i was just a fact it dang i wasn't used to this i didn't know he was just constat punching me my face you know
i felt were just going to war i so that's actually the main thing that made me go into moiety so ironstone cracked yes cause i was like
brannten i was thought it was pretty good educato so i figured you know like i was so solid and open breath so what if i get into some
thing you know outside of the jam at a crack mammy face and arlington know so man so i do what the monied help is when you get hit in the
face it like you did to from one grinding on you in their breathing all in your home nose or their sweating all in your eye or whatever
that doesn't bother you at all you barely notice you negritos matter right so the same thing with motion you get much on that nosed it's
bleeding and your own blood or whatever refoosal you that of messapian you notice back in the day like their old yuther whatever gesagt
cracked in the face like three four time hard and olmeta or will be call you know to they're just not used to it now as gisebert they will
gunteer go stop on it as there used to it rarely does any one to have me you have promotrice ye are rare unless they're like injured a
unanatomical did he not yet so anyway so so the point is so wet i situation in specific because that's where you feel the most pain like
more than boxing or maniman you'll take braintree for sure but it's not actual pain and we take it canaanite chitthi grianan to to to not
let it affect you and go in the end in the ribs like body like me to the ribs is super painful when you get used to that i think to elp
there was like you here nasturtian treecastle hardly noways you know what inderesting bout that though is that zero some people that can
can easily or more easily take the pain of moti or boxing like it's okay with them then than they the nakata the grind of judie and some
people can take the grind of jagiello but they can never take the striking pain so it's there just some genetic or mental situations but to
your point you need to be comfortable with both low situation yea and at the parletorio with it oh i'd like at that first puncti took him a
face and granite was i wasn't ready for him to dust wail i mean i don't plague went on football too yea i mean so you been hit you've been
knocked out before on the field of toit's kind of it if i were to try to remember it was the combination of sure that physical impact but
just effected this chutututch met my fate very now on you it's all i dantois as punch me adasaolan yeh hain't like that but yet after a
while it doesn't mend harthover upon on the face was from greg rat in the like rebatoes and it was like halfcaste real solid on em as i
went to kind a shoot whose pentecon up off his knees kind o and i went to shoot like a god i thought from off my back and then look forward
and shot forward and he as we bow and left the to the force of my shooting forward and with palm and i felt it on my neck a really bad but
it was in a hard part not lucky of the wetigo but yes fully that was a calepache just happened to be in that ruby heart part em but i'd
been through that before i trained meteor and i did it it anvel down i remember thinking that was probably the hardest ponteve took a news
with the mamayos was a big box in low but ye back in the old days were you to just spare all for want with the demigods on a regular basis
yes stupid yea and but i will do that folks wear ethelites ying is that thou you are mister good a gal as you stood in formentone fell like
a a a situation i took that kind of hard hit in a you know or a cop we take that kind of hard hit and there used to that in training
whatever that's not going to form down that's not going to start ouless it stoically as on some is like him in a jar a year and that's you
know even if your trained that that's not that's a good onsengori you train too much and you get yourself hit too often you'll actually we
decrease our revelita to whist and punishment so and careful about that ye yet if you want to train enough that you're used to it you want
to know that you can take it but then you don't want to over train at all if you never get better i take weaponeers that you get better
taking punches for shore peetie and then it goes starts to go backwards yet you know an unfortunately that's just a way the ah the body's
built you can see as somebody older you have sea fighters get older you know there's no doubt they don't have the chain that they want ad
and that's when they usually you know decide to hang it up or if they you know if they get the right counsel from people that what nowadays
people are sparing a lot less and they are trying to not take all that punishment because everyone realizes that yella you have a limited
number of hits you can take to the to the head tenant sir arkland and it sociators information is coming from the desodieres overseas the
marines overseas that have taken concussions and i destripes and their realizing that that is a poumeto know down grade of their systems
and they they you know yet so they side that's where a lot of the information came from about football who concussions stuff of the ball
water that has come in from the the eyes that are soldiers and marines if they an overseas and they realized that this treatise dramatic
brain injury is problematic and so we need to greeted watch out for it so yet this your bein a company glad to be a lerntet that's why i
alathee moitie that's why i personally i did goricae was the latter like clinging men and thou if you are if if you've never done it you
would think that being punched in the nose square in the nose real hard would be probably one of the more painful things but it was no
compared to the ribs in the legs an go if you're kinda used to just taking impacts and pain yet you just you just and not to mentalities
mentally erlike when that one that comes about you can just dis keep on keeping on now there of conceited or no your honkytonk inoculate
indocuments if yourself or not killisheen question doc i have three little girls and i really intrigued by brizenio what form of martial
art would you put your kids and a that you yes an put your kids in diguised to mediately we can a cover this last protestant is the fact
that if if you got a teacher at lucon get mistery fight don't get into a fight in the play ground if someone wants to fight you run away
and that's what they should do and you know later when they start to become a sure enough to make real decisions that should guide them and
occasionally as a man you may have to stand your ground and fight and that's understandable but as a little kid who might be get picked on
by bigger kids hey oh someday gets your face run away if you really think you get hurt run away so you have that self defense mechanism
already what you don't have and what you are not born with is when that boy grabs you and pulls you to the ground or grabs you and holds on
to one much you leave that is when you need not grapple and you just use what i gotorap so eventually like you just said you do want you
kids to parlie bit and you do want yours kid and no how a throw some good combinations they are it i mean they should know how to do that
ah in your action the other matters worked dean were work with a couple of people and just got use gonoessa self the fence and there are
some lisettas self defence moves that people should know we know some one baraboo had bocono we'll think about the mat the high level of
judicibus the we we welcome son retired locking us is well come that's enough because we're so used to it is as we have an advantage when
we get there but to a kid you get for into a head for a first street fight i ever ate first actionary fight the first time ever got to
fight wisie four of fifth grade and this kid who was definitely wastage than me grabbed me in a headlock was told me on the ground and
punch me of that and i get condoning and you know i got broken up after twenty seconds by the principle but those were cassiday that that
wasn't cool so what you want you kick cause if that kid would have tried to back me when i was standing up i could run away from him the
one you grabbed a hold to me all of a sudden i can't do anything so that's why you get to is the first thing you want to learn it also as i
said when i had it the most technical thing it there's the most to learn it said never ending a knowledge guest so you want to get on that
quest as early as possible now on top of that and what's really good about gigito and again this is something in a talked about before but
when you talk about traditional mortars and you imagine you know a traditional martial arts dont je where people in plain white geese are
standing in a very clean and spontaneity with samaria's hanging on the wall and their bowing to the sense that implies a certain amount of
knowledge will be passed and a certain amount of etiquette will be passed and the etiquette and anadale passed robe toughness and
confidence and humility and is a matter fact if you go to a traditional moral art school and you bring your kid in there and you say i want
my kids to train what will he get out of it one of the things that cosae's going to learn to be confident or she's goin to learn humility
and they will teach them that verbally red it will be a lesson it will be a book almost a buck lesson on this is humility and this is
confidence and hold your head high digitatis those things not fear etically but for real because in jugeait get humbled you will be humbled
by a person on that smaller than you by some one that's weaker than you they will submit you they will hold you down and you won't be able
to do anything about it and that is humility and that is where you learn that you killing and same thing with confidence you know you will
learn as you get better you get to that hey i know something and i know i can handle myself in bad situations so it truly teaches humility
and confidence not feredia lly but in a very practical sense ye so get your kids down to the gigis get him and rolled and yowie did upon
castracaro how to find a good degetus school is find a good reputable place and get you kiss olean you know one when you bring your kids
into start you go get your dang self fan the matin to and as you got a knock and it's everybody should know yet then the inept for bullies
and evil people they should be banned beatitudo power fortyskewer element that um that you might not think of right off the bat but um the
fact that you will meet friends cause you get for whatever reason i am i just might be the culture in general but when you go to the lake
the giomate on the mats it's not like how you're saying like the traditional marchers go where you're like though to bow be rigid stand
like this lavisse talking say yes or no sir it's really a man in my experience and i've been to a foot pereheron in southern california
there that's word most of them are omits real even to the more regin one mark casual as before glassington during class is long as you not
talking while the instructors yes did you dye that in a school you would yet ungathered he exactly at one but it all waihoura sing moves
it's it's um of course he'd want to deviate too much from the lesson but it it's just more social and so you talk after class and you'll
find that dead be atmospheres really conducive to gravitating towards people that that have the same interests of young even outside of
dgian kids especially man because you all teachers are we more lenient with kids when the running around and you know you you tell them go
through this move and they might be talking a little meal about something or whatever it if they're having fun which he is very fontium
there is going to want to do it so more than i daughter too and we found a place that that could facilitate a two year old situation and
she would always look forward to cause vases think it's just one big display house a rough housin a whole time a seal timandra for a kid he
elron with padded fors and bathed walls sairindhri the colored rug once all you on a people to the ground that enough on to get ponged or
kick there you know yes um yes so there is a good community aspect did you gutterspout so which echo like much so sometimes already be want
to rodosto and talk and sometimes a teofani situation with a so jackwell in so basically being a new leader overcoming friction in the new
organization that's this that's what the guy seemed to you know he's a new leader over coming fringante in anything penetrating insight yet
and i say what important here is this is yes not a newly reliantly commissions leader stepping up in the ranks kisington so he stepping
into an older woman as einstein in a new situation that we've kind a thought about the stepping up from within the organization all you go
in and step into a new organization now i'm well look at this from a perspective of of like a normal transition into a leadership position
in a new job or something like that not a hostile takeover situation maybe we can address that on bought a later time but not a situation
where hey they fired this guy he had a bad reputation the things are going wrong during a step in and change it because that that would
take a different leadership approach then the one that i that i would take and that i have taken while you're sepentines tation were things
are going okay and he put you coming in and you've got some coal and there's your takin a releasement look i am so a couple things about
this first of all you stepington neat new leadership roll you got to talk to people but you mostly got a lesson you got a fine out why are
their doing things the way they are because a lot of times there might be reasons for the way things are happening that you you don't
understand he that a really particularly evident so you really want us not make the judgments because you're bringing on experience and
you've done this a thousand times and that's why you're the new leader and that's why they put you in here you got to set that aside and
say okay well explain you why this process is in place or i were to this process come from a what is this process trying to prevent so that
way you're getting smarter in your leaning in your not being you not imposing your ideas which you don't have any a background for you
don't you know you may have been leaside company or a different unit before and you think you know but you don't know sobhon and jack
yourself um you got to be friendly to people but at the same time you got a be reserved as is this is tricky because you are trying to
build relationships you absolutely trobel licious that s what life is that's a business is that's a war as that's what everything is bobili
lassies other human sees so you want to be friendly or people but at the same time from leadership respective you can't just come in and
beat mister nice guy and best friends with everybody that's not been a work out for you for a couple of reasons number one you don't know
the the the face that people are going to present you out of the gate is not necessarily the true face of that person see may checking her
first ancoats great comet you so good to have you on board or a lot about you and you don't out the skies and he energie you some back out
information about things at a coin and by the way we got a couple of things at a little less up you know what i can point him out to you
but that kind might be working as a gent so you've gone and be cautious as you go in um any other piece of that is it is much easier to
reel back in slack or a sorry so much easier to give out that friendship later than it is if you go overboard and come every one's best
friend and now you got to cut it off yet i was on you become a jerk so it's much easier to to give out the slack when you want to later
than it is to give out a bunch of slack in and try and wheel it back in and be a jerk ye and i think this hard for both parties as i in the
ahelion to be unreally hard don't only reason your poliacki friendship thing is because it started going sideways and then that makes it
evingham ale it's a nightmare ah god watch out for the gossip cause everyone can a want a whispering her aranians about the things about
the people in this and that segota careful not your head take it and be on board but take you with a great assault definitely don't
encourage it yet and that can be a hard part for certain types of people will say because we face it man that can be so interesting stuff
at odoroso knowledge to be gained there but you just have to be careful you wanted her some insight no right but be careful when lyin sight
cross over into gossip ye yes and be careful that the insights are coming from people that might have a genus in fact they are coming from
people that have a genus because everybody has a genius and may be the person has a positive agent which is to improve the company or prove
the unit or improve the team but they also might have a a gender of improving veron station and literate be careful of that they are
watching you they are watching you when you come in to take over they are watching you so acacording ly think about the fact that they are
watching you like i said you caution in forming these new relationships you got to find out who's who you want to establish things but
again you got to watch out because people might not necessarily be who they make themselves out to be in the beginning so this is kind of
becoming a little bit of a chorus when i talk about leading be humble listen learn moved methodically when it does come time to make change
in a new situation most of the time i would say do it incrementally do smaller changes after you recessed fully and you got people up up
people's opinions and you expressed in socialized dries so you're not trying a roll in there and change the world again how we goin to
oastler over situation or there is some one's been fired for cause or that a difference situation but for a normal transition to a new job
be hombliest learn and least that part where your your tuchao find out the way they're doing the things that the way they are an stuff like
that um that part can be depending on certain people's personality like a recoming in as the new guano and youth asked start asking he why
do you do like this if you come off with the wrong tone sometimes it'll sound like that your questioning and for surely though so is sure i
remember ah when i worked at the night club we had a new manager um and is it was joel he he he came in and he was strangely he was this
whole list percait came in his really friendly but really reserved but the one thing he did cultores wi it what is to octorara good job my
extension on a noaemasin adnexa ple of how he clarified that he's not questioning the way were doing stuff he's not said any where he doing
it like that because this way softenin have that tom but he came to me and i saw him do it to the other guy um where he he came in said he
i i'm going to be asking a lot of questions cause obviously i'm new here you know just so i can understand it and rein get on board with
what you're doing so i can be ultimately what we are doing that's what he said said anne lividity obviously but um that's what he said and
that right away so the matter what you atsinas it was almost like should i want to tell this guy how it's working now you know cause he's
he's cheetham automatically he told me that and and he was on my team fithin heave that can be clarified that you're not like question the
it because it seems like you do want to make it seem like um you know i know that away right off the bat it you'll want that tone or you
know i don't just for one receiving an i don't want that to no cause i'm gonna be a yes so i know a yes yes if in a last say i i kind of
had written down here was um enjoy it it's it's it's awesome stepping into a new bearship position and its challenge to do what you just
talked about to transition people into your yoshio and to do it no sadala that brings them on board with a positive attitude so enjoy that
challenge cause it's it's pretty fun it's challenging and most importantly it's rewarded yet i weston joe how do you learn flashbacks and
detachment in real time detachment so i this is something that i have talked to about a lot and it is definitely a very important part of
leadership and it's a very important part of of finding your way successfully to life its important part of navigation of of the world so
an it if you haven't ereabout this this is the idea that you are not caught up in the emotions and the chaos and the and the tactical fire
fright as happening you detach so you can make good judgment about things so how do you do it how do you learn it now do you practise it
step number one is awareness awareness of yourself so you start asking yourself what how my being perceived right now if you can just
occasionally start ask yourself how my being perceived right now how is echo singing me right now so all o sudden you you started to take
other people's perspective would is it's a good start because not your own and the goal is to is to get side of your own perspective and
see yourself from some kind of a distance so you start asking yourself how my being perceived in this seringa yourself like an do i look
like right now am i caught inside that madness and once you start do that that's goin to be like her that's going to elite tool that you're
going to use his getting outside i just watching yourself and say okay i am aware of what i am doing right now i am aware of what i am
doing right now and then what you want to do is you want to set some kind of alert ease your walkowa around the cache for myself all the
time in that i mean the otherwise you have no joy and you would have fortnoye have no pain he govenatore pete detached from it so you don't
baidnak around just detached doatie but i do have some alert some little red flags all triggers that happened in my mind that when i feel
them i know okay you're starting to go too far and you losing the perception of yourself what's your your trigger that a couple of them
number one is like some strong emotion yea like anger yea you know anger you sarteri you start clenching your fist or you start raising
your voice that you be a warning okay you are not thinking clearly right now detach from this get away from these emotions a some kind of
chaos like chaos happening and you in it whether it's in a supermarket whether it's you know something bad something violent something mob
if you're getting in that situation you start feeling that detach yourself from excusing get caught up in it so any overwhelming excitement
will be it now here's a good red flag here's a good reflec good alert is the twenty seventh time you bend your head against the wall
attacking a proper whatever that problem is she you know and i i actually made this joke the other day getas white talbot passing some one
card and people will try and try and try one way one way one way one way one to three four five and the like lesson after your twenty
seventh to tempt to pass some one's guard the same way go ahead and try on the way so this happens a lot where if you find yourself beating
your head against the wall after the twenty seventh time go ahead and let that be ital alert that you need to detach one to get cause
there's some reason that you're doing this maybe it's an emotion reason maybe it's just your too close to the problem maybe it's that the
problem has a whole of you and you don't recognize it but let that be in alert a trigger that tells you a body detach take a look around
and see if there's another way now another huge thing that ripis detachment is your ego your big nasty powerful ego it's one of the biggest
things that you have to utilize the tachevo and let me tell you some of the things that will warn you that your ego is now in the game and
when you're agostin the game like when you're eglingham it it will very easily win it will be you so when your feeling jealousy likely that
going to be your ego and actually heard some of you some on tired it me was as the other day and it was something along the lines of ah if
your feeling jealous instead of saying i'm jealous of this person say what can i learn from this person who great statement right because
that's when you set your eagle that when you did catch from your ego and you say okay among can be jealous of this person they can teach me
something ah when you start feeling frustrated when you fer start feeling disgust or anger where's that emotion coming from very high
likelihood it's coming from your ego no you need to put that ego into check doing that's the hardest one do you think oh yes but although a
eaiatea all be pretty aramintas you know when you get emotional about no relationship yet i mean that's not always your colocan be regover
there's another person involved but a lot of times that's not your gal that's that's your emotion that's hurting and causing problems um
but yet ego i i ask me finding ego because it's so clear it so clear that you're just being an editio ego i was gonna costui why i doing
this is ah and i think it usually prettikins tatterhood a little bit a little bit more sowley kind o what i mean because the eagles like
that's how powerful it is because if temixtetlan are irritate example of any one of these lifebeaten it's easy to see if i lost fatepoe at
in whatever for if your esope in this really humidities rong way it's obvious in its course the net but the eagle a feel like it's like
that subtlety of it makes it hard easy don't that last part of the tslike if you want to remove your eaglet's almost like a bucket of sand
where you got to get the last corner of your ego out for it to work otherwise you you still integration and i don't encourage people to im
out like the bodoee laminar eagle because you're egos what's driving you in many cases to perform well to win is nothing wrong with that
you know and if you ah but the part of iran indian of what that book anyways he's like ego is this god bless the ego you know this is a in
its pretty powerful because that's what drives you attinendi vidual effort and if the problem is there is a hicoteas everything yes and
sometimes your eagle will get the best of you and that's what you need to watch out for and that's when you got to learn to detach from it
ye philip's like eat situation you have a certain size cup that can only hold so much ego to get it done and then any even one drop it's
going to jam you up you don't will you if your one drop over flowing you know and you could make bad decisions with your ego yes let it get
in the way you have and and that's the hard thing because the and i think that's probably the reason because you need your ego to get to it
a function in the italian neeland all this stuff so you have to basically find that fine line that you have to get rid of you know the bat
that what point do you get rid of em enough go to still have enough you go to get teston so his economy yes sometimes you now only lie it
yes um not that i ever have that problem nothing like tanjong it seems like you we own her that problem unfortunately okay jack what do you
think of people in leadership rolls who cut i see it in coaching gysinger totally as it or our totally against it so swearing cussing using
foul language a tithing the superat forward question i can tell you that by no means am i a saint and and you know i was in this selta's
for twenty years and when you've heard the term swear like a sailor there is actually a level beyond that and that's swearing like a seal
and so i i've you know there sims in so temeswar literally you know every single word in a sentence williwaw ah and and that's something
that when i go back and briefly tea brief mesilim right now in something i go elaborate back into that boat you know not not quite as bad
as i probably was at the high point of my career where i was well rehearsed and well trained at foul language but i but he hears that hell
on a form like this were worn apooshoo know many many people listen to this including kids and my kids and am i i try and you lie better
language now i'll tell you what i actually had a point where i sort of said to myself me i'm not going to do that an i heard upon cast what
you nothing to do what i'm not going to swear i'll live a amanitas goin to swear of whole five in the potestatis action happened because i
heard upon cast i listened to a poast where it was actually it was a conversation you know normal confess as conversation globator to
people and there were swearing so much that i just said to myself man the sounds ridiculous it just sounded it sounded completely
ridiculous and i just decided after an this was before we start up ideas you know may be like two years ago i mean was a long time ago
heard this potassio said myself these people sounds stupid even his almost swearing and ah and it wasn't it was the fishing is like he
listened to jeronomite a metic pocasse swearing in and some people like friends and joe rogan he swears he does it at the right time and it
has communicant or has balue when he got so so that's understandable but i've heard people that they just it's it's just it doesn't it and
i having no impact other than just to make you say this person never smart me so with that you know i distrito keep it clean um bash is not
even at like i don't consciously sit there and try and keep it clean but i you know i try to keep it clean yet that kind of like you know
people i most of us have this out now if the problem but willy like like you know like very seallike i just did yes and am doing a still
had a that ye is it you same armor when you hear some one saying like like like me it soon as you you might not even recognize it at first
because we are so used to hear and yet yet but if you pick up on it and you'll listening to a poncas and i started fearsome one do that
it's the same thing you just say while this person really sounds stupid and they might be smart it but this person sounds willy stupid and
amnon like that so that's pretty much where ah where my opinion comes from and in why in a enow have had a couple of people have me up and
say oh you know hey this is the only poast listen to that my kids get less of tea an that's tofino you know i i recite that is since pretty
um it's pretty humbling to her that people are you know setnesses were their kids yet and i guess fumbling is the wrong word which somebody
hit me up on to etoria onour ray in it an honour that doesn't feel like i deserve but it's an outener somebody sitting round and say all
you know i listen as pocasset my daughter or i listen to your pocasset my son and it's so many good lessons to longinus that feels pretty
good yeh yeh and so if i was to throw that out the window so and i could drop him at bombordo n't really see more even cause what kind of a
what kind of a linguistic command do i have if the only way i can get my point across is by is by using foul language he hennebon the thing
is too is well i used to go you know when i was a seems i would go and literally like i said my i would have whole sentence in the
constructions that would be nothing to the moffams rise and i would come home and in formait six six year old kid or whatever i never saw
from my kids and people would be kanourie like if i had a seal body over and i hear me talk in my house and they say how do you even do
that out you and i don't know why i just penable to do it seeing so that was another thing you'll be poast will you go on the inter webs
there there for i hate to say it but there there for ever in evocatae it down but the oregon to be these are out eroi you if you want to be
represented that way for the rest of your innothent to be a little bit careful about what you're saying yes yes that's hum the cause i
cannot like swanton like to swear but i like one people swear and stuff i think it's but just like her you were saying like for example joe
roan like hell wear in sometimes well swarleigh in it it's funny one and needs to be funny it emphasizes you know a certain lotion when any
is its perfect in that kind of the reason why i like it cause sometimes it can be refunded to do um but over all there is a certain kind of
can't help a katerpecks someone who does it like you word like all the time aware doesn't notatam all the time or who doesn't say you know
all the time or no saying or whatever um and and can can control that and i think saringis yet another one of those things that some people
is more of a weakness where they cinaedo how to use it erimatua cause they swore in my parents worser who cares kind of thing there and on
top of that you do have to consider who you're talking to and in a poestion your sentially talking to everybody regardless were you trying
to talk to who you think you want your audience to be as everyone at and when he presses a button is goin to be listening so if you don't
care how you come off then good didn't that's that's great but i think you do have more of a control on how you come off when you can
control how much you swear don't swear will i haven't adybody you know hit me up on to enter and say hey you really need to swear or right
it doesn't have a did no one said he you need to say am more or radical like more you know people don't need to hear that they accept it
because it's there not to a funny the first time i took my semyon aurigation ally to various seal training sides you know in order to you
unoccult him to violence and firearms and mission guns and war as your and a hand ah yes you don't people can off called child services on
the ah but it was funny the first time you know at the washed a sea paton do some of then and i think it was at a at urban training
facility and they got done and i was deep rising on an you know this is my son who had never he heard me swear and you kind of use that
that he wear you know we swear warmth the life and learned words of an ever and he see you stand there a deep refuse guys and i i derefore
see technique and i got done he had a local is face that said wow this guy is a little bit different than what i nerves pretty shocked and
it was a inpretty funny senario so you know he stay you don't flare in front of your kids um why is that count want them to swear or or
slitherin there you know on the if you ever see a in a i do now that my daughter or ittle older i'll drop some swear words in them in
occasionally for impact all for humour you know or for whatever so so i will do it but if you have receded young o swearing it you see a
young boy you know it varied much seemed a just respectful yet they might banion ferai don't want my kids to be running around with a foul
mouth now i took my son and a couple of his buddies when all the serjeants eep ing in the tent outside of fans in the hours in the camper
and i woke up at von i normally wake up in the inwite were up early to go surfing well but i was standing outside the tent and i was pretty
impressed it will yer you'll iesou age a day for very yet it is a kind of thing to you right so it doesn't if you'd never swear it he read
just not like you have protected them for is wearing so that that's my point is that after i stood out there for a while and i listened to
them and i said something along lines of her are you guys done and are you ready to serving and my son says how long have you been out
there had in an i swore back at him i waaaaa i've been out here long adeney kind o remain quiet for a second athiest ed laughing at it
aren't wassanah a goody two shoes i understand an we talked about patent aden silentia hencastle amongst the troops and then we had given
from the politicians he would not in an eyes i would hope to behave that way i osato at you to go there was when we got back for money i do
go and brief this exerted a to go brief than a congenital i mean i had to go and priest some high level governmental officials and what not
and i are just wanting her not smokables you're not going to swear the friends i think that's another another situation where you've got a
no one understand when this war and one when not to swear and i just hope for there making a right to sectionalize i said no one has ah no
one has hit me up and said you really need it use more foul language here and you know there's times where we've you know we have used foul
language on the pepompa cast because he it's a reality it reality of vietnam it's a reality of all wars yet so to exclude it like it
doesn't exist is not one of trying to do here yet in that kind of the big in my opinion a big deal on some one you can tell their there
actively pursuing not swearing where in any cinacoatl conversation where they there about to say something in them they um than the use
like i don't know sugar radonites reap obviates whiti's necessery with it but it does senote you think all weight like we so we can't just
be ourselves right now like we adulatio may not lead relate to it yet you know what you rising is odd you should for metal jacket and just
in amazing move about the marine corps and the whole the the whole first forty five minutes his boot camp and it's played by le ramifies
name and he does he was a real gonstruction nails it and i i remember when my son was six or seven years old like i thought i myself up
i'll play him some of the novy well i'll just find some parts that don't have any found language to aternopotuit is just completely over
the top and its awesome am so so there's definitely a time and place for it in the other thing is for me consecutionis away trying better
it stuff there's a challenge be in trying to find words that are in have him back without just going right to the easy button on the
antedisma is as gonovim back but if that's what you need to use the nessessarie easy out there an take a faery single time and presents
itself glenalta you when i get wendte's been a couple of times with my kids with a step over ontario out of line and when i i went out
swart them it was like i slapped him in the face because it was he having that much in tatarian heroine to take with the impact of right or
a esthetic isn't stitching these were yet patent apparently with em from what i read he he when he'd get people fight up he do that on her
bits all the and like even to senora conversation erely siroteuses when he thinks so he used to asiastic too you know to get certain things
done in far as hinfluence confer i can't believe we talked for ten minutes about the weary and i at needed to be talk and we got out of the
question igraine for one more a last question jack what technique do you use to deal with situational stress from battle field to boardroom
we first moral and i don't mean to mean a mis distress that people face but imagine that hawadje sledge are we talked about to night
imaginate went through on pellenians of foules and ovaries the suffer debt unimaginable horror and any imagine hackworth who talked about
here who will about face salting enemy positions and creates wounded over and over again and on the line and still went back for more and
got alan seeger the poet coo in world war one went over the top over over again to make his runabout death and there's been thousands and
resthouse millions o worries that of ben in very stressful situation and fethlema death much worse then the situation i mean or year in
that we might consider stressful and i even did this where i was overseas when i was on the plummet when i was combat leader i was feeling
stress and you know one we took casualty and it was awful it was power breaking in but there were other soldiers and warriors throughout
time that had been much worse situations gettysburg or vice burner the battle the bolge in an all those horrible situations they proved
really that humans can wisand almost lost on imaginable stress which meant to me that i could too and you can and in a first step for me is
do that taking that look to gain some perspective then then in order to gain perspective you got a do something that we already talkation
you've got a detachment or a stress that your experiencing so that you can get that perspective of them no there's a couple of different
types of stress now if it's something that you can control that's cause you stress well why aren't you getting control of it generally if a
lackadaisy you've got an have the disappoint to grab control and make it happen and when i say you he disciplined for that what that means
as these stresses that your of voiding they're not going to go wahiyou avoid them so take the disappointed the stressful situation get
ahead of it don't be afraid of it now there's also stressed that's caused by things that you cannot control and if you were a member
calking earlier about artillery and how orrible that was and what made it so arable was that there is no controller so if you can't control
something and you can't get control of it yes you at least in grace what you can and i not not say you're going to embrace artillery
showing boutell you what when it comes to things like artillery or for us and remade with its and we could do everything we could do to
mitigate that risk but eventually there's only so much you can do and you cannot completely eliminate it but you can't control it so why
you're going to worry about it why you can stress about it if there's something that's completely beyond your control you cannot you got to
detach from it and not let yourself constretta it and on top of that if it's something that you can't control how can you look at it in a
different light how can you see it in a way that you could actually take advantage of it how can you take that stress and naked into some
kind of ally you know the the chaos of combat is something that i couldn't control but i had to embrace it like a train figure it have take
advantage of it so when it comes to stress don't fight it tominie and use it you as it you did to make yourself sharp and more alert than
you to make yourself think more and leonore and get better and you that stress as a catalyst to make yourself better and that's always got
for the night so thanks everybody for toniest ing to us than our aseeda through the inter webs to me i'm a jackal willing and to echo who
is at echuca face leaving reviews of the pond cast in the book on items and on amazon because those are very helpful and all somal thank
everybody for getting out there were getting after it so until next time this is joconde out
