this is jacopo cast number one ten with acheres and me jackwell i good evening echo good evening all sciences have principles and rules a
war has none the great captains who have written of it give us none extreme cleverness is required to even understand them and it is
impossible to base any judgment on the relations of the ostorius astorians for they only speak of war as their imaginations painted as for
the great captains who have written of it have attempted rather to be interesting than instructive since the mechanics of war is dry and
tedious books dealing with it have small success and their merit will not be recognized except after the passage of time those writing
historically a war have better luck they are sought by all the curious and captain the all libraries that is why we only have a confused
idea of the discipline of the greeks and romans war is a science covered with shadows in whose obscurity one cannot move with an assured
step routine and prejudice the natural result of ignorance are at foundation and support nothing is so disgraceful as slavishness to custom
this is both a result of ignorance and proof of it chevalier folard supposes all men to be brave at all times and does not realize that the
courage of the troops must be re born daily that nothing is so variable and that the true skill of a general consists of knowing how to
guarantee it by his dispositions his positions and those traits of genius that characterized great captains perhaps he reserved of this
immense dispraised discussion of this immense subject and perhaps also i escaped him nevertheless it is of all the elements of war the one
that is most necessary to study the same troops who if attacking would have been victorious may be inevitably defeated in entrenchments few
men have accounted for it in a reasonable manner for it lies in human hearts and one should search for it there no one has written of this
matter which is of the most importance the most learned and the most profound of the profession of warm and without a knowledge of the
human heart one is dependent upon the favour of fortune which sometimes is very inconstant so those are some opening words from a book
called reveries on war by marie de sac the guacharaca marise desailles arch on legation find out how much of a character he was not in
serious character there's a couple of things that a couple of things even in that opening right there that i wasn't sure if i was going to
cover the one can like going back to it to see if it was something we should cover but i i just when you get right here all sciences have
principles and rules war has none that's true statement then and it's true that there's you know there's principles of warfare but there's
no actual rules i keep an do it ever you want not an i can say that you never can magine but then you can just defy it and just know you
can do things that are completely opposed to it so there's no rolls you should do whatever you want to win ye now you could lose your
respect and you could act an humane and that my costuming the long run but if wars war there's no other thing like that right there no
other thing like that do what ever you want i guess if you had a if you had like a street fight with no weapons and some was going to do
whatever they could to win right the thing it that's war if the anything they have come wider yet and when you do with like death is kind
of a goal and the consequence at the same time a death that's the analine so ye anything goes essentially to yet of noise then he says this
nothing is so disgraceful a slavishness to custom that's a bold statement too i agree disgraceful he calls it a tansu these prejudices that
people have i think you call him will you call him by his visit connoisse talks about he doesn't talk about that but he talks about that
for but this guy was a character he lived from sixteen ninety six to seventeen fifty he started off with a german soldier in the army of
the holy roman empire which was like this bontate i tories in europe that were banded together under that name and they were the around for
a long time from like the middle ages until the time of the napoleonic wars so i know that the early eighteen hundreds and he served also
served in the imperial army which was another kind of army that often fought alongside the army of the hole in poleron empire and a
pudiated thing is as he finished his career as the marshal general of france and so he kind of i guess you could take into switch side but
he rose rose up through the ranks because his military custard at the age of thirteen when he fought at the battle of all pique and a deal
you said which and that did that war that ball right there with was between the army of the holy row roman empire and france so he was on
both sides at certain points of his life and think the whole time he was consense from what i read about him he was always kind of looking
too go up the social structure in a rage rise up in the social structure and become more powerful person in the hierarchy sir men of those
in the dominance i racy though yet i started fighting at he thirteen which by the way at that's just so cool i don't mansor if ye think o a
bad person but as far as i'm concerned if i could have gone military thirteen out of in so stoped a sorry every one that's that doesn't
agree with that that's just how i roll i'm detentarum that one and actually had i look back on my life if i could have done that would be
better i think they shall low people to join the military hashotom me like youth core engin and just get after it at a young age scrap
learned but they think a athey think of thirteen year old can make that decision and the right the thirteen year old canochet's in jato
have a really benevolent people that were in charge of them in charge of these troops and you also think that an eighteen year old person
can make a good decision but that's not trentotto people that are dumber and dart yea make bad decisions you and people wore that you're
going to get fought into your head ye yeah you you are you are i guess what if they're good fox right on that's not a bad thing right yes
but i mean the askalani yourself that the way the world weren't can't have good ideas putting your head ecatomiti bit programme yet you can
get a program to be a better human being would you accept that program o ye of course but am just checking by an hour inter looking like
tecolotes on cause i'm trying to raglan the as you disentegrated good and better like there's this universal good and better might know
verusmor is i mean there is so carleton likes i we have jardiniere you can converse that we can be dedalion version how do you say how do
you set it you don't know that there's universal good and eusuinopton on i'm saying i mean we could came a good is of things right now at a
we know are good in that yet i i don't know i i i all stagonolepis hattie something that doesn't as you good or bad here but those they're
still basic in fundamental they will give you don't need a youth cartoleto feel out netherden get tattat stuff and that's true too but
that's all different issue okay i'm just making sure ye but if you're i know it well your saying you're seeing good life good ideas and
good idea you're talking about your wayawayawayawayaway i would not have still i even you know i get in trouble for this because i
rantankerous wake up and forth thirty in the morning and and i was sad like that i don't suliots you attwater the morning i'm saying wake
up earlier it don't be lazy it right now i say you have to i say you know don't eat donuts right so i'm not saying you can never taste
anything that tasted i'm just saying be smart may i come on you don't need to do ut anyuta actually on the evil they might just be per you
too by the way right very well sir come on man possibly don't i tony the one make you feel i mean is there any do you get any satisfaction
from a dona status till it be pensioned you will as on a try and parsley sing well you come in out wentst undost ages you get up of ten
second de hasten your mouth ye a irus had some said and tecalco that tellaheens sir so if you are in to care now me that i had no man i
care i care a kimust one i'm trying to a penal can't from all the animals satisfaction yes technically and by loheita and fundamental good
things and i'll tell you this familiary does than fundamental good things you know if i could join at the age of thirteen i would have been
on from you with a stuffed actually i would ha missed out on tom colstaff too cause i had some fun bang in the dreary i disorther actually
led him e being who i am to day he learnt it tight not i wouldn't said the point is is that your way not every one will agree i agree with
you located im sure a bunch of her i'm decaying that i like different guides i'm not pro universal brainwashing to manatos of leather a not
i'm not a witch makes irteen year old by the yet which is orton i'll tell you i just said that that going to military i would have missed
out on some things you know may be some growing up a trances ah marescotti out on a on a damn thing and he is getting after it in many
different ways not only on the battle field but also as a a little bit of a maniac he was a first or he was like apparently physically he
was kind of a beast of a man and like physically any fog he be kind approved himself he distinguished himself in in some big battles as he
was thirteen fourteen fifteen sixteen seventeen years old apparently he could bend a horse shoe with his hand and it and i i was looking at
that i was thinking myself he they mean hands right they seen hand in for i didn't say that said hand and and i don't want to take anything
away from him so apparently he could grab up he's big and con grab a horse shoe and just bend it in one hand so he had some some serious
strength and through his life he commanded companies which he actually refers to as centuries which you can imagine centred let me to
hundred so a century it like the ancient roman army had centuries instead of companies and they weren't even a hundred people that are like
eighty people but he led those he led regiments and he led a whole armies and he fought with a waleses throughout as carrow with that that
being said he was far from what any one would actually consider romore because he the way he lived his personal life who not exactly
extemporally extemporally and entitatem lerestelle thou the fact of war he lived his life was probably the opposite of roman io he was
forced into marriage at the grate he want get married because he is i think he was a agecho woman iser into an only be married but he
married this haresfoot en year old airs with a ton of money he be our money and he was eighteen to eat in the s fourteen s was he was in
aristarch of money he took on him on the bluet on horses for his regiment and on women mister sis and then he had a banshee public affairs
and everyone can a new about it in the marriage got a gold and he continued this kind of want behaviour i think throughout his life and a
couple times he's hypocritical causin the book he talks about certain types of people on our oficer it budes come across a little bit he
pretioso times now i think one of this is this one cote i grabbed from this mistress this kind of famous mistress actually she's recognized
as the chief mistress of king louis fifteenth sir did you know that the king had like not his miseres we know that but there's a chief
mistress because you know it is a her name was madam de pompadour and this is what she said about sax maurice de saxe does not understand
anything about the delicacy of love the only pleasure he takes in the society of women can be some up in one word debauchery so he's a
little bit out cool he might have in fact inherited his life style choices or from his dad whose name was frederick augustus who was well
known for his personal unbridled loss how do you know that he had on bridleless well casentin maurice was the eldest on reached the acastle
of three hundred and fifty four agnolella itimate children that frederic father so while we might not want to emulate maurice desexes
personal life he was an experienced and successful leader of men on the battle field and weaken learn from him and with that let's go back
to the book and here's marise de sac a man who has that a talent for architecture and can design will draw the plan and perspective of a
palace with great skill but if he is to execute it if he does not know how the shape as stones to lay his foundation the whole edifice will
crash soon it's the same with a general who does not know the principles of his art nor how to organize his troops for these are
indispensable qualifications in all the operations of war the prodigious success with which the romans always gained with small armies
against multitudes of barbarians can be attributed to nothing but the excellent composition of their troops not that i would infer from
this that a man of genius will not be able to succeed even at the head of an army of tartars it is much this is the this is the interesting
part it is much easier to take men as they are then to make them as they should be it is difficult to reconcile opinions prejudice
prejudices and passions so there's a couple of interesting things i also forgot to point out that he wrote this kind of honowin and a
acesta off this this whole book on it he says this work was not born from a desire to establish a new method of the ardware was composed to
amuse and instruct myself and then one of the last things he says in the book is to the readers i wrote this book in thirteen nights i was
sick thus it very probably shows the fever i had this should supply my excuses for the irregularity of the arrangement as well as the
inelegance of the style i wrote militarily to endicott my boredom now on top of those that excuse right and on top of that he is a big
opium user so we're figuring he was probably right in this and imperante sure we're dealing with it or not we're not mad about it but we
were realistic and out the reason i say this is because some of the writing is a little bit tricky and some run on sentences and yet so the
e we have to we have to pull a little bit harder syringed no but there's plenty of nuggets and i think that's one of em is much easier to
take men as they are than to make em as they should be and where i look at that as a leader you get people that are good at something and
he get some one that's not good at something but they're going to something else you put people where you can use him you put people where
their skills are most available and where they can where they can perform their duties to the highest level because they're naturally good
at it not only saying in not having you proof read my writing at night right yeah no no no i'm not and i'm not over here trying to make
video no no no no i'm not not that you see him going with us yes so it would be be easier if you said you know what jonathan it comes the
pock cast why don't you come up with the talking a bunch of talking and i'll make cool video right ye we gotta did that ye yet ye itherwise
wid people be listen to you talk nabout movies for nineteen eighty eight he comparing the stuff yet the very clunk which is you know it's
fine yet but in ten wouldn't you have to expend more resources on your part to to coach me up yes so a atinian an i'd be trying to make
radio which i can and i'd be have to go you you man we don't that no venaticus its dealing with computer son stuff yet i don't mind
computers but don't like them sure no so i yes but that's a that's a big part of like way he sanatoria because i like is like you're going
to save yourself a lot of time it had enacted when you're trying to coach the ideas up and when you go when you get to this you'll tame
it's like oh you are small as small guy go you're goin to be pointment yeah yeah you're a big guy go her angered at a an mixty are now so
mar for tiatohoa aping we're not going to take the small guy and trying cannondale and bigger and stronger i were not going to take the big
guy and starvin send him in the ranger's school so he loses thirty eight pounds and he comes back in like okay your appointment no yelled
let's let's see use nature he's he talks about that another places all right he's talking about in this section how to oh how to raise an
army basically how do you make an army and i thought this one was a little bit in trusting as people asked me this question all the time he
talk him out man to tory service and this is his opinion on it would it not be better to prescribe by law that every man whatever his
condition in life should be obliged to serve his prince and his country for five years seventeen ce people say two years and that seems
reasonable and a lot of countries do that he says five years and it's kind of funny his attitude to a river's back to the book this law
could not be objected to because it is natural and just that all citizens should occupy themselves with the defence of the nation concur no
inconvenience could result if they were chosen between the ages of twenty and thirty years these are all the years of libertinage when you
seek fortune travels the country and is of little comfort to parents this would not be a public calamity because one could be sure that
when five years had passed discharge would be granted so he saying like people can be made about exist on the five years and he also say
let this when your kids are ottocento and as you might alienate military there's that that the whole idea of the libertine that took place
back in the day and these guys were you know basically wild morally getting after it or i should they were they were they were they were
parting wicked heart i orifice of a good way to say a day they were parting waking hard with drugs booze and women yea the libertines and
they that was recalled them a ray like a a guy a guide that was out there with a bunch of fenmen all time it ecoliers a bunch of period
novels that i had read a readiness at i know about it sir about these libertine rakes ray so he continues on this method of raising troops
would provide an inexhaustible reservoir of fine recruits who would not be subject to desertion in course of time as a consequence it would
be regarded as an order to have fulfilled one service i said that's probably accurate but to produces effected essential to make no
distinctions to be immovable on this point and to enforce a law particularly on the nobles and the rich then no one will complain he got a
noo i do at one person got do to everyone equally consequently those who had not served their time will scorn those who are reluctant to
obey the law and insensibly it will become an honour to serve the poor blue who will be consoled by the example of the rich and the wrench
will not dare complain upon seeing the noble serf arms is an honorable profession how many princes have borne arms now itinerating out this
idea is that there some people moral that art really meant for warfare answers we let nature i i more i more heavily agree with the
previous point you should let people do but they're good at naturally teend up recruiting people that might not be good to this naturally
and as not a good thing but not everyone was the worried no here i you can tlomatoes jobs you that's absolutely true they could put the the
guide that's more ah more apt to be like good at writing he could become a military journal as you here an you know people always asked me
a question and the bottom i is it a tough one i am sure i unloverlike us some hard or stands on it one way the other would you i think it
would benefit every one every eighteen year old if they joined the military it would benefit them in telling you it would benefit them do i
think it should be mandatory i don't really think so because i don't want to have a bunch of drafts in the military and if you don't want
to join in you on to miss automata party a life that's your call and that's why is america you can do what you want yeh that makes sense a
cause the one on one hand you kind i can look at it as like taxes or a were how it led us lialia's oh you don't you you have to have them
the perforating the to the pleasure of the honour to serve in one your countries defendant you know like that such should be the obvious is
not in and so kind i consent compared with the paint axes right taxes go to public service a your stuff in the we live in this country we
have public service we all have to pay for it not just one person here we all petoot of people fail lot more than other patianac right and
at more the air antimony faints on the militant you do said everyone has a tax on out of repassing that and if he had i what if okabe
exactly the part of my point is so litem like you just bayerischen april fifteenth whatever one will be takes you round just unwarehoused
but at the time were all the courtyard you don't let em in actually nobody i nathaniel thankfully or not i think i am but you know lives
just say for the example in fifteen tenenos if you relight and you're like yeah i just pay my taxes you know what a word like i didn't like
giving the other way but that's it you know just like people in the ingraftation or were men termini didn't want to it i would have rather
go be a rake or whatever and but i'm doing it and boomed it and then you got me or maybe that means someone else saying i didn't pay my
taxes yes and then you like wall away wait or your saying it becomes an order to pay your taxes and a way i could agree with you now and
i'll night only there i think there's a party of brain though better how much you pay for taxes it is like you do have that feeling like
yaidi my part even though it stoppeth it hurt even though you know i would wear rather spend it on a disney a vacation or something like
that like a word to roundnesse into something it was for rarior beseeming like that you know just little things like that a way you see at
him saying all right i mean i hear you it's bantam think that's one way to look at it though he wiout the other he had the one way a yeah
but the other ways you'll radio you said if you get some people who are in there in the military with certain like job to whatever and they
don't want to be there is kind of like it panomphee like that one you could have yet what you said is actually correct that you could have
too elements that just did other things in the military that he would be more a lined with the persons natural and a desire of what they
wanted to yet and now there's something the navy come in need to the navy right so you get at denain you oh i want to go to station in
hawaii or coke would have he needs a navy because i need a niece or snot you not your family nothing yes and and so the need i name come
first will yet of course same thing with like a tax situation work it's like your it if you don't want to do it it's kind of hard to be
like i know you don't want to do it but he it's now that you're here do what you want you know you can a can't say that otherwise soblike i
don't wanna be you so i can choose lannoy i'm going to do this the most men small as most light least time consuming like basically i do
this the least i possibly can't cause i don't want to be here to be in olearius this is the mandatory oserais of yes and at that i offer to
you got to get these it's kind of like energy people that would be not doing very much yet it essentially agitated her as dodger kindness
situation but within you know we didn't actually dodge it if i understand if it were as ennerie we'll just put em where their interests lie
even though they have to be here defines it i'm just saying that the other side the quaint words like ants hard to make make it work in an
absolute kennoway exec all right he talked a little mooching troops what they should wear and this is just i thought this is interesting or
uniform is not only expensive but bury very uncomfortable the soldier is neither shot nor clothes nor covered the love of the perance
prevails over attention to health and missus one of the most important points demanding our attention hair is a dirty ornament for a
soldier then once a radisson has arrived has had is never dry so it sounds to me like he's basically saying he isn't care how his looks
he's unionists here is a dirty ornament for a soldier in place of hat i should prefer helmets for shoes this is interesting how people wear
minimalist shoes with out with zero held the to drop if you are that expression low meaning it's the same level across so it's any the
barefoot type shears i cayasay o zero he'll do to drop to meeting there's not an eight millimeter difference between the height of the heel
and then it goes down to the height of the tell thishere says as for shoes i would prefer the soldiers to have shoes of thin level leather
with low heels instead of heavy boots they would be perfectly shod with and would march with better grace and slow low heels would force
them to turn out their toes stretch their joints and consequently contently draw in their shoulders threrese everyone's all nerado
minimalist ices which i actually wear shoes that don't have any heel to drop it maybe i'm caught up in that sad but cool but you don't what
when we were kids right chuck tailors yet unearthly have no heel to drop people so where he has a good to go that kind o all right well
mostellaria teretere go there you go sidney in de time treherne early adaptor yet i get i didn't know but i robinsoniana row for me too
near yet and they don't sell wide one i looked it all right pay which got to pay people back to book without going into detail about the
different rates of pay i shall only say that it should be ample it is better to have a small number of well captain well disciplined troops
than to have a great number who are neglected in these matters it is not the big armies that win battles it is the good ones the economy
can best be pushed only to a certain point it has limits beyond which it degenerates into parsimony i had to look at or up by the way
parsimoniously you get one of those females super cheap and super cheap thence in case that doesn't sound like the gad men would fall that
category hartwaldt it's a he if your dad would be considered a personal neus i guess so i know that my my dad like many dads will drive on
extra eighteen miles to save three cents a gallon a goetaland that no i do wait they don't do that well he drove he eighteen miles you
you're in the waning in her she noime but ye an i've heard of that before isn't that like a false thing though like because he goriorama it
for sure and a partly joke you know you get the ax that has the cheapest gas prices in your area in how many times you spending looking in
at alf that you pay for dollars for it find out where there's so savetier gas i now get it get it man i'm cheap i inhered to that right i i
don't like to spend money it's hard for me to part with them with the money righting cointac me by its aliso i get it but i also have to
have some like like sometimes my dad could be irrational about sure you know irrational just just straight up crazy an all you can save two
says if any you know i he he edges hard up about that too he another think you know he always asked me how much the omisoka out there in
california for my adinahpore anyways as big a malhonnete trigger rosina i got stuff i gotta do not drive it you i much cheaper is gaston
base he when i didn't know how much cheaper gasped was on base he he was beside himself i then we found out it was eight cents a gallon
cheaper waiting line shall ye riette get on passarebbono on wit is it the because parsimony as personally sir ha isaret that's because the
because it's like a look it's like a wind right you get a wind when you got all you love you you like logical wantee ah no that's that's
definitely that could be it over yet i think that is it because ye like that to back to the book hope encourages men to endure and attempt
everything in depriving them of it or in making it true distance you deprive them of their very soul now that immediately made me think of
solotarireans mastodonian the fact that the soldiers when something would give a glimmer of hope it would totally change their adjutant
when they thought that the german troops will come in a rescue the the guys that were in strong radiatae and solate are an excited and they
were to you know happy in the eeali said like everyone's moral went up and in the fight out the accommodations ye heroship yet we matheson
hope yet fully and they cannot see that i like you like like a work out for example like if you have in foot ball we have like conditioning
it and sometimes they just be like at were just running spring wind rent they wouldn't say hey we got ten winston's not like that and after
a while i guess are dying and you know that dying but you don't work giving tired reprints her lot floor towards them but they say two more
finish hard for all of us southern everybody can run faster than a woman even that you cause ye see that little litorinidae on righi was
kidding the heitland then you watch the hope escape active in slow back to the book this is is is brieve truly the only good officers are
the poor gentleman who have nothing but their sword and their cape but is essential that they should be able to live on their pay the man
who devotes himself to war should regard it as a religious order into which he enters he should have nothing no other home than his troop
then should hold himself honoured in his profession so there go forlinian and when people always ask me especially when i was in about work
life balance and in my day i'm not the guy to talk about not the good person especially when i was in the military is because this was me
you know my number one for arayound per cent was the demselves kind of day you're everyone else's along to the ride but i i know or i'm
going so the being that devoted to war and it has a power as a certain it may you know if you got a guy that think about all time i think
it was jejen about something and he said the person who cares more whin ye that's that's accurate if and i want a lot of stuff in my day
just cut i cared more minot going to sleep on not indistinto beating of his year going to go home and this week end you're going to go and
do have family barbecue and you're going to go play baseball with the kids and balaban i was thus like no i'm disconto be doing this all
weekend noon you working on this work on him i got em i care about best eh nothing else matters so that's a avin is it healthy for work
life balanced no not work healthy except prose if you're that committed to your work you're committed person than mayor trying to take you
your family i found assessor a bad thing and my reaching may be he i think okay i'm reaching that's fine you know mary e ah good
independent woman that doesn't need emotional support for you all the time so as yeunder stands that that was a big thing for me i think my
wife understood that it wasn't meant as an offensive thing if i i have a job and i really care about my job to me i don't care about you
but my job is right now and i antedate and you the work life balance my day a bad house no no because the war lay no bit is there is no
templated time allowed it you know the unedited with these people are those who were work versus a is no like thing you know sometimes if
you're like anne to spend more time with my wife you wifely pogo do to me alone you know like we weep spent the weekend again i come down
you know go to work or whatever some people like that and it's a spectrum so work like balance is like it depends on your wife and you know
what i inhuman wants situation you i suppose sunnysides take a life more quite balanced less in oisi think the most important thing take
out of this is is the level of commitment for i fiorelli want us excess ful ye and i'll just talk m a warm i'm dolebout business on taking
my life and if you really want to be successful you got out you got to get after it and you got to get us at the other things aside for now
ye right didn't await is on ye sorry all right back to the book training drill is necessary to make the soldiers steady and skilful
although it does not warrant exclusive attention among all the elements of war it is it even is the one that deserves the least if one
except those which are dangerous i try to figure out that mean i just thought opium that is opium he hit right there the last part the
foundation of training depends ellis's good bat but okay so drill feinting about the military drill especially back in those days it was i
really was a necessary thing because you had to function together his team in the way do that which still do what's called close order
drill in the military now you've seen it go watch the u s marine court close order silent joltin they do all these really specific mitres
and i have competitions in high schools between argelasse where you know your cardrille you spin you do the all that stuff that's called
drop ye the reason it originated is because you needed to for two reasons doone you actually had to do those motions on the battle field
raserie the load remacerate aim fire and in the next rank been the same thing you had to do it accordin method and the all there the reason
that they kept doing it according to my domesticator and of certain school gundersen united states marine or i'll be enough lasting was
seals oslas name drink guy lars the outlayers guiser seals my gonstruction from the united states marine court an architect he said the
reason that your learning this drill is because the reason that we do drill is because people need to act instantly upon orders so it it
drives into you level voidance you get told to by the left flank march everyone else by the right flank march everyone goes you know so it
teaches you at having to go and that's what they used to use it for but they still use it now to so that people get the used to the
immediate obedience of orders now does that get contradicted by things that i talk about all a time on her book questioning orders and make
it the you understand why are doing at though absolutely but there is a that's why that's what it is a form he yet at least the keep had
believing a villon his there is the capability is there back to the book the foundation of training depends on the leg and not the arms all
the mystery of maneuvers and combat is in the legs and it is to the legs that we should apply ourselves whoever claimed otherwise as but a
fool and not only in the elements of what is called the profession of arms so interestingly our personal problem with people that talk
about skipping legate cloth back go back for your help then big guns the big horn is left there all helpless in opinion war ye cornac in
honey call at big for nothing actually beg for nothing in the way means like i guess here they say all go no show train so that's kind of
what have big arms and small lakes kind of is as well right through now your inboard with that will ye no i never was keeping legs a year
the one taste and i was wondering why is that so funny but i guess yet that sand why he made one of affiliation said the entertain the
tegoe back it back a long time to even back then be were skipping like day yea and they were full stellite puffing a long runing and it
makes sense even like in those terms they make sense tentaculate amount we can was in the teaching and i a sologub iously but if you think
about what's going on the train like people to be belials and like all children and that right as all that baciettino buds in telling you
the advanced training that you go to the train and i used to run it it's it's freaking really hard and it's really art or in the desert the
desert not think of sand think of rocks think of jagged uneven train up and down hills then think about your a night misintent think about
you have let's call it about eighty pounds of gear on just on average ten like the average guys got eighty pounds a year on you're going to
get dropped off in the mill of the desert again not the desert but the rocky what's it called sub i i forget it it's it's the rocket crazy
train it's hard to walk on in the day time a tartalion now you might is not which is great but night vision is looking far away and you can
adjust one of your night vision side sir i ave two and you can just wonder for one to close you can seal it bit but still your parfilian
isn't there in your pretorians gone because it is too in front of your head if she can't really see what actually underneath your feet you
can look down and even see it for second which can't walk around look at amalongu look at it funny you got a look at you you you feel the
fire so as you walking your making these my row adjustments all the time to adapt your foot hitting the ground in some weird spot and so
you get back and then you have that weight on your back and so you get dropped off then you petrol ten comiter ten games may be what what's
that that six miles so so you're going to six miles then you get six miles you get to a target area you get to the target area you got to
get eyes on the target are you know you've got eyes on yo crime to big as to hill around at night being as quiet as you can you get to the
top of that hill you look at it then you go in a soap etage once you are sold to target gets where you get for when your something that are
your alike almost running you're running through the thing at night your shooting shines guess what guys get hit guys go down this seeming
in training casewell out now even carry him owing in a car whose nature you are what are you gonna do how you can you're going to there's
only one way sure okay there's stretchers there is you can be combing letters and we certainly bring litters in the field but they take
some time to set up an you got to get organized to make that happen onsartin to happen initially is somebody is going to sling that deed on
his back and by the way that person that ways to undertone had eighty pounds give with them so now were talking two hundred eighty pounds
you got to put that person on your back in your going to walk at a high rate of speed you just rocky train and you're going to do that for
another two to three miles to get out it's a hard that kind of training and by the way this old time there's no like who yuther's no hay
come on there's no there's no there's no you don't even speak it just in silos just go with every one knows jaff to do it and so that's why
you gotta do leg day enot skip like the cause you'd legs you legs got carried out wait and going back to the book to return to the march
about which every one bothers themselves to the death but will never reach a conclusion unless i reveal a secret sestette secret about
manoeuvring troops this the atoms interesting some were to march slowly others would march fast but what about the troops whom no one knows
how to make march fast or slowly as they desire or is necessary and who require an officer at every corner to make them turn like some
snails and others are running and this is to advance this column which is always trailing it is a comedy to see even a battalion to
commence movement so we start an serif your moving when the unit in his happens with a aviates with a poltoon but a definitely happens when
you get bigger elements you know a accompanyist where you've got a hole a hundred people that are moving it's it's uh the caterpillar
effect right like the futurities a little while for feedeth up and then when they stop every one on in you end up with his dusting that
really really hard to move yeah on and this is so this is how he says this is his big secret shall i say it this great word which comprises
all the mystery of the art and which in which will no doubt be seen as ridiculous have them march in cadence that is why these musical
marches were instituted and that is why one beats the drum it is this which no one knows and no one has perceived with this you can march
fast or slow as you wish the tale will not lose the distance all your soldiers will start on the same but the changes of direction will be
made together with speed and grace and the legs of your soldiers will not get tangled up you will not be forced to halt after each turn in
order to start off on the same foot your soldiers will not exhaust themselves a quarter as much as at present now what i thought was
interesting about that is it's novias er right and now clearly you're not going to do that in the modern day military in the field you're
not going to play music to gadadhar to it so you can stay in gains but i think it's more important to that sometimes we lose thanks we lose
messiter front of our face but we don't use and why they were there and on say all the or thinking of a story i was running training than
one of my guide co was a one of the assistant potenciana he intersert guy heard the choke real long neck yokoyama happen it is you men work
for real is it with some people we might think a long neck easy to choke a ya no this was his neck was so long and he was strong to waiting
long and strong akois neck would like band in the guilty a heitland it so many ways we were out at this training sight and we were doing he
was his it was his poutonous up to commander and they were coming over the beach and meaning swimming over the beach then you go to live
fire and the brillites they're doing it there doing iterations and he's coming up on the beach and as a weapon you know you you when you
get to the beach your weapons but say indicus you go from the surf and it's all jacked up in that you cries you your gun and doesn't work
you got to clean it and sit a pain and he has hay man do you have any like suggestions on how to get my weapon firing once i get a with he
beach and i o ye an don't let it get wet in in house kind of you know like really and i said you do let it i wept because when you're
swimming and you've got a rocks act but the rocks actionists water proof so kind of floats and so you can put your gaping on top of your
rucksack and you can kind o keep triterite you're just swimming you keep now you're not one keep your weapon cleanly drynoch and happen
going to get wet but the attitude if you have the attitude that your trying to keep it dry you'll keep it ninety per cent more drive in you
would otherwise and most important when you come through the beach when you come through the waves you won't let it get the sand in it you
and he kind looked at me with you know funny face of like are you seriously how can you keep a dryness it keep a dry um next time i'm
watching him for a nibishiku enough way is his weapon barely wet in a watery got on the beach and boors has what is an obvious answer but
sometimes people went on we just need this at somebody share the obvious answer with us that we can execute ye ye make sense yet i
accenting his hat then that's crazy i didn't know that that marching thing but i i oh that you march the kadenstein philo that caterpillar
facts i should be like a otolondrer eye there's traffic by the way you said the traffic exists because of that little fact not as black
retire you know one get on thank i in the reaction time and the other for i think you said in here is it easy go watch people dance you see
a soldier dance all night but he can't march for more than an hour i being tired why is that gives him music when any one to say that part
but this had people start asking about dan singdahlsen do talk of dance on the pont cast back to the book if the previous war had lasted a
little longer in durably every one would have fought a hand to hand this was because the abusive firing began to be appreciated it causes
more noise than harm and those who depend on it are always beaten so where any i can you capital t of stuff what he was talking about was
how every one so excited to shoot the rifles and at this time peered the rifles warn all that accurate and to was a bunch of noise but they
weren't always that effective and it would be better and by the way when you when you had to shoot your rifle you despot so now instead of
charging or stopping were loading or firing the other rank is firing and if the other people are moving on you what are gontanille ugh in
their onnhe no now momentum in there going overtake you are going to overpower you with what would be in at an hand on combat so what i
thought was interesting about this is you say in a all this noise is basically noise makers for pfaeffers as their noise makers and he
saying and what i was thinking was it's petticoat to be this to me is very similar to people that yellala bright yellow at you resoome
that's loud some of that's always talking to and he says that people who depend on that arlways beaten m and i thought to myself that's a
very accurate statement very accurate statement so don't just talk for the purpose of talking right don't if you are a anything to say
that's fine be quiet don't say anything that a good hit he retold about the roman legions the roman vanquished all nations by their
discipline no big deal no they meditated on a war constant continually and they always renounced old customs when ever they found better in
this respect they differed from the gulls whom they defeated during several centuries without the latter thinking of correcting their ears
to this is clearly the romans okee no discipline important talk about all time but more important lesson here is they always renounced old
customs whenever they found better boom brainchild customs when you find better ones this is something you need to do in your life
something leave you in your business it's only need you on the mat and i'll tell you don't act the other part sometimes there's things in
gito that you find a better way and they work for a while and then you go back to the old way and it works because people are expecting the
new way but deemed oxidate isn't a new old move ye identity other yea it is a new old move war eight it worked ten years ago it wouldn't
work five years ago could every one knew it now when i work again cause every one forgot it yes let kind of got one for god why why will
you use katisha we use music i we forgot why we don't know how to march now o yet that's an it's essentially sane reason why the new move
well work because people unfamiliar you know to you know you you have the certain attack or whatever and then the more people know about
that attack the harder it is to to be successful with it and then you find some new variation than that that not everyone look um nose
that's a foot log game kind of ass like that too for a little bit o and an after a while all those fundamentals which worked essentially
the early version of the of the move down whatever am that still there but we got this new unrevealed move that's getting everyone custanti
like a son surprised kind of other eunomian then now everyone get familiar with it if i cosomo so but the real good one was that original
though g want ye but if one just got used to it yet and then we want even get used to any one that he got about the old one year for sure
corrective we now to old customs whenever you find better now he talked a little bit about be time and how you maintain your army during
peace time he says as for the cavalry kitcheneer be touched me in you shouldn't you shouldn't get rid of it any cavalry people the old
troopers and the old horses are the good and the recruits of either are absolutely useless it is a burden and i ve expense but is
indispensable in regard to the infantry as long as they re few old heads you can do what you want with the tales so a horseman is you got
the skill portino got the skill horserider he says in this unnatural but he says i also hear titan years to make a good a good tall
revenged that's really good on the horse with a really good horse takes ten years to make him see you can't just get rid of that person you
but i am firman if you got some good is what i like about it if you've got good leadership good beatership with him timonean there's some
fundamental schools you can need to learn it will be ready to rock and roll which is which is awesome good lear should goes a long way i
mean and i again you have to have it takes a lot take the same amount of time to make a good it infantree because those are skills to take
a long time to develop ecole a leader and of infantry troops but your basic combat riflemen you can make him pretty quick not like is all
it's a helloaed to make him some of the onriest so and in your leaderships congo go a long way back to the book in attacking infantry the
two reares are to lower their pikes in this position the pipes will extend from six to seven feet ahead of the front rank the fort ranks
being sheltered in such a manner well i am sure aim with more confidence than if they had nothing in front of them besides this the third
rank can ward off blows and defend the first rank which will do which it will do much better since it is covered by the first two ranks the
second rank which is armed with muskets can fire and defend a man in fun of him in the first rank without the latter being obliged to stop
this avoid serious disadvantage which is incurred in kneeling a dangerous movement because men who are afraid prefer this position they can
not be made to get up when wanted and is always necessary to halt to kneel according to my formation all the men are covered each by each
other with reciprocal confidence the front presents a forest of spears their parents formidable and gives confidence to your own troops
because they feel its power so comlinesse things are obviously to cover moves situation and in and woronowo that out an i thought beyond
that it was interesting that if you got a if you're going to take a me will is to things that are happening number one on a to stop to take
a new were not advancing on our knees and he and number two people that are afraid they will have to be down there as can be hard to get
him back up so don't ever let him get down there i keep that momentum going we looking to keep that moment and going back to book those who
imagine that an i think i stated this every time usually er on this point pages come skipping a lot of the book sestets offered the noble
gone here you have to order it yourself if you want to hear every secret of sack those who imagine that the roman legions were composed of
romans from rome are very much deceived they came from all the nations in the world but their composition their discipline and their
methods of fighting or better than all those other nations this is why they conquered them all neither were they conquered in their turn
until this discipline had to generated among the romans displaying way and lack of discipline of gets killed disintegrated a disintegrated
talking more about cavalry here the cavalry should be active and mounted on horses inured to fatigue it should be encumbered with his
little baggage as possible and above all should not make the common error of having fat horses if they could see an enemy every day it
would only be better for this would soon put them in condition to attempt anything it is certain that the power of power of cavalry is not
understood why because of we have loved for fat horses i had a regiment of german cavalry in poland with which i marched more than fifteen
hundred leagues in eighteen months i maintain that this regiment was more fit for service at the end of this time than another supplied
with fat horses but to reach this condition they must be raguly accustomed to hardship and hardened by hunt and violent exercise this
wilminton their health and creased their endurance likewise i will make cavalrymen of the troopers and give them a martial bearing so you
got to trainor's read all that to basically say you've got a train north and you want to be ready to fight you got to trinity fight and
don't get on the fat horse apparently so ed asked my wife about that one she knows more about horses than me or life sure lay knows about
horses he some taxes and re one from taxes ride to horse he sat the image is when i go when i would go overseas people for every one in
america is basically carrying a pistol on him at all times that he had a taste in it hit people have america i like that image for people
that america zeiner some people don't like that image but it yea you know like be nice when you come here you come on come on it that's
cool wet we welcome visitors just be nice everyone's everyone's carried a forty five the back pocket i ye can you carry forty five and your
back pocket you could let me would arrecommandem no woodrock you get a holster eye to the back blearedness no no simon expression but if
you go to another country they think that we've just got in our back pocket yet you carry your wall and a forty five yet as what ethereal
and romer as i we rolled as america i do not back to book i do not know why armor has been laid aside for the for nothing is either so
useful or ornamental if it be considered how many true perperos by the sword and how many or how i many are dangerously wounded by random
and weak shots accident accidents against which armor guarantee protection one cannot avoid acknowledging the benefits of it it is nothing
but induna relaxation of discipline that caused it to be laid aside it is wearisome to carry a clear as and a trail like a trail a pike
half a century to use it a single day but as soon as discipline is neglected in the nation as soon as comfort becomes an aim it needs no
inspiration to foretell that ruin is near the romans conquered all people's by their discipline in the measure that it became corrupted
their success decreased when the emperor gratian permitted the legions to quit their cuirasses and helmets because the soldiers complained
they were too heavy all we lost the malburian whom they had defeated during so many centuries vanquished them toto that's all people stop
where there are gets heavy it automotive you helmet your helmets heavy yeah you want that a little tiny let you want the ole take out the
back plate of her body over on it won't get shot there no yet is it who is that was a jildiest talking about that like a widow to oaths
guys going into that there will they were going into an operation and when the bone yet there like danton with nocking a hape o pass we put
we where we lighten maneuverable that's a thing you say yeh yeh it's like keeping your work out and saying well i need to rest i like
recovered they have kind of the same think very owerlooked wagon at one yet he obviously um as soon as disciplines neglected in the nation
gas at de same thing with your personal life obviously of the back to the book as a true persia have a goat skin bottle like those used in
haunts instead of a canteener a barrel to hold lictors in streets with his linen stockings capped and cord and a few other necessities is
to be put in the bottom of a sack which will roll up with his coat and can be fastened with two straps behind him this aledee the monstrous
load which is now carried by the cavalry it is necessary from time to time to inspect the baggage and forced the men to throw away useless
items i have frequently done it one can hardly imagine all the trash they carry with them here after her but poor horse has to carry
everything it is no exaggeration to say that i felt twenty wagons with useless rubbish which i have found in the review of a single
regiment so people will tend to carry a lot all wot that they don't need and that was down on the athanasius before but at the back of
burned we had these in winter pull tons which i never did one uh out on the east coast the this winter pull tons and you're going long
distance on cross country skis right you don't know a m yes a long long distance is a that is a very sebastian in a marathon as othe guise
worse super an no about the weight that they carried to me so like they would he now the back back back back as you strap that you pull you
pull the tight in it to a yet to the port where i was supposed to be given a little a second cut treat cut the rest off and so it
indentations the night long not goin to do it they had every piece of gear that would be like that one nothing that they wait to warriors
it to purpose here is interesting thing in passing through water the horses must never be allowed to drink a man who halted to water his
horse will stop a whole army when this happens the officers should hasten to the spot and instead of fruitless reprimands and ill timed
mercy they should instantly chastise the offender nothing is of such importance for the preservation of the cavalry otherwise the affection
of men they have for their horses will have them halting little or much and then it is impossible for them to recover their ranks out
debating discipline people get that little affection further for not to you know i was the horse sing about that being on a long patrol or
in the work place you do want your team to go and every time you do grant that little bit of mercy right memasan o merciless travestie
noble when you do it you start to velo that trend and now those other things office is just got to be a no be quiet next cute i gotta go
got ago in time of peace and in winter quarters in time of war their horses should be kept in condition by violent exercise or runs at
least three times a week i like the idea of violent exercise i'm goin to start doing more violent exultantly that's good sir like villarsii
the same severe usages also proper from the heavy cavalry charge at those times it is in the field is only in the field that they must be
managed carefully to keep them in flesh and the squadrons complete and strong and this is interesting as the best chance of teaching them
to stand fire is when the infantry is practicing they should advance on the fire and walk and be kept calm accosting accustoming them to go
closer and closer they should never be beaten but stroked and encouraged encouraged in a space of a month they will be so accustomed to it
that they will even put their noses on the muzzle of the musket without any frighter then they are all right nevertheless they should not
be allowed to approach too close for once they get burned you an not be able to bring them near again this ordeal must be reserved for the
day of battle that was good back to me reminded me of what journees was talking about and we in the warrior kid how you slowly inoculate
people you don't from into the field brigit up the firing line on start shooting the gun and let them get freaked out arly you bring him a
little distance you let him listen from a forth and in woman closer and the next thing you know they're good to go there saving in the line
what do you call that but a young peters and collateral wisely had great handles her lyre sore graduated i pootrumism there was something
like that until cover moved a little bit that i am convinced every unit that is not supported is a defeated organization infantry on always
be supported by cavalry and cavalry by infantry covered life work together support here's a little note back to the book and the general or
commander in chief of an army should have a standard to be carried ahead of him as a mark of his rank through dark mout flags this is this
also as a purpose any one searching for him will know instantly where to find him especially in battle and the troops seeing the standard
will know that the general is observing them so one thing we did and they do in the military as they owen you're giving your brief on how
the missions going to go your brief location of leadership does again take down these a buildings i'll be here in this building on the top
for woman me no to come find me so happens he wears this petonar goin to be upon we get our targets here in the comorine backside with a
reach a place for nemestronia terence no where everyone else in esse talking about like having to a standard that like a like a symbol it's
a flag at yates actual like yes an actual flax sleeman would it really no we don't do that because we in here like a thing yes it saying
like hey you don't want to like i do well was it only saving prior any like don't salute ye ye ye you ever no i want the enemy to see where
the tea you did you definitely don't want a ah to mark your position rare like lay illescas interested as matter fact antrain what book we
recently did were to stock about ye gave your seeing running around to your radiomen or your seen running around giving direction you
you're goin to get shot ye yet the officer though i think it onobatis it was i think it was about a lie drink but the other talking about
that oh yeah definitely was about a idrieus when they were leaving this sad like widen within minutes the leader had been killed yeeeek but
one that were still with their elements so yet that's not something what to do but what we were to his brief where we goin to be so that
every one of the team knew based on a taranfeather be now he hears this was its building or him this know of this mountain resenters
sections road that's where i'll be that's where i'm stated on planning to be so not people know where you are ye make sense and i mean he i
had an additional thing there when when when he said ah so that you know the general watching their head a thing ere i guess that wouldn't
really apply the ear who now on no no yes it was a place although like in the military when the general is visiting in a atostor general
they raise a two star flag yonder is not and in the okay to guess yeh you're right so it'll be real circumstantial like dirt maranatha i
wear it yet now he talks about the companies and again he called them centuries which is basically a companie element form hundred days and
he said that they should have their own little symbols as well in their own standards back to buck of the standards are distinguished by
their different colours the actions of every century will be conspicuous this will create the greatest emulation because both officers and
soldiers will know that they are seen and that their countenance conduct and behavior are not ignored by the rest of the army the men as
well as the officers will tell of it in the field and in garrison their exploits will be constant the continuest of conversation i thought
that was kind of a callidea you know fur if you find the flag then people watching you and i you better act you'd better come correct
literare sent thee better rationally comacina to the book after the organization of military throws military discipline is the first matter
that presents itself is this soul of armistace ring came as the soul of the individual is well but a poseat about that later back to the
book if it is not established with wisdom and maintained with unshakeable resolution you have no soldiers regiments and armies will be only
contemptible armed mobs more dangerous to their own country than the enemy it is a false idea that discipline subordination and slavish
obedience debase courage it is always been noted that is with those armies in which the severest discipline is enforced that the greatest
deeds are performed many generals believe that they have done everything as soon as they have issued orders and that they are and they
order a great deal because they find many uses three saterlee when a general feels like it salmon a badge on when a general feels like
they've done everything as soon as they've given their order and since that's what they do they give all kinds of orders and my word this
and more to do that man or were you some miles here's recess this is a false principle proceeding in this fashion they will never re
establish disappointing an army in which it has been lost or weakened you orders are best but they should be followed up with care
negligence should be punished without partiality and without distinction of rank or birth otherwise you will make yourself hated one can be
exact and just and beloved at the same time as feared severity must be accompanied with kindness but this should not have the appearance of
pretence but of goodness and this is just a little not effugere one should know whippings need not be severe and the more moderate they are
the more quickly will abuses be remedied since all the world will join in ending them so even when your whipping your people you know a
little bit more and you dishes while have a this is the uscito we have a a pernicious custom in france of always punishing with death a
soldier called pillaging his hunger the result now what you think there is altitood be that he's goin say cousin you oh i adatha somebody
if you if you am are pillaging cageling jurgen get home to it what you think the end you think it happens because that happens to whom what
do you think do you do you i should we not hang people for pilings one you think there's a lot of pillaging going on if you get cappellan
they hang you are your fellow soldiers do you think they filled i say no okay you are on the rosal is that no one arrests him because they
do not want to cause the death of orgreave who is only trying to live as if in a stand we were only turned him over to the guard to be put
jane's hand to bread and water for one two or three months or put to work in in at any of the labors that always have to be done in any
army and then they were sent to his regiment before a battle or when the general wished everyone agree with this punishment and the
officers of the patrols would arrest them by the hundreds soon there would be no pillaging because everyone would join in putting it under
control so he the man is either reason i asked you that which i don't normally do is because i thought the same thing i'll let all what i
were going with us oh yet its obvious on you think about it you're not going to report one of your guys for stinging something if the
punishment was gas braininess that's like that's like small pictures as big paternise small pictures they can't cause could he just look at
it ed yourself a you got your bubbling your hand your left i went in pillage if that if the if it was death i wouldn't bill it and that how
you looking at it but not big picture is like a ray appiatto everyone applied to the whole community exactly right if you tell on this guy
pillaging you just send him tempted the old feudal animated him in whatever that's what you did a point and i i just remembered somebody
pointing out to me remember rifle in harrison starts off wing my rifle inheritated a guy and i said i i set on the pot cast hey this guy's
giving executed basically for desertion and being drunk what i didn't realize is it somebody said me in mail or a social media message they
said had to reason that guy was gitting executed was because he had taken the money for like sixteen and lesnitsky is appearing so when you
do get a signing bonus a herders was probably nothing but you know hears here's ten quid or pound sterling whatever here's ten pounds
sterling oh you're join the article here's ten and you then you take that money don't get drunk and get crazy and he go again and a utan in
a different waiter not they have no way of knowing that this is the guy when they finally catch him he giving sentiet now do i think he
gets at his defier that not really but he was doing something more severe than what i had mentioned only an outcast so i i soon do while
thinking about that set the record straight but the the main fort here for me is the secondary fact right you think you're going to have
the primary effect is oh if we do this no one's going to if we go kill you if you get caught pillaging no one's goin to know as going to
pose any more ye no actually knows gineration her punishment is to yes strong and this is also how this is also how and why when people
think that oh if some one's in the military the older just do with their told wrong and the soldiers actually there their secondary effects
oh you're going to kill the guyere not going to report it then yer so there's the second or facitote been ordered to do that and their
soldiers avision they've been red he's bragging on this pond all time guess what they don't all that order to the order socks that's we got
to remember not a ability but about business to you give people dome orders or you give people things that don't make sense they are not
really going to extort the way you'd want them to and i'll tell you something if you don't want them to execute that way because if he got
a hundred to people pillaging and you now and up murdering hundreds of old your own people your affecting your army you're goin to get
deserters i work in an army like that to say thing with the boss start laying out of veronica punishment that doesn't make sense isn't
reciprocal to the crime that was committed now you pillage think about what pillaging as i took some bread from the storm cool were going
to shoot the head then the punishment did not fit the crime i in that case all right it be ethalion weardale where a bill that colossians
anne says and this is the same thing he said earlier about people but he stockau bistort tyranno nature is infinitely stronger than the
works of man why not profit from it meaning use a river use a hill used to use train to build our defense positions don't disuse a shell
sane thing that he talked about thoroughly er with with human beings now another piece many persons believed that is advantageous to take
the field early in the coming redback sun so arterward be there first i sax maybe does agree with that a little bit here they are right
when is a question of seizing an important post otherwise it seems to me that there is no need to hasten in that one should remain in
winter quarters longer than usual so he goes on the talk winter quarters me in your you're going to go out in the field lowington the field
now no where be called wet miserable for the next three days while he went for the enemy's show up and now they shall fresh whose new
better in the bottle so just to think about i used to say the military used to say all the time you nevot be forward leaning tower that
expressive decolor meaning and i would say let's not be so forward meaning that were in the leaning restating rest is the push of position
which they would leave you in for a long period of time a lot of different training situations to amos you get so practice got so leaning
forward of forward leaning that you're in laneret in your wasting energy just try to beat a fare like these some guys warm up i do such a
good warm up at your tires a wise far forward leaving his room leaving restoration the other thing is do not warm up at all now you're not
ready so you'd have to find what you got that to dick amelioration find it out pettiest ye now the good point here back to the book in his
absolute necessary to accustom soldiers to labour if we examine roman history we find we shall find that republic looked on ease and
indolence as the most farinae enemies the consuls prepared to legions for battle by rendering them in defatigato than have them idle they
employed them on a unnecessary work continual exercise makes good soldiers because it qualifies them for military duties by being
habituated to pain they insensibly learn to despise danger the transition from fatigue to rest enervates them meaning weakens them they
compare one state with another and i dulness that predominant passion of mankind gained to send any over them they then murmur it every
trifling inconvenience and their souls soften in their emasculated by them yes so would i say it is a people get used to the soft ways
people get used to the easy life and if you let him to use to it but you you when you wanted do something hard when it's time to somhody
not ready for it you every minute that charles out in the bush getting stronger retired in every dead night of spending in this hotel a
pocono every kind of sinister getting softer every night charles out in the bush getting stronger that's what he's talking about her ill
that's all he talking about and but now do i agree with having people do unnecessary work no i don't because people see right through that
and idisien stupid and taken there is see that nearside do in this food did oefel i back up did delphi back up no don't do that but you
don't want a new training exercise when your training at this rent get stronger we're going to get you well on a day all we put you know
said it up for a primater they were now moved to another situation it is if we have to back away more or collapse or primitive could when
you claps a primitive got to fill a whole back in otherwise in the enemy comes attack you they use it he so yeeeehaha in so let's roderer
and by the way less making too contestees we can dig in and then once or get it go gin burgonet up with your fast reclassing fell back in
we're doing it at the end of it when i give out some you know some prizes and have a beer you know right saddled toxicity like to make em
what e be a game or a benefit make it yegoryevsky hi it is donegan himation perforation be like if you're a moving you know you don't and
you move it at your house or water and um how fascinated the stuff actor yet let me use it as a little work out little men kin an a e we
got a move the all these boxes upstairs two floors whatever eunomus that as the work out a kind of makes it more enjoyable that wells but
at the same time he get the results of a of a little work out right there here leastest that when you said you to eat it agree with the
unnecessary unnecessary work is a what about a like pushes as punishment for example or a cat or a factories in one case a case i think i
think like with kids if you make burpys upon ishment they don't like erlesmede it a war they like him and you had her ivliae that by the
ftatateeta the a i will how one the cool people do burke's and that's what it is easy dead don berthe's dead doing give these whatever
exercised the heron coele do it it kind of push heart on their suits but i on fair button of it the question is though in the military in
the military hero not kids no californian punishment in olitary yes sure is not until you transition out of the boot campers could that you
get away from that now the intestines like they don't you don't do calusidius punishment i will say that if you mess up like for instance
when i was running training if the guise performed poorly they are going to have more down to men than this is training talkin about fake
down men but they don't have more men that couldn't walk that's more men that have to be carried that punishment it is now ripening at
apartment if you when i was running a communications course when i was a younger enlisted seal if you missed a communications window you
had to walk a longer distance if you missed a multiple your grave to walk tragic disdain is but that wasn't just a natural result of you
mesmes it odd you impose that vantine oaesis imposed and they knew i was imposteratus yet you if you miss in the seal teams if you miss the
extraction point with a boat's comin to pick you up after a dive while now you got to swim to the door a new if hit a point yes what the
new pickup point isn't close ye because you compromise to your above this or downie to get away you intended to swim an extra you know may
be is an extra hour of sir hissing with a rig on not fun by the i been found fond yet you can't hear you not just you're not desaving fun
don't tell about you that you're laying on your back as it's really awkward it's it's it's comfortable to dive with our diverrai that's
it's called repeater and he was on your chattering is small the top it don't tiny at close circuits closed circulatio at you look at you
tintonello circuiting but when it runs out you can't doesn't work any more now so you have to swim and we do something all turtle back
generally which is basically relying on your back and you're just finding and it takes a long time to move very far as not comfortable so
the punishment it is in training if you miss your extraction point that's fine discussin to the alternate extraction voice alternate
extraction for his nocentes by it because you screwed up yes same thing with a view messer helicopter extraction because you took too long
on target and you got bordon and took long time to move all these down people that i mean it happens we understand that but now you have to
walk to the secondary extraction point which happens to be six kilometers up a hill yes see what that's to to me in this me thinking
whatever ten seconds about that seems like that makes perfect sense in fact that seems like a cool little strategy because they realize
that's all works you is the last eager e read the bust to school you miss the bust your walking to school or riding about whatever is kind
of that thing that's the test to life i do yes i do you a lot of the time like to sides of things i what your saint leafits hey you you
know your shoes aren't shined or whether on on we are aren't chineesy push on you no wantoneth don't do it in the silkateen ely do it in
the army they definitely do in the ranger trainers that they're dropping down all the time reread but no we don't do that tessellates the
question to do do you agree with that indorseing about that insoolting about that kind of stuff the i i think i will being i am to day that
i would not do it and when i was in a military leadership position just because i would rather at anna yet were no feel like i like disolit
europeans when i know that the army runs it that way it makes us in and by the way when your army does it and i i shouldn't even say it in
labour the way in or desem not i don't know exactly how they implement that strategy so you next time we have a tame ganneron we'll get him
to give us a full deep reef in that i'll get another another orange or on here to to give us a full deep re on that huge something so i was
watching the ship of friend his random show me my wife before we were married when we are just in doing whatever we'd watch these random
shots and it was a kind alike a reality she can like competition show but it was i think army like in the grab red her people for the
enormity you give in on you in this anoice cause i have a ranger they have a best ranger every year they have a best range of competing
with so really art corocotta the woesten you know what a lot like the fix a lot like that but it's a whole like you know you are there for
like a month when i and shame but a lot of drill sergeant type situation you me twenty fifty whatever i so us towards the end of the season
and whatever and this girl was like she was like an look how strong and like muscular my arms are now this from dis from a the push up so
had to do in self like that is by happenstance sure she was getting punished sure she was learning to you'll follow directions more
meticulously and all the stuff that you learn from you know the whole you know orders verses punishment situation but as kind of a by
product if you will she has some physical strength now you know you are wonder if that has some too do it and orating from your deferee you
definitely make in people stronger there's no doubt about it yes that's all positive for sure ye as is this so doubt that the great
brideprice t of of callousness as punishment is you get stronger is in but like in the indees it's weird it's weird it's not a thing yet
not a thing or occator going to drop down and give me fifty let that glory it i never saw it happened a single it might happen with new
guys sometimes but it easier if a new guide that you're not getting through to okay yes what you but even with you that you were really
wanted to get through newgate want them be good at his tactics not push up people in ranger supposed to do push up on your own man yet and
leading a what not in here to teach you out of de push up side you need to you need i be in shape he let we went in lively acted better
things to do exiles going to say but here it but at the same time he can't help but wonder may be that's just like that's a certain way of
looking at it which is good as seems obvious seems affected to me but what if there's something like that you know like something from back
in the day some old school fundamental principle that that's kind of why you do it that suprematie that's why in the team is a don't do it
because they want you to be self discipline to be obituarist not disciplined by the group but in public to get you on a pose to spoil
interest so we regardless i think that you should train hard because you don't want to have your soul get softened inside of your
emasculation potentate sell like something i don't whillebelewin ing back to the book there is more skill in one might think in than might
then one might think in making poor dispositions intently but one must be able to change them into good ones in an instant three talked
about how you set yourself up in a bad position only to let the enemy trying new role aperture enforms ready to do something do change your
position and do something good like in did you do on your let someone had a patronising of as the garden yet nothing is more disconcerting
to the enemy he is counted on a certain thing has disposed himself accordingly and at the instant of attacking it is changed since this is
this is pretty cool right this is a good thing to remember i i like wat talk is is psychological effect that has on the enemy to the enemy
seize something they expect something they want something to go a certain way so they arranged themselves for it and in right when they're
getting ready to execute they realize it wasn't what they thought any sessoine more disconcerting and unite with a person to you we be
unexpected as what disturbs people specially he sees all time an enemy where guigats close to his submission and then he got higher guy get
out if and he expends on one you can see the can see that the moral training from their face when i hoped i his death something do you
calanthe he goes on i repeat nothing confused his him so greatly and leads him into more serious fault if he does not change his
disposition he will be defeated and if he changes them in the presence of the enemy he will still be defeated human spirit can not meet it
i'm trying to think of how that affects some one like oh yet affects it be definitely affect you you psychological like you throw the you
you figure to get this person to tragopan there and in all asuras it's not just that you miss the cragley realize that you've got play you
have played at it as an out thousand feel good and that can definitely hurt your moral year you know it that's a little different than just
missing the move when you realize you got sad actually that i mess up your whole game so i signoritas there can so that's it that's it out
onsay that his whole game but that's his game right there so like if you go you know side control or man or whatever he has dangerous new
ones through the one you yes exactly right so it's like an every one in while you get rolling with them like kandahar it'll seem like he's
trying to defend the mount but he's really letting you think that you've got the mountain renouncement like it somoset you my own you know
their letting you out to and if they're going to spring some sort of a trap is to be more obvious inheriting you do it but you get em where
he kindles he do it to the point where you don't realize he intended you yet you just got and then i got in in her after while he keeps
doing stuff like that to your like provender ally want to do anything to him because i was just going to set me in a iustice of traps right
now he metes up your whole game you can't do anything ye like it on your own accord though it's not like he's preventing you from doing
anything so it's like your preventing yourself now that sir tatteration you has to deal with but added i noted a didn't you it out in that
you out inhumanitie it out i figured out a method to deal with gestatoria with him by the way and he even like asked me afterwards so like
old let's all go in hard and i was in how you get real like weary like okay i know i somnolescent those like and let's go rolling in and
then i dislocated up and basically allowed him to spring whatever trap he wants and he denied did all this stuff and he was occasioning a
lot later in that time i'll sic no grown distrait and trying to turn the light to all your traps than he set you know so it's kind of like
that thing comes with like the type of training like you can't to regard the training as a competition there on your enantiois you you are
not learning anything yeah but man enough in a war battle or in a competition scenario is like to you on big tim trying to think if i ever
got played like dot on the battle for you you know sometimes we hit a target and it was real obvious that you know we had been i went say
set up but like there's no one there like clearly the information that we got was wrong and you'd be kind of like you know be like man at
that wasn't good yes and really in a real rommany level it that's what an ideas you know it's like you they want to make it look like a
trastamara regular deeming you have to dress or something like that you know some a place where you have to go anyway the road at don'tknow
where on a real simple it will a kind of want that is so now you're like shoot an we got to be weary of every day on no one will prove a
call we got to be weary on it so the sad as a digger on the psychology for sure a back to the book i do not care for either one o sorry it
is lines and intrenchments so he talking about lines and truncheons meaning defensive positions i not care for either the one or the other
of these works when i hear talk of lines i always think i am hearing of talk of the walls of china the good ones are those that nature has
made and the good entrenchments are good dispositions and brave soldiers again just capitalizing on nature and saying that braves orders
are more important than your position man always fears the consequences of danger more than danger itself totally true when an i'll tell it
equally or even finer the the anticipation of danger is probably the worst thing netherstocks on the wrestling mat right now old dress in
season and you can see the kids a gettin nervous ill before they get on the map and entitate in the game and now you're not you're doing
your job but the anticipation of what good happened you jonathan land is that like you know cause you got it you felt that before ringing
back to the wonder comedian ye that like pentuer men so were especially back actually our one year last competition was my first
competition for other way ye where was that in a washable like the panama submission grappling it wasn't the panamanians like i think like
submission grappling it was no coterie ah i don't know i don't know remember him yea i remember seeing all the pictures as one of the is
funny one and like exinanition eyewash turning it ye so remember aliases remember that i who ran or who have a turnament lebody i didn't
even know there was tournaments and i besancon or ran at the time was agathemer all week end of tournament is like domitius on it below was
the conico i say it's a hinatiaiani longing word a very shongotongo at all actually but it's camp so in we i have this guy is being is em
jim oh you probably know camhi have him in a state american at the strait or makian i want up apienai photostat was the photographer a time
to meet on your help really good picture of it it was such a good picture it was in the front of her website the picter it that's why i
call it i canichanas everyone knows that conover one o they probably do if there could be the back of the day if they do least pots into um
don't fall on like novice division right is like i be trying for two months to twice a week by the way in for two months will not am still
just dominating out there for no new we anabelae actually lost i lost our first match took third none less doemonum so i know that you did
it because when i was looking through the pictures it was you compete i think your competing as i so old you are somebody i think for but
remember you peterkin sir eger yeah well your it was may be done eleuther black boy but i don't know i i remember you cause i remember like
her you affected out and on the less woodlore that but ah was the pit he la a waiting for the match is like that's the nerve round here
like rolling even step in the matching you see the guy frontier a breast not evacuate all that's like every day see that there was a comic
picture of serge he is at the echoic and he was going against one of the graces kids so it was manner or titanic with olives and his
debatable like a melasome targes got like this save tileshares is sadly togeither cigarette i see by the alkoran a one of my body silas a
geisha in connecticut it's contigit life but he has he's a good rest but when i see these kids and he he rested my away high school which
is one of the best wrestling i schools may be in the country on the definitely incredible program and he went there wrestled there and i
see and ocasionally i'll see a kid that's just as serge's added to and i saw one of this last ternatines all over it and got me it looked
it didn't look fairman he was just going a murdering this catfooted after his brosenhan you you see just pomponiana double but it reminded
me of the conic goitre of serge although the picture of it so the other secure of sergeant put him out dat was the a was it was one of
those pictures that was so good that they put it like on the conferences that wonder for the happened later in the match he was double
liking him out a balmlike he has in that able sitellement so ye you got up yet watch over sergeant double egipt you on you i asked quick he
and he went to sartain hardest omit so like you you just got taken down that's to points and now what are you going to do because you can't
sweep serge right can i mean pure am but tis hard if you only have a few minutes and it's hard to submit oh but you got back to fecisset
pagan out aye that's the rub a real bid ye gude are resting i that's the rub what's the rough oh how do you solve that problem he evaded er
russetly that's not it now with as iron wood le tyrold be fought deeming my year and dame i met damian is incredible to plane couldn't get
tired down to the map at every time he shot i would hit my son and because every time every time damn shot he would tire her to stuff the
shop and i hit my son in a back while you rest that's where you rustle boy fears you run a ye all to take people about it and they won't
you get her round if you have the juge while now you got problems fear his tie and did want to go to the ground a demon no because that
would have been very problematic for him we but turn would be he's a wrestler oh violet that you said that the difference between some one
who can rustle versus a restless as a was nae the ayes he starts only as an that's why i say that's not the problem to earth's why i say
that's not the solution if you've a rest or all these taking you down in the solution is to get better thing foundation because you will
want to get better at something that disposed probably getting better in this just chances are out saying it's a unslit you probably a
getting better be already so begot it so it's like the solution is that you chase something has twelve years ahead of you ye these eight
years i had of you interesting tell yes i thought the solution in annointing don't wrestle well i think i'll tell you what he is what i
think the lotion is off the top of my head you learn enough wrestling in then you figure how to incorporate a year jugeaient so that the
anisettes all time and and dean'll you the same thing dan will agin will hesitate to shoot on me because he knows their significant threats
there his you'll be on a good wrestler cause you in care what happens or knocking at there officah him testily i mean obviously gito
restore it can happen but and i feel the same way i'll shoot all shot all day on a on a good wrestler cause i don't care they're not going
to catch me anything in if they do of to be older to do the proper defence in escape it but then no like no letter real problem the thing
of any sheet on any or you know it's like and i could be problematic he not even just pay for he can loose red or you know yet any imitable
not whosever shoots lo whoever shoots losing his istemere both have good anti wrestling so yet that's it that's the potats the solution
there you have a figure out that the tower the crepinette wrestling right in with a atwater wake cause that's not just all you just do that
it that's none how it is it is but that's the direction that the silesians there's problems with that well there's no props that a one of
the easiest ways is to be very guess it is from is to be very non restive because if all your trying to do is avoid getting taken down you
already are or a lot harder to take down then if you like if i go in and start trying to take down a rustler they're goin to put me on
assegais i'm trying to take him in they know their counters i was better the time is avasathya the sarongs of amount but if i'm just trying
to avoid you it's the same thing with something that's really district of four just of your gold is that if you start striking with a
strike it is better than you and you are for more likely to get knocked out your more eden like to get hit because your playing there
that's a point your playing their game ye and you don't want to play their game now what socks about that any even happened the time would
be fight it was a boring fight because it was shot getting stuffed tend uploom striking shots getting stuffed stand up place striking shots
getting stuff that's what the fight was as a very boring fight because his goal to noctian down humanisers there stove had the capability
of doing it and that was that i'll tell you what it is what you do for for wrestling situation in one of the simple and not easy at all but
simple you find a way to get to the back from the butt oeta's great and ye you find a way so it monteithe met grattelard on lieto that i
because the end under lavalette me to them to their bad old get on their back sorrow for sure that on their back unused he told me this
when he was goin to light shall soon an m for minimus and ou'side he's a yet tingeret ing fighting restless whatever is like they can
provide like the aspetarre thing from vide these really hard situations for you in judiciairement reason for super hard part people to
fight but if you can figure it out you got to figure out ways where wrestling provides weaknesses in an inn inerudito erand then if you
watch the match sure enough like a human challie good at stuffing stuff in stuff in stuffing and then you could see ovawseeaw an then agen
her the beyond or i lieouchi ditit the same idea of do you know if he was going against god restore i'd say you sujetion to get skiddid you
too i tell you the rest in full he would have a tendency because of his personality to one to go against them in their strength to the tin
out restless ers to turn how idiotic it he would you that his natural tendency would be to go at people strings and i hate like i say no do
tegeatans the sky and then he do it get what we need to get all right back to the book when one is obliged to defend intrenchments one
should post all the batalions directly behind the parapet because if once the enemy sets foot upon that those in the rear will think of
nothing but to save themselves this is because of the consternation in man when something happens that they have not expected again
consternations of shocks he is again emphasizing the fact that when plarnt expecting something it is a this image down or for he measured
donare interrupts what's happening he analytick of con continuances that's what the biggest things were on a best things about thinking
about continuing is just that you're aware of it connoted you fall about it for half a second big to you that makes you so much better of
getting cacolet getting caroliney off guard i mean this happens in digitales thing that you get caught with is a thing that you didn't see
coming that's he that's the thing that catchy the thing of surprises you and your like that happened ye it surprise you gatst you get
callithea think of a lot where you don't in your anenous in any you think of latentis someone in here oh ye right now ceraunian necessarily
of how scary that would be necessarily but it's lick what this someone in here at least i'm ready for the fact that some one in irrigate my
eight year old daughter will try t scare me yea and she hide somewhere and if i don't expect it i get started get this at you you and then
and then when i do is i just you know you're talking about punishment to no one i know it is myself oh he's almeta's good i she shows she
scared me twice last year that that actually made me a little bit startled she cried ninety eight times at ninety six in the more
ineffective but away an i i i i punished myself a well a verbiesterte school and then but i really enjoy scaring people sure a lot i don't
know why i find it very entertaining in funny and satisfying so i do when i scare people is like makes them cry ye see that woleecha he
scared deathlike in a loud noise nor deeming the you know is a lot of times the low noises and the scary thing right to maestre ching at
the window as lacerations think your home alone do you think your dad all to ellmother's like scratching at the window i will be jonather
opening and you start calling out for your dad but he doesn't either and is more cratchett window in it all a sudden there's someone with
the mask on the condensation do that rather that's like that's a violation he can't do that all that i do do that yet i lysianassa that's
that back to the book eastwell when he catches up to her were talking about the shock that happens when people don't expect something
mactavish's a general rule in war and decide to all battles and all actions it comes from the human heart and is what induced me to compose
this work i do not believe that any one yet as attempted to find there find there the reasons for the poor success of armies thus when you
have stationed your troops behind a pair of put they hope by their fire to prevent the enemy from passing the ditch and mountain it if this
happens in spite the fire they give themselves up for lost lose their heads and fly to be much better to post a single rank there armed
with pikes whose business will be to push these same on batatas as they attempt to mount and certainly they will execute this duty because
it is what they expect and what they prepare for if with this you post infantry formed according to my method into centuries at a distance
of thirty paces from the intrenchment these troops will see that they are placed there to charge the enemy as fast as he enters and
attempts to form they will not be astonished to see the enemy enter because they expected and will charge vigorously instead if instead
they had been placed on the parapet they would have fled that is how a trifle changes everything in war and how human weaknesses cannot be
managed except by allowing for them that's that's every right there is in human weaknesses cannot be managed you have to allow for them
think about that ye that ye o have to do that all time as a leader you have to will you have to try and do it his leader could if you don't
try and manage these weaknesses on you you you don't allow for them then they're going to stagger you up as you would say ye so got
somebody with a big ego you you got to put you on to put them in the situation where that eagles goinfres and not be offended in and when
it does get offended he got to allow for that and how you're going to tap to it ye it's like expecting perfection you know you know like if
you expect perfection to fill your into below doliban eh is one saying silly if you allow for in her affection in a you can eat can just
manage better so there's two major point you know number one if you set people up so that what they awathy expect to happen happens they're
goin to have a better chance of achieving what it is you want them to jivch guys are in the parapet almost on they get run upon and their
surprised by it and their mission was defend a parapet will now there their getting over em was if you say no one they parianta en you
attack now they're day now the paretaceni surprised them they expected to happen and then when they they get the opportunity going to get
in there and get after it but man allowing to the man in managing human weakness on only way you can use bathing at least some measure of
it to good good lesson learned at something you can think about as you lead people you can think about a man this is a little weak monsieur
if i don't know how for that it will give that some whom and i count on you know a print friend for melanteron newest memories from
prochronic about a guy he was stationed on a ship before he got to the team and he was saying this guy had been late for work and but he
was trying to bring the guy long how on potential bumble anyways they go to actually do a a important training with their weapons on the
ship that they were on and the guide mist the ship leaving port and he says you know i should a fire to go before this and now about here i
don't have this primary guy and i let down me let domoship and everything like that but he did account for human weakness he he don't he
thought that he could bring this guy long but he just you know it's one of those things if you don't allow for that human weakness and
there you might be i might be getting left hind dry in which is not good at side made that thing on the echelon front we page which is
called the fotuna edwardine little i guess it could have ee referred to as a blow not only to walk on a bar to me see a very you know just
a resort with a malay year so this is this is so some little i guess he might want to come article yes and there's like let like let little
less seyeedele less yet it i ah i like to enjoy a mere point behold in hantshire son we called the potentates because that's where you sit
around and talk shop i grabut other things but when you get back from a training up a cause we are was easy you you stole up to open it's
not feeble to ages it is deep to not bunyan there are so many get back for operation you come in your deep refino get on with me ficial
deep re fitten you go to the potentialities and so i that's one of those he as a young a surface warfare officer in the navy didn't allow
for human weakness of this young sailor and i often go back to the book the greeks were very skilful in the art of war and well disciplined
but their large failings was never able to contend with the small bodies of romans dis disposed in this formation now he goes on to his gin
me polibius and the toes on to coat a huge chunk of tax from plenteous place was a greek historian and polybius actually talked about why
the roman armies could defeat the failings and pretty interesting so here's what he said it is easy to demonstrate by many reasons that
while the failings retained its proper form and full power of action no forces able to stand against it in front or in support of the
violent acts of will the failings in order you're not going to be old defeat it so the failing is a military formation and coca little bit
about what it's made up of her when the ranks are closed in order to engage each sholder as he stands with his arms occupies a space of
three feet the spears in their ancient form were seventeen cubits long acute about eighteen inches but for the sake of rendering them more
commodious and actions they have since been reduced to fourteen of these four cubits are contained between the part which the soldier
grasps in his hands and the lower end of the spear behind which serves as a counterpoise to the part that is extended before him and when
and the length of this last part from the body of the soldier when the spear is purports with both pans against the enemy is in consequence
ten cubic cubits from hence it follows that when the failings is closed in its proper form every soldier pressed within the necessary
distance with respect to the man that is before him and on his side the spires of the fifth rank are extended to the length of two cubits
and those of the second third and fourth to a still greater length beyond the formal strength it is manifest manifest then that several
spears differing each other in the length of two cubits are extended before every man in the foremost rank and when it is considered
likewise that the falange formed by sixteen in damp it will be easy to conceive what must be the weight and violence of the entire body and
how great the force of attack he got guise sixteen people deep sixteen people deep and have got these spears and they adjust the spears
depending on where you are naranco that the guide that's five ranks back steal has a little bit of his spear sticking out and by the way of
one of those guys goes down there's another fourteen people there ready to take his place so the falange locked together the shields
protecting the person to your left and it's like a poor you pine of death you want together ill and obviously the the greeks were hard corn
warriors and this is what they use in these crush people with this feeling cross them spears and shields that all you see now polibius told
about what the romans did and what their set up was back to book to each of the roman soldiers as he stands in arms as a lot of the same
space of three feet but as every soldier in time of action is constantly in motion being forced to shift his shield continuously so that he
may cover any part of his body against which a stroke is aimed and to vary the position of his sword so as to either portion or to make a
falling stroke there must be also a distance of three feet the least that can be allowed for performing these motions with advantage
between each soldier and the man that stands next to him both on his side and behind himself the romans are in the same similar position
but their loving individually inside these little positions so not working together their there more mobile it will be easy therefore to
conceive that while the failings retains its proper position and strength no troops as i have before observed cannister the attack of it in
front of her going to get failing to go loose for going front to what cause then is it described that the roman armies are victorious and
those defeated that in poe the failure to house at the the the romans rieto be the failing this is the cause in the times and places of
action are various and indefinite but there is only one time in place one fixed and determined manner of action that is suited to the
failing in the case of a general action if an enemy be forced to encounter with the failing in the very time and place which the latter
requires it is probable in the highest degree that the failings must obtain victory so if you fight the failings were the failings wants
you to fight it meaning on a big open area yearn to lose what if it is possible to avoid to engagement in such circumstances and it is
indeed easy to do it there is nothing to be dreaded from this order of battle and here's where i get to the knitter it is well known and an
acknowledged truth at the failings requires and ground that is plain and naked and free from obstacles of every kind such as trenches
breaks and brows of hills or the channels of rivers and that any of these are sufficient to impede it and to dissolve it the unto dissolve
the order in which it was formed if the enemy coming down down on it should lead their army through the country plundering the cities and
ravening the lands of what use then will be the falaoa estos get them in some rough to rain you get them on some rough rain and that
failing tatar to march already we know that but now we're marchant weird train and the gun finishes and falls won't eat what is he had hit
a rock and how that like this guy fall over sudden we got a big disaster on her hands and back to the book when the romans attacked the
failings in the front they never employ all their forces so as to make their line equal to that of the enemy but lead on only a part of
their troops and the rest they keep in reserve now whether the troops the failings break the line that is opposed to them or whether they
are broken themselves the formation peculiar to the failing is alike dissolved so even if they win that initial onslow even if the failings
wins that the failing is out of order if they pursue the fugitive or if on the other hand they retreat and our pursuit in either case they
are separated from the rest of their own body and thus there is left some space which the reserve of the roman army takes care to seize and
then charges the remaining part of the failing but the charges not made against the font but in the flank or the rear since it is easy then
to avoid the conditions that are favorable to the failings and since those on the contrary that are disadvantageous to it can never be
avoided it is certain that this difference alone must carry with it a decisive weight in time of action so let them get a little at the
structed once there disrupted flank em the troops of the failing lose all their strength with the engage in separate companies or man on
man the roman order on the contrary is never attended to even on such occasions with any disadvantage among the romans every single soldier
when he is once armed and ready for service is alike fitted and engaged fitted to engage in any time or place or in any appearance of the
enemy and preserves the always the same power and the same capacities whether in separate companies or man to man so the destructive
element and funny you don't go head on head with it we learn this is to over and over again you might want to distract it sure but that you
had him from the flank and don't face people an there best category right don't restrains the rest or don't you do thoinatai don't box
against the boxer don't go at them and don't do it where they want to do it and that's real important disrupting the failing that we talk
about attacking intrenchments which again these are defensive positions when an entrenchment is to be attacked and attempt should be made
to extend the line as much as possible make sense right understone i want to let make the person think the runaabout hole the whole line
that he's got this will make the enemy fearful everywhere so that he will not withdraw troops from any point to reinforce that which you
intend to attack even after a discovers it this makes many of the troopesses de day so what we did indeed you know they did those massive
the ception operations the breadth the americans had built those fat cakes and fake plans and pomate were in fable you see that stuff right
here as in that of holy the americans in the bread when we were trying to to confuse hitler about where we were going to attack the day
they made these men like face the airplanes and fake tanks and they put him in different locations that it indicated that we priya in this
spot instead of out spot in an in all works then in so he had to defend the whole line at actually defended those areas where they fought
the doctas coming more than they defended the aria or dedalus bull the ception operation back to the book too much attention cannot be paid
despise and guides they are like eyes and are equally necessary to a gen general he is a too much money cannot be spent to get good ones
these men should be chosen in the country where the war is being fought they should be intelligent cunning in discreet spice the commanding
general i have formed a picture of a commanding general which is not chimerical i have seen such men the first qualities the first of all
qualities is courage without this the others are of little value since they cannot be used the second is intelligence which must be strong
and fertile in expedients the third is health he should possess a talent for sudden and appropriate improvisation that's a good tenor
expectant a talent for sudden and appropriate improve in proposition of if it it made this grindoff his kind of going through the
characteristics that he believes a good commanding general should have he should be able to penetrate the minds of other men while
remaining in penetrable himself he should be endowed with a capacity of being prepared for everything with the active with activity
companied by judgment with the skill to make proper decision on all occasions and with exactness of discernment good lest he should have a
good disposition free from from a caprice and be a stranger to hatred and capricious catching your minute m he should punish without mercy
especially those orderest to him but never for anger because member lerance talking above be ye had a chill with it with the lanings but he
says you should punish without mercy especially those who are dearest to you and i think that goes with your saying about troops a you're
on a raft people your maseras e the rich people too and i think he said you got to treat people fairly right even when you even when i last
ye he should always be grieved when he is forced to execute the military rules and should have the example of manilius constantly before
his eyes and manly a sect actually manly as he was like a room in a hero during during the gale siege and he but beyond that he was sort of
like a callahan rights advocate but maybe that's too strong horribul anyway he ended up getting up cruciform from him from from a great
height and killed asiae but he sort o seen as a guide that stood up and talmont was in like an alamos and ariotide in texas when when they
when they stood and wore killed he was in one of those situations but he wasn't killed during that galicians back to bouisson discard the
idea that is he who punishes and should persuade himself and others that he only administers the military laws with these qualities he will
be loved he will be feared and without doubt obeyed the functions of a general are infinite he must know how to subsist his army and how to
husband it how to place it so that it will not be forced upon to fight except when he chose is how to form his troops in an infino
different infinity of different dispositions how to profit from that favourable moment which occurs in all battles and which decides their
success all these things are of immense importance and are as varied as the situations and dispositions which produce them in order to see
all these things the general chobei with nothing else the day of the battle the inspection of the train and the disposition of his troops
should be prompt like the flight of an eagle this done his orders should be short and simple as for instance the first line of attack the
first line borack and the second will be in support bontate it simple the generals under his command must be incompetent indeed if they do
not know how to execute this order and to perform the proper manoeuvres with their respective divisions thus the commander in chief will
not be forced to occupy himself with it nor be embarrassed with the details for if he tempts to be a battle sergeant and be everywhere
himself he will resemble the fly in the fable that thought he was driving the coat thus on the day of the battle i should want the general
to do nothing his observations will be better for it his judgment will be more sane and he will be in a better state to profit from the
situations in which the enemy finds himself during the engagement and when he sees an occasion he should unleashes energies hastened to the
critical point of top bed seized the first troops available advanced them rapidly and lead them in person these are the strokes that the
side battles a orendain victories the important thing is to see the opportunity and know how to use it so what he say there's got be
detached he sanyogata be detached and it you got to stay back to got to look around now he also says once you see the critical moment you
got to get up in there and make it happen but he say you definitely can't get laid down in the weeds you can't be deserted at the trying to
do everything that could bookman commanding generals only spend their time on the day of the battle and making their troops march in a
straight line in seeing that they keep their proper distances in answering questions which their aides de camp come to ask in sending them
hither and thither and in running about incessantly themselves in short the trito do everything and as a result due nothing so this is a
great this is just earlier ship position you try and do everything yourself you're not going to do anything at all then to save attesting
as prioritize come for trying saw all the problems that are happening at the same time you're not going is all any o those problems they
appeared to me like men with their heads turned who no longer see anything and who are only able to do what they have done all their lives
which is to conduct troops methodically under their orders out under the orders of a commander how does this happen it is because very few
men occupied themselves with the higher problems of war they pass their lives drilling troops and believe that this is the only branch of
the military act when they arrive at the command of armies they are totally ignorant and in default of knowing what should be done they do
what they know that is so classic it's so classic when people don't know that don't understand something they do what they know how to do
the dallas default into what they know how to do their minds are closed one of the branches of the art if war that is to say duralite
method of fighting is methodical the other is intellectual for the conduct of the latter it is essential that ordinay ordinary men should
not be jose the less man is born with a talent for war he will never be all though than a mediocre general is the same with all talents in
painting or music or in poetry that talent must be inherent or excellent all sublime arts are alike in this respect that is why we see so
few outstanding men in science centuries pass without producing one application rectifies ideas but this not furnish a soul for that is the
work of nature you know i just answered a question on t winter i think it was um and i basically said well you know you can't do whatever
you want just because you believe in it you have hard work and discipline but the that doesn't mean you can do whatever you want like a the
career something yeah lying in i was used the example like i couldn't be onely let's say the limit left her or the fact i don't know that
there's any olympic sport that i would be that i have the um genetic make up to be a title to be a to compete at the olympic level i course
we could go back and maybe that's possible from a child but i don't feel like it but even right now you know this if you take that to the
tree that means haythin i have the poissoniere dispoint he i can become an olympic wrestle now a jumper olympic high jumper right how that
bert look at so ease him saying now my opinion is he that is not true and some people are not going to achieve certain things that they may
want to achieve no matter how hard they want to do it and i you don't most people i gets realistic some people now you can go if you
believe that you can achieve it inside if i could believe it if i could achieve it because i believed it do i'd be like a loui'll just all
winning sir everything sir if not that easy yet you got to believe it you've got to work hard at eganism natural capabilities so wait is a
sorry let everyone down wolverine is one of the lines that you can to take with you said belief something of an is it simensa it i believe
is not gonna make any one happens to have the same time with help belief nothing so often totally true if ye so yeah you've got there
absolutely so yes belief by itself all make anything happen ye that you know some people sit round a alive i can do this yet i chief none
no no you are a gent got to do something yea and in the same token that is also correct it if you don't believe in what you do than the
others no way or going to create it you won't be able to go through it when it gets problematic which is certainly going to so sacks agrees
with me that day the work of nature the as to be in play i otherwise it's not happening you might get to some level but ye reality is the
par think the third one did mit de you don't seem if you one admit this on nor over there like you you you unto god the distance put it
this way i it seems really like that nature seems like you know you may be just didn't work hard enough even now you thought that you
worked at hardy possibly had and may be the fact it is is what it seems like but at the end of the day i do agree to set i i mean it's it's
way clearer with physical stuff the outfittin or way more you know obvious in esther's i don't know i well let's face it let's say playing
the tar cause i play taran also now in a play you claveles say lying a car even if you practise and you can mechanically guitar that
doesn't give you the natural the spark of creativity that is demanded if it did then every person that worked cardinal become a rock and
all star with great creative song but just doesn't happen ye there's hundreds of thousands justinae the hundreds of thousands of people at
play to add an incredibly capable proficiency fright he can play every song that you hear on the radio but you know what they do for a
living covernor some well they play conversings that also work in as a banker somewhere yes they didn't have whatever creative thing that
moon give them to be able to create something that was new and that people wanted rondelis en to it that that needs to come from somewhere
health yet in practice is a goin to get you there thereon people learn it in the schools some ellean on the streets but i think you kind of
got to be born with it man and illnatured honey you don't ye be and again kent let kenotic creativity and even then is like abbuto ye
really er i mean come very holbios and then where do you get it really you know it's he it's weary it's just i think that's really the
reason that it is true is because you can't put your finger on it you can't be like ye just work as hard as you possibly have sure the
hunniwell in pro or another class example is look at the people you know it if i go to an academic a high level after them a confinement
where every one is you know incredibly intelligent but not all the more able to do something that not all all the real will to succeed at
the level that there that there heritage would point towards ajust because you got a sixteen hundred on yer stas and you did this and you
went to this great college there's a lot of people that did all those things and there they're not what they will themselves would consider
successful if right and so the reality is there's something not there then like you said i don't know that you can actually put your finger
on ye because there's some other kid that didn't do any of that and made stuff happen in was extremely successes thousands and thousands of
examples like that too yes it elation when you compare it like the proper bell person with all the potential verses someone with not that
much potential and maybe the guy with the with lead less potential they'll be acceptance were that i made it and then they'll be obviously
like all these other scenarios with the god with the potential does does it measure it so i say all right you know to osborn when they
would it was him in kind of laying take it to a new level not just making it but actually being a that the highest level you for that
person you got to have the talent and you got to have the work he got to be gittin to be this yes yes shack and he says the same thing here
i have seen very good colonels become very bad generals i have known others who were great takers of villages excellent from nevers within
an army but who outside of that were not even able to lead a thousand men in war who lost their heads completely and i were unable to make
a thessian any decision so he sees the same fact and and you you know i see that with business leaders the business leader that you need to
be the at the beginning of your business is not the same business leave that you need to be once your business is more successful he got t
have the sum guys are good street fighting right in a fit is street fighting they are not good at planning a war playing a campaign and so
you might win as a company feared i be street fighting level and you do good you scrap it out then as you grow if you don't transition
mentally and become a different kind of leader not a different person but a different kind leader you may not build to win at the higher
levels so that needs to get he detention he back to the book one should once and for all the stabat blish a standard combat pursegur's
which the troops as well as the general leads them no i'm not the first person that tolabon standard operating procedure at all these are
general rules such as preserving proper distances on the march when charging to charge vigorously to fill up intervals in the first line
from the second no written instructions are required for this it is the a b c of the troops and nothing is simpler standed operating
pecudes he holes says that the general should preserve an unfettered mind and not occupy himself with trifles i am convinced that a skilful
general could make war all his life without being forced into one m that's the old the real martial aristos mask toight that artificing
without fight and as a year war can be made without leaving anything to chance and this has an this is the highest point of perfection and
skill as a general to he now arter things that are left to chance in war ye there's a lot of things that are left to chance in war but can
you mitigate a lot of those ye absolutely back to look the words of the proverb a bridge of gold should be made for the enemy is followed
religiously meaning i'm gonna give at the anyone to run my building a bridge goldite run on a you are run away that's great wars over this
is false on the contrary the pursuit should be pushed to the limit and the retreat which had appeared such a satisfactory solution will be
turned into a rout a detachment of ten thousand men can destroy an army of one hundred thousand in flights nothing inspire so much terror
or occasions so much damage for everything is lost thread let the enemy get away when they're running that's when you destroy them
completely this is not to say that it is necessary to give yourself up totally to the pursuit and fall the enemy with all your forces but
if the officers you have ordered in pursuit pridie upon the regularity of his formation and the precautions of his march there is no use
having sent him he must attack pushed and pursue without cease all maneuvers are good then it is only precautions that are worthless ah yes
and that right there kind of wraps up the high light of this book attack pushed pursue without ceasing and i believe that is also known as
getting after i i it is what's interesting as i think it's clear that as we continue to see these leaders to out history that were able to
lead through the horses of conditions there is obviously a lot of common principles of that they share into the questions of the wye we
keep reading them why do i keep trying to confirm the same things why am i always looking actually for counterpoint as well that offer some
kind of different solution like the one about sun suited no need to be early on the battle field of its cold out there and it's got a bear
down your troops don't be early but for my perspective the more different angles that you see these things this scene that the the the more
different ways that you learn the same lesson the more clear you understand if you learn it or walk from three different people or can i
give you something different in its a same thing we get something slightly different from all these strategic thinkers and we get better
understanding of it and there are differences in what people say and i think it's good to look at a way those differences manifest
themselves on the botfield and throughout history because maybe there's one lusetta little bit better then no one that i know right now so
for me i'm going to continually try to reinforce triandria tryings humble as saktawats continued learn and relearn and discard let doesn't
work and always try and get better in a thing that's all i've got for to night yes i guess it better be a thought this going to be a quick
apistei did love fright i guess we should move quickly now what do you think you really be enough as an almighty the let up so giving
better ye speaking again in heathen jocasse laments their jocosely as sleek you're going to get better and i theresa's crill suppeen good
one super and joint warfare and disciplined kisses three some hundred if anyone's wondering if you're watching the outoo ben your sang me
during two things i'll drinking two things one of them isn't a smart water bowl and it is i'm thinking disappointeth is in a poland spring
bottled i brought back from main to remind me of maine and andreina one chocolate be totototo pathway at rather a late north east was a
yeah ok then but you won't get you find one spring out here no no that's what not eat brightbacked to fill none the less so the super crail
guillois oil fat surly fact sully and then this jocko supercurio which is that the regular crillac silly no there's there's his people
ought there not to info'm not saying they show take royal i they should take her horiental i'm sayin right now i am saying if i will argue
all actually preduce guarantee pretty much another diffuser pose of the grantees of pretty much guarantee that if some of that taking creil
whether jocker not and they take cruel they'll be like dank i should have started taking his straw before it is like learning to use when
you start to just you come man i should just wish i started this when i was thirteen just like that and on a smaller level here on unjoint
maintenance love and joint warfare is what in towing is for me that's kind of its new right on in a like man i wish i had the wolfendon
where you are ye cause you can feel it's like you're getting mad maintenance well you should i came up with it earlier canon next time
that's what you're goin to do come up with it earlier that's what i think you should do penless they're for you joints as is to get in the
world working out he were making something were making a new promote sadder and it is it's going to be good you're going to like it it's
it's a it's a protein drink and it's going to be a is i've had we've done to sampling given the greens a week of the ingredients to the
supplement factory they mixed them and we've gone through to the tregothnan right the first iteration i was like oh my god this taste
gardales alan pure taste i asked the first one is like all this stisted really good like the kind where you think this is a whole new thing
you know what i mean i on new they like this is like an his dear if you as protein to taste i protein powder yea he has a cramp i and it
was one of the things we research to figure out how we could make it taste legit good where you want not your hold you knows a portion
dathe first sample menego which i was in manette stood there is need bryan and pete and we were standing that and we we all mix it up
hetherford in the three senecas served in it every one when we drank in her one in quiet for second in him i god will go and as it was
while this one was meant charlatan and it's just really good and obviously the protein is awesome do and we've got some other things in it
that are going to make it more complete but yeah and then i just got the sack but you know there's a couple of jestes that i wanted to make
to the taste just to purtests we just made those just wish i got the second iteration in it tassettes still i sent him back for one more
but hopefully don't let be one more in ratibor we can cart points on notice of for a while he takes a long time to get everything rolling
but ye anyways we have that in the future that interesting because not all if not into pointin you aren't i will that you will there is
this one i hear you and i to helene you we'll be as long as you made your protector like a desert as some one like you some one saying
they're not into this egotism one saying i'm not in the ice created won it they geselligen you kind of the test rainawari an said thet ol
good no less cruel joint warfare and discipline those are already on do work discipline taste good too yes that's another thing you don't
have to drink something that tastes like crab just cause it's awesome for you you can something that taste good in i'll tell you one thing
i've noticed and i don't know if this is on to what this means but when i think despotism i work out the morning as i say i i time i don't
do a pre work out thing so my fate right were i work out of the morning on an empty stomach he and there's his old rock climber and i can't
think of his name right now one of the famous old rob climbers and he would i read an article one time about him we was he would climb
while starving himself and wearing a weight belt he was harder fell leaflet from done that old van soever in her anyways the d if you have
some discipline and the drink then you will feel like so i got done work out maybe like let say you know i re say i usually have some not
around but to mix not just to kind of get my got little food i'll be doin haven some some you know a couple of handfuls of men not in and
having some disappoint and i feel so light super a good that it undesiring through day and so many were i'm getting out is this is it i've
been eating even oline because i'm eating like a being busy right now a ticket once a day i mean disappointed it drink it dispendarium
going once a day with him in with a a but solid meal and then he asks me in good scoop and asked good now works for you a lord can do for
cause i'll tell you why when i eat less i feel better ye that i went i heat less i feel better and so this is making me eat less now i'm
not sick and out believe me when i eat do i get it on not how i wrote when i e i get it on and but this is just yeah it's nice to be able
to get to feel energized and sharp mentally without getting crazy um the ink that cause you know that idea that what you eat less and you
feel better there and i found that to be the case and will this what i realize i found that to be the case only sometimes enough thinking
why is it like that sometimes if i'm doing something like you know and go to the master or something like that alleestrasse i i were done
something all day you don't and i wasn't eating the arenes but if you eat it's kind o like your body goes into this like kind of rest more
or sure are but if you eat a little bit or like just you know like insanity it ye o colic we cruising now yea yea all rest will you now
summoned your basically telling yourself you're going to a level seven echo crusian technically recover moat's really kind of leadenhall
what it felt like to yeah i found that that yes you are early have a much o stuff to do all all the hair yeut when i'm for sure when you
like when i'm doing a fast i want to be doing something ye ye sit around and think about fettered arable alike like wind charley plum was
talking about being at unheld in the neces thinking of they were just literally sitting around in enough for all time either wasn't he
anything to do yet and he had food is actually a little bit of a cure or relief from board you aesernian you're kiyoto you look at
verstoroi or not hungry your board yeah yeaaa that's ponycart i got my you know my dressing season so the the wake cut are on and the note
neither one of my kids there resting our or cutting a bunch o waight an it but it means that you don't uriens that there's times when you
don't eat for a day right day as all you get to see the effects of that and my daughters like a shell is she's a gasline stonie hangry or
nothing angry i wore my wife i said pay you need to watch howasicke you moore cotton weight with fighters there cutting much more severe
weight and they start getting a bad moods oh fighters in yea the organman moonicate and the angry ah but need one my kids are cutting that
much weight they're just kind of maintaining through the season delianoff we talk about a angry like that's a feral thing because tis what
it is you when you i mean biologically ically there hold your frontal cortex or pre frontal front of una whenever the front of your brain
the part that i were your side of that ernestine and empathy and like all these things get compromised one year wait win you're what hungry
i'll come on man live omologiai because it because i believe that if you if if he dined made all those things less effective than we would
be here as a species could every time we got hungry in the past we would have got all confused and frustrated minarette hunt but the bottom
ees the opposite i think is true back in the dirty if you when need it a hunt something down now had to be sharp so he didn't need it made
you sharper and more too that's how i feel jetanola know what i read and heard by a i'm not a ornate can go on the internet and find an
auto scientific articles to say the exact opposite just follow me so angry from when i read it i er er of correct begotten were hanger but
oh empathy and this is with like if you get hungry or um sleep deprived h whatever is yet just for you bring kind he doesn't shut down
completely it just boncelles yesterday i went to sleep i went to bed generait shirty at night haase i woke a bit like three fifty on
oscaloosa than that felt good yet i was by densest at all the night before so i was recovering her kneipit more back in the bank everyone
says you can't do that ye ever you can't catch up on sleep i just did he i don't know what i did i really like you and yet i ought upon
sleep i never let your fissure a significant linton so ye was a deal ah these three gotlanders as whatever the the oh so you know you'll
treat people were so emily um so ye angry the theater rotoma i read is is that now i emanates in yeaters does make you sharpen your sharper
you're not taking any crop from anybody so you're more aggressive towards him could you want to go on hunting kalsomine i do agree with you
meredithian haytians this put on less um yes it's a real thing apparently okay we not not on necessary that everyone's going to be have in
a certain way i'm just saying that's what happened turn only maybe maybe not on the less get discipline it'll cognitively enhance life your
prefrontal frontal court to forget would you in both of them both others frontal sang in your brain is shutting down bontate that
discipline the committeeman's an help it up a lot don't be angry even if your hungry guess where you can get these things at organman dot
com floscules off on there organ man also has geeze rash guards various clothing night homestall made in america but a good spot check it
out but on there logical stuff on their fearsome yet something also if you're in to work out equipment to populate your home jim good even
to my toy when a friend is coming into town and he's like galet's catch a work out we lost the good aim and catch work i work an at home to
do something else none the less it made me think of how good it is to have a home jim noteless if you have your home jim but a populated
even a little bit get your work of stuff from honest the threatening the coon you can do various interesting work up retains with the
equipment unlike jocko jock's work out their superpoised you do have kittlebasket yea and anything you are anotha no man that it arouses
the work out thing rabicano another catboat your good bed your good insolitum sure you get a very strong and i'm sure you know in case
everyone doesn't know the one in owning his mouth and i use that term like with i'm not just on it out there he ill really was running a
man you really pessyeh that you have a what how much is your heaviest kind but ninety ninety ninety pounds each fit for and my heaviest
cattle bell was eighty eight ounces this is no longer a problem now my heaviest cattle bells chloral cleavage is forty eight kilograms or
ordered six pounds humiliate as the beast and none the less minor from oniata cool ones and he can get other cool exercise stuff there so
go on it dot com flashed jocko jack on the stuff there you want to get something all so when you get your copy of reveries on the art of
war by marie de sac the good one i like those manual kind ones you know he let go yet by no if you think about it there's really see types
of port casts that are happening on is cueto is manuel strategies about a war three is human nature inside war as of those a kind of when
i'm reading a book or a oases kinelike one of us yea to this would be with napoleon's maxim yes something like that the art of war i son so
so we have done on it a number of books like that if and you know i get a little something different from each of them because if you think
about it he says that you have to pay attention to the human heart whareunto one about human heart he didn't say much about as much as you
said he need to know about her and say much about it where you goin t find it you know i find it by reading people that were actually in
war start to undersawyer they heard was in this hole gig yes yes it's ould thing too because there laid out in these theface you know like
a like sansonetto an above you know a certain time period a certain place and use of vietnam won and then a well recantation above these
principles at this time as is fitly were well it was interesting to do i drank and how more because it was his battle to potato his battle
and then his book that he wrote about leadership she cunning got to see may be out or none of there's anything new we seen some of that one
for instance you got napoleon's maxims right and then we got to hear from a napoleonic foot soldier you get pick kind to see see the war
what the war was like what the human heart was was going on with the hun heart and then what was going on in the mind of the stratus pison
ye from of that's ordered tea sir i think so just because you now in cool is the english language you can words ticket they come about yes
get formed yet that's the catchers what i am where there was no word and in that word is there yet wellintentioned which of the oxford
english dictionary it tells you where the word came from and then it has the first usages so there's no more this word is divert his word
was first in print in sixteen twenty two in this elevator this work of literature in the crazy to like words all go in these cycles where
they'll be used like like on right meuvent as again after the improper thing is not really a word level by ant was actually used by like
high upper class he perkin the day like all evil and like ain't an chantin all these like words like i shut in all this an eight was one of
the earthen of em and i i forget the deal but some one in the lower class started using it and there were like old there using it now or
something like that who went out and not psychotest a word it it is a word tingtang uage in general but definitely the english langue
studied english and college more and but the the class is that i took some of the class that is at work wood folks on that which was pretty
which is always very interesting to me very interesting to me and i think the reason it's interesting to me is because language is how we
communicate communication is how we lead so if you don't know what words you using or you can't find the right word to articulate what it
is returning to say ever harder time getting your message across when you have a hard time gidhour messire cross it's harder for you to
lead it yes poland then if you kind o look at the big picture of that it's kind of like you have been been you kind that you a way should
know slaying and stuff like that forefigure over your talking quite unquote all proper to people who aren't used to hear you hooper then a
plus a fat often about or whatever that is definitely true and it's not just about language there about colter as well and and you know one
of the cool thing is that when i grew up and i was kind of you know e getting into the hard alan the hard course in right it exposed me to
people and things that i wouldn't have seen if i were stayed in my small doing when down so when i got to the world yet meaning got out of
that small town in hours in the military i was able to understand better than i would have if i didn't ye athothis important yes this
helped for sure yet okay huss this word i regardless in her regard lesseillon right that's what they said so i had this bettison time was
like overtones ago i just bet it's coworker of mine and i for whatever i think my dad taught me loreless isnot a work you know and not
always like correcting you know i didn't prince in your mind like some one uses the word irregardless they should be corrected ellis kind o
imprinted in my momotombo it appeared a go charles graham or not yet half merited i will have a little bit is more just at one on but none
will less he ah no she was girl i said i regardless toward she was like yet is is like no irregardless is like a misuse misuse of a word in
your gates regardless orgasms of orators like an if it's so if it's a word if it's a misuse of a word is the word for the missus this
specific word and like it's not a worry to hell is that is me be a she is saying cassanian if you can say it and you can spell it and its
like if it's a little name for something it's a antenae of any exam for a misuse of a word is what that was her argument thou cannot
dotation win money no i did not win them my fatone not the weird we it never do resolved between inerrance we hated it i think we can hate
each other tewesdaye that neyon the last that was her stance my stand is you can't just invent a word you can't just use a word wrong
inventing other word because you're wrong and then be like oh now it's a word now i'm right all of us and you can't do this now woronski up
in the tictionary lehane me so i went i went or lifted up in the diction sueno the thing was there and it said the vemiculee orecome on
missus oferalet's some but i still confused like is that word and here's a think i talketon it yet bothered me a lot the soi tuckabachees
like brott's kind o how billington's riedesel misusing regarded a arrigation all of a sudden he gets shuffled retint the rotation as a
legenditis that a good thing or is that about day what is a beautiful fall it's beautiful overteeming is always a voltimand that's what
allows the language just like just like egitto like a mesmerical artie you want it to evolve you wanted to new words to come out beckoner
something a little bit better honeylike for instance irregardless articulate that yountville rayel yet but the but the aat some point a
hundred years a future irregardless will become a word that has a little bit of a different meaning than regardless like it may be is more
regard lie like her regardless of what you're saying and it will say first use in the you've tommy's got a ride an article in on mine or
anisette guys goin a miss use it but it everson understand it is a first used here ye there's all kinds of arguments you can have that
language but you have to remember that it's valving all the time ourlana were ovington it should in france they try not to let the language
of all ye the etrange that language since you sign or the lithe ultimate elassen like that would be a fether i think it's the same result
if you try and not old not evolve our marshal arts yet intelli you don't have olorosas nahassin thing is language ye ye become less
effective of communication wife the in a language as far as it goes the word literally now okay literally we know at lehigh hard part at
valeting this because literally means one thing very splicing there's no ambiguousness if they are started to be ambiguous you wouldn't say
literally gotford if lear eat just one anything that's what you that on that's the defining characteristic of the word literally but his a
thing now literally does it mean literally literally means just almost howat ogerus really strong that even almost laryat isreal strong so
if i was like men it this guy is joke was so funny i i was literally dying in i wasn't almost dying is not what it means it just means it
was superduper profaning the you know that's the mustang in semantha a hard one to accept like and all i think there's another word but in
america and california is a recent one so maybe the eighties every one in order to say said said like more all and go was like you got a
stop through ness and i was all norgood that not sister way glanedale that's cool amadigi so none the less there you want to buy this book
regardless uredales of the language in indo do that what i did with a man it heasy got a jack paestum on the top manoever page there is all
a books by episode this one is on there along with everything else just clicketten to good way to support and you get me take you down as i
you get your book and eight hours powering it takes to ship your house good way to support also if you do in other shopping if you going by
that long more and leaf blower that you've been meaning to buy and the race is well imformed juan you're in the wrong time one ever wrong
tamayori wait the rake delsbo to be spring so was it you undeterminable you get the rain out and a long blower yes i just that one of the
last things i i bought with the least flower really a makalanga none the less duct dot year round tentorium or just carry on chopping
whenever you want to do the contessa you do good with his part also so tried to the pot gas i don stitchley spot a fig where were resaoa
pat gastonward you enlisted in the pocket they have like new poncasars out too there they all have him though i and i do get so he well
whatever you ussolie said acreages obviously guess on the listening part but you do not so much wherever you to gentle subscribed to that
to that a good way to sport if you want because some people not into too wunnot i know but you have some grandemain on it you also waste a
bunch of time on it yeah ye's like just it's yet like the internet in general you know laterum your whole like persuade on the internet and
it can be very beneficial and seem time your whole pursuit in bein internet or you do and can be deterrent pursuit like a whatever your
tradado going on the internet well well basically make it out of selecitious trying to learn three d modeling goat you can win three de
modeling one hundred percent of the one unchemical learn to be a professional threety modeller on the internet at the same time you get
caught at watching some nonsense and not even take one step towards sleety modeling aunt at i'm saying dicotomy of the internet you to have
the same dichotomy but if you subscribe to it a jackal pocasset channel is not their economy there all good all good houseside because you
have video versions pagazis has exerts and in avery's other little videos will just sort o add i always say him and had but this time i
think i'm really as a different type of video you'll see it meiyers joculator if you did already know is called jack story doctored like an
that's a war ein get the shore they docks right right now victory maman fitness for of to be member of vivitur enemies you if you have the
shirt your kind of a member he at least in spirit and her of a emerine in that sort of way none the less it's on jocasta waking get any of
the shirts that we make and so also had his on there and rash guards and hats and patches let a good stuff and he had swimmin good off or
nothing to go by it something i'm not saying that i saying go there johnsonham took on stuff you want something yet something and that's a
good way to support also psychologic warfare if you know what that is i know you do but in the soonie of you not knowing what that is is is
what it is it's an album not a music album it's a spoken word album with tracks joco helping us through weak points of our day we points of
our campaign against weakness we points of our struggle struggle good strong struggle through gorcher struggle for good that's so you know
the day you ought to get a anneslie in or you want to cheat on the day you want to procession a skip the work out that's the man on the
fitcani one do i nor jon cause was one of the rematerialized like the other day a good one didn't skip it psychologic or for that's on i
turned it helps yet through it the some people that are not so it's jackonet and sack perwenting me sometimes they they're like way what is
it in her that of this syloson ouaouaoua for cast breathe will they only as like two minutes three for like two twenty five minutes left
and the saint pilferer is going also if you on jocularly just put it in that tale riginated it home not skirting it on amazon music he did
ercole play and other parasang or other imp three yes ah platforms providing platform heals if you're on amazon you can get something
called jock a white t if you don't for want to have your dead lift increased you amenmeses pounds then don't get jack away to you can get
the books the outdoors that we got on the poast which are all his son the website you can also get a couple of books that you might want to
check out one of his called way of the war your kid i actually wrote that book it teaches kids to make their lives better to get on the
path and were card there's not about coming out it's actually available in him without right now well you can't get it yet but you can pre
order it if you want us spread the word you pretty order that makes more people see it sat cool it's called way the warrior kid marks
mission in little follow up to way the warrior kid the affront lessons to be learned so you can check that if you want to check out an
actual warrior kid he can go and get some jocoso from young aide twelve years old no big deal you don't he's doing making soap hesiodus you
can get that at irish oaks ranch dot com lie i said a twelve year old kid making go milk so you don't why you i did it you can't sell go
milk in california near but you can't sell goat soap onotarse he wander makes a good one so you can check that out as well but this pony
call freedom the elean you'll about getting after it there's really nothing more to say if you i've got a lot of ratibor that book so i
appreciate it and at once should feel that you've gotten what you can out of it lonesome so they can get on the path to mabille their own
or gated for him whatever dear choice important portat everyone wants the audivero of that book the displenished field manual is not an
audible it's an i tunesassah ampitheatres and it also is an albatera i some people say with tracker mothership the new dishes out thank you
for helping us but the new toune disinter because we've got questions from this pot cast a new fort the latecomers for or question from the
parastat tremors combateth powder get up turn linen the wind for an sight leadership and struction and consulting you can bring our company
as lanfranco your organization we solve problems through edersheim simple as at you have a problem the way get a prompt ollistrum's it's me
it's late fabians japonette birk email in voelundr ham or you can go through the website aslant dark calm there's also a master leadership
seminar with the island front team were only doing to this year minchine get a bunch of questions that i get asked all the time emanating
to get rid of those questions right now we're only doing two musters this year we aren't going to new york city we aren't going a texas we
aren't going to forde aren't going to your home town i'm sorry we just can't we can't go to every town in america to do master we're only
doing two of them this year we're doing a one in washington d c so as it east coast on the west coast one is in washington d c it may
seventeenth and eighteenth were doing another one in san francisco october seventeenth and eighteenth so if you want to come to a master
you got a come to one of those two were not going to omaha we're not going to milwaukee i want to go there but unfortunately can't just get
to all those different places so apologize thus far there has been for muster that we've done over the past year now they all sold out
these two masters are going to sell out as well serving on a calm and you want to learn pragmatic leadership skills and strategies then you
can go to extreme oneship doc calm and you can register we will see there echo charles will also be there and until you get to the master
if you have questions for us or easers for us we looking for both were here and we are choosing a red actually on the interweb on twitter
integram and on to the mohalis at chotas and i am a joceliande thanks to those people out there that make this pot cast possible and by
that i mean first and foremost are military men and women who go into harm's way to protect our freedom and arway of life thanks to you and
also to the police at there holding the thin blue line thanks for protecting us here on the home front to the fire fighters paramedics and
other first responder thanks for being ready the comut and rescue us any time day or night and to every one else that is listening thank
you for listening thank you for sharing thank you for supporting the pot cast cos we appreciate repeat all that but more important we
appreciate going down this path with all of you so keep putting one foot in front of the other as you moved down this path keep making the
decisions though right decision even on the little things he attacking pushing pursuing with out sea and most of all keep getting after it
so until next time missus echo and jacko out
