this is jack pot casts number eleven with echo charles and me jackwell and additionally to day we have our first gas lace baton lay welcome
the show thank you glad to be with you now to begin this pot cast to day on a start at the end from his start of e end of my navy career
when i retired from the seal teams after twenty years and this is the speech that i gave on my last day of military service my last day in
the seal teams and about an hour before i walked back to the trade at belding king the last things out of my locker loaded on in my car i
drove away from the seal teams for last time with twenty years of memories and experiences and the best times of my life and the worst
times of my life all russian through my mind and this is the speech i gave that day during my last to point to a rack two thousand six on
the first things we did was a series of operations on the eastern side of her mode in order to execute these operations we took him a jury
of the seals to camp corregedor home with the first of the five or six band of brothers on the edge of the malatesti of marima of remote
camp corregidor was like for apocalyps they received the mortar fire are pg and small arms fire daily the barracks were an old partly blown
out building with sand bags in the windows dirt floors and nowhere conditioning there were no showers it was hard living as far as the
fighting charlie company from the first the five six who who we were set to work with and suffered almost forty casualties in the time they
had been in remote and had gone from a fighting force of a hundred forty the just over a hundred charlie company loved having sealed with
them after the first operation they conducted with seals the company commander told his battalion so he wanted seals with him on every
mission to help keep his men alive as we continued these initial operations in the melodist ric there were heavy fire fights many dead
enemy and multiple coalition casualties it was intense sustained combat many would have considered camp corregedor and eastern ready to be
hell on earth but i knew it was exactly where seals belonged we soon completed that first run of missions and had it back to our main camp
when we got there i told one telecom ders i wanted him to select dies to form a seven man squad to take back to camp corrector but he told
me he didn't want to just pick guise he thought that some guys might not want to go back to corregedor due to the hard living conditions
the tough fighting and the high rate of casualties that sounded reasonable to me so i must have the old troop in the planning space i
explained to them that we were sending a squad to corregidor permanently because the army is in a tough fight and suffering heavy
casualties and that as americans as service men and as frogman we cannot sit on the side lines as that happens if there is a fight we need
to be in it i rode on the dryers board camp corregedor fallen tears and i said to this pack of seals if you want to go over to corregidor
if you want to volunteer to be in the worst area with the worst living conditions with the hardest fighting and with the highest chances of
getting hurt or killed we go ahead and write your name upon that board and then i walked out of the room a short while later i came back in
and i looked at the list of the board it was filled in fact every single seal to a man had written his name on that board yes every man had
fallen to er to go forward into that raging storm and that is who we are that is what we joined this hilyer to do what no one else can do
in the worst areas in the worst conditions we crave the dirt and sweat and fire and blood let there be no doubt it is in our soul it is in
our nature sure heels can do any job well but it isn't a belly of the beast where we thrive i have seen with my own eyes the wholesale
slaughter that a curse when seals are unleashed on the enemy as we were meant to be and it is incredible thing it is also a thing of strict
impact areas like remade and sadder city which after years of complete enemy control become pacified soon after the sword of overwhelming
carnage is wielded by the frog men on the high ground this is who we are death dealers killers executioners and in being so saviours
defenders warriors now there are those that say we need to change evolve and mature they claim that the nature of warshing that it is more
complex and demands a more sensitive approach i say they are wrong war may more and appear different through the ages and when you live
through a war and you see it up close like we are now you may notice complexities that you didn't perceive about the wars you studied in
history class but i tell you there is nothing new the nature of war has never changed and never will change the nature of war is deaf to
kill the enemy before he kills you the rest is details now of course we can handle the details in fact feels can excel at all them
gathering intelligence assembling information forming alliances rebuilding communities training protecting treating seals can do anything
but these details can also be done by others you don't need to be a seal to conduct those activities i say since heels forward into the
filent fray since you were no one else can go to do what no one else can do since you define and butcher our enemies solimaes and leave
nothing behind the scorched earth and rubble buildings that is our nature as i look at the seal teams to day i say to you all yes
absolutely evolve get smarter better faster more creative londonite ate risk when you can figure out new ways to win i tackle enemy in new
ways using information and intelligence in full trakene and turned him against himself evil against evil adapt and overcome changing enemy
tactics by all means evolve and get better every day every chance you get but don't forget the nature of war and don't forget the nature of
seals we must train brutally and without mercy so we can fight the same way brutally and without mercy our job is to close with and
destroyed the enemy and we do it better than any one yes our current wars will some day end but war indoors before man was war waited for
him as long as man is warm will always be always and ardrahan will always need men to do what is in our nature killvany kill him as he
sleeps kill him as he plots killadis kill him as he fights that is our nature and that is our solemn duty light the fire take the torch
hold it high let it burn right let it supply the warm light of freedom and liberty for a countryman but also let the fire incinerator enemy
let the inferno consume everything he is everything he ever will be and everything he has ever held sacred as i walk away from the team to
day i assure you i will never forget i will never forget your service and sacrifice i will never forget you my fellow seals for getting me
here this day for leading me for following me and for watching my back i will never forget our fellow soldiers sailors and men and the
weeds that a fought and sacrificed so much i will never forget those big tough frog men and hard course yells that came before me
particularly the ones that raised me in the teams and taught me the true way of the frog man i finally i will never forget our fallen
brothers the many seals who have sacrificed their lives for our freedom especially markley might monster and riding job of seal ten three
passing a bruiser who lived and fought and died like warriors i am home to serve with you all and i will never forget thank you god bless
the teams and god bless the united states of america and then i walked away now i often talk about the marine corps and i talk about the
army soldiers and i talk about the immense respect and admiration that i and that we as seals have for them but if you haven't noticed i
don't usually talk about the yokes and the frog men that filled those ranks probably because i was raised not to talk about what we do but
let there be no doubt i hope the seal teams and the brotherhood of the teens sacred the seal teams is not just what i did it is who i am
and really at all comminated it reached his pet in the high light of my life which was being in command of cast unit for use in remote iraq
task you that bruiser was my vision of the teams he was everything i had always wanted to taste be bad as frogman tough mean funny
aggressive professional sees feels that take the fight to the enemy like our legendary four fathers and feet nam seal at the enemy feared
because we hunted them down and killed them cassuaris er was what i always wanted to setem to be but i was not tasking it bruiser yes i was
the commander but passing a bruiser was by no means me asking a bruges the man especially a corrup within the group that held the standard
and carried the fire there was those men that i have eternally indebted for forgiving me that gift for fulfilling the vision that i had men
like mark lee and might monster and rion job men like priscie and those of the ones that we talk about we talk about them only because they
are gone but there were many others in that corrup who go on silently unknown to the world most of whom are still in the fight and it was
those men of course those fallen warriors that made the old old to it sacrifice but also those unnamed men of task in a bruiser who held
the line and marched into the fray over and over again for me and for the teams and for the navy and for our great nation i owe them
everything and i have one of them here to night the name is lace babin an i'm gonna let him talk about where he comes from and how he ended
up in the teams but before i do that i want to tell you something about me after we got done with our work up and before we went on to
point before he went to remote i was talking away from eustace other potowome der together that dealt a potuan dering lad was the charley
potenciana her and i said to them both how many gits you guys more combat than you can take in going to break you and i was half joking but
at the same time i had actually already seen men break during a fairly simple deployment to iraq but i knew i would push these guys harder
and through timing a fate and force of will the battle field of remote gave me the opportunity to make that happen to push them and try and
give them more combat than they could take but they took it and they took it far beyond what i ever could have asked for these two officers
the pain commanders and with them that core group of frogmen of warriors in asterie they never wavered they never cowered they never
faltered in the face of bombs and bullets and fire and death they held true and i will never forget that and so here is one of those men
one that corrup of harden warriors from cask in a bruiser that held a line my friend my tea made an my brother lay batter jackadandy the
bear ye so it's interesting because i i said i mean no as i go back and listen to patasan and here what i talk about and and how much a
respect and admiration that i re stock about furrin corn for the army and i and i seldom talk about the boys and ah as i was getting ready
to have you on as the first guest which is very propriate i wanted to make sure you know that everybody understood where i was coming from
and i think people were really excited a year going to be on um avenoo he read the book that that you and i wrote together stream on a ship
and being entreated about that and having had me on the potassia about my life be people are you know interested her in a little bit about
your life and that's kind of one of the first questions that came across as soon as i told every one that the oreode on the pot cast and
that was a you know what was there is question first question the day let's break it down what was the motivation behind the lace becoming
a seal and if he can give a brief resume of his career in the force breakout your resume i don't never remember what to do anything else
and ah the seaford you say you know that you that you wanted to go be a command deleecious remember the wanting to do anything and i think
i was exactly the same way it was i i felt going up i grew up in the piney woods of south east taxes and in a rural small town and now i
were where high school football is everything it is a few thousand people to town he get it least that or more into bed tether the games
are a frightening every every every friday um and i ran round the woods i pleaded army and i wanted to be a combated what i want to do and
i played him sandbox my geigers my little classic army men and that's just kondawataweny to do and then when i was when i was probably in a
bobbing about junior high school and i escuage your but the green brass i had a cousin that was a green bareilly decorated the silver star
simiarum from the etnam ah he was a canoemen or my dad going up and and i saw our little about oh about some of those tory of the snake
eaters a started retablissement about the sealinata i remember the stickle little movie coming out in i think it was nineteen ninety
finmole called may see ostrichers she all the belt winning you know to actually join the teams in station money mentorship right now low
down for you nestled what have been what ofendet er for him now no doubt ah but to that that really was something to kind of a propelled
merlet's this what is it oroetes cortereal ing about it sarteano arenak about seals and be at nam and a decided that god that's what i want
of you i want to be a seal so i went to the naval canarese that dream and i ah i i i knew that's what i wanted to do i i turned down the
point wettest pig because i want to go nevolent be see you and lo behold as i graduated from the ablaham up with a surface lectioneer a
graduation i did not get slocombslade not was crushing it was a soul crushing of them for me to think that a i was going to go out in a
surface i was a goin to be a sea of sontag be on a ship a tea service for for all sir and i and yet it took me three years acute to pursue
that i hadn't had persevered to allow of challenges and ah through a lot of luck in that a lot of hard work the doors were open for me too
to be able to go a dotage ability go and i had some outstanding men toward it look out for me and open the doors for minto make that happen
i and i was able to go and i go to bud's or our seal training i i when i was there i think looking back on those that time in the in the in
the surface leap was was also for me because i ah it allowed me to gain of mine responsibility in maturity i probably wouldn't have gotten
otherwise and in incondite peace time no pre nine eleven no sites as cissie took a matter would not opportune for lorship and and so i was
thrust in a lorship positions in the service flannigan had also gained a measure of just appreciation for where i was and whenever wine was
in on other folks were were a wider bouterlin was i was lisette and fired up to be there i just fly opportunity that and so for me ah then
i went and served it and in a selassie asia a sinsible to commander and certainly the holliton my of my time the team was working at setian
ah you know i felt like that's where he had i not had that experience um which i almost didn't get by the way i'm in that was i wanted to
stay in always i was at selifan on to stay at some empire with a guide that i loved and entrained with and uh i might command alsamit no
your senior in a rotate you this filtered and the poor six months ahead i was furious about that that i was get out was going over there a
long behold i get over and get to work for jocando and not with an amazing crew guys from charlton that was a a an nijut wouldn't have been
the same with wind i still will the boys from the five of course but oh but it was a it was just a phenomene allowed that in thought me to
be the combat rounded to be through a through a work up cycle preparing me and then unleash me and chart with one on the battle field to
get after been away that was for nominal were we able to have a historic deportment that made it impact and save a lot of lives in the
tremendous damage the enemy and we came back from that from lesson florence provided toneless on iranian taught see leaders for the next
generation uh and uh that that to me was such a incredibly warding experience that a somentathe built our company now along front a what
were doing a nidea that that become the book extreme eldership where when i was teaching that leadership training and you were run training
for the for the west coast teams providing those lessons learned a t to teach guys to be ready for those most difficult combats situations
and and i was proud to have to train trying those guys and and i see the natation of sealers go out on a battle field and accomplished
extraordinary stuff and in and reproved the principles that we learned and a revalidated them in different environments and now that was
incredibly wording for me and i think really shaped to when i decided to get out in a few years ago after you retired at a real shape what
we've what this is become and is still rewarding to to work with leaders in all aspects of business is a cross and distress see see them
see the light welcome off in their head and who watched them just go get after it and lead and win a back when um he said that you weren't
selected to be a seal what would as i mean like you have to be selected on a like you i can't just how on to be a seal let me join buds
when we get through that i become a seal i has that will get you have to get a billet to go because dilletante means that you you out a lot
you got a slot here's an opportunity and you know for us like come out of the alcan we had to sixteen sibilets so sixteen people got to go
in a prioress i see of my class a only fifteen guys are getting to go probably had two hundred people that wanted to go you see and you go
through a screen process and after that you may be have sixty or eighty people that are eligible to go and i know he fifteen of those real
gets elected i was not one of those fifty a soul that so thetis far as the process goes then you can't just be some dude like the screening
process o your saying a thakoor missing is that there's there's two basically to parts of the military there's officers he and there is in
listed guise and the officers the base curate menacers you have to have a college degree if you have a college degree than you can come an
officer is and if you don't have a college degree in your unless a guy i inlisted in in his navy out of high school didn't have a degree
and therefore i had to therefore it was pretty easy to get to go to seal training because they they take beemer enlistees than they need
off cermans you it's pretty easy to get what they talk about a billet as an enlisted guages they just want to have that they need you the
officers there's all kinds of officers that want to be sea officers so they have hundreds and hundreds if not probably thousands of people
that apply to the sea officers men they oh no they take a very small number of men thirty or forty a year tops speak and within listed the
probably out of a thousand a year that get that the chill up and go through and so that was the challenging part in and for me i actually
didn't become an officer dasar eady in the seldens for eight years and then at been once i once i did that it was it was hard for grimani
got picked up for his well ah but it the common red out of the naval cadmus very very hard to get one of those billets but like lay sad and
actually his sister potone commander that that was a in tasting bruiser was the same way didn't get picked up had to go to the surface
fleet and and drive a ship for a while and then showed up at the siltonian was we asking we actually went through what the boss agetherin
busiest honaunan i actually liked it because you guys know how to do some of the administrative stuff that a most seal officers did not
horotorio oeassa silases you see um to if you're an officer it's harder um what and they choose just a few days right so the if you're an
officer a mushiness harbor but there's there's a lass billoo's explain goatsfoot that based on you know thee there's left like a head i
manchoos but not use that based on the screening process or a orational so you got the different commission shores that got it a short
number of billets side so and then you ah it is um it's not luck i paced on your record on its nest on your graves at its school men yet
they have a high cease i did not as eradiated once you just rub salt in loathesomest and you know when on the kind of tingeth thing it in
you the aspirant scores as well so i cupica transfuse you go through the isosceles and so a man i'm going up against gusterson's halcros
country brodersen a you'll folks like that who were a crushing me on the dust ah you know it and and putting up luderus numbers whereas it
out so i could pass the test to go but if you got a good way on above him beyond that to even be competitive romanior a you know where it
was difficult the other issue i had was that dum i had a bit of a conduct record as well i got over the trouble i am restriction and ah i
marked a lot to worse and i had a lot of demerits and ah i when i had some upper classman who told me to do someboddie to a couple of times
i i told them what i footing on it now and let it work out to good for me god alterthumer all part of the learner ence one so it now
another thing that obviously came up when you know it's been coming up actually comes up on time and you know being in taste a bruiser
people for that name they fortitudo obviously around coursegol and i've been asked since the pot gas started you know can you talk about
chris kyle and the old time i i knew you were going to be coming on at some point and i've been waiting to talk about chris until you were
here and you all people say did you work with chris did you know chris and the answer is yes we absolutely worked with grass and what i
take just an opportunity to talk about christ and one of the things that i would like to try and do it is talk about christ the christ that
we new right the christ that the christ that lay for i knew the christ that the guys that are actually served with christ new who is a
little bit different than the crisaean portrayed in the movies for sir a i behavet about that and it's funny cause people were not people
to tell christadora you know it and i i he he really is the latin which i think a lot of people don't realize was a name that was given to
him a itheas is nickname was the legend it was given to him it is the puttiest loteform we worked together and i remember i met christ that
time because i was with filthy five and i deplored at the same time under the gist of salty in three and so we were there and i remember
meeting him in the tale just come back from found doing some great noverworked there and and a work on with much aramis shall friends and
and i and so his button was in the pacific tier of the time and he got a chance to test to go forward and be one of the few guys ah from
the guys are going to pacific at elected to go to to iraq and actually be in tough in the fight and so guides were passed they were bears
that they were sitting there in the pacific theater train in youah some some local mashona forces out a shot in a round on paper and
christison guys than i racketted they made the thing name the legionnaire wassenaer much just now and so it s it's fontanas he you know as
you continue to go on and do these great things and now it is this is a credible artemise really is the legend at an end it's really so
when i hear of stories or swatches or torpeo talk about it away it's it is it's not the crisaean it's the diffunditur human it is like a
comic book he rondalet the reality is i think ah youn have a word to really close with cresines oreville and point men dissipee understand
that in and in a chanoines the boteman richard of within which meant that on every patrol that we went on he was walking about eight or ten
feet in front of me and ah and and that we we talked all the time we are we are out in it in and working about where we are going in work
in the ether and in what are we weren't to take down what bills who were i to utilize a and he was he was a god that really drove lot of up
a lot of her operations in and has i knew chris well he was he was one of the ah the tree ah gissith we had three guys at were on their
third petunia we called them the triumph ran and these two other gods still active duty i can't name the their outstanding guys but these
guys have been together for three putton three rotations ah three through the pose the middle east and i to iraq and i and so we call him
the triumpher you know which is the trial for so is to term from from the roman air where you had a group of three people who share
position power to thirty and these gas really drove ah they really they brought up the new guise they trained new guise and ah and and gone
are potuere they need to be here come the heart sold of the tomb and crisp was yowth real crusatte knew and worked with ah was a hilarious
number one and into that doesn't come across what he wenhof people that he was a guy was just funny as hell always good crack a joke ah
what i'm times when he shouldn't have been gradasso time have shouldn't have dragged the joyeuse but he was a gay to do you know i think it
almost does him a disturber to paint him in a way that was this superhuman because the reason he was so successful what he thought he did
as that he he worked really hard at that and was very focused on it a too wily prefecturas and and you're not only that he he delved into
the the planets weep sit over a map and talk about where he wanted to go look at different buildings and said and then we go oon a
reconnoisance but toll which a we have run up through a approval to the chanconnetes types abolera ns but jocko's our casanave a arconte
but oles and an enigma ing that i could have proved them so they really have to go up that that that chandana's pretty easy to get them
approved for people that i listen in the then quite catch that year to yet so we say jackalent do this and he led great we do we go out and
we patrol through some really bad areas and we'd hit like a dove in different buildings go and build eyer check out observation points
there see what kind of a road we could see acestes figure out what gave us the best advantage and then christhood where he wanted to be and
ah and eat put himself in a position and so he gets a looking down this window on looking through this loophole and he and the roof wall
and a and you know he he's so he set himself up to excess which is also to this or it made so listen if i if the angle that he would pick
from a building would be looking down the long axis of the road where he could see for five hundred meters worth of possible enemy targets
whereas another angle looking down a short arad may be only eat eighty metres and a much smaller area to cover whose pick these areas that
he thought would be the most prevalent most not highest number of targets foible of course and imitate was a obviat was the how we made the
dat's how he made the ahahaha we were so successful an ask how we reality to prevent a tax on it before and her on on no enemy attacked on
friendly forces rather and a atoot only that we went only go into these these positions you know chris would be ah he knew after the sun
came up for callapee goes down and the canory dawn predators and then the sun comes up in the city comes alive and it be fighters or moving
round and oune be alma on the wet and we knew that was looking down his fivescore ah when he knew it was a it it was that was the highest
in the early morning to you know is a morning comes around the other eight or ten o'clock a hour that a tweeeee going to get contacted and
it beleather noon was kind of the same thing he beyond as his gun and of course he he had to rotate out at some point you get so you it's
only humanly possible to stay under going for so long but ah when he was on as young um he looked down the scope of sepandant he was very
disconto that and i remember her in some other guys being a man you know i only have a i'll have any tent kills and christiology five now
you know it so so you know so it's some point through into our deportment ah before it was completed and in other ralieuse some of those
guys were in we have seven other side or able to and they did a lot of great work and they did they they had some impact and certainly did
the great stuff but a couple of those guys had seen that didn't have the same dicentra they would they had looked on their weapons thirty
forty five minutes into it there not as you know they're not seeing ything as have finished a next tino there konovalov sation their body
next to me that senator sitting back from their their rifle exigente re just kinda look in through bios and our member watching cries and
just these just look in through a cove for two straight hours and without coming off of it it was you know that was a that enabled him to
be successful and ah that discipline really paid off and certainly certainly he was able to rack up the the damage to a in refiners no
doubt about it i know whenever i brulot to visit you guys imiter watched position she every one and i will always notice christmas beyond
gun by a never saw him not on his gun of course obviously like you said yes human inedited but i iii noticed that even on the poimenos oh
crisis ones gone and sat for when you willed in the cupola and he was a crashed out freeing threatneth was actual kind of a funny of us
said were a we went on on boats and we snuck into ah we snuck dead the son christ rode about an american cypher um we ah we we went out on
the marine corps boat unit there was there was great group a guise duralim guy and now they they took it very quietly down at the river a
canal the kind of comes off the river we are able to to longish affondatore bank very gladly foot petronita the city and i get in a narrow
that to other people couldn't get into a super dangerous baggies had no idea where there and oh we are litakoo smoke gaiata in and then and
then moving a take down the buildings ah that were gonna be this common outbursts the army a the eyefull ing this giant mind clear in
element coming down the rose dignity jocko's riding in and a bradleigh ing vehicle a braving the a the similar was dangerous wilson the
world a time in coming in with the a the army battalion a staff there and as our commandin control and so we were already at we'd been
there for i don't know three or four hours at that point may be may be longer and so we higogue and and were you know we're a couple of
every fires and and do we still have got on security position certainly and guys on guns but at that point it was the i declaring was like
right underneath as i embracing looking over the side of the building and seeing this giant buffaloes huge a truck armored vehicle with a
arm on it digging out the street and now i know you were in a herculean coming in just behind that a few few of you goes up the road that
you were maybe a few blocks away that point i'm looking down in like a that's like thirty feet below me like directly valoir ght now so if
this thing active its of i d exploded undedicated probably on again now not looking at them what they're doing so we were just kind of
hackedout and when joompin there was an it was fun because the the ah the inarticulately army of operations off through for the medals a
great gun and matin was almost in the taskosen on one to tankers great gods we love them they came in and and now i remember you
comfertabler and he comes up there and he's expecting despising weapons everywhere at all seals on their guns and and a man looking over as
the major standing there an kinda look at round and there's a couple of guys on liner guns and and there's some guys on machine guns to be
watutu was denny security was sat of course but a lookin over and crisined panovie and just hammered down these like shefford in one
aristaenetus crossed his like like he had like three or four empty containers of like a chaff boy argueellos like a orfanotrofio all over
his uniform he just like totally raced out like so completely have florisels snoring and down the major's lolita is this man who notation
of us we would get to the preparation for those big operations you would be working so much doing the preparation the coordination and
planning that you will even stop for a day and alertness and he finally getting the field you're tired exactly an when we had to sleep and
at that's gone we have this lee when we knew we'd kill some badgy's we were going to get a tack or we sweetheartless like it to get a tack
in the next few hours what was still dark we had to get sleep then and so there was a real reason for that because once the sun came up we
are going to get hammerstone all had to be away we aldo bearer to go so we had to get that dacintly fully could and that was you know a one
that particular operation i remember in particular chris he was he just kind of had a good sense about these we were arguing over a bill
out stand on the roof of a acates a building as a big building to the south there would give us a good danahon with moved down what i think
about that building over there in talking over with him and without the two chief tony and crestas at yinkow like this bill into the east
let on like the force story yet he is bought for story and ah the automata in aulis pretty good is like i i think is done the essays were
wont to go and oh we talked about it for a bit and i said karageorges we moved we moved about three hundred fifty yards on the street or to
the itfor story apartment building and it was he it was absolutely the right color atevedo done that we would have a cat was i think we had
for we have like twenty two enemy confirmed till from that over there or orioles fartical dozen ah you know probation was an it was a great
advantage point and we were looking right down a long acceso that was able prevent a whole bunch of attacks on ah the us soldiers that were
building a combat out o and it was and they were under fire the whole time it as soon as the sun came up on her ear sit in the camp of
those mourners came in and ah you know and then labordette morris explode in the camp and we you know all it eases just say oh mortars but
the reality was a gigantic explosion goes off and we were three hundred fifty yards away fragg was raining down fragmentation from that
exposure was raining down on us with three hundred of the ardsley so it was the massive hundertone millimeter orders coming in and you know
an forcing killed a soldier wacomish her smith and i and that very uninitiate half an hour of that christ motto guise a atoner that were
lonnon the back metropolitan when when that that too chris was and that's that's the obacoat he had a good sense about what would where to
go and what to do and he was excellent at it and he was just it was just awesome a work with a view so much fond of to be around and do
always quick with a joke and a and that that's the real christ got with him on osnotsa go back to the the fact that he the after they oi
was on i was in the comanos we take these mortars soldier get gollmer there and another soldier got wanted i think in a rachet one as well
and it's it's a nightmare right these gaeble now sits is a nightmare and the saying and we talked about this on the last pot cast of how
helpless you feel against mortars it's the worst in talking about because they came from me i could come from three four or heliolaters
away and you gene sledge talks about and we talked about orwarold how bad it is and so you have this combat out posed and all the guys
ranger there there now or fieri your scared when is this next ran the bomb gun a just blow up we cannot be safe if you can imagine the when
i got word from you a christ's killed you guys in the mortar to and i went to you know the company commander he vedantan e was down there
as well and said hey sir one or sabriski but a jogues with the motor to loaded into a truck i eat you couldn't do anything in the world
better for them at that time nothing better in the world than walk into those guys and say hey you just lost a soldier you more we got him
and that was one of those things that just help build a relationship with the conventional units so much and you know what we needed
evelation ship because you could siderate stories all day long about what they did and return for us which was also just incredible brave
and that very same day we were calling to our effort on now you were you were trying to move vehicles out away so we you get the tanks out
there to orgies that were pinned down and needed help and those tankers came out every time the soldier from ramazini you know and be on a
riscal got love to guy's hot like how far away is that typically or is there even the tionontati that's your doing people talk about these
sniper elements we first of all it asks onderstand that it's in romorentin were made in two thousand six this was this was like stalingrad
name was just rumble pauldings just it we we had is was alkina battle space some item precursor to ice and the same people in the
thereserls thousand of these guys that controlled the city and ah it was it was just a nasty place so we didn't go out in his little two
and four men teams it was we were going in with fifteen twenty twenty five thirty guys i some times we have natatory gayer plus though with
army marines that when it with us and we always had a race solders but we didn't count them as part of our run as part of our latest guys
goin to help bailout if he in exultance had to have a big enough element that can give prevents from being overrun and younkers hear to day
then he tell you a man is you know the the one reason he was able to do what he would he told was because there was a huge team of god
support in this line the guy's carrying the machine johnsen that were helping beaten back attacks a and guess what when you are attacked by
machine guns and and and rockets from orbs and and you've got a dozen in my fire maneuvering on you you're not breaking contact with the
bolt action stapleton to have those machine gunners that are going to beat back was the tacon that's what those guys is too you know
without a without that whole team and we we we were caring our own shoulder fierucola alice would it was always a guy that would carry them
carry that big heavy a eighty four millemetres rifle of her shoulders big pasupati and and oh heavy round for that it was it was we had to
have that kind of far power with the so now was critical for all that we did but most of the shots were pretty close a man you're talking
ermantine's you know there wouldn't a lot o real long range shooting there once while they i think i think chrisanthine couple guys from
fifteen hundred yards or so out of rule that ah i went on that particular operation but ah but there was a but most of the stuff in the
urban oarmen of down town a man we we hit guise from his clothes as i remember a couple couple times were one hour particular me and
marklein a room and the we look over and there's some gisele there's little some more such an enemy fighters with machine guns looking
around the corner and their like they're like twenty five yards from the like you know have thirty yards roland there they're looking down
the south they knew we were in their somewhere but they got the building rang real uh so you're you're talking of thirty yard shot there um
with it that's where gods coming up in one christ ditched his right as is a siberia grave is in foreshow as gaston the window um and then
you know some of those shots are making a lot of i think the average was out save probably anywhere from one hundred to three hundred three
hundred mirontaine that brother and that the call that pretty close like finis princeton for leisure for sure these guinean ish make you
know thousand two thousand yard shot and i so it's it's just a very different type of garment urban combat is its personal you can hear
this guy a yell in that you you can hear em yell and then noddy regular were yelling back at them so now there there is a lot of profanity
goatcart and and but it's you know some of the stuff was angry narach duty than if i caletor though he could he move moons with thee that
skill at that was like a theatre riders at we ah so they called themselves to moosehide which all gods on estatoe engaged in god that's
their name for themselves and so we hear wetamoe an we actually got told that we weren't supposed to call the moon gets interesting i
learned a real name shorten it and it becomes trotter yea it will be interesting thing was we were told that it was derogatory and
inappropriate to say move and that it was disrespectful to the local populace and when we talk to the local populace you know at the local
populous called the moose motha's they gave them it was funny that the cultural experts telling us we were actually set we talking to local
said understanding what was happening or in anybody else at that particular time yet maybe it was like offensive to them though you know
the actual mode of there were fended we weren't to insure about offending emanation um you shoot them but the most to mother genteeler
warriors you just don't get it hersaet was it was local people were praying for us to go gilbertian guy and unfree dem from this evil
terrorist aorist on that is imposing this errific ah just brutalitarian them and still no one exasperating his eyes to in to day and we saw
it over an over again the city where you you know you go into a house and there's a family there and they're trying just not the kick
killed across her and no and they want your health and they're happier there you know oh you mentioned mark and mark was in the movie mark
e he was in the movie american snipers well and again that there's something that comes across in the public image or of the image that
gets created through all wood and through books and through media and whatever else and eight a really in the move american ciprey really
missed the mark with mark a man they really they really missed the mark no doubt made amenaide weak looking guy that didn't believe anybody
was doing which was obviously good be further from the truth well to that point we get as old time like we know tell us about american
sniper was that accurate in youni think i think it important to say that a first of all i'm i'm very glad that chrisor you there and i
think that to get people recognized what christ did and and you know the impact that he had and the fact that a his his story is
representative of so many hundreds of thousands of us soldiers and marines sailors that the araminta of deployed multiple times what their
families go through and i think that's a great thing ah but it's it is a hollywood movie the anian so you know the the ah the scenes at
iraq were not reflection of the reality that we knew em and imparticularity picton of mark that's what disturbed those of us that serve
closely with chrissanthymums disturbed by that and it was just a way that mark was portrayed you know hollywood as they ate the aracari
they've got to the gothamite that does it like the aracaris they they try they they protrayed mark in a way that you know he made some
desperate got it they got him stand a member exactly what read what he says but he says some lines about he done believe in what he's doing
it that is just under and complete course yet i mean there's no ah markell did not mission i mane was he was an extraordinary warrior and
ah you know other when other people were out to kill mad gisarines much operations to me marked truly believe we were there a hole eraeo le
when need to free these people from this roarin of terror and i think he had a he had struck the ingin side it i'm not even sure i had a
man a red back like marks last letter home and he talked about being involved in a great conflict re great struggle now he had lagged a one
gondoled at any in it i think that was very reflective of that this is this does seem that you know the enemy that were fighting here this
this type of the hardy of the giantism with this the strain of this lane exports onicrom the world and and once a go out in terris a rude
less people at the this is a great struggle there is going to be a generational struggle this is going to go on for a long time it
certainly transient iraq and i think he had he really seemed to sense that in a way that was suppertime in the movie house that they make
him out to be this sad guy that's all serious and again they completely miss the mark just like the they portray chris to be this altar
serious guy mark was hilarious grig arius another guide that was joking all the time mostly at inappropriate times and had that a ethelwold
just he would light up a room when he come in to a room because he was just on fire and to to portray him as this guide that's all thou in
the dome sandiness it was just it was horrible to see that i was it was just so obsede of the real work of in this the brooding guy and i
and they had a as this kinalden neck canonnade co patent ah couldn't fight his way on a epistolary in the mark was a bad as ayisha massed
arms he carried his is big heavy more portyghee gun that weighs at twenty five twenty seven pounds fully loaded with all the gaditanian
would no sling he carried his shodeke it was a little in forrie ah you know that was seven bouts and the art you know it all is it's
gattrie was a ah just an awesome morior and and yet that side of him that was just hilarious it was in so many stories of him cracking
jokes and just keeping everybody laughing at and we we kind of talk to a few if you listen to poncas you haven't seen a series called on
the history channel called the live to tell it is a fantastic series that actually a former seal friend of ours remenos peluce a yet he
produced a similar actually an he relieved us in remote when we got done with articles or made us one of the guys that came in the next
task into the came over and took our place and he worked out a camp corrigedor arise which i reebok about so they made an episode one of
the episodes is about charlton mark we and we we got to tell some of the stories there but you know there you don't have that you can't
tell it restore that you want i tell you want to tell every story every little member you have of these guys and you on that always takes
out my mind because he joined our poltoon late and he came from another patoon came into euribates and one of the first trips we did with
him was to was to vagasaneyi up there to work that with sidelines air force nelesona is and when i worshipped at one moon dog oh we would
work from probably about noon until let's call it six or seven o'clock at night and then every one would go gambling and drinking and
partying until ten o'clock the next morning and then gamble at it was just one of those trips but but we we we we were getting after it an
innocent about being a young seal you don't have you don't have sent you owe any money right so you just when i remember when i was a young
see oh i was like the richest guy in the world because you know you from being a civilian that's eighteen years old making no money and all
of a sudden you get pay check and then you get the sea teems you're getting died pay and jump pay and devilish bad and you like the richest
guy the world you like a rock star and as kind of the mode that mark was good i i would wear a vagance was big time in it began after it
like a member you could on that tree you comin in an say ed are you withinside what is achior are you it is in you to add i've met roger
that a man who i'm not i i did that with a bunch of guys da troia an i want a window galician all men no one even now i was talking about
and then i at him whenever we got together that night on my guard and those with me and the everyone joined up i said it's hundred dollar
hands were on the flageolet were all going to place three one hundred dollar hands which potassia in her navy pachas was a big noise and
yet we did it said but the flute playing a gambling with mark was was insane because he was so so like hostile and yet at the same time fan
and i remember i came walking down to the casino and ease i can sir and i look over these across the casino and he's at the black jack
table he goes it he must have been on her white street hegoes when are the new cadillac cover out at that he was just so so here disedified
up like that was as awesome as a basis one of those guys and internally was y e hilarious to be around and you know a big strapping in luck
indeed he he ah he just was very comfortable as scared as well you know he had a he was absolutely in love with it at his wife out mis in
that toilette and now he won't she given him this these ah i menelite put jam otherhand how man is just like an he's he he would wear them
around the care that these pajamas elsie brow are you wearing but john opinion and he like you is like why are you where i'm as new guinea
itinerent let jacotot you ask her then what wirerope like their comfortable my gift i no like to know if it is like it is it like whatever
you know like a caress all that was just a way mark was and aye he just was ah i remember a particular now he was iwaton er the gudely ah
ah he had gone to seminary for about a year or so i think i do studied to be a preacher and a decided ah you know what i said of in
approacher i want to be the celtiberi christian faith was tartly always a big big piece of that and i remember some of the most random
things we were talking about ah i don't even remember how it came up but if you remember the old knight ten eighty songs of the warori is
the cheese ball nitetis you know and in we got in an argument about who sang the warrior and more as like it had been a door and i'm
embarrassed to say that i said no it's patients i have the intimate ready exaggerating election though you know any soumagne o my all my
totidem and so we argued about it we had some weight otaheite wager was but it was a fact that he smith i was ran right on bein think that
you know you talked about his face and and we talked about in this coon this poncas before but the when you get somebody that is its heroic
that often times they have a certain sense of the word that you just used as comfort and you could see that with mark that he was
comfortable in the fact that he might have to make the ultimate sacrifice and i remember one of the one of them things i'll never forget
about mortices you guys would be rolling out on operation and you would line up the vehicles right in front of the chowan or honor little
bay shark base in a iii you got one out i would go out there and see you guys off and just to help help her by understand like we're win
out on her operation into some one was a dangerous enemy territory and he were and wedded people would come out with jack and i arn't from
our case and shake shake folks and on the cause you knew that it can very easily happen to not have boys coming back all throat from that
open oh you always it was always reassured as to jacottet talking to people shaking bell sands and that was a mere going out particular
operation like that were ah i e b o r call it causacadere damage and killing soldiers and marines every single day ye and those i des at
this point were generally victim activated its which means that the person that's going to get blown up as what activates the idea so
atakin of a pressure plate or quench wire or something that hum verun over and causes the id to detonate that was sort of the the premier a
mode that the enemy was in at this point which meant that if you were in the first vehicle you were most likely to hit that i d and i
remember i've been one of those nights came out in looked up i looked at that markedness hear you fillacy to night and he set up a smile a
face that he said that the thing that one of the other things he had said in vegassheien ah your winter the new cattle acentuate other
things that he did everybody saying is when the dean would bust you know he's everybody's a wineries or winter as i looked up out of any
and you said everybody's a winter and then was another time i went out there and and you know i said i said you were in rockingham he stood
there in the turn it like like a movelessness salute scenes in a movie where the the the guy i silent officer he like stood at attention to
turn just cracked me of super crisp salute and i i probably like foot them off for or you know which is highly asal for a seal into ditte's
eyes but ah you could see man he just had that confidence in that comfort he in o he was in what he stood for and he was ready for he was
ready for anything including including the ultimate he was a phenomenon absolute and just an honor an honor reserve with men like that
omobono last guy that they kinarese ent in in the movie american syer he is biggles ringo nickname bagels who if you if you are in if you
are in the military yontses and you use a heavy weapon the weapon with a nick name for that weapon is a big pain in the ass weapon to carry
and the the nick name for it a pick and you are actually a pig gunner if you are if you carry that big mark forty eight you to be it in
sixty now it's morfontaine call that weapon a pig as ye got carried that pig and now your pig gunner and his nickname was big oles and he
nicknamed this weapon paladines just to think about the way they represented ryan in naden't remember all that well we get the bad a
special screening of american snipe perfor down here cornalia it is all one time um and i i don't fully remember all their i definitely
remembered how they represented christ marabous ly but you know ritein seem in significant of his wall so that it was a little bit they
didn't make such a a production out of vegas but obviously in doing that the again short changed just a fabulous character and unincurred
funny and lively and warm human being that was a an absolute just an absolute treasure of a person and an so no one's goin to you know if
you evoldo i see the move american liparaean if even if we rode an entire book about biggles you wouldn't be able to get across what any of
these guides really brought a life that he was sick he was a phenomenal guy and i actually uh you know some some people some people talk
talk to be a people set time before it all he will you whose greatest persevered some promply life you know and i i ah i think them my
immediate reaction that is the rice ride jographee that i mean he just was he was ah and it was actually with crazy as when i when i first
met riante came torn out pitongatan the was because he didn't exactly have the rippling sick fact ah he was just a tough as nails guitarist
would not quit a matter what was determinate but struggle with the run struggle with a swim that got no forelle the full benefit and her
seal travailers the antoines knowing credible or athlete or physical specimen it especially when he showed up a caliphoid bruiser no doubt
he was not ready for the tea though that for it when becos got to charlotte we rolled right out to the desert of southern california and
got what we call land warfare training on and that was a that's really man gamp that's white talk about the seal training if people think
it's all about carrying logs around and boats and all that stuff that you see for that's really just ornithoscelidous as what we call buds
basic armadillos feltrian donut and in warding together in the work up as really were the the training to be a seal to be a a teammate to
work as a as a unit happens and so our whole task in it from jackal down to our lowest common denominator ah the most junior anuman who
happened to be riancourt out to we went out to southcliff deserts and just and and we shot weapons we learned out of shot monomania and it
is everything is difficult it is you are going your dragon down man you know er a killed in an for training purposes over rocks and through
captors and you run in and gone in and it's hot and its tiranas ting and its awesome and i it's a training were sent trying at kept seals
alive on the battle field or able to do things for for a long time ah and inistioge sinsibel place where we wigandia ahinsa i love loved
out there and when not when they goes got out there he was a he was trumping he was coming off at about i'd say seryer five days of leave
and easy living he was and he gandourah he had to make it to try you had to be in shape and now you know one of them some people struggle
words when they get done with that training is now it's up to them and now it's up to them to be in shape self disposed of that self tisane
and some people don't and ah by certainly wanted petissent on after that i struggle with out ah but big will still that to a new level and
i you know what you came after all the summer handing him a twenty five pound marked forty eight machinegun which he may biggleses jocose
and now and he's got to carry this thing and carry the six to eight hundred rounds on him and moved through the jagged rocks and sand and
desert in a hundred fifteen degree heat and a and he was struggling he was strike any one even in a greatest of shape that challenging ah
but rameses struggling to keep up on that and so ah i remember how to some very he was in my squaw an so i was witnessing the so watching
us and we pulled him aside and said hey listen if you want to be here you better art nough he you got a hard not to stand erser lothian is
is way up here and you're here you're way lower than that standard so um we had to we had to push him to get there and i'm ever so sterning
ah sessions we assign one of the guys from the the trial for an omission before as one of the guys on his turpleton great dense our most
experienced machine gunner and i we you signed the wesigned him to to be a mentor to to ah to bigotry with them and so every morning we
would pettinger go for ronie so it went out other guys were resting ryan's don't eyes got to go out for a run he's crying out pope's he's
trying and working and you know it was i didn't know how i was going to go then ah he had a long way to go to get to where he needed to be
to be physically able to keep up and not drag down the rest of the guys and i don't think i've ever seen a guy make that kind of a
transformation or an as magranal turns from aryan must a looked himself in the mirror said this is when i want to do i am going to turn
this around completely and he but came what we called big osto thousand which was the linnean and he buetow deployed you know six months
eight months after that that that work out newborn again hardly was born again or and he he was a enver fell behind anything and he always
kept up with everybody and carried not only this way but some times others who were struggling and and he would help them through and it
was it was funny and i a couple of stories about him we were out a island he's in the weight room he went thinks about budge to impale ups
and you into jackals twitter feudalise pictures of lakerim off calluses from doing palasadoes you know it with a bar bell and i just
partabgarh on the ropes and all all the ochori and everything you're doing and ah and so or in the gym at outer our land more for training
was silly and he got these like the fingerless like we lifting gloves on liking see im like gold stiepan i might not allowed i don't like
seriously i was like begetter why do you have gloves a eseguito my again no no i need a hard your hands up men no gloves and he was a
eolico that noble and he took that to such an extreme on our operations we always were good on operations because you have to smash through
a window or dressed a prisoner and an ratetenor ramaroa of osmond red you know rick glowing red hot machine gun he was achinese he has a
deal at stuff it's a wee were mere waiter acencheres milar to to protect our answer in that and am in i remember all the troad in iraq look
on his like nobles of he took that he secure was like i am going to be a harder bed and i've got a roll out with a with no gloves on a
curtis machine i was like a mad where you got that bee in my inwestigation go a he i don't know it not smart not smart but ah but hard but
tough and he was unbelievably tough in you now after rigaud a people it now the shoestore of ride got her the face of to be snickerin on
the same day at marveled illusion two thousand six and ah we thought it was we thought it a dead man and now went on now when he got hit um
i i the wound just looked so reficimus didn't think anybody could survive that and ah and yet he did and i would over grab his hand and
said a man or going to get you out of your hanging there and he like sat up and told me he was okay i was like it was unbelievable to see
that man just how tough that god was and and do you know after that um we were waiting for about there weeks to see he lost his right eye
where he got it and we realized later that he the only receiving it killed is because he was disappointed and he was all that machine gun
we were we were two hours into an operation it was a brutally hot day you know probably hit a hundred and seventeen degree high in remindin
die and he was on his weapon looking down the sights and the round that was afore his head had hit his weapon at the received roaching gun
and an deflected a kind of back toward the the right sides face rather than tennis had often and and that's what saved his life that
discipline a but tragically ah not only do loses right up but the shrapnel from that severe them the officer to his left i and he was left
blind completely blind at from that and there was devastating in got the news from that and yet when i talked to on the tone ah and he'd
been intermates he had this kind of really horse boy literatures he is it not eminentissimo for a while i think it's a week or so several
densities along o was maintiendray forever and so we were waiting to hear you know sitting to come back or he's going to get a habit left
in this is the difference in being you know pamely the same of the rest was life or or just have nuisance of not having no one on eye and
in we got that words is devastating man i'm talking to him in the fall and in this horse you know horse a voice he thought he just
delmatico in about one to get a parrot for his shoulder and eyes patch you know ecole like a pirate and he just a just a phenomenal guy and
i i don't know that i ever had a conversation with with ryan from that day forward at where we did laughed histericall i mean he was the
gun agin that just looked at all the things he could steal do and life was not going to dwell on his disability was not dwell in the fact
that his eyesight had been taken from them in the prime of his life you know and and he he just was a phenomenal nay showed me the true
meaning of toughness ah and ah just was a of selfishness and it was it was just it was phenomenon on the was just he he he would do he's
just such a funny you know you o thinking about it when i was outlastingest and you were run cortano the book that i i gave you about the
time you gave me about faith i hate you how moretta you get i gave you to the wars i knew it by a general georgia's patent junior and i was
thinking you jacientis that we are watching patin remidy and just through put that respect we our watching we were project the film up on
to the back wall of the camp and took literally it's about a twenty four highwalled on the other side of this wall is bad guys and we
actually dentifrice operations right i've had that walk so may this tell her we are we do watch or owing pederson cigars it winter in her
like work out you know shores and and sure to ersipelas he had like a you know these huge camel spiders run across your feet and one to bid
modestine the prettymans what we've we've watched that movie a patent and our member of insistent was just so he was so he thought it was
so hilarious or a scene in the movie which is a phenomenon to the george colvin is its phenomenal but there's a scene of re patent gets
passed over for promotion and one of his peers on more brave actually been a subordinate to batten gives getting permoted above patents
it's obviously devastating his obsecrating prepared and so one of his amis runs up to him and he has the news but attendent have the news
yet and he's like sir general can a ganabara a warm glass of milk a kind of draw you that and and ran for some reason though that was
absolutely arise ember on most waterations become back you know we gods were smoked and tired and and a big are to me and say sir a
pouillaud driac and just laugh there was like shuttles we had some good times the first one miacomo the phone i we you were came out of a
tedesco ma and again you know like you in thinking you know what are you say right and of course the is put you at ease and i starts making
jokes and then he says to me and yet serious and he ses to me i want to come back said i want to come back can i come back and you know i
said to musonius get held up and you can come back and he's like roger that and he goes don't worry and i said don't worry one he said
don't worry i can still shoot and i said okay and he goes and sir i can smell fati said what are you as i can sit melviney and i'll know
where to shoot and i said i i'll right if you git hellup i will bring you back over here and a forcedly i mean he was in real rough shape
um it wasn't like he was just blind i mean he had massive damage to his signe's to his face and you know we didn't get the deer home before
he could even even would have a possibility of coming back but i certainly would have altered and odonata was credibly genuine and that's
just the gangarid was and and it was amazing is you know he he went on i do so many things and yet he he married his sgilti the time was it
was a ornamental lady incredibly incredibly phenomena lady and i he went back to school after he got out a he was medically retired he
graduated with a a business degree at a four point i was like rigidity i had like a two point iteration is falieri the willing what the
world and a man he's just a just could not be kept down and and he wanted a climb he somebody mout renee fortune thousand plus foot
mountain completely blind on an that's difficult balnavile get kill trontheim that moan oh with the full use of their limbs and and and i
sidinane he went in did that the great oderation cacama trio than a that helps spellwords take him take him up on that climb and he called
me up a inside late or going alcottian some we talked about in in iraq we could ride was a big hundred grew up in and wash the state and
had gone on it i grew up in texas and i love to hunt and and i go on a call rhoda nodded up there of alcina so we talked about doing it
elcot and you know now i thought well it's we can go you know with an listen the old and and he can be paratu he can't see to how can he
actually shoot an animal he can't actually do that any more he said i section some kind of gadget tree for me ah you know set up he's like
i'm going to shoot an elk and i was like his a are you in its kind of like hundred dollar and i was tionesty men and i i think it was like
my ten year of naval carriege canceleer going on so it right ringan went to ah went up there we can't parthenopes like gadget set up on the
ah on the ear the scope at weapon and it was a isaachar and ah and it was as you could look in through with the sight and so we can have
this i was spotting for him looking to the cameling him situated kinda told him when i went to hold we can have like a ready fire on
terminological up with it and one thing about rhinites could shoot and you know he he strung it niwenniserake it up and you know with his
physical fitness an tell me became digestions or them there was more to get hard but when we got to our shooting schools we realised what
are this god could choose he was a great shot and so when we were training without that to river on the range and were practised in the
going's elkin i i'm talking a man on the target i realized right away like if we miss it's my fault cause he's goin to be decorist when i
tell apotheker he's hit that door get and he's gonna ateseyenton over that cross her in so we can figure it out and up we went out and
tractate elk down it was donabo know a great dog great good folks um and ah we went out this i shotahawrora eleanor he was and then what's
the guy were cleaning the thing and he just you know he he just beheaded to got his hands in there like a body and and now in in the clean
a process and just it was it was a phenomenal phenoms iris and rigou couldn't be he could not be kept down he he foes on everything he
could still do and he was so the acount even explain i remember when he was living the phoenix area and i i went out to visit him and were
dry we've gone out to breakfast and were driving back to his house and this is it only moved her after his blindstone er been in the era
before and were driving pathetikest missed the turn and run obviously i'm riding the spy he said in the past your set i was like what do
you mean had you know that i i just he should turn back there and i was like you know suited at tommy with smart foliated out and like your
aggrieved you turn go back an i don't know he has laid it out in his mind just a great the god system and what how long it took to go where
and it was it was from and he taught me so much about just toughness and self was no stand now and just the attitude of beaver come and a
gentleman to be thankful for the blesses even given and ah the was just just of incredibly also warrior tamarind and and that we miss em i
used to a grapple with them you know after husband and and he wrestled he wrestled in high school and to you he had some scraped to ohadi
rever eat you know first all he at that tears had come out a sergeant ly can a wipe in the eye to get tears all over me that i be given my
art time about that like it trigoniadae as awesome as outmastered sport that you could do you just it's you realize how much contact is
involved when you're when you're doing that and how you can it's so instinctual and but it was another thing you just polikey i'll grapple
i don't care can't see no factor and i always had to make him pay for the further the tiferet as one a crisis little you know little scamps
that he played with let me let me let me tell me kill that that was a sicania good eye witness to the senario so jocose are casting a
commander you know and he's esalan belt result you gittin knows this because we're training at five o'clock every morning and we're all
showed up and do it togie and i it showeth out you can always see your you could tell who or tacking it was because when you called anaana
of so on we would turn our heads which unornate shoulders ah at the same time we use our maxence does his will fufetius we had just battled
a loyal as you would encourage it but imparticularity you know chris and we talk about chris calistemma at head a great relation with
withering and a recto ride under his wig and and oh one of things christlike to do was instigating thatand he was a sisseton and hansel
they would then they talked ridinghood's yes i i was a new guy fired up like a whatyouwantoeat place face you not saying and that they'd
have him come up and like standing your face and like starichok let that one like one yellow meter from your no yes that's for you know it
it was obviously a very provocative man ah and so that was the whole point of her trying to just instigate some kind of which he i shove
them across the room get out of my face you know they had him do it the jocando from alternate everybody else and ah and this they ate job
that i oldyou know you all as you will do with your job you are a prey so finely as like a cicisbeo a new god imitates man who had drawn
the line i'm going to go to a cock and we and he did it in a pretty public forum because we were we were planning it was as is on our round
trip rasselas practicing like erinose so were in this catskin of a tetrastyle seguier a plan a vision i remember watch it ever so they now
live in talent to at jacotot know this but we all know it's come in the everyone to watch in this and it to all to sudden jocolate turned
around in the asides some wision of joetunheim biggs i stand is like one you know me from his face delineated out and jobeidos in like the
ugrasena turns him round he gives his back i went with him like in like half a sectanus still three throws a rear naked choke on him and ah
and yet to go sleepy time intestines got rennekampf your like tapping is like you said tapoantaminais and job as i onesinius seeresses to
sleep the jackal just kind of jizaemon at the floor and then would just contain is went on about it arahats kind of normal nearhand in and
in now so like it now six racegoers by you like comes back and slowly come with it to to a neistadt and his eye lest we now like a happened
and we're all a jackass acting like nothing he ahead everyone is laughing his staringly and then we now rise like a legion set you goin to
have my back as they told me i will have your hat at a idiocy mingles looked men dare not go have your best a whole point i don't want to
see the best so i after that i think it was a good learning the spirit but the pretty legionaries a great egret sport about that just
ievren else do do so like you said just to amazing amazing guide if anybody wants to ah anybody's feel sorry for themselves or you know
these people that ask about mental toughness just just think yourself about alright there's one more guy that ah that i've been asked about
that these men and it's a gud that was in life in the mark leeside and again i was new that you become in on it some point to talk about
and we have opportunity to talk about to my tony friday and tony is a guide that i actually grew up with in this eltinge as you might
suspect when you watch lived to tell and you see what his attitude is like he was a hard drinking fist fighting beer swilling frogman it in
you know and still ten still is to this day and there was you know how often you would come to work on monday morn with a shiner or brutely
a bloody knuckles it was just it was just a romance i mean no weed didn't even get asked questions about it back then so tony friday was an
old school selthorir you don't kindlike me grew up in his holtes and grew up in that era the of the nineties in the dry years still had
some vietnam veteran mentorship but didn't really get that opportunity to be in combat until you know until obviously until september
eleventh in one waweau even though we were both that team one together we were never to potentate so we were bodies we are drinking bodies
we hung out but we never did i put them together and so i knew he had a very good reputation he had a very good reputation as an operator
he always had that but i never really worked for them it wasn't until we were in asking a bruiser together that i actually worked with him
for the first time in an when i realised for the first time what i had in tony beyond the toughness and beyond the tactical prowess was
when we were actually at we were at land warfaring the the training that you were just talking about and you know there was a little um
kind of a a quick operation of poofai was just a quick you know he got a salt this area was a daytime a space a going through the mechanics
of an assault on the target and i was watching you and tony tony was your patonce i was watching you to kind of figure out the plan and you
threw a couple of ideas out there and he just said a sir ere's a wish so do boom put these guys over here set up a base over here bring
them a new rover here for one of wahpooskow the hill that's how we should do this and you looked at him and said that's awesome that's
perfect uh let's get every one over here and and will you is go ahead and brief him up and you look at you and he said no sir you tell him
what to do i'll be better coming from you in so he was a guy that obviously because he'd been in the teams for fifteen or seventeen years
obviously had more tact cooper ence than you did but he was so secure in his leadership and so secure in his tax on malledge that it didn't
mean anything to him and he realised that the best thing that he could do for the team and for your paton was to let you leave this lets
you put out the word let you give the plan and i realized that that point in this was early in our work up that this guy was not just
attacked osion not just a tough bad as frogman but he was a real leader and as i know you will say you are absolutely blessed to have tony
as your portico i i got a set a seal to him says her dose some phenomenal phenomenon dividual so my incredible botfield leaders throughout
the debates in the proud legacy and history the salty had and i i can see would confidence that i believe that tony of ready is probably
one of the best come at leaders as sultanas ever probus and i don't say that very lightly at all but he was a fenomeno phenomenal
toupillier and he heard of the break glass in case of war guise this is this is that guy and he was just a is experienced level was
phenomenal in that he had had or i had in this point to put it respectable to commander i'm all my second with tones i had one to form a to
iraq jaculata few poets before because he was a you know you eat ten and listen for eight years and ah but you know tony was this was his
eight the point that of the head massive amount of experience in the teams i think i been busted down and ran like twice round to hard
flight and guy and andy he he was he wanted to be that picunche at all he ever wanted to be and and he was incredibly incredibly good at it
um i just i can remember it that same way more forced your disarmour were under fire were no very difficult situation there's a lot of
chasing on in this training environment here we are preparing for actual combat and in a course or try to make that is is realises possible
and his challenges possible and we're getting shot at from like one of the target buildings and its dismas made out a lake ah you know two
by fours and and i i ply wood the the target building that's that's near by tony realizes that we got a saltatorial now look as were taken
far from the building and he does a like full long spirit like wide open for about fifty yards and does human battering ram in through the
doorway of one mancuerda and like killdooley who shooting at us and it was at that anotherand e the sitanda's the guy he was on about a
field a man he deftly on he was he used a guy in a wee leaned on it the the only time that i ever had an issue or contracting was when
jocosity manner atone with his one group of ahaseragh that's right said alice i was fery as an angry about that in a way that was at a tell
jocato runners went he said he said he am here is in doing that he here's what i had em i abalaine out some leadership you know and we put
him was the most junior gun he put with the most uterosacral capable guy and ah ah and did phenomenal stuff but it was the real the dover
was the recollets mutinied at but i now wish that that was difficult but toni was just one of those guys that ah you know he was indeed
above in the planning de falt of agressive o majus incredibly aggressive run a go in there and were going to hammer the enemy were on to go
right as back yarran ever going to expect this and and we're going to we're going to win we're going to cross them the were going to kill
back guys and and one of things they gained us momentum you know you talked about a earlier jacotot's that hit right outside the billing
you were sit on and killed the boolder while the several others we had is going off in other ouerseen there can i in the allonbian i want
went to i was actually i met the rigadoon or once i think or maybe twice but i windingest ally no hat no it was the first time i ever met
the brigade commander so i go in to meet the guide that's in charge of all remote and as i go in to meet him i'm in i'm in his tack oop
rations enter and we had put guys tony was out the field doing the sniper over watch for it for it emplace in an area called firecracker
where there was it's all time and were days earlier an i d a gone off in a killed several marines and wounded several more so i come into
the tack operation setter and and i'm in there for thirty seconds and a call comes in and it's the marines reporting back that one of the
seal snipers had just killed the idea in placer on fire cracker it it innercent or came out of his office to kind o see you what what what
what and then there i was and so it was the again like with the orders i could not have ever set up a better introduction to the brigade
commander then saying the then the not happening at that moment in time and we've been on the ground for maybe two or three days and
already starting to have an impact said it out these bad guys and and that fired the breacan up and he immediately wanted to employ us the
different locations rout the city and that was like a bonheur for getting after it for us was oh you want us to go into these worst the
worst parts of remote we will do so and we will do so immediately and that's exactly what we did teleray had a vision too as far as getting
the platoon ready and and make insure that we knew he he had a feel that we might need some sidetable and so we passed up the number of
snipers well beyond what the normal number is within the arician ilpton ah to be ready for that and he trained them and got guttered and ah
and serpentarius in his expertise but do but tone was rathe driving force of getting our potentalities ready to go and i i mere want to
ever take were we are out where we are looking through a we moved into a really really nasty area of south undramatic and ah there were two
buildings that a right next to each other and we were several of us were i was in a group it was a woodcroft the street in the crust
christinot gether on that one tonings with another group a guy it were a crowd that were in a different set of buildings and the building
that we were in to india at a good position and we are trying to fire out where we need to go but he just was not a good position the sun
was going to come up it within you know pretty soon if we needed to get with a sweetly fell back and took him a building right next to word
tony his guys were we actually smashed through the conkery wall connecting them ah the the the the wall the support he is no doorway or
thing when do but we had to make a walk was we got actually like get the iteration cate with each other and i'm sitting in her listening
the radio and i oldmaidishness after the sun came up and tell was a sniper looking through a loophole in the wall which is like a a hole
that was maybe six orating to a dime that we smashed out with a sledge hammer sometimes we used explosive georges but agave you a little
bit of cover so that you didn't get shot a face by some enemy another in besides the street or or some shoot at you with machine gun and
dog so he set out his tiberian i just hear this crack and it was just a round coming in and i missed his head by like two inches may be a
man it came riding in diseases his face land and the wall just behind him and so i hear the crack and then i hear some vanity and then i
hear some of the a a likambo all and then i hear a just machine gun vidyapati canaanite and so tony had the rounded callianassa face and
tone was best and he recover grab a mark for washington and dumped a hundred round bill through the ah you know through the other loop all
we another with the round really came from but a hundred roses got shot to have to get one to action i do that was discouraging and whoever
was shooting in his o a that i got agurto he was he was yet of it you want pulled me i shampooed and i i you know he was a god to we
because he had not relationship with you when i first checked in the tilting three a m and the delphian er was a good friend of mine that
we got to goin through buzzwagon refeceris um you know we'd heard about this guy jocundities enough i actually heard your name before miss
pronounced of course joowiler neck and i from a guide that i grew up with when i was in the high school and he started training in jugeant
i was starting to talk about beating the sealing a wanted to be a sea on hitting our friendly frensied you getting his guy who's the
sealinata willing neck and did be me in this turn of his a great guide onnateral about you and that so so i had heard that name before ah
and i've no one were working at the tempters like okay i i hear this cujac it's actually pronounce a willing jackwell now okay this is that
same gudehart about you know years ago before i was even the navy and ah and so now was who was a sky we had met him before i knew once of
the guys already in the button and a tony said a meritait looking at the boy we had a boy like magnet boards of all the names or going to
be in the platoon and a inimitably see in in tones maganetawang you guys earn curses kanoron up there and and ah and he like well like i
said i wouldn't walkitis about jocko as like jacko's a galley wanted sotaskaer work at the girl that's i i like rochetta was done it was my
first introduction to the jocko he her and as the deliteful jolliness epical star down i am jackal i don't like people when i ate im when
you mean to it i'm going to intimidate you and look at you with the feretro if and jutting out jonathan to fire your guys on ouendat weeks
planeteer know so the delitigate is now you know just a eserengila mine was was like or discometer red and the other i don't know if he
likes i ingrate as i do he was like lisette's gerty girl don't you worry he only awesome just outstanding and i think what one of the
things that impressed me about him was that he those old vietnam lessons the old school just hard core frog man stuff he held the line on
that as far as getting ready as far as guaranteein as far as de briefs and the planning egestas had that intense level of of patience and
of focus on the operations like nothing else in the world mattered to him a he drove standards no doubt and he he had forced anders and he
was just expected expected us to be art in an guys wanted to get soft and hay out you know do we really do push ourselves arling no word on
to be hard and and not you don't i take no answer new hampshire said he say you better get your cat hid and we're going we're going out to
get it on and and you know one of the things that became a monster for our portion was beat of big tough frogmen and night would tony would
say that i say we we knew like we're going to be deep what are we going to do we're going to be tingeing a get a big mixup which men have
big gun fight there were going to be the out and then we added big chow or to go to big shall the challoner do but retinet word a go in
it's going to be hard it's going to be tough we better you know we gotta carry lot these rows were so dense with in dry this we would foot
buttonry know climates a carryin head the gear to onawares with his hat a bring all that stuff in and it was just a it was tough it was
difficult and ah we were goin to beat to us and we took pride in that the atepetl much came became a way to overcome any obstacle of any
kind meant to physic clivir mental all yet i do be to you know oh there's some kind of a challenge bet bet and that when we get to do
betmore that is ever tony sang this your i don't see pilot in edi's a lot so we spent that together we never else to sweep it and he come
down to my office and i say what do you do in ophincus all was just laid in my bed just beaupertuys beatson in trasfonde down to see if i'm
a member in the insentiate would get you could track it we do we come back from an off he be happy he was fired up we drop our gear every
single time which with great tremendous disponent about him before sustainers e a would just got down with it of every one's tired
everybody's exhausted dropped your dear is what he tell her body you know ten minutes i want you in the michigan space and we'd go through
that a post operation debrees talking about what would right woman wrong will be learned from it was the enemy doing now that we had to see
before how can be adapted that every single time there was no cut the corners we we did that every time we could do it a count a short
concise concise form but he'd be happy we just got back from no we just went out disentombed then you could track tones like happiness
faster it was in verse proportion proportional his happiness faster was inversely proportional to the amount of time we spent the cap so as
at a long we stayed in the cabins ike he's a gonnar getting a great heliodora ale which is pretty rare but every one will we have a night
but we didn't go out and had heinous bery i feel i go out i want to go gentile we again and you know ah that's we wrap up on tenanting was
definitely at a force but just so everybody knows that this was a a task unit of forty plus gives and there was an absolutely corrofin
there and charlie and delible tone of guise that wore without question without any question whatsoever we warriors that like i said held
the line and told the line and went forward over and over again and and the rest of the guise may be guys at weren't quite leadership
positions but it was a very dufont casualties fire fight killed wounded and there was the stress mass of a mountain stress and there was
combat fatigue and there was fear but all these gives overcame that fear to do their job so weaken accomplish the mission that was putting
frontest that something has to be recognized you know in its sad so many guards'll active duty and well we can't win not going to name them
were not going to talk about them ah but they were a critical critical part of the team and that it's not you as we got a back toward tom
out with american siberier i mean i think chris with the first person to tell you that this is eighteen after it is a huge dem effort and
so we could have done it it tires connote stuff they were going out the machine gunners without god's dear and the rockets about a guy's
carryin the radio and all the heavy equipment that goes with that and then you know the corn in the puranas ah the all of his equipment we
could have done any that his seals without the support from the army and marine corps with the sport those gay brought to us in so it was a
massive massive tea after and just particularly those guys and a chart of the tune i was oh i just coniere proud of fumo our gisaient some
incredibly difficult it tuitions and a instepped get the job done and and and making a best of a very bad situation to wit they need to do
um and ah it is a that was just an honor to honor serve with those guys had always be we had some orifices i would do anything to tree
those days i do aintree places with with mary and and i we race and chartrien agave their lives but most of those days were the best days
of my life and always will be and it was just such a one and a privilege due to be a part of that her one dementet the death of other in
command her on here and i'm domination is on say the same thing about his crew and the work that they did and the decree harsh environment
that they went through in the sustained combat operations that they conducted as well so thank all those guys and thank you jack will i for
being a leader for training us for teaching us for inspiring us for it still in us this default addressed my set the galalate fields into
the fray and the worst most dangerous areas and make a difference and when a no that would have been possible that your leadership and a
proud of serve with him and i could tell you that was so you read your speech earlier that speech was incredibly powerful and something
that i resonated across the selim would me my generation of seals and every seal that i knew or work with about what that meant and it
really captured so much of what we think in a way that may be other folks could articulate it but it certainly captured the message of what
seals should be doing the nature of war how we need the train how we need to enter ourselves and how we always need to you remain there and
when you gave that speech and i was on or take off a speech as well at that the net retirement ceremony but as you pack your bags and and
retired and left the seal teams i remember thinking it's a sad day in the jocasta and i and it really it really was but a userti left your
mark almost he will teams not only for me and all the guys who teresita we serve wood but to generations of seals that you trained that you
pass all his leadership lessens or two so we thank you i'm not dead yet but tankfire preciate it those in the lets a let's quit talking
about each other and must get some questions from the internet out of that sound i'm with that echo at by the way i cut your all was here
today chocorua he can is a doin here with a long ago will come at all were not well i might as i read you guys some questions right yet god
filled him with your fire away i cool first question i was going to direct these at both you guys a jolingly assuming some one would be a
good sea officer would you suggest they go and listen first yet experience and become an officer would you suggest that or the other george
would be discourage of circuition sell it i guess we have both of those examples here rats and listed first lay finestra a commission out o
the naval academy and i think we're probably going to trade sat pretty much the same thing here um in terms of it to me it doesn't really
matter it doesn't really matter where you did your commission from it doesn't matter each you get a commission to eight dozen really matter
there's guys in the soul teams are enlisted senor leaders that are awesome examples there are some leaders they change people's lives they
have a huge impact on the battle field there is obviously of ceres to the same thing i think you don't i added incredibly lucky career i
had great career i wouldn't change any part of it at all you know i i was lucky enough to do being in listed guidoboni le depotment as
moleskin and that being all certainly mussiful to form it is now sir and it was great and i wouldn't change any part of it and i know
plenty of guys that were officers that are old career and they wouldn't change any that and i don't plenty of guys that would lift a guys
that are whole career and they wouldn't change any of that so i think the important thing is think about what piece of the puzzle you want
to fit into the what you really want your your experation your job to be within life you wish you would have done some time as an e dog as
a sled dog for sure i'm in look there's a there's apartment of certainly always wishes that ah but ah look i think it's it's just a
different it's a different job but you're goin always has a as an officer of straightish on to as i had to lean on those i had a lenowski
idalene on those leading maniotes those folks who had experienced who could help me and guide me and you know no matter who you are you're
not going to have it old figured out in it something that echalia about often we talk of it often and when we work with homely so having a
run i liosha course will be all the junior officer training course and every single seal offer that graduates from for you know from every
commission to horse the graduates from the seal training pineland goes through this course is but a five week course for which you class
room one week of of of fuel turning exercise ere we came out the field and put this astrum some challenges and i i try i let that for two
years i trucidatus and i think we put on huntert something off her so that an the best officer were some great officer or went through that
and probably the best officer i put through was a prioress ice we have some offers a troubled and probably the the god who struggled the
most was another prioress to see both his gods had been prior less in a commission after so it just comes a show you that you've every
source whether tenable cademy whether it's prideless in go to see madame program with her coming in through osias all sir canada school or
order a tear of t s u ninive rsity you've got outstanding people that come out of those those commissions horses you got some people that
aren't a goin he come out of a condition horses it's about you and i and i think it's it's kind of material um the philiarchus pretty
important right going in walo course you got to have some wheel of athletic not the two loved fanariotes if you keep yes sharpened make you
to training but that rathans next to nothing to do with your ability to lead people of horse you have to be physically fit he asked to be
all i mean there's no doubt esthetically fit yeh that's like design based no doubt about it so if you don't have that you're not even close
so everybody that is going to be leadership in this filthy in istically a fear god late for whatever is in thinking just to be a seal of a
cool i next question jacala are your books principles universal or only for you have audience we were was auditors anywhere they applied at
any any anywhere on an across the world human beings i eicones massy in any capacity and in business or life and now japonicadom at work
international as well so we've done as spoken a groups in europe of work with a leadership training groups some china in and a spoken again
and aeacus the world ah where were leaders or leader said de the same kind problems same kind issues um is is not universal only applies to
america to plasther ye in what i found is indocilities relationships building relationships up and down the china command so and really
that relationships theme is is kind everything in life where it whether it's like your friends or your spouse husband wife or whatever in
the teams or in business right so relationships up fight everybody in the whole world no matter what culture you as ortheris um so each
different type of person right were people who read you a book as it isn't always going to be a military guy i won't downwardness guy but i
just i just had a friend who sent me a picture and he was in frankfort germany walking through a out of his hotel and there's a guy sitting
in the lobby i i'd like the coffee bar reading extrordiny germany so i'm in the jason it's everywhere and now i think leaders who seek ah
to be better i mean this this book is for them the principles in this book or for them and a lot of the comicality they even if their basin
that us they have they have ties to other countries manufactor plants in mexico or china are you across the world and antoun's across the
atlantic oatcrops aminta very international interconnected world out there and and ah a man their most lytierse these days have a have
offices and in salebras or europe and an orther kind of world wide this could in the feniton kind of crazy but this could easily be a
relationship counselling guide is well well obviously if you take extreme ownership of your relationship and you you levies were where it
could be you that could be the problem in your rations yes now that being said echoers will minturn into a relationship porcallo a
merriweather you're not going to be a doctrine or a yes and not happening here i not happen tried go to c thanks next question tell us a
story about buds so so bad is the basic filtering that you see on t v and a c carrying pole carry large on her head and boats around and do
him push ups and poopendyke wet and sandy and the reason that i don't talk about but a lot is because it's not it's a tiny kindy fraction
of what this ulpian is all about me and in fact when you get in this oldtimes you realised that but nothing more in a screening process to
weed out people i don't really want to be there but if you compare it to what you have to do once you get in the teams actually nothing
because there is no way that you can compare hey you gotta go gettin cold ocean water and then roll around in the sand oh no and and i
always think back to the the first time for i was in new was iacent and a molion on the first major operation we were doing in the
malatesti of her body and there's tires burning the street there's smoke you can give a gun fire it getting wet and sandy and being cold is
a joke compared to that am so that's why the the whole buds thing is is something that i just it's not that big of the deal and i think i
think some guys try and turn it into a big deal especially if that was kind of a high light of their career was going through selrain ear
but if you were in the teams and you devoid overseas than that shouldn't be the highlight of your career shouldn't be the high let your
knowledge of sin be the highlight of europe of our the the man tasted that people like to consider buds not a man test means you didn't
quit being called good job it's it and to that point i think it's you have for those folks i didn't really get tested and come back or
didn't get a chance to go out in a mouthful and experienced the just incredible physical nature of combat and how difficult it is ah then
you know budas i everything as they talk about buddie and so it's come of this legendary thing and look it's a great train rogron it's been
around for a long time it ah it's granote people that don't have the chartersea i that we think are going to be successful and it works
than we should keep those standards high ah a we should push that i thought but was a pretty good time we had some great times in words i
love the goethe bards with em most of them and and er but it's it's gotten nothing on combatant you know endorsing it some of the the big
political uh uh discussion to day an woreington of them is the integration of women into the seales in de special operations in the import
units and every one's always focused on you know well with the can be standards and and if there ah you know if if if if if they can make a
training in ten they should be they should be you know they should be able to go out and serrated their focus on training in the people are
talking about training at the highest levels cause they don't know what it's like to be a real combat and we come back is infinitely harder
than the toughest i mean why are we talking but in a great net in well you got huge big strong guys that are smashed each other and yet
that's you know maybe you go concussion maybe you tear oracion maybe you break your berabo my oulsnams now your wrist you're not going to
get killed very rarely to one to kill in the football game riderhood is ah is infinitely harder than that implore difficult than that and
not and so in a way and in only a football game that's over and you know just a couple of hours you're talking about something that can
laugh weeks mountstephen years and a and is just the physical nature of combat and not be over state of it is incredibly difficult and
would be more shocked to hear that i could tell me some orgeat bedsteads cares lockman don't don't quit okay i i it's it's make it through
you know yes come that were your ear and you'll see it to god to a selenite cause you're very athletes sometimes ill going to the battle
field at regime the first time that an eye d i saw an i d going off about a block away from me and we were set on the lotto and i mirepois
my first upon that before jack and i work in together and all of a sudden there is a hundred foot fire ball a goes up in the gamingtables
wave hits me and just knocks me on my ass and fragment fragments and share to concrete and stuff it just ringing down all over the place
from from a block away you know from an ah it was it was like dame that is that is not something i want to be standing on a rat in a
vehicle in it that ticketand well you see some one like that like just the the connection ergy of around comitatus you know thinking of
biggest strongest guy you can imagine the sliddery smashing a wall next to you and i you know most while that time seven or eight hundred
rounds a man if for befacin gone and i mean it if credibly difficult with an and and dangerous and overwhelming and so you see some of the
toughest guy that they will budge like oh not there surely eager iago out in that and so it's all mollie of neale and ah at it it's just a
a can't be overstated so i think that it's it's uh the difficult is a combat again kit just cannot be overstated people will yet understand
what the reality that is like i think this idea that america's taata oh we can adict a nature of wars and you know as we would told the
tide of wars receiving as is not true as jackasses retirement to beach the nature of warders not changed and were gottaway have to fight
worse we're going to always have to be in difflculties we don't get to choose that and so we better be ready for those tosticated in the
late nineties we would hear that from from senior leadership that we look the the direct action missionaried these those anymore why would
we do direct action missionen in the tamanes and then oh why would we do a reconnoisance when we can send over a drone and why would we go
clear buildings house to house when we have technology that can put bombs right into buildings so this idea that we're gonna have the
ground worser we need give move on to the next face of warfare and adapt to a new way of doing things and of course well was it eight years
later september eleventh happened we spent fifteen years in afghanistan and whatever ten years iraq that on the ground doing hilsey
missions that every one thought werner do again so ah so yes the nature of war is not change and he sohaute ology either you know some of
the guys had don't make it to that tradition and if i just if i can just get through somehow and i'll go this cool gear and i'll have night
visit and later on i'll be bad as i say it's not about that and and while we need to when he divested technology certainly and in a
quirinalia accordingly it's the people that matter its leadership in all levels a matter you one of that one of my favorite quotes from mob
they he rowed the pacific war who was in charge of of of the entire earth the commander in chief of of all forces us force of the pacific a
got him chester emits fleet admiral chester never got a boy from for my central taxes and i he said our armament must be adequate to the
needs but our faith is not primarily in these machines of the fenmen ourselves and i mean that that's just exactly true and we got a we've
got a always push those standards keep those standards eye prepare people for the difficulties of real actual combat and just how
physically demanding it is in crushing a can be and and be ready so that we can execute and we can win that net that the buds real quick
that's the whole long as bud six months at the but twenty seven weeks or so to a letter minishing is that it's like you know hell weak
right that's the time where you don't sleep that much or whatever i think some people think that that's but no i keep just don't sleep ever
and it's all hard they ground ye in the neighboring you back dear i e not in want at wahai from command what is your favourite operator
specialty machine gunner reacher cormantin well my personal preference was at radio man cause i was ready men whose young lesgi itand on
the corner back standing quarternions this a senior guy said to me what are you going to do what do you do to potuan i said onomacritus of
course when you are a young kid you want to be a machine go beatitudine gun and he said don't be a machine gunner you want to be a
radioman's they go in every operation i so okay farogatos airs and baunet be readymoney this thirty pounds ready on your back and carry the
radio and it was very lucky for me because that got me in the position when i was part of planning even as a very junior guy i was part of
the planning so i learned a lot about planning i was lucky because i did ship board to ployments so that i was involved in planning and
working with the marine course i had some experience with big conventional units and i learned a lot then so i was always very preferential
to the radianator it was a he the most sireland job now that being said let me tell you what i wanted my portuondo think i wanted my
potions to think that each guy was the most important guadalate to the gradman ictas he was most bornean the corner to think he was the
most important cause he can say for erybody wanted the sniper think they reposed in fortiter to kill everybody wanted to precentors i think
every montifort cause they were on to lay down the fire and get us out so i was always a big supporter of all of them and you need them all
because it's a team and and you get those people that to hold this is more portant or the certain oudeis the best and you know as we are
talkin about christ and anteecipate american cipriani you've got to have that entire a woman work in together you got to have this wishing
under sagittate the corner you got to have the radioman who is passing position and you know where is telling tell him friendly's worry you
are see can get help you know directing ah ah a elpin where you need it you know in telling with the enemy is in all that self is absolute
critical i think is he as far as a favorite specialty i i like the shots i like combatut come that rifle pistolshots always been my
favorite things to do i love that about the seal teams your training and come that rifle pistol shooting it you know move in and and and
hittin different targets and shoot against heal targets and we go to these amazing ranges and its superfluities aid that's not my job and
that is ah that's a real realization yet to come to his deader is that my job is not the shoot and i got to be able to shoot because their
times went up on the only guy can do that and i've got to be able to women if ratani got to be able to it after so i have to be able to do
that just like everybody else but that's not my job and i really learned that in our advanced training the after buds or so another six
months of what we call you a qualitative and and ah one of my strokers ah on as jackanape say like failure essommes the ears is the best
eager often the best teacher and ah i remember i was trying to shoot the lad down fire for my squad were under fire were shooting and it
was actually trying to look around and i got a safety by latin for that m for lectisternia and trying to look around as i guess what you
can't do both and i was like rogeson have got to say devilish dangerous you ever want to pull the chigron your weapon if you're not looking
down your weapon control were the sights are and it was exactly what he should you know what should have happened but i was really a nation
me like i can't do both and why do i need to be shooting right now because there is like eight other guys in the squaw litter lay in down
fire and there's nobody else is looking round it's my job to hypotaenidia is worn at the sky and i got to be looking around take a step
back off the line jocatore about detach and look around from making that called command control and if i'm not doing that nobody's doing
and so when you're haveral always be reconnu have to understand the specially you have to understand how that stuff works at what he
capabilities of your guys are in of the of the department in the team of the of the the assets you have within your team a but you you
don't you can't get suleit details you have to stand back and and and i portebonheur self and be the communicator to make those big
surtees's tank ex question how easy or difficult defined it to delineate commanding control it really hard ital you are totally overwhelmed
and guess what in combat you're going to be overwhelmed in a you can't do it all and it's and so anything life is like this and so when you
know you know as a latent mar i have got two junior officers who are my assistants and they have they don't have the spirits i have as
their first a pontitian my job as a train those guys up and you sogenin them responsibility and teach them how ever you with to commander
in an and impower them train them in metre them i'm sure it was incredibly difficult in fact i know it was a graver jocko who had a lot of
experience in a lot of direct action captured jimison's ah in iraq don't let me be able to amerigo and planted run that stuff um but you
have to do that and and so you have to train people we all start about how leaders have to work themselves out of a job that's what they
should be doing they have you have to do that so that your train the people in a neat to grow and and learn and take on greater
responsibility so that you can con concerto up an out of a new can grow and learn it take on greatest ye we we tuck to out that a little
bit too rightangles like spendall in my hitherto field where if i'm gonna have some one to take care of some stuff it's hard to trust them
to do it even though it's just in your own head because you used to do in it the certain way and geeven see that person doing it different
even in that one way you've all you get all you know uneasy about it but how you were talking about em how you domaci type of mission just
like a the you focus on that result and they don't lie they're doing irishers when i watched to go out there and do ye go out there and do
it and i can't really get concerned on how you go out or doing because well you know in remodelment example it is you know lay had his
element that was going out but there was a multiple other elements that were going out in different parts of the city all the time and so i
could get in the weeds on lake so i couldn't get in the weeds on the other for five element commanders that were going out at certain times
i mean all at the same time often and so i had to absolutely let go of it and let these guys make it happen now the reason i was able to do
that was cause we had built up trust i had put those guys through the wringer i had miream and and and just been a tonal um i don't know
how would you describe it of ye we first started work up i was really in the weeds with them like helisabet tight right reading out of the
gates to look this is how this ianito do it i i wasn't telling them what to do but i was kept pushmobiles he did hear think about this
moving the stretton a little bit you can't do that right there and and it didn't take long with a guys i okay they know what the
expectations are they learn and now i now idris a worry about them so now what can i want out now i can tell wharabout being flinchin i can
worry about what the strategy is and you know for for bigger operations obviously we don't be till you doubt italian size operations
obviously i could go out encore with the italians and and sometimes go out just to go out and make see how these guys are operating but i
couldn't go out to wit five different guys that five different omens at the same time or even to tefilmosis time answer you had do you have
to build the trust and have the confidence in your leadership and then give them the guide in the parameters the expectations logos mature
that very clear and then you could let them go and you can let them round and you can do your job an that's how we rolled and an cocolate
ber this well because i knew that he wanted to be out of the battle field with us on to every single onion of in that his were would choose
to be and yet he saw his place as listen i got manages other elements and i remember come without is like jackal why don't you want come on
this up with a like good go in the navrach with us and and you were like no i can't do that and and even though i knew he wanted to do it
he knew he had to you know winter was approval plans for her the other guys that were across the city or other almost rather doing the
things that he understood what his role was and realized that if he was out there with me vote been fanny begetting gun fights and and i
was exactly where one to be that he would be all the fridstool to some of the other guys who when they were doing and so a so he couldn't
do that and so it was i know that was a ceegar you if it would be reasons that lay now at his almost assumes we got there i said he lay i'm
going out in the field for a little while you're goin to be casting a grander and left him back and now i see you loaned it was one of the
things in and i'll tell you that was that was actually one of the reasons why i did realize i couldn't go out as much as i would want to
and because i had to maintain command then control so like i said if it was a big operation whether as multiple unit involved obviously i
go out sometimes i would go out just to go out because you have to you know i always talk about this you can't be so far back in the rear
that you don't know what the guys would do go in through you know so i got to just go out there just to go out go over to cregur go on some
operations to go out to the to the the one in one inconstants like up there but the fact of the matter is i had to be in a position to
command and control and i cingola that out of the gate when i left lay back at camp we insignificant operations happen and he got you know
he he got caught in fire storm and i shot you know i wasn't where i should have been so i had to tie myself up a little bit had to be more
judicious in the way in the timing that i rolled out because it is hard to delegate it sordidest especially noted you want to do it but
there is an element of el pushing your kid out did out out them out out of the nest for first time you and i feel like i want to be there i
want to make sure that this goes good men not that i didn't trust a guy and not that they weren't perfectly finding no matter what is
theseyer broths these your buddies and you want to be there to make sure to give them everything that you can and so that's another little
element of it that may sort but you have no choice cool next question how do you overcome the hand cuffing both a boss who isn't a leader
and doesn't trust his employees and he's a credit hog i know little something about this jacketed in an arete credit on her coffin as can
intrust a suonare of them that a jacks the opposite that but this is a listening aster'ses and this is some jocatore because i have hard
time with the lie you know some bidhata i'm more i'm going to his hard head age as that there wants the just now accomplished the mission
de falterest with get at dawn and if some one preventing me from doing that or asking me a question and i think it even tangential
infinitest rated at by that and jocko had a kind of tight you up a few jobs of anatolian brownlock and a year you got really want that is
in just about putting your egocentrist your gonse and you make that also good go who cares you get the credit for it it it's about the
mission and whether not your converse the mission guess what if you go out and accomplish commission the guy was in charge is goin to get
the credit for it regardless right so that's okay and he can't worry about that and there's a more you composite mission the the the
credibility will be shared that the truth will be seen of an energon to get you you will a repoorts your team will read the words from that
regardless of whether it's the the overbearing balls or nine whose trying to be the crateras you just can't worry about that yet the putter
you go in check you've got to make your boss of good and you got a composition the hand coming boss the way you o for come the hand coming
boss is by building a relationship with them had a how probably and obtayning is on every body cast i had the same relationship with every
boss i ever had whether they were psychopathic micro managers or whether they were tact colgius lose fairleader i had the same relationship
of all of them which was they trusted me they knew i was going to get the job done and they gave me what i needed that's what you're trying
to accomplish and some people as life is point out you have to work harder to achieve that some people are less trusting some people are
more or plored you're going to end up having to figure out these other human beings in that's what is hard about leadership especially up
the chain i command she've got a figure out this puzzle of human being and you've got to get towards that strict tegit goal which is
building a relationship of trust and once you have that the cost argonne get on rock now the other piece the credit hag that lave oothaba
clearly clearly if you are saying to yourself he's taking all the credit and i'm not getting mine that's the red flag that the alert saying
hey brother you eagle is calling you need to put it and check you like lay said you want to make your boss look go there's nothing you can
do better to build trust with your boss then making look good and give him all the credit he's going to let you run those hand cassinette
loose survey fame do that you never cared about coco credit are you kidding me are you kidding her in a pet that ahead of accomplishing the
mission that were here to a coded no the credit doesn't matter give the credit your boss delivering your boss on a platter on a silver
platter bring him that credit and walk away from it and say monogatari and those contarono off make it happen inter next orion what do you
do where you know in order that bad but if you don't fall in line the punishment will be terrible jackal talked about this when you were
reading the maxims in the poleon and i think the cot was something like every general intieramente unce of orders from his appears gives
battle with a certain of defeat of his armies ruin is capable and i think that's a exactly true and that what that really is means is
extreme amersham you own it regardless in so you know and in a military you've got to have the uniform coat of miss military justice which
is the the littlego frame work that tattery falsetas are ameliar justice system and i hear you're obligated to not follow a a legal order
subsume of gives you an order to go after you prisoners or do something that you shouldn't do um you actually are legally opiated to not
allow that and and then and that following orders like you know whether your ah itineraire a grant for the assessor to set people to their
death sallust foenore said not of that is not a defence lou have to it's on you it's it's your responsibility um as certainly under our own
use soj a it's it's it's on you i think in those constitutions you you have to own that in its truly bad if it's truly catastrophic you
have to be one o take the punishment you are a punishment for that ogantun a marmy i i'm not going to do that because i'm going to sleep
better at night knowing that i made the right decision i'm not going to go down this path it leads to you know the destruction of our team
that puts people in arms way that puts you know that causes people to do something that's unsaid put to them and jeffrey got to be able
starers on a mirror that most important oh you are a fire me for that okay go i'll take that now some people you have to understand that
you got a priori ise and there are most people that are like over the top everything is that your joetun i don't regret with it and it's
really not that big deal and one example i thought of people are shocked to hear about what it's like going to war in to day's world the
administrative requirements that are on you me massive amount of paper work and we had to do just a get approval for an operation ah all
the things that we had to do that are required on us and were in the middle of a war and guess what we bisharin one more than me and jock
was robinsiegerl about that and one of this he sat right away was a guess what all these admonerent are put in on us even though we
reinheit of training right now in their asses for the paperwork and were going to do it we're going to do hall all of them yea one of the
reasons that i did that was because i did not want higher headquarters to have anything the whole over me at all and furthermore gestat i
was doing i was built up myself a little relationship with the boss man cousin o you want adminster done no problem i don't even worry
about it organ a build it up that's all going to do and then there were times when the paper work did cross the line in one of those
situations that we ran into was not really a paper work situation but they had they wanted us to work on the raised and talk about this
before it's in the book the racksoles are very unreliable unmotivated can be disloyal don't have good training don't speak the same
language as us don't have good equipment i mean it just of a laundries of reasons why you don't want to put your guys wives in their hands
on well in remote the fighting was all bonython and six in other areas of raceing actually settled down well the command above us wandered
us to work with racksole want it all the special operations people to work at iraquois so they actually and any all of this vestorian
people mostly were resistant to this and so everyone would kind ascat by and figure how not do it of animate of antakea tony five men
element of us special operators and will take three iraqis with us soon figs as henceforth and you could you why they were doing as you
don't whine because it's safer eats eats away their okay word were doing what you said and they were actually in the term iraqi face or
ganapati iraqi face on this mission which to them lively meant one face in subchasers we get told this as well and if you be now if you
read the book it will talk we talk about the fact that year we were definitely not pro taking aracus but we realise that if we didn't do
that if we didn't get the races out there fighting they were never going to learn how to fight and we were never you be able to leave iraq
so we knew that it's something we had to do but then they went one step further and they set up a ratio and another sound crazy they set up
a ratio and they said i think it was for every one american soldier you have to have five iraqis with you it was some racial like that some
number and if you were out in some part of centralia outside of a small town and you are doing some kind of a simple mission you could get
away i that all day long in remote wasn't happened that would i mean i would have been sending three or four seals out with the wonesome
thing iraqis and that means if there's a fire fight the at three guys at reliable if one you'll get tin who else is going to handle things
either nightmare and so this order came down and i just ran up chinomania we can't do that m and were not gone that here is what were taken
will take his many iraqis appropriate but this is the man of em force were going to have every operation that we go on and so we set that
sandarac and this is something to talk about a lot as well it was a sensible argument it made sense there was obviously casualties on a
regular basis and remade there was fire fight every single day the paudacotos their first twenty four missions in a rope they got the fire
fight twenty four missions in rotation fire fighter one day where they didn't and then neceda for another hour any measures to the
refineries happening on every mission so for us to be like okay a will just bring three yours and fifteen iraqi soldiers it's a nightmare
where all beladied odo that but one onreasonin that will we were able to do that the jackal was able to get a proof for that is because the
all the little stuff that all you know other people had a oh we don't want to do this paperwork or that's too much and they complain we
have done that we had done a little things ah yet of pain for us yet do i want to do that of course not my rather betraying doing on a
stuff a we're going to do it and so because jockied set that standard and we made you happen then when we really push back for the stuff
that really matter which is roused talking to get a prioritize or execute prioritize that really matters we were able to get that proving
as what they didn't want to siquot and get killed so is a wee plain it up the chanoinesse if we do that or going to we're going to get a
lot of guys guilt by doing that and i talk about this often to fact that leadership he is a line to the front jepson in theirs something
draggon but of course my bosses wanted meet keep my guys'll back is and when the war of course they didn't it in in a business is of course
the boss wants you to be propable and keep your troops happy but be profitable be atical right that those are stand or things in those are
going be aline so if you send up a a an idea of the chinaman you get told to do something and you don't do it because it's not going to
help you be profitable why would you most as agree with that it's not going to happen so you have to have the the wherewithal to actually
know when to say no and on the mole and africa things that lay talked about those are clear cut those are clear got if you're getting told
to do something that's eliga or an ill moral then it is your duty and responsibility to disobey that order and and that's the way it is a
last question my team is missed arelas to dead line i want to take ownership but i'm not sure how it's not what you preach it's what you
tolerating a lucky you have to you have to be effected we we talk about their two there's only two measures that really the matter and
that's effective and ineffective are you effective or your accomplishing a mission and if you are figerately more fact if your infect of
your not accomplishing the mission then you got a figured out you got to take orders with that you got to solve the problem and so if your
team is a gettin a job done you can't tell right lesson that you as a leader you have to drive those standards i arn't puttery on that in
the celtis there some strong personalities there which is also that's one of the great things about the eltons and there is always this
tension between people have there mind we should do it this way or we should do it this way we should trade this heart we should focus our
there and and that's all subsensible talented great gods as we just talked about but as old dear you have got to maintain the standards and
there's some star standards that just cannot be compromised you've got push hard you've got a drive that performance you got to set the
tone for that and if you don't do that no one's going to do it so it's not what you preach it's not the words that you say it's not the
mail that you sat it's not the banner that you created put on the wall or the power point slides that you built it's actually what you
tolerate it to performance that you see and if it's substandard you've got to push again and he got a push again he got a set that bar high
now that being said you can't drive your team in the ground yet to lead them you can't be a slave driver you can't destroy your team you
can't be overbearing but for that those things that really matter pushing before the next level you have got a set that standard and i
think that's what makes truly the the best military units the best team stopped her gray it's not what you preach what you tolerate in with
that one thing i like to think about when when i hear about stangerson what you're going to tolerate don't just think about your team you
gotta think about yourself you got to think about raising the bar on yourself you got to think about what you're going to tolerate from
yourself and how you can't raise that bar and raise that standard and get beggar with everything you do and thereby lead by example so that
your team becomes the example and with that i think will close it out that was a long hall on the pot cast i wanted to ah then thanks to
everybody that's been to any in and listening to the pot cast it's been amazing getting all the feet back thanks obviously to my brother
here late faventum it on i know they'll be on again if anybody out there wants to continue to he's conversation out there on the interets i
connect with us on to winter i'm a jackall income race is at lavatorina course as you know echo charles is at echo charles thanks to
leaving reviews of the pot cast and of the book on i tones and amazon that is very helpful to us so we know how are doing and most of all
for everyone that's out there a year a little chunk of the world listening to a little chunk of the world thanks for getting out there and
forgetting after it and so until next time this is jocko lay an echo it
