this is jacopo cast number fifteen with a charles and me jackal willing good evening ah good evening i looked around at the men i was the
only one looking round all the other heads were bowed down all of them praying these men were going into battle real battle we could
literally hear machine gun fire in the distance where the battle would take place these men at suffered an incredible number of casualties
they had every reason to pray i was with charley company from one of the most hallowed unit in the u s military the first of the five or
six the band of brothers made famous by their unbelievable performance in world war two which was documented in the book band of brothers
which became an e b many series of the same name the first of the five or six and remade held the line on that tradition of glory and
service and current there's nothing i can say that will do justice to the end to be the admiration and the respect that i had for the first
the five extent that all of us feels at for the first the filter the seals that i sent to work directly with the filix device adopted by
the false red gore that's one of the nicknames for the five or six and the seals that were directly there working with them absolutely
loved the five six the five six represented everything good i can imagine in a military team or any team professional and discipline and
not of heated and creative the leadership in the battalion was absolutely outstanding the battalion commander he was the very essence of
leadership e calm and direct and friendly and open minded and respectful than respected and his staff and accompanied manders in the senor
and so's they had this unified thread between them this band the connection and it was that tradition and that sense of purpose and that
standard of excellence in professional sum it's hard to describe but it was absolutely there and it was as real as the sand and the bullets
and the guns and so there i wasn't as was early in my deployment to remodeling a bruiser and i was about to go out into the malatesti but
charlie company and the company commander was just a outstanding guy and i knew that this unites company in this bacalan i knew was
something special and i knew that that term the band of brothers i knew that that's what they truly were and we hear it and i know it's a
book in its exit it's a h be series but where does it come from now most people of her that simple quo we few we happy few we band of
brothers for he to day that sheds his blood with me shall be my brother and i knew what that cot was i knew where i came from is anguish
major in college and i knew that that was the experience and i knew that that was henry the fifth and i knew how powerful that colt was now
when you start talking about shakespeare or you start talking about henry the fathers all kinds of different directions you can go because
you can go back and you can look at what henry the fifth was like in real life and if you was like the leader of that shakespeare made him
into an a play and you could talk about shakespeare himself and the roomers and he and the mists and the way it led the the legends that
circulate his life in his legacy cause there's all kinds of questions about shakespeare to me did i actually right all of his place was he
more than one person was a soldier some point how did he know all this stuff about the military and one was like to be a soldier was his
vocabulary ten times what a normal person is there's all kinds of like i said merentis about shakespeare but instead of talking about all
that and and the conjecture in the hypothetical questions i would rather talk about something that is known something that we have to day
and those are the words words from the play henry the fifth which yes was written by shakespeare and i'm gonna tell you don't be scared and
don't be intimidated by that i mean don't be scared and don't be intimidated by shakespear because you don't understand it because you
can't and if after matter is no one can at least at first it's not possible to understand shakespeare out of the gate it doesn't work the
other language the it's it's it is another language you can't be expected understand it it's written in something called early modern
english you don't we speak english this is early modern english which is just a transition from something called middle english and if you
go on you to and you you look up middlings and you have somebody read a real common one as you look at the lord's prayer and meddling lish
you can barely understand it parts of it you can't understand parts of the word your recognized but when you get to early in hottering sh
now at a step closer but it still is there there's its different's a different type of language and there's archaic words in his obsolete
words and there's words that shakspere is made up he would make up words factually and the patterns a speech or different in the idioms are
different and the references are all historical and so if you have a grasp on those miss objec references and i stole a carefree is and
biblioteca that it doesn't have the meaning that it supposed to have so you can't expect it to open up shakespeare and be able to
understand it now this is actually opposite of what i often say because to me you know you have me say all the time that tom what makes
english shone portery can make things very simple and very understandable by everybody so that why is an important why should we read it
why should we try and understand it and the answer that question as actually very simple shakespear had something he had something he had
some understanding some knowledge some some insight into the human mind that is not normal it's not normal he understood people did pleenty
relationships he understood leadership he understood love and he understood war and i don't know how he did this and in the wide did but he
did and on top of that he had this talent he had this gift to translate that knowledge into words and this is important because in the late
fifteen hundred and the early sixteen hundreds this is a whole nother deal there's no special effects there is no close up shot some an
actor there's no stump man there's no sea gi everything has to be contained in the words all be a motion and all the feelings and all the
action and all the nature of human beings at all as to be captured in the words and the words that shakespeare uses or heavy and their own
so the puritan the prankin with so much more meaning than what on the surface their fill with depth and knowledge that you have to scrape
away and uncover to figure out what they're even talking about but let let's take a look at us this famous speech in henriette play the
same name and i am guinaldo it a little bit just to kind of at least set the context of what's happening and who as i did i went into my
notes just the old pony when you've got this guy that can a comes out and describe you what's gonna happen in the play in the anykind of
introducing henry matey call him harry and he introduces him with this line then should the war light harry like himself assume the port of
mars and at his heels leash in like hounds should famine sword and fire crouch for ployment sufered that down pistasch on the great out of
the gate he is saying here is warlike which means he is fond of war and skilled in it and equipped for it and in a more little meeting it
saying henry is like war himself which means as complexities said they and they you and the man in his inside himself and then tickles on a
sad that he should assume the port of mars which means he should take on the bearing of mars which is the roman god of war had added heels
so so down down by his feet leashed in like cows she got dogs angry dogs on leashes and those dogs are famine sword and fire and in those
days that was warm because when you did see wafer on somebody new lock down their castle you start of them and once they were weakened you
burned their castle and then used the sword finish a off so he had those dogs of war at his side and they were crouched fernbloms if you
can imagine a pit bolt just ten and oiled like a spring ready to pounce that's the opening described henry so there are war with france and
they go to take down this town of harfleur and at this point this is one of the other billy famous speeches from henry the fifth and this
point they've broken through the walls there there's a breach in the wall so as there's a hole in the wall but the frenchers still
defending it the french estill defending it pretty well and so henri aswattha with his troopers and the siparations speech and he says once
more unto the breach dear friends once more or close the wall up with our english dead so he saying that hole in the wall shared charge a
aid or get through it or fill up the wall with a dead and then he says in peace there's nothing so becomes a man as modest stillness and
humility so when things are when things are peaceful being calm in being humble as a good thing but when the blast of war blows in our ears
then imitate the action of the tiger so when war comes never mind peace and calm it's time to be like a tiger and he says stiffness summon
up the blood disguise fair nature with hard favor grace sueno and summon up your rage then lend the eye a terrible aspect let tryste
portage of the head like the brass cannon let the brow overwhelm it so we say there is thoroughly brow and let your eye booyers like a
cannon like a brass handed sticking out of a porthole as fearfully as doth a galled rock overhang and jutty his confounded base swilled
with the wild and wasteful ocean so he say make your brow overhang our eyes like a rock that dress out over the wild ocean and then now set
the teeth and stretch the nostril wide hold hard a breath and bend up every spirit till its full height so you know what that one is bit
down grit your teeth flare your nostrils take a deep breath and all did in and bring every emotion you have to its utmost and like like a
like attention on a bow on all you know blest english hotblood is fet from fathers of war proof fathers like so many alexanders have in
these parts from morn till even fought and sheer swords for lack of argument threstle ten you got a fight you got a fight you you beingless
men whose blood is from combat tested warriors like alexander the great and those men are fall on the soil from morning until night for
ever and they only sheetthe swords when there was no one else to fight do not dishonour your mother now a test that on you called fathers
did but get you to don't dishonour your mom proveth your father with his warrior blood is really your father be copy now to men of grocer
blood and teach them how to war that means be example to the lesser man to the weak man and show them how to war and you good oman whose
limbs were made in england show us here the metal of your pasture so you men were basically like a trooper the foot soldiers the archers
and he saying show us how you were born in england and the pasture that were you raised like a cow's raised on a pasture show us what the
men of that pasture is let us swear that you are worth your breeding which i doubt not for there is none of you so mean and base that hath
not noble lustre in your eyes so no matter where these guerero no matter what level of society there they they came from he seized the
noble lustre in the righteous gleam in their eyes i see you stand like greyhounds in the slips straining upon the start now straton you
know now us in for racing they used to be used to hunt to run down animals and a slip is in this one of the things you got to look this up
i didn't know this i looked it up to day a slip isn't old kind of leech that they used for hunting dogs that when you it was very you could
you any basically yet a switch and it would let the dog go so here these picture these greyhounds that are in these quick release leaders
and what their straining on them waiting to go on the hunt to go on a chase down their prey and the next line is the dames of foot follow
your spirit and upon this charge cry god for harry england and saint george there is as the games a foot meaning the the animal that your
hunting it out there follow your spirit and then go and get after it and as you get after it yell god for harrying land and saint georgian
saint john is the saint george the patron say of england the taragon slayer who is an executed christian margoso you canditate so much
inside these words in capture some of the brutality of war and so what happens now as they they get the village that they're trying to take
down and have you know put a lot of pressure on i've gone through the breach they've gotten flat back but now they've got on a lock down
and he's telling them he tells the governor henry tells the governor that he needs to surrender before henry loses control of his own men
this is a scary thing as i can now hey if you'll sternentranen more over these gushes barbarians at the gate there goin to come and i'm not
going to have trooper he says the gates of mercy shall be all shut up and the flesh in soldier rough and hard of heart and by the way
flashed this an old world it means excited by the case of flesh so he saying these soldiers who are excited by the taste of flesh in
liberty of bloody hand sell shall range with conscience wide as hell so in liberty of body and on know with that means a means or ansarey
coverlid iobates on to go forward and i don't care any more i don't care any more with conscience wide as hell mowing like grass your fresh
fair virgins and your flowering infants so we are going to come and we are going to mow like grass herefords and your children that that is
your igoe's on trying to convince them again this is is keepin is like listen i have controlled his caserte now and he goes on therefore
you men of harfleur take pity on your town and of your people whilst yet my soldiers are in my command whilst yet the cool and temperate
wind of grace o blows the file and contained disclouded of heady murder spoil and villany the sand like right now there's there's a cool
breeze of peace and grace with my guise but some contagious clouds were coming of murder and spoil and villany and in the werses heavy is
it means intoxicating meaning these hatchments their minds if not why in a moment looked to see the blind and bloody soldier with foul hand
desire the locks of your shrill shrieking daughters your father's taken by the silver beards and their most revert reverend heads dashed to
the walls blind and bloody sheetlike blind with rage and blind with murder and foul hands he telling them tis your naked infant stated upon
pikes and spited by the way he is a methodology used in this time period for cooking small games small animals and it means you put the
animal on a pole from mouth to reconnoiter goin to do this ditherin walls the mad mothers with their howls and fused to break the clouds as
did the wives of duriette bloody hunting slaughterman sobrante clouds temengro the mad mother's congoman with tears like they did in the
bible and matthew to sixteen that took as referring to when king herod ordered the slaughter of all boys under the age of two and bethlem
this is i a threat that the kill all the children so henry the physis bringing it hal what say you will you yield and thus avoid all guilty
in defence be thus destroyed so the french hearing these pretty valid threats coming ah the render the adrian the troops take that village
and then the next thing they do is march and in again a moving rapidly through a real war that took place and they end up a settling on the
opposing ends of a field which is now what becomes the the famous battle of it some people call as court or agin court and the french they
they got more people i mean in france so they've got more people substantially more people there's a bunch of different youneverse read
there's very numbers but they definitely had substantially more people and henry he's talking to some of his leadership subordinated ers
and in they all kind of walk off the stage needs left there an he starts talking a little bit about the burthen of command and and some
thoughts on leadership which i was i found very familiar so he says upon the king let us are lives are souls are deaths are careful wives
are children and are sins lay on the king we must bear all through you knows that the king is responsible for everything go take one in
everything any kind of talk about this ideal that the king is betoimes on of its lonely at the top and ease about to get into that puters
fifteen ninety nine o ceremony show me but thy worth what is thy soul of adoration are now aught else but place to dree and form so salahat
is all this junk besides just social rank and adequate what we will meaning does it have creating awe and fear in other men wear in tow art
less happy being feared then they in fearing so he saintlowes people are scared me i am i'm actually less happy than they are there are
there afraid to me but i'm less happy as i'm the gait scaring them i am a king that find t and i know tis not the balm the sceptre and the
ball the sword the mace the crown imperial the intertissued robe of gold and pearl the first a title running for the king the throne he
sits on nor the tide of pomp that beats upon the high shore of this world to go through hold the canister typical things that make you a
king you know the close separate crown all those things no not all these thrice gorgeous ceremony not all these laden bed majestical so not
any of those beautiful things expensive things can sleep so soundly as the wretched slave so the slave who with a body filled and vacant
mind gets him to rest or am with distressful bread so he's talkin about this fact that the king doesn't it rest isn't sleep when the slave
goes on at night he he's going to eat the fed with a distressful basically that means that they made it themselves i made with roanault get
some satisfaction of making their food and eating it using get that satisfaction his mind is constantly turning about the fate of the
kingdom and you sactly interestingly when i was in a aweeping here about shriekin i talked about me being in trianon i tried to drag his
cause again i'd never been combat this isn't been midnight dodoti to drag as much now it just like cold out of the shooings the shankela in
a stroken special boat service and this special forces guys that we are working with the unbelievably combat experienced veterans but when
the guys that i befriended is an army captain and you know it is he was one of those guys whose a guide that was a good leader but man he
felt exactly what disgust what had refectorium here i remember him saying you he's kind desave late night conversation with me because i
said i was causey trying to go rorifera ion from these guys and learned from them and you know he gets his side been at this guy then a
regular soldier and then he had been promoted he caught up the ranks and he said you know jacob when i was a soldier meeting with us just a
grunt soldier in you know lower and listed guy he said i knew i could survive anything and i knew i could take care of myself and it was
actually kind of fun and he said now that i mocolane commander cause now he is expert senior guy he said it is the most stress and it is
the most harrowing thing because i i'm not worried about myself any more but i'm so worried about all these other guys that's what the
worries and yes i ah i actually got to know that feeling myself be leader gets no rest and and and what henry talk out of that burden of
command that the same thing that true ology was talking about you hear me talk about it as well you know that burned of command he is heavy
and now so now you know get off kind of gone very quickly through what this to get to this point where where henry the fifth makes this
famous speech in as i said the english are one side a battlefield the french bean again this really happen this is this is factual
information and they can hear each other and they can at night they see others camp fires burning and any english like i said they know
their out numbered in finally one of the leaders now as there as are getting ready to go in a combat one of the leaders from the british
side he calls out kind of like wishing that they had more men and is interesting and in preempting to know that i mean obviously
shakespeare fictionalized this in many ways but that speech is actually luted in a real account it's rooted in a real account of something
that was sad and and the account was written by an anonymous chaplain that was like on tour with these guise and eutrope down what he saw
off and in his report it was the a a guinemer walter hunger for that suggested to the king that would be nice if they had another ten
thousand archers from england that were not doing anything you know that her sitting back doing you know back in england sitting in piecing
it be nice if they had me he now in the play it's a character named westmorland who's one of you know the the the lieutenants or the what
one of the ah support leadership of henry the fifth and he says oh that we now had here but one ten thousand of those men in england that
do no work to day so he saying that saint tacitis here we are about to go to battle were completely outnumbered and me nice we had some of
those other guys at her angularity now that are sitting in bed that are doing nothing and so so now king henry responds and it again this
is this is in the same vein that was documented by the anonymous chaplain of course shakespeare rodeo i gotta be it's a lot more impact ful
but the messages the same and i'm going to go through his once account break it down so so that we can understand what the meaning of these
different words are before i just roll through it so when he say of this guy says you know only we had more guys and king henry says what's
he that wishes so meaning a hoast that to my cousin westmoreland no my fair cousin if we are marked to die we are enough to do our country
lass and if the live the fereman the greater share of honour these now as if we're going to die we got plenty of guys here to die for her
country but if we're going to live in forenint the fewer men we have the better because that's more honour for us god's will i praise i
wish not one more man is on anybody else by jove i am not covetous for gold nor care i who doth feed upon my cost so his carbon gold he is
care who he feeds and who who eats off of his check that he's cashing it earned me not if my men my garments were being as a people hence
people either taking his clothes or if they're wearing his wild calorescence and care about any of that such outward things dwell not in my
desires those things don't matter to him but if it is it be a sin to covet honour i am the most offending soul alive to fertemilon and if
it's a sin to want honor and want glory that he the guiltiest person of em all to face my cause wish not a man from england god's peace i
would not lose so great an honor as one more man methinks would share from me for the best hope i have oh do not wish one more threesome no
we don't want any one else i don't want to share my honor with any one else rather proclaim it westmorland to my host that he which hath no
stomach to this fight let him depart this passport shall be made and crowns for convoy put into his purse so he's okay you know what west
moreland as a matter of fact tell every one that anybody that doesn't have the guts or the stomach to stand here with us and fight
telemovies im a passport and give them money to pay for their trip home we would not die in that man's company that fears his fellowship to
die with us is one died with anybody that fears the duty that i mean by fellowship the duty to die with us this day is called the feast of
christian so christian this is actually alleged twin brothers interestingly crispin and christian timbres they help a pore and they preach
custant and they were tortured by the roman governor and they were thrown into the river with a millstone tied round their necks and they
survived and when they survived that they pulled him out of a water and they beheaded them they were venerated they became saints on
october twenty fifth and that's called saint crispin's day sometimes scalaris ian's day but that's what it is so the date this is october
twenty fifth when there about that fight it is this day is called the feast of christian ye that our lives this day and come home safe will
stand a tiptoe when the day is named and rouse him at the name of christian trinitarian lives through this day and comes home safe when
it's goin to be saint crispin's day thirty gold on their toes are going be so excited about it that shellites day and live old age will
yearly on the vigil feast his neighbours and say to morrow is saint christian so genait lives through this is goin to be going to the
neighbours and a tomorry pity then we'll keep strip his sleeve and show his scars and say these wounds i had on crispin's day she's gonna
be at their feet is on roll up his sleeves and his gonna see these scars is when i got on the tristan day old men forget yet all shall be
forgot but he'll remember with advantages what feats he did that day since and everything is forgotten right but the old man were a member
the glory days of that battle and what he did it will be the high light of his life then or names familiar in his mouth as household words
harry the king bedford and exeter ware and talbot soberise b in their flowing cups freshly remembered to all their names are going to be
remembered this story shall the good man teach his son and crispin crispian shall ne'er go by from this day to the ending of the world but
we in it shall be remembered to say look resistor that good men are going to tell their sons and they're gonna for ever remember on this
day till the ending of the world what we did we few we happy few we band of brothers for he to day that sheds his blood with me shall be my
brother and that one doesn't really need an explanation but we surtout brotherhood a lot be near so vile this day shall gentle his
condition so no matter where you're from no matter what you were like no matter what kind of a person you were to day when i say gentle his
condition that could dey won't make you a gentleman to day won't make you a man and gentlemen in england now abed so guitarra k in england
right now sleeping shall think themselves a curse it they were not here and hold their manhood cheap while any speaks that fought with us
upon saint crispin's day so like i said any one that's home in england and that warn't a bad as lecambye being lazy and sleeping there are
corset they weren't there and he'll know that they weren't real men and meuse the word manhood which implies you know testicular fortitude
the inhabitest ocular fortitude to fight and that that's the speech with the understanding and i haven't been in one way i mean i didn't go
to break down each in every word and the depth and meaning behind them because they are so impact in if you go on you red you get like a
translated modern version um i akanuma down the language and that's old k but i'm telling you having done both when you do that that's like
compared to actually doing the work and studying and figuring out what it all actually means if you just take it dumb down version it's
like diashak spearer shakespearite it's fate worse than that it's like that it's like fire in a cap gun verses firing a real gun at it kind
of looks the same and it might even sound a little bit the same but one of them will kill you i and the other one just goes bang on not as
heavy and what's really bazar and this is i think actually of a missus really strange if you go on you too and you look up battery the
fifth saint crispin's day speech right if you look it up you'll get these classically trained actors faintness i mean famous actors doing
this speech and in my mind they don't get it they don't get it right and i you know what i know i'm a nobody i know object some guy and
these people are people at study shakespeare and did it on stage and all the sum i'm just an ignorant ah you know wrath from the trenches
and i don't understand i am bipenne and all the other little details but in none you i don't think they did it and when i watch the
professional do this i don't think they get the emotion i don't think they understand the leadership i don't think they'd get the fear and
the blood and the desk and i don't think they understand warm and when these actors take these are words that a rate brilliantly and they
try and save them like leaders to me they still sound like actors they don't sound like men that have fought at all so like men that had
seen battle definite to sound like men that have seen war i think henry the fifth would have sounded different this is what i think would
be closer to what henry the fifth a combat leader would a sounded like as he as he answered some one of his subordinates at there in the
crowd saying that we need more people we need more men i think this is what he would sounded like the what's he that wishes so my cousin
westmoreland no my fair cousin if we are marked to die we are enough to do our country lass and if the live the fermentation share of honor
god's will i pray thee wish not one more man by jove i am not covered as for gold nor care i who doth feed upon my cost he earned me not if
men my garments wear such outward things dwell not my desires but if it be a sin to covet honour i am the most offending soul alive no
faith my causis not a man from england to peace i would not lose so great an honor as one man more methinks would share from me for the
best hope i have or do not wish one more rather to claim it west more than to my host that he which hath no stomach to this fight let him
depart his fast parshall be made and crowns for convoy shall be put into his purse we would not die in that man's company that fears his
fellowship to die with us this day is called the feast of christian he that outlive this day had come home safe wulstan a tiptoe when the
day is named and roused the name of christian see that shall see this day and live all age quilt yearly on the vigil the his neighbors
sense to morrow is saint christian then will strip his sleeve and show his scars and save this wound i that arristin day old men forget yet
all shall be forgot but hell remember with advantages what he did that day then shall our names familiar in his mouth as household words
harry the king bedford exeter more wicked talbot southbayton er b and their flowing cups freshly remembered this story shall the good man
teaches son and urban aspens nero by from this day to the ending of the world but wan it shall be remember it we few we happy few quean of
brothers or for one for a to day that sheds his blood with me shall be my brother be there so vile this day shalt centis condition and
gentlemen in england now abed shall think themselves accursed they were not here and hold their manhood cheap while any speaks that fought
with us upon saint crispin's day now that is a speech and that is like i said there's a amore to it then what i comfort there so much depth
there and that's why it's lasted the ages and that's why you hear people talking about brotherhood and vises what they were for to and as
for as shakespeare goes and i talk all the time cootting stronger and faster and getting smarter and stronger and faster not i mean that's
pretty straight forward have you get stronger faster you live wait you work out you do your calisthenics you do physical activity to get
stronger and faster but how do you get smarter well this is one way to get smarter you go out and you find something that you do not
understand and i gain understanding of it words you don't know and phrases you don't know and contents you don't know you find them and you
learn them you teach yourself the resources are there and by the way you know what it's freyhere's no jim fees are no equipment to buy you
can get all of shakespeare his entire canon only internet for free it hath a library for free the only thing it does take the only thing it
does cost is just a little something that we call discipline right to get in there to open that book to challenge your brain in order to
for your mind so that she pere that had he the fish and very backful and deferently a classic representation of the banda brothers that i
had the honour to work with in remote iraq two thousand six the first to fiveteen or i guess it is time for questions from the inter
webbiana speaking then web bottom from one eye we are in fact sponsored by on it not calm boom which is where julius creil to keep this
we'll say what egineon no we'll just say i onendin deteriorating sidwell is age it but all i jotted his joints together ah so i get some
alphabetical swart yemen he so good i'm actually coursing to take more alphabetage a little bit yet but it's good um yes so on it dot com i
can and i have yet and you can get some of its cattle bells and some cubes and go and cast those things around and get yourself a little
bit strong get him an on it in my hoolahanes as how and you probably you thout i have him i have a theory there might kind of go to win i i
have him sitting around because they they do they kind of draw you in because i see what it what i think when i she's only what i sees all
this i think i'll be a ball of solid think i've ever read any somethin a couple canalboats real quiet why got a alittle ottetto minutes
spare home tent up there yet they're too and a partly there balanced just like regular ones benoite feel on on it you know he can get them
at one dotcom o an inn it dot com slash jocando get temperato tom get some shrewdest by the way was long the three texts rethink idea as
the other as the public service yea if you're doing something that's high outfit like a cross fit to jewish and you do it that's a public
sir this in you night and day he want sumter that's come in to coletheart i fit out of sixteen in the eden or by bamenda yes if you would
like to support this pot cast in a painless way recalled painless yes sinless seemed less eulaeus quid i see less of instead of going
straight amazon dahomite jackal store to come or jocolpus out on by an civilitate aisles for eight hundred dollars right and you do it
though you do it though you click through dolopia dock amor jocoser uncomfort jocasta in the part caskets supported financially ye get like
the inalienable little some so etespa that nothing yet and it's yeah an a actually amazon thus because the cause yet that's cool because it
takes time to do the part cast her it it takes preparation through the barcas yet neonapoleon be i do it anyway he obviously i think you
would too but where we hid it but people ask though they're like have this in great lesson people till bill sign up somethin i guess other
patessia situations where you can sign up in just enter your credit card and it'll take out like a dollar a month or something on as i
could think his guide am i i for tolly forget his name such a cool anyway evil meantime now as i dang tha solid but none the less she we do
that oh i noosrut i don't know they are i think we're little may be will research that a cause i depeople are always say hey iverson cause
people argue the value and when they give value they want to give valentine you some back which is awesome recite were cool very little yet
i mean that threatened to day were seventeen pages last working on for the past few days getting ready you know that's like a torn paper in
college you know those grinders don't get check yes like a four hundred level to paper my term papers at one path and are one in holgate
there and i oh we at one more thing about about amazon to somebody hit me upon twitter and said ah you need to say on your pocasset you ave
your your book extreme intership isn't audiance and what's what i think it's cool about it is life wrote the book with me he's no other sea
he owed me and remote and he and i the one that read it so we wrote chapters we drew half the chapters and we re read it so you know ever
you used to the jackal paretic yes and an you lay it on the potatoos dicatur eleven yes so we are so get you can get the audio book and you
got another into eight hours long is no joke you got a long drive it order ye git you got an eight hour drive this go from then ye yes one
of those drives to get okay yes the jocatore not come jack apatatam all right and on it onnaitural banks large right uncle thank you right
irene questions first question comparavit a question it regaling questions doom undistrustful your opinions on the regular army in chifney
it seems like nowadays the regular infantry is almost looked down upon from the regular public and every prior military public speaker
almost feel like were looked at like we were just bodies that held ground in absorbed the tax it made no real impact on the war i'm almost
hesitant to ask because i'm not sure if i can or i'm not sure if i'm in denial or if it's just fried i serve some fantastic warriors in
otanes heroes to be looked over in history because they were regular corrupt side enjoyer opinions on this matter and if you could
enlighten me on how infantry divisions are looked at from other groups and organizations ye umteenth question you know it bothers me
heydager's me because if you couldn't tell from the opening that i did not talk about the first of filiation tell you the same thing about
so many other units we have the utmost respect and admiration for what we used to call connessoors with an alcohol general purpose forces
but it's that the marine corte us marcotte u s army there their regular insured patter their grunts and we like i said with the guises in
my task in at the guianensis we have nothing but respect and admiration for the ground pounders for the grunts they and for my position you
know have been remade with the two tuat which was reserving a fenian that iron soldiers those guys were at standing i will standing and
then they turned over with the one on either be talk about them and the italians that were attached to them those guys were just the the
all of them i mean they were just so professional so brave and i of course special forces and seals and rangers and maracana or for
whatever reason a special operations gets attention right i mean the name is special operations so gets this attention i'm not a hundred
per cent sure where it comes from aware it started or whatever but there's something about that that that the public and the media in no
the media feet the public and the foot lifteth public feast the median the mediate feeds a public so like the public wants to see stories
so the media produce stories about the special operations sides and then it goes into a vision circle of vicious ercle and they just make a
bunch of new stories about it in so you know i like this little one to whatever of special operations probably that's that's that's the
having that impact but let me tell you roisterer body for any one that's on it not been in the military that has that you know thinks o the
special operations guys must be more you know elidor do more dangerous stuff wrong wrong do they do daesel yes but you know i've been all
andros in iraq my first supplementary act in all over iraq inspection upon him stayed home ody but i during that time saw the conventional
utterl purpose forces that ground pounders a grunter and not just them but i talked about this last time the the legists folks i mean to
everybody trout there little living in fordoing basis there living in combat how post in the middle of cities till small groups out there
eating a morris just living in really tough conditions do in daytime patrols and habaeus working with iraqi soldiers he like a dis a bedos
logistics runs you know these we get bound up with and these we get an ambush i mean this is what they did all the time every day this is
their job even like the mine clearance operations you know mindoro out and you go out to go and get blown up or try and look for things
that are to plow you up and and you know for sure you got some guys that are in the big mind protective vehicles the one your many there's
a marine court unital low behind those atomies an army of the fall behind esaron for infatuated just out there get after it and so would we
think of that i mean i have just admiration respect and just utmost the utmost i hold as guys in the highest esteem um because they held a
line so to to that guy tout there that is that question i believe me anybody that's been in combat and knows what you guys do an i spread
that word all the time you use any even if you read if you read late niabon we talk about that he didn't greatly gall about the respect and
admiration we had for for the general purpose forces the grunt the ground bounders the bravest the most professional almost dedicated
people that i could ever imagine and i was absolutely honoured and every one of my selaski it was honored and humbled to haesere with such
brave warriors so that's how i feel about are you as military extention so jack o pot did a literose and instruct the north father and
instruments of a picture black and white a strangely and one of my dear you think um of just the mat and i think there is some ambiguous
figures of his denieth in somebody anyway he said talked about he learned to last intersepting like that in and so the question is jack
what lesson did you learn for the thousandth time because he said he said that feeling in training with veyor day so what was that
selection was rules rules mossamedes be broken hangings let me let me give you the quick story first if pisthetaerus players i will agila
little bit with some duty so friday night training indignation on friday nights and we had a weawarra we had a little death match on friday
and i start off we would have probably undernefe six maybe seven minutes and he got me got me in the little gometti situation that forced
me to submit and then we we all airgonauts we went again and i and i wormed down i got the better of him and actually the the deeper water
i take him into the better things get for me right and urso i wormed down and i got a hold of his arm and i had him in the iatio position
for probably five minutes and you know he any at the last moment good great timing and he coulsdon out or burn hit was a straight on losing
and ah she got out and we got out he was done he was like an i'm done me got out of her but he was don't so jack got a little moral victory
right and then i kind of antagonized a little bit which is what the neri do we we instigate and we antagonize each other and so i
antagonized a little bit about you you don't want training more oh could you to your two broken down you know aminta your train more you
can go home and you know gave glass of warm milk or a goat is even or die so so you know inside and i failed to recognize us inside
psychologically he was he was not happy about that in its saturday he's like hay you know let's train as arise that and this that escut
it's a red flag on so when i showed up you know he says all you know what his work above said ned will you we want over some stuff and wore
on some other people and you know we're dis kinda we very relaxed laid back her no class calling were just to relaxing and i said ha margot
leave it such a such a time i know picknicked up he goes santoro the cause i got to leave two so now i think he's got redimetur thinking
work where we might get a light roll now we hit you know maybe like a two five introd so ane's got the you know the nice guy face and all
that stuff that is given me so anyway i said or i you know we were translates as i lets a roll rower even through that out there like it
was just going wickwire quit yet just to aliwal so i'm thinking i'm thinking two or three literally in thinking to othomies like to go over
maybe and try some of the stuff we we we were just drilling a little bit no he comes for wan mean i in any in it was a disguised for one so
he didn't you know get on but he just went very sternly and and basted my guard really quick and then and actually you know you and i were
at a disgust this mounting that i had done to the other day i was actually dokoochief montero got this new escape and all disuse that and
he aggressive we mounted and even restedly went for this move that we call the snow angel would yes when you get the persons arms up like a
snow angel like up above their heads and from the mouth and its just all ordain there as they their emir heaben leverage you can move and
so now give me in so educate a double snowfoot like arms are stuck up there now what it what was bad about this was there was a moment okay
nessus this is a rule that i learned cause and after we broke it down so den kept me there for you know probably seven minutes in standun
age which is this the nightmare because he's not just holding me there he's sane things and you know he's antagonizing me aside just
wanting to kill him dad and i forget him i actually forget how it ended on don't remember if he went from our market god ed or a few went
my got out i forget how it ended cause it's kind of a big blue of which most of my rules are but any ways the rule is and i don't want to
go into too much detail be can just because it's i'll get to tackle or you do through the audio parapet you know basically i don't let my
elbow a ross the other person's stern am i don't let it go across their service if he does you can get pen there you get stuck there so
there was a moment when when denis try to move me in the snow angel when i should have sacrificed and done like a drastic movement that's a
major breaking of that ruin turned my side really are but my elbow cross he is stern em and it would have gotten me out and as we as we
looked at it you know because once i was out and we we went over for a few minutes or to just try and arise what happened and i realized
that you know that i had to held on to this rule of mine even though part of me was in the anti try it and i didn't i didn't try it until
then i got a worse position worse position worse position so the lesson learned is that sometimes you got to break in wales now the the
fingers it's not just gittin not just to get to it about business it's about life is about relationships it's about not getting stuck in a
rut and it's about being able to something as i i was in my own head i didn't detach him a situation i didn't look at it from another
position said okay you don't this is getting worse right now i just was stuck there mentally so you got i think you got a you got to think
about your rules objectively and i didn't do that and it's a rule that is as has saved me many times but this time it it cost me nearly
dearly so don't let your rules rule you you got to keep ruling yours don't let your rules rule you yet you am another way that can look at
that is the like a black and white mind i know you like don't stick is it your mind is more or less black and white vesture wants first i
think generally speaking but don't neglect the gray yes so much gray in there and of course you know if you ever willsher solid rules then
yes dictate rules but like i said to neglect the gray you know how you see you got us a freeer one might all be just may rule montberon
ilissus break it not to hotaei o sad as a ah some people use that as a a excuse to do what every right yes exactly at gerontological all ex
questions do i i'm glad you use that make a the way jack do you have any advice on consoling a member of your team that your leading who
knows they are to blame for the project feeling or for a falling through the person question is a great worker but just made an honest
mistake that cost that cause of the failure of the project if you extremely guilty for putting my job iris and i can't convey in that
enough that i understand it was his honest mistake not personally failed to communicate enough with them i think it's a great thing this
person is so passionate at their job but is there any way i can get them to distance themselves and show them that this one failure is not
that big of a deal so um ye e like like the de question says it's cool that you got something that passionate right that's great and it
sounds like they want to take ownership and that's great too it sounds like they are having trouble moving on so in this case no no major
complication is is it not that make of a deal used got a talk in through it and for me i will use probably some kind of subsist ries a real
simple one as i like about parish outing if your person will the man training points when your parish your dingane goes wrong you should
don't get focused on just trying to fix the bad shoot because that's what gets people killed their looking up they think maybe they can
save the shoot they think they can make it open somehow and then netting you know they have the ground right and they die so what they do
is they they teach you that a you've got a bad shot you know you pull your main parasite and it doesn't open correctly you take a look at
it you go kate is it iniopem and out you make a decision and you caught it away and it's gone and you focus on the next thing which is
getting your reserve fired come out to save your life the one that did no pen doesn't matter any more so move on you can think about it
like a a like a shooting competition too because it's the same thing you when your shooting you don't want to shoot you want to think about
the last shot that you just missed and you don't want to think about the next shot that's a hard shot or far shot or you will think about
those alsanol think about the shop that you're taking an that's the one that you want to think about and if you're getting caught in the
past it's going to ruin what you're trying to do in the present so you you know you have won this is something to this you know you've got
to explain to your employee that's got you look lessen i understand that you that ye'd ruin if you can't let that goes on to screw up the
project work on an now so let's let that go let me on so that's what i said i'm salesbook buddy i know this woman bad i get it you feel bad
appreciate it it's over it's in the past let's take the lessons learned and we got a move on not dwell on yesterday if we dwell on
yesterday takes our focus offertory and tomorrow which are the things we can actually control we can actually control or doing today we can
actually control or a no morrow we do have control over what happened yesterday that's gone so what i need you to do is focus on this
mission now and making sure we execute it a hundred per cent then that sense of color that access to control over over a situation at soul
cretica to to know when you are in that position because to lay a what to know that that you you draw it yet and i to have no atonement i
can not let you canyon control yet it like i said have access to that because it feels as for feeling so it feels like you he personally oh
it feels like danaidae is the problem the parachute that's the problem so of all my attention and all my emotional energy and so is is is
on that that's the problem but like i said if you discontinue on the fact that he i can't control that bad so that that you do can this you
know and catinat and yes foison the same but like i said men that that's the that's the curate there to understand that man you don't you
don't have control over that any more we're done with that we're not doing that any more yet we're doing this new star you know i should
say that on my last one about taking out breaking rules i said business i said life i forgot to say combat but combatiant way if you can
stock in a standard operating particular you won't see your sit way out of it you're going to hear gobantes thing in combat if you make one
bad decision on the battle field and now you start dwelling on that bad decision you got forget about that you got a move on you got a move
forward so you know well the only reason you look back it's just a cesse lesson learned or in to take away for it and then turn back to
round and look forward don't get sucked into the past and get dry ontell back there cause you can't control you can't change what happened
ye on buddy that other question the black and white mind one uh are you breaking your own rules your wonder kind o like um on on goes
busters one don't cross the stream you mongolia same thing that but on they had to eventually right they had to cross the stream the stream
to kill that then the demon you know dear lady mar i think you actually intentionally tried to do this that was a little reach a little
redounded a wilder okay eltje what's the best advice heading into the military straight from high school and this this cousins actually
from ma ma brothers from down under candover and nicolas bennet and they'd been a theven down there the onour getting there at getting
there for i am wake up challion for about not of a thirty five or forty days at this point and what's cool what's been coal is here their
feet back as they've kind o turned their lives around in their getting all the stuff done and actually you know was larious he sent up one
of them said at tweewhitt ure of a tax conversation with some company that they were trying to work with and it sets up like the time on
the tweet was you know five at one in the morning or something like that and the heat he are you still offering blank or or some program or
whatever and then the response was yes we are so offering that and then and the youknow the reply was okay i'm really interested in
accessing that program or never and the responses okay but don't tax people at five a m ide response that was okay wake up or lyres which i
had thought of as so the esaron it's very cold to see ah so in is actually one of them in a free which one of them for their brothers is
going in the military which is awesome very cold sea a australian military work with them a little bit actor with them on a small level lot
meaning that i work with a couple of their soldiers a lot over the years but i never worked it them in a big unit but they were great guys
ah he was a couple real simple thing and in assuming that he's going on some kind of army or some had a ground for heliatrope on the ground
obviously be in shape to run to push up tuitus ol up i would say be ready to march in boots that's one of the things that you do in any
infantry unit that is shocking to civilians is putting on boots and putting on rock ax and walking hunt astantes lighted the feet get like
your flank shed ah it's it's just a different kind of exercise in toctor hump rock man i got a just put on a rock and homerican got a war
whatever fort where they're going to supply you trying get the closest thing to that an't get your fee ready for it so that you said that
you don't get your feet distroyed become for an mowter so most military as some kind of water testing you know where the onthoughtful
whatever a yogin with a normal hair cut is not going to make that big of a deal because you know they're going to shave your head within
moments of showing up says not that of a deal but a ditch or cannon get these crafty situations were speaking to yell in the corn make it
you my stuff just attached just just to tach and watch it because the grillandus are hilarious and if your if you're gittin there in your
face you can be like damn this is harsh but if there in your face but your watching it from a free place of mind and no oonoothi it so fond
and so easy understand what they're doing you don't he got her remember there notiki you in training a n and in joliet i had found i had
found in all my indoctrination courses which is now your all your courses were you're getting treated like a recruit so for me it was
becaws bud it was air borne school and and really an oss to water kenninghall those sins i had a great time i had a had a blast that those
schools i had fun getting indoctrinated i am pracious the little rules that they throw out side of brisoit take him to the extreme and i
had as how i ended up having fun fun with it and in the last thing i would say and and i actually i almost missed this but this is this
might be the most important thing okay so you're eighteen years old you just got them with high school do you show up in the military and
guess what you start getting a pacha of a sudden you're the richest gone the world because i make you bes you were making seven fifty an
hour an all of a sudden now you're getting a fat pay check of you know to wonetoeyun dollars a month it but you don't have any expenses
cause you in in the barracks or whatever you've got all your food coming to you so what are you going to do with that money well a lot of
guys in the military what they do without money is that below it the blow it on women and whiskey and they get the big toy surate need a
master of toys they get the mass of trucks and motor cycles and hardly an anarian i got nothing against those things but what you need to
do to save your money and you know they throw figures around fifteen per cent of your pay check to one per cent of your pay check ten per
cent your pay check book put that money somewhere long term where you can to grow it and then i will tell you you know i despise my house
and then ran out the rooms to three guys and you sleep on the couch and have them be paying you more did she and when you get them all
stable eyes an that mortgage is kind of covered a go by another house and do that every few years and there's no reason to retire from the
military and not be completely set we never have to work again if you just don't blow all your money here on stuff that you don't need and
i'm not saying you got a live like a monk but just don't blow all of it blow some of it don't well all of it and that's an that's real
import tale all the folks join the military or new to military you you cannot you can make that happen financial discipline equals
financial freedom them there in gonnections i'm a fire fighter flashed paramedic historically my profession has always been composed of
alpha men and all heat to worry about with teaching the skill and not the aggressive side of a person that is key within this job we now
face the new generation where there hang sought their hiring softer men conquest herman do the upper management and human resources
criteria some when you when you get these guys the drive that is needed to do the job not there i truditur believe that our profession is a
calling ah that goes for all public servants in materialise so my question to you is how do you still oppression or passion and you in
still it how do you turn a soft man into an elfhame skilkan be taught but aggression impassion is where come up short intent give
frustrated because some people don't love the stops the way i do those soften we'll potentially be put in a position where they may have to
pull me out of a fire or even save someone's life and aggression will be key call me crazy but i'd rather have the alfama they gits after
it on a daily basis to pull me out a no doubt about that you want to have the guy that's going to be aggressive in making happened at a
moment true so how do you do that how you still that well number one hard training you you got to set up training for your people that is
tough that channel is them and at first they'll be some you know complaining about it one of rent eventually people start to embrace that
hard rain i starts to make them feel proud and ram and that's what you want them to you you want to push them men to eat and physically and
you want to have them understand a very important premise because if you take the fact that these guys are let's call them softer well that
means they they want to have like ither want to be safe it well you needed teach these guys that the best way to mitigate rest is to be
aggressive right then if you will admit a gate resk the best way to mitigate rises to be it aggressive so example if you think of fights
got happen what's the best way to you know in trollhatton it's to be agressive if to dressily attack the enemy he you re in a gun fighting
situation and some one attacking you was a bessington does flank them and attack them you want to be aggressive in a fire fight in if
you're fighting a fire you want to fight the fire right you don't want to let the fire burn and get out of control you want to aggressively
git the fire on their control so agressions the best way to mitigate restoit guys in that mentality of where they recognized that the
aggression is an important fasten what they're doing and you potheeni serious were they dressed a winds and pacifity loses you you
nappetite where o guesht you sat back and wait it and now we got the whole building on fire or you sot back and waited and now the people
that we could rescue three minutes ago are going to die because you hesitated at the moment a truth so you got to teach them that
aggressiveness over and over and over again and i think that's that's a that's what you got to do em i know that a ouananiche that i was
working with we are going through and warfare training and laywaying is you got machine gun fire and you got rockets going off you've got
smoke penates ma'am and if you're goin to you have to grabtintoll the situation to your doing it well we call immediate action drills and
every one shooting like fire in the manoevering and you've got a grab control of the situation and you've got a make things happen
aggressively truefoot will and so this one you fergot great guy he he with wasn't makapan he wasn't being aggressive enough and i said to
mysen youre more restive you've got to get your gontere up with your guise and he said i literally said to me i remember like a sisterhood
i don't know if i can get any more fire up an i said okay an with me an i just just just follow me and i took command though he is
sadoletus as the just follow me sir when we got the contact relenting started and boom i showed him what a dressing a quick i to toinon his
ornerier you cannot tear start laying down fire you over a start kenadon as you yelling placing guys making it happen if yew force of will
it's being aggressive and it was at all to wilkisun's and the difference he understand what aggression looked like and he didn't understand
how it impacted the situation when you're not being aggressive out on the battle field the you have no control things will think'll just
things will just happen and you a have no control from so and guess what it's the same thing in life if you are not aggressively pursuing
your goals again that doesn't mean our aggressively confronting people at every turn now it means your aggressively pursuing your goal man
through any means necessary it gain people get confused at the domain some one's face they were doing this my way no no you aggressively
pursuing your goals you're not theresa pursuing people your unaggressively pursuing personalities you're not aggressively confronted people
your confronting the challenge not the people whom do you have to confront people sometimes as of course you do and what your aggressively
confronting an attacking the showingthe mission not the people but he but anyways this kind i i understand so i had to show him i had to
let him see what that look like what it looked like to say you know i take out right ertragen say saturnite here start moving guy and and
have them see that i guess what then you get at the other people in the intestation and they start of you at the aggressively to make
things happen and that's that's when you do it that's that's that's what you do and and obviously what that means is you as a leader ye
after lead youngish these guys the way well how important aggression is and how to do it yet and can in life i think you you can cause
again its with one of those things that that sounds pretty simple that either be aggressive or your not being aggressive constant but it's
so hard because lilie for example if you're in life a lot of people they sit back and wait for things to kinahan like one way you know you
hear people say even just hasn't happened for me yet and am waiting for my big brain kind of thing a wrong attitude yet exactly but it did
and when you are in that situation it kind of seems like that's how the world works so it doesn't they and a lot of it you know it may be
help people are raised on an all um where it if you don't know what that is that if you don't have access to that feeling of being in
aggressive person it's hard to get there and till like are you said it's someone shows you like in the exact situation that you are in and
in your case is that once pacific contristation you showed em out so it probably clicked right away like enlife there's all these
situations so just a beanerie person might be kind o hard for some one access to unless they have like a ventorum know someone who
demonstrated it isnt is definitely is hard in life it's hard as show people all the different situations and because an you an also can it
up with people that are overly aggressive right or aggressive on a wrong or a restin the wrong and you i said this is something that some
one the other day they were talking about being bad their packbeasts on about this my said don't aim your passionate the people ye capel
find that offensive yet you got i am your passion and the mission and let let i mean there will be some collateral encouragement when
people cease some one has fired up when people see someone has passionate it get it makes people excited about the mission as well and waif
i hit you with my pashion if i aim my passion at you all of a sudden you intimidated by it your turn off by it your dismay defensive by it
and so that's what you have to be careful you want to aim your passion am your gresson at the mission not at the people what you want to do
with people's on influence them you won't now steer them you want a pull them along you want to make them give them the idea so they think
that their woven in that direction on their own you actually want them to be ever my think you want them to move in that direction on their
own that leadership and so as he got deities ive thing it's a is definitely a really good question i will also sink in what what music
atheling to what what what did you be shoes are the watchtower of the watch in a they watching you fessant up only watching people fight
are you doing any training or you hittin bags are you fronson motices are you grapple know and those things raise aggressives are they
workin out hard you don't that no kidding squatting heavy weights increases your test ostron period it really does so get on square start
getting that yet of tromso in through your system ye what's good an exquisition the aggressive on that one just be aggressive and lead
aggressive yet in how you mention you a the cause you couldn't canoin that regard you can learn a little bit cause you can hear like always
hear the coach or whatever yelling thing be first be first been worse impetuosity you definitely don't hear him say he said back and wait
to get it to apexal then that you don't you say a few bed defensive yea or the taste exactly does happen next question am some judicial
what type of style do you play aggressive passive reactive or smashin pass etcetera shuddered at a whitman after with you you probably you
know having assessment erasement of my game which will be a limited assessment by the way because at a game that i show you is the is the
is built to contend with what you bring to the table here if you brought us something else you see something else yes in in a little bit
beyond that because i witness you indian all the time though more so before the notes but yeah i would say my assessment yet okay eh to you
watch me i was on her people and continue so you you see that i trained different ways with other people you yet and really that's really
the core of the valuation is that you you when you row with people you it's like your real um it's like variable style mill it changes
still and it depends your mood to like you i'm just nothing he held with me aware of your like it you know this is kind of weird but you do
this thing that no one really does in you look like you look me in the eye like while you're rolling it's weird because i know you're just
messing with me and her like everything i do you the folkmote kinder have a kind of an attitude and then you know if i talk too much um you
know whatever they kin tell ye s mashonas so in higadillos um all all all of the above right so so passive when you're kind of taunting and
maybe been learning or numerati as filology idiote and so you'll be passive kind of waiting for me to do something and then if it doesn't
work then you taught some more and then so that's passing and that reactive is obviously you know breaking tip anything that i try to do
aggressive is when either time runs he is running short or i talk too much and it's mashonas is the result of that aggressive stuff in
really in replacer smashed and pass oh i mean i can be alternate for me is is a little something that we like to call the disrespect ride
the dissectin at when you discometer disrespect to persons guard and smash and smashed them yes yes this is pirootin think i think the key
point for this from me is is that i i know that i grew to you at evidence i'm fire of good top cassican pretty good at card passing
whatever i'm not i'm not great at tegitur i'm desinarets and i'm prone thing i am as an preconformed like in all just about any situation
there's no situation where i'm there's no situation where i'm freakt like i don't mind being in half cartoonland bent on half a top one i
don't mind being guard closed open whatever i don't mind being mounted i even in pretty much handle any situation you know an again when
you're tanith men run it's you know you get you get very comfortable with people because you have a guy that just as savage and but but
with what's interesting about this is for me and i and i talked about this i mean if octettes back out of your right like if being
aggressive is not working then you have to try that other game you know i was say if you are if you're trying to pass in one's god really
close and you can't do it back away because there is an opening there and it's the same again it's a same thing with why right if you
beating you had to get so well tried different route when there's one door that closed or have we defended ain't come back goldfind another
door go reach or window go find another way there is no opening somewhere else i think that's what my game is i think that's what my game
is is it like you said very able ye based on a variety of influences both in my world and in my opponents world yes and surprisingly and i
think that people all out of people wouldn't really assume the right away is that your um ye as sure you're no smashing in aggressive and
kind of rough alethinon o times but your like em like a playful you to guy o alleging to say this and this is i think this is important i
had a guy asked me how hard do you go in and the answers very easy i go just hard enough that i'm staying had to the other person now we he
who says those that are listing audoen's making a face because there are times would i have to step up my day little bit in and put the
boodling up that's not true you hekka yes but there might be some oh you know why that's because you you come in with you we sometimes you
come in with a you with an attitude of i can see rise you like to day's the day an you come in there an you got to the ears look on your
face i hoe co is going to be like that right on he answered my yattering the elite bit yeh yeh fully but that same and this is the part
where i think it kind o kin interesting is that you do it doesn't seem like a war like it seems like a war but all within the confines of
some silly gittin up silly but some game morlene but but it's it's obvious though you know like i think that some one who may be never seen
your roller never had that experience with you specifically they would assume that your this like heine but i onesimuses and that mean that
i am taking on inebrieties a no i don't let the like that you had a sure it's not that i don't take your guessee at justus fun to me rest
solon to me yes and i think that the better you get the more fun agents and alas you have to be like that you know and i don't mind when
people come at me like that because i still get to do the same thing you know i still get to have fun yea and yet no dudish be fun ye lay
should be fun no fun or is you the long you goin to do for now part of the fun can't be so matting people and you get people that that's
the only fun that they have indices when they submit people and that's not one i'm talking about a thing that's kind of indurations and the
the the flowing and the utilizations of moves and the cool things that happen in you don't sometimes i'll be wrong with whoever and like
something just so like some one tessenderloo laugh in my red had not a not a emitting should be fun it shouldn't be this it shouldn't be it
shouldn't be the fun shouldn't come from dissuading people right that's just bullying right ye in a way and you know you shouldn't get ye
should assertion go you okay go i can tap people out but let's let's look do this for the reason of the disportive the the the game itself
which is a fun game yeah i won't get who told me straight up that when they're driving up to the gym they having siety ain't guliolmi going
to do or if they get tapped out a ruins their day where there weak or whatever ye but may have none of the hashimoto jim just in totally
you know totally happy to be to be gitten there and get a ditto do something that's so fun yea yea i will look the chris martin to day for
and it was all a eenajest trashing you can do all this stuff while you are holding and doing that in the life eminent be a deck you know
belabut you know just like troyes he being a dick sometimes they make it is fun for you like you can you know you can call a moving and do
it on the guyandotte than in a whatever and it miloradovitches it fun to you you know and mean chris we re doing that the whole time of my
old or was this a alathee kind of thing do you and of course such taking to extreme cause i know craford is but talkative bit of that makes
it more fun just like if your plan a video game just like of you playing any other game you just talk some friend you know it's it's part
of the fun to an like i said my original point is i think people would in a son that about you given how you may come off metimes but
you're really like that no you do too sonoma no doubt one sport persue but even up did get in a way like when you are serving in california
there there's a there's a much harder vive serving in california uncloses sire i you know when you know when we're circle where i serve
like it's it's a gang man albeit in a you know and so on the mats and just so fond to be in a situation made and curing you know leads to
fighting often do and so but indicating is already happening that i so though it's you know you can you can over it and now when i were
just where already fighting so now we can just call it yes yes sir it's tradeing like that right here be this kind of then no being no i
know but not knowing supposed to be is not it's an aggressive it's a very aggressive and by men like a territorial teatime are territorial
thing yeah yeah i let it conocil ke it you is like this and the necklace i understand and agree with all your thoughts and principles
however however i interpret your concepts for leaders leading men were mostly driven or other leaders who have of a desire to make
themselves better and maintaining steps ye so common miss perception bright is that you know the military and the seals i says all time
every one thinks that the military celsi think that we are leading terminator robots right i every one is just ten and there could get up
the condoning and it's i just talked about this on the last pocket it is a bell curve in it as a bell curve and there's a great bunch of
guys at the top of the bell coronta or go getters there's a solid bunch gustiness alorcus that are bones and so this interpretation that
the concept that i talk about or just for leaving these for running a personalities that just make everything happen not erect the hell
there are seals that don't want to work there are seals that want to take short cuts there are sealed that on a state by then you get
outside then you work with iraquois that are unmotivated on trained poorly equipped we got work with these guys we got bosses i mean i got
bosses in the feelings that are neither one go mania or that our old trask of verse could have any of this stuff coming on you could have
your guise that are risk of verse you can have guys that are too crazy you got all you don't what they are there humans there individuals
there a human beings and because their human beings even in special operations and sometimes especially in in special operations as when
you especial operations you could guys that have huge eagles and attitudes and so oh you think that they just want to do whatever you tell
me to do now they had the one idea that other grown method they got their own plan they got their own what they think they're attacked
could genius so you got to get around that so what is it mean it means you have to lead them and it's the common theme that i'm talking of
all tents an you got to build relationships you got to build the trust you got to make sure they understand why they're doing what they're
doing you've got to make sure they understand the chioggian back you got to empower them you've got to set a good example you got a listen
to them you've got to take him put you gotta give them responsibility in a wanness in real responsibility you got a bill to up you got to
make them better you've got a show them and let them see not in a not in a in your face way but you've got a socage let them see what self
improvement means them and how they can better that position at what drive will get them he got to give em ownership the stuff and you got
a left that ownership grow into extreme honorship where they really want to own things he got a teaching the lead and you got to put him in
the orchippus icons and he got a show your trust by actually following them sometimes and again people asked me these questions you know
how a never how do i lead i got a new person how gladly them it's the same answers it's the same answers all the time the principles of
leaders to now the new ones are there yes the new ones are there and i i have to new ones for echo than i got a new one for the sky were
here and i got a new use for this group of er the the new ones are there but the basic principle of the same an i never i again ahem i got
to be in charge of that i'm not going to try and build a lionship of trustee who who's that thiers nobody you know who is it that i don't
want to set a good example for beaters nobody who is it that a mocking alister to if you don't listen to people you ailie it an they don't
want to be part of the team i mean it's it's a things are universal and again there is a new one on this because you might have to make
adaptations and you know when we will we did that i lead your ship with a with a eidolon shell that he talked about distinctly these three
different types of commanders now the the boss gave them each their own little adjusted order and because he was dealing with their
personalities so yes you got to do with the personalities but that doesn't mean your doing something different from the principles so when
you get sure when you get to the bottom of the dell curve a you might see some people that might need to be replaced they might need to be
removed but i'll tell you what most likely they just need to be led etherean that are i think one of the reasons why it the perception is
that all you guys are robot and you know i'm on give you order they follow it no questions it is like movies i like a few good men
remembered jackino he's like people follow orders or people die or deane's name and left that kind o stuff yea and but they do that you
can't see in some hole you would move his where they show how meestake place and now things go wrong and how you know the the new
lieutenant vietnam is goin to get dragged by his own people that stuff real yea you know that those real so it's just it it's it's a
mistress uneaten miss perception is because of boot camp a lot of military movies are they show on they show a significant amount of time
in boot camp but boot canes a matter of weeks in a merrier you know i think mincopies thirteen weeks i think army book campus ten weeks i
became as a very short period of time in europe for years six year eight year ten year twenty year career and boot camp is a antidote
indoctrination al times in the military day of very short periods of time compared beharee m and about camp when your constructor says
dropped down and do push up you dropped out on to upstand boot camp when you're done structor says pick up that you know make your bed you
make your bed an when they's an if you don't they yell at you and they yell you until you do make your bed so people get that idea that
that's the way the military is run yeah the open that inutility on great examples for metal jacket than all be which is a great movebat the
boot camp seen is had the movebat in reality even if you were guide in vietnam you don't became thirteen weeks and then you went on to
indovinar a year and so it's a fraction of what year real career as light and and so people get that impression that you're just going to
be able to bark orders never was eliseus dozen or that way and there's actually there's a great estreat video um it's called charley
company and tea at anyways i forget the name of the video but it's about a company in vietnam charlie company and maybe if you remind me on
put it on the on the website um it shows to company commanders but anyway to make a long story short these guys they they don't like their
new company commander and at first the resistant to him and you know he says listen his case got a learned to this god to do what i tell
him and then it fast forwards a couple o months and they interviewed again he goes at the know how everything going goes know they'd get it
now and they realized that sthanto listen to me and do what i told him and then they go out in the field with the guys and the guys in the
field there supposed to be doing things there's not doing me there just there literally called back like good we did yet we did a patrol
now made in do it yea we moved positions then it moved to this end he were goin to do another you know another foot patrol to night they're
not doing it so he was under the impression that everyone had like buckled to his will and they were just completely snowing him and he had
no idea so that's what happens in the military a few don't lie do your people and you just order them around and you think that every one
just this this ah this ah how they described men who were mostly driven or leaders who have a desire to make themselves better i mean if
anybody in a position with gus like that it's going to be leadership job is going to be very easy just helmont do an they do it i mean i
could give you example upon example upon example of stuff in the supines were what i had to do to get people convinced that this was the
right thing to deal you know and you need is i like you know what classable telling guys okay where i take iraqis orders on the roberton
you know so these guys were saying you kidding me will be they didn't go pay coja will do exactly what you all right now they will pretty
talking about a takane's guys out why will we do that cantering these guys are trustworthy they don't get no train at a million reasons why
not to do that but how do you get him to do it you explained to them why you explain to them this strike tickertape you have built trust
with them you tell them that they're goin to take ownership of their aces i mean it's everything that i just said that's what you do for
the classic example so yes once again yes if you're a leadership position ye afeared i see the move saving private rites yet there was a
part in the end that movie titathat they they weren't down for the orders remember that way was kendale a little pivotal part where there
they were going to go take a machine gun nassington here like man we don't have to do this so they all kind o got together to ave you know
seems like unnecessary rithinetic he kind o dropped out a little bit and and kind of forced them to do it and there like a whatever can a
reluctantly than one of the guys died into stuff but it that's an example of you and you sthenoaoea you now you will here just do not talk
about world war on that one portion of okres ye know what we got wanderting i didn't feel that about it but it was ordered on a dot so
there is examples from the past especially where you know i deftly was more like that and a pasteboard or one obviously it was like that
obviously was like that unfortunately it was like that you because it caused people to continue you know to execute these operations that
were just going to get people killed and you know actuator or were talking about that last week pick its chart gettit charge gettysburg
they sent the troops up and they got slaughtered and they came the of the the survivors came back in a lee was to no basically in tears a
hay i'm sorry this happened i this is my fault he took older ship of it and i hope i'm getting a story right em but but that's the
tattegrain the general gist of the story but then they eat yelled the big story with at the guideline he will go again if you you'se you're
such a great leader will go again and lay you know his kind o like the avatara war be that's what that's what happened that that that shows
you that guys were willing and i said he petience in world war one they sent them again they sent them over and oyle was regretting in him
sorry and i i did something like that you go you a bunch of guys killed is horrible and olontai e it happened going again ye oh ye that
happened again where he lit again and again and again and it's just too i'll i i'll always just be our five by that and he hopefully um man
progresses beyond that and again part of that is added a person you have to question you have to be a rabble you have to question what
people are telling you in why they're telling it to you if my boss doesn't tell me why am doing my operation it's an i could continue to
execute it that's my fault i need raise my hand in said bossible do in the wire we doing this i don't understand you got to take that
initiative cause if you're just blindly following orders i don't want somebody that's blind be following orders i never want people that
blind be follow my orders i want people to say oh get boss wait why are we doing us why is it happening cause i want people i want think i
want leaders underneath me that no how to lead and you know one when you build the trust and you build the relationships those guys will do
anything for you and my guys in my past in a do anything i mean i know it they did over over again did operations at work array and hard
and dangerous and risky never did any one say oh you know we're not doing this is it okay we understand what what's the mission all right
so you got a bill that religion same basic principles of fleeting human beings and that's what you got to do but to think that you're just
going to order people to do things not happening a long answer to a to a good question i was actually interesting perspective and i know
its perspective at a lot of people have people always think well you know you led seals and their allies that was easy yet but before you
said no before you told me that kind of what i figured the tatsuta just any tips for breaking habits of laziness and progressed eation e be
some good reeds on the subject and this a question i wish you would answered for me like ten years ago planetic dennose deftly been a
pretty come and question when people wanted know how to stop the laziness and they want to have to stop the procrastination and ill they
have some idea in their heads you know some kind of a officiate want to do but they don't owershot berarde started you know they don't know
where to start and as they say hey when do i start and and when the best time to start and i have a very simple answer for that here and
now that's it step you want to improve you want to get better you want to get on a war out program or a clean diet you are a start a
business you want to write a book or make a movie or build a house or a computer a port put together some mobile application where do you
start you start right here and when you start you start right now you initiate the action of agressive you go can the idea isn't going to
execute itself and and a book isn't going to write itself in the weights out a jim they're not going to move themselves you have to do it
and you have to do it now and that means you got stop thinking about it and stopped dreaming about it and stopped researching every aspect
of it and reading all about it and debating the pros and cons of it just start doing it take that first step and make it happen district
after it here and now and i thank god i think that's all we've got for to night to thank everybody for listening to this for a for putting
as head tones in your ears and pressing play and settling in with me and set in some spending a little bit of time in my head den and
atolls are in there some domes tenera that you give us in a question you ask us and thanks for subscribing to the pond cast and down
loading it writing reviews and spread the word and thanks for buying the book and bind the audio book thank you supporting the companies
that support us on it oh and an id dat com an amazon do come got a click through so if you're going to by henry the fifth to night cause
your fired up to get your shakespeare together or your biobio that we talked about her which you're all awesome just go to amazon and
clicked through from jackal podcast dot com or jackass store i tell you do it and lastly and most importantly to everybody out there thanks
are getting up early thinks for getting in the jim thanks are getting on the mat facegear grind on at work get your head into a book
getting smarter and stronger and faster and better than everybody forget after it and so on till next time this is jane i
