this is jack alpacas number sixteen with echo charles and me jackwell in good evening echo did evening we we couldn't invintor excite it it
was a real mission none of us had been on a real meason before except for our elbows on leading pettifer who was in the four first golf war
and a putumago who is in on the grenadines and fought the radio tower those guys had this small amount of combat experience but if the time
for us that was a world apart from what we had cause the rest of us had zero this was the name dies there is no war going on and so now
here we were with a real mission on deck nineteen ninety four i think i was cottontree years old i'm in my second the seal potuan at that
time being in a sea polton was literally these soul purpose and focus of my life it was my world and that's what most of my platoon mates
were like his well that's that's that's what we were and this was an awesome putting the great put her all popes and as far as having tight
friends in a brotherhood in side of a platoon as was definitely one of the best that i was ever in if not the best that all us were just a
hundred per cent about being in a seal put to and it was the world to us and wanting care about in hereabout anything else really not to
politics domestic politics are international politics we weren't sitting around in leading newspapers and we bearleading watch the news at
this time we we were deployed on a ship there was no internet we were we were troopers you know we were erring boys as colonel curtseys in
a pocket of snow we didn't know about the policy but we sure as hell wouldn't force it if we had this mission and we were fired up we are
like i said we were on a ship and we were off the coast of africa when there were something going on didn't want of the countries there and
during the last to ployment that seals did on a ship at this time they was some of our fellows see guy that we knew had gone into small and
so that was a real mission and we kind of thought maybe this will be our opportunity and probably set on aramont prior of this the battle
of moidart ken place which is where the movie back or down came from so this was as was africa this was like our chance to get into some
kind of combat and we started hearing more about the situation where they might send us look like we're going to go in and provide some
kind of security and it looks like we're on to go in and maybe helped some americans that were there and get that out and then it looked
like we might go in and reinforce some kind of you and troops and like a bunch of missions in the kind of change of the situation developed
and in which started reading about malshapen what we're goin to be going to do and i want what the situation was there on the ground and i
i didn't understand it at first but there was people killing each other by the thousands by the by the tens of thousands by the hundreds of
thousands hundreds of thousands of people were being killed but it wasn't like a wasn't like a war that you know i had read about or i'd
seen in the movies they want shooting each other with guns or dropping bombs on each other they were there using mashed is like a like a a
harmonie hundreds hundreds of thousands of people being butchered and what was it all about it was a tribe difference that's barely
distinguishable to us i mean it's barely distinguishable for them the country was mewondereth event came to be known as the reindeers mass
murder primarily of twos tribesman by the rival hohokam now or or something that that i can rationalistas dn't be able to do that but i can
i mean there's some kind of wrong or evil in the world that needs to be stood up against me now is it fashes is it tyranny is a terrorism
it's forces of darkness and the pate against forces of light forces of freedom and democracy and as i say all the time war is hell and it
should be a astrardente else has failed and that being said war is necessary sometimes to stop evil and sometimes is the only way to stop
flut this this idea her this situation where people are giving each other in a mob types anerio and there literally do net like a harmouth
else to explain it it's like a horn movie that seems too insane and to bloody to even be believable he take the worst harmony could imagine
with the worst plot wine and this makes less sense it wouldn't even be believable if it was a harlot's too much is true violent and to
ruthless and there's too much to even comprehend or understand and this is i mean i i all that this is somewhere at the limit of the evil
that human beings are capable of you you hear me talk about the darkness the evil in the world well this is it then going to the book now
the book is called machete season the killers in re wanda speak during that killing season we rose earlier than usual to eat lots of meat
we went up to the sacrified at around nine or ten we would go off on the attack rome umber one was to kill there was no room number two it
was an organization without complications the judge told every one every one there that from then on we are do nothing but killed toss well
we understood that was a final plan the killing of every toy without exception it was simply said and it was simple to understand there
were some who asked if there were any priorities the judge answered sternly there is no need to ask how to begin the only war while plan is
to start straight ahead into the bush and right now without hanging back behind any more questions when you get right down to it it is a
gross exaggeration to say we organized ourselves the killings began without much planning the only regulation was to keep going till the
end maintain a satisfactory pace spare no one and lo what we found it was impossible to screw up and that's one of the craziest things
about this book again the book is called machete season it's the killers and re wanda speak so this author jean had felled he went into the
prison where these people are now being kept her talk to them about what they did in its theron words in the preface to the book justicie
you a little bit of background ours is appallingly an age of genocide but even so what happened in re wanda in the spring of nineteen
ninety four stands out in several ways in a tiny land locked african country smaller than the state of maryland some eight hundred thousand
people were hacked to death one by one by their neighbors the women men and children who were slaughtered were of the same race and shared
the same language customs and confession they were roman catholic as those who eagerly slaughtered them in otello i was seriously
considering not doing this pot cast and i it's this book samaris acquaintance of mine who does potass who i was on his poast very a smart
guy brilliant guy and you know he sent me the mail said he jocko checkout this book and you know he said it's about the wanda genuine and i
immediately set at on i was i was there a note was on the ground but we were there waiting to go inside mediately knew what are you talking
about he you know is basically said it's by the killers and so immediately ordered it on amazon and is is i got it and i just read it and
at first i was excited you know i think i was as really the scene em back for but as i went deeper and deeper into it i started saying
myself maybe i don't do this pot cast maybe i don't do it because like i said it's it's almost too much i think it is too much and for that
very reason i'm going to do it because we we can't we we we must not deny that evil exists and that human can be evil and as the preface of
the book continues all obligation and it is an obligation is to take what human beings are capable of doing to one another not
spontaneously comes of this order never spontaneous but when mobilized to think of other human beings people who were their school friends
neighbors coworkers and fellow parishioners as not human beings at all and when organized for indirected to the task of slaughter for the
issue finally is not judgment it is understanding i make the effort to understand what happened in reward is a painful task that we have no
right to shirk it is part of being a moral adult sonalulis end to these people then that might be a stretch belittles what these people had
to say at the beginning we were too fired up to think later on we were too used to it in our condition it meant nothing to us to think we
were busy cutting our neighbours down to the last one it became a ghost without saying they had already stopped being good neighbors of
long standing the one who handed around the uraga can at the cabaret robes i go be it a banana beer since he wouldn't be there any more
they had become people to throw away so to speak they were no longer what they had been and neither were we they did not bother us and the
past did not bother us because nothing bothered us and so the toes were driven immediately tried to escape to this area that they called
the marshes which are outside you know the hills but people lived in hills and they tried to escape the mark that the tottie escape to the
martians and another one of the burgers says kindness too was forbidden in the marshes the marshes left no room for exceptions to forget
doubt we had menecrates and ruthlessness in killing and a job to do and do well that's all some changed color from the hunting their limbs
were muddy their clothes were splattered even their faces were not black in the same way they became greyish from everything they had done
a little later of stink covered us too but we didn't care we no longer saw a human being we turned up a toy in the swamps i mean a person
like us sharing similar thoughts and feelings the hunt was savage the hunters were savage the prey was savage savage retook over the mind
the more we killed the more greediness urged us on greediness if left unpunished it never let you go you could see it in your eyes bug out
by the killings it was even danger some there were those that came back in the blood stained shirt brandishing their machetes shrieking
like mad men saying they wanted to grab everything we had to come them down with drinks and soothing words because they could turn ugly for
those around them man can get used to killing if he kills on and on he can even become a beast without noticing it some threatened one
another when i had no more tootsies under the machete in their faces you could see the need to kill me i was not scared of death in a way i
forgot i was killing life people i no longer thought about either life or death but the blood struck terror into me it stank and drip at
night i tell myself after all i am a man full of blood all this spurting blood will bring me catastrophe a curse death did not alarm me but
that overflow of blood that yes a lot in one of the things that they talk about in the book is in this in this part of of the continent the
the people the sea machaire rating so they they do their they cut down brush with it they slaughter the animals with it they they of their
dinners with it they do everything with the machete to everybody's just sort of its differ it's there it's their eye falret it's their eye
phone they every one has its their smart foon that's what they use for everything like we do in america we used to start food they use the
machete for everything that they get their food at all they clear out there how tell they build a mite everything they do they do with the
minie so every one is very comfortable with a machete with the strength in his arms to hold the machete firmly if his brother or father
brought him along in the group he imitated and grew used to killing youth no longer hampered him he became accustomed to blood killing
became an ordinary activity since our elders and every one did it or young boy might even prove more at ease with it than an experienced
oldster because death touched him farther away given the novelty of the circumstances and his young age death seemed less important to him
he saw it as belonging to an older generation he shrugged off his peril and considered it a distraction it became a madness that went on
all by itself you raced ahead or you got out of the way to escaping run over but you followed the crowd the one who rushed off macheted he
listened to nothing any more he forgot everything first of all his level of intelligence doing the same thing every day men wedana to think
about what we were doing we went out and came back without having a single thought we onted because it was the order of the day until the
day was over our arms ruled our heads in any case our heads no longer had their say we became more and more cool more and more calm more
and more bloody but we did not see that we were becoming more and more killers the more we cut the more cutting became child's plateaus for
a few a turnedin treat if i may say so that one of the things they do is the use some wartlike cut then what they meet a slaughter and
murder but they used kind of a term that's less directed are you from mismate start of the killings we worked fast and skimmed along
because we are eager in the middle of the killings we killed casually we killed to keep the job going some were tired of these blood
assignments others amused themselves by torturing totes wood made them sweat day after day since i was killing often i began to feel i did
not mean anything to me a gave me no pleasure i knew i would not be punished i was killing without consequences i doubted without a problem
i left every morning free and easy in her hurry to get going i saw that the work and the results were good for me that's all during the
killings i no longer considered anything in particular in the toy except that the person had to be done away with i want to make it clear
that from the first gentleman i killed to the last i was not sorry about a single one now as i said it was difficult for to total whose who
right they had the same culture that the same language they looked the same and you might be wondering how did they know who is who while
the author explains that somewhat here and it is just to wellgood the book after the genuine many forgers a wondered how the huge number of
ho to killers recognized their titivating in the upheaval of the massacres since rewinding of both a ethnicos speak the same language with
no distinctive differences live in the same places and are not always physically recognizable by distinctive characteristics the answer is
simple the killers did not have to pick out their victims they knew them personally every one knows everything in a village so they didn't
have to guess they'd have to identify him by a different skin color or by a different facial structure or by different language they knew
them a teacher and a survivor of the martians confirms the principal and the inspectorate in my district participated in the killings with
nail studded clubs teachers priests the burgomaster of subprefect a doctor they all killed with their own hands they were pressed
cottontree they had no trouble sleeping they traveled around and vehicles wrong light motor cycles these well educated people were calm and
they rolled up their sleeves to get a good grip on their machetes for some one who has spent his life teaching the humanities as i have
such criminals are a fearful mystery so like the the priests the the the burgomaster which is like a charger man name of a a some one
that's a political person political magistrate in a town for a sub prefect that's a a sub prefect or some one that's in command some one of
authorities especially in the catholic church so these people with their nice sure to nice pants were rolling up their sleeves to get a
good grip on their machetes at first the killing was operator afterward we got used to it we became naturally cool we no longer needed
encouragement or fine to kill or even orders or advices discipline was relaxed because it wasn't necessary any more i don't know any one
who was struck because he refused to kill i know one case of punishment by death a special case a woman some people count her upon his her
husband who had refused to kill but she was in fact a tipsy afterward the husband took part without whining in fact he was one of the
busiest in the marshes so these tribal but to hotoneeta jette beside to you but human beings living in the same village you know it you end
up marion somebody from the other tribe and if you didn't go with the system you were getting murdered in the evening we had to report to
the leader of bout exactly what we had killed many boasted for fear of being taunted her found on that was also a good reason why we did
not bury the bodies some one suspected a facing could guide the verifiers to the truth any one who had the idea of not killing for a day
could get out of it no problem but any one with the idea of not killing at all could not let on or he himself would be killed while others
watched voicing disagreement out loud was fatal on the spot so we don't know if people had that idea in the evening after the killings
there was time for friendship and meeting friends brought us light hearts we were out a poor days we shared drinks we ate we no longer
counted up what we had killed but what it was that old bring us the killings had made us gossipy and greedy so that's one of the things
that do was the ahiki emily take whatever you want em including their land including all their property everything so that's what they talk
about ibycus they become greedy and then at a certain point the authorities no longer had the ability to plan or the channel their orders
fell on deaf ears the massacres had become extraordinary beyond all reason the keenest ones when they killed the grand the possessions of
the dead they wanted everything right away not even stopping to finish off their victims the looting excited them so much they needed no
advice or encouragement their greed spread to those who followed who had crazy in turn we began the day by killing we ended the day by
loading it was a rule to kill going out and look coming back we killed in teams but we looted every man for himself or in small groups of
friends those who killed a lot at less time to pillage but since they were feared they would catch up because of their power to aiguille
the most people and ratemust time to lose that's okay give every one scared of me so they kindled you ye some killers claimed girls in the
marshes that satisfied them and made them neglect looting they figured they'd catch up the next day now here's they again this is going
back to the the author was not direct clothes from from the killers but the authors cinating a story about a situation that happened um one
of the murderers witnessed the passage of armored cars so the international community community like the ermita about the fact that i was
on a ship with seals with marines that could have done something year boletino anything i gatua the marines went in and provided a little
tiny bit of aid i think they sent thirty guys in but do i nothing nothing to what did i had you know a very minimal istic impact but what
happened was civilized people left and silas armored cars coming and they caused it hereinlassen to one of the killers stocking they caused
a big panic among among us who were already roving in the streets heating themselves up with sudden bursts of gun fire some of them shouted
the white sir here others will come they have terrible weapons it's all over for us when they saw the convoy disappear in the dust without
even a little stop for curiosity or a drink on the main street they sellabrated with some primes which is given owaneco their guns as a
sign of relief you could see they felt saved they will rid of the last stumbling block so to speak at the same time and cuallach is a
capital whites were leaving the embassies offices monasteries and universities virod con voice to neighbouring countries and in emergency
airlift operating out of the airport very few formers sought refuge so refuge in guarded villas but no foreigners were left annalissis
again this is the commentary from the author not one foreigner priest service convolute diplomat and go worker none can provide a
convincing reason for this immediate and astonishing flight during the opening hours of the killings in any case neither danger nor panic
onjustice such haste the most telling explanation i have heard so far comes from cloddin caste a farmer and sup and survivor on the hill
when she says reversing our proverb white do not want to see what they cannot believe and they could not believe a genesee because that is
a killing that overwhelms every one them as much as the others and so they laughed now the thing that sparked ness there was a there was a
leader to the betther been revolutionary racial war going on and it was the the rewinder be going on and it was between the houlder ment
and the rowantree ic front of the arpad so the the arpi was largely composed of topsy's and a lot of them had fled out uganda but now they
were you know saying hey let's go back and there was a bunch of pressure international pressure on the on the government which was led by
the president um of rawana named hobby armana so hobinoll all this pressure and so they they made peace and then what happened was on april
six nineteen ninety four an airplane that had um havareuna in it was shot down and everyone was killed including him and that was it so
that utopian was killed but his aircraft was shot down and that was it a and i pulled the little paragraph here from wickape ia geneio
killings began the following day soldiers police and militia quickly executed key toy and moderate hoteliers tergestine after it then
erected checkpoint and barricades and use rewinding tic identity cards to systematically kill tice's in the third is the and implemented
this system where you would put one of her tribune because he so hard to tell who was too and they just used those identification cards
these forces recruited or pressure who to civilians to arthemise ves with machetes clubs bontoc and other weapons to rape mame and kill
their toting bors and to destroy or steal their property but one of the one of the major influences on the people was radio for radio and
as leading up to this you had this situation where they were brought casting sort of i guess i guess it's what was called hates speech you
know that's all call it only this was actual hates beach gointo the book in the broadcast todston radio stations radio awand the touches
were for to as cockroaches announcers the two best known of whom were simon beqind cantano used humorous sketches and songs to call openly
for the destruction of the toutes one of the one of the killers remembers those genneteira a eacus on the killers those gentlemen were
famous artists and great comic virtuosos what they said was so cleverly put and repeated so offers often that toeses found them funny to
listen to they were clamoring for the massacre of all the concretes button amusing ways and for the toises away words were hilarious of
their actual carryings and laughing about it but songs urging all who used to get together to wipe out the tootsies we laughed out loud at
the jokes and they made this who two ten commandments which is basically its document lookin up on wickape ia that's just a document that's
the ten commandments if you marry a tucuman she should be killed she out its brutal absolutely brutal and now this is this is i found this
piece fastening continuing to talk about the the radio and t this is this is a statement and this is interesting because we're on a pot gas
and an i listened upon cast and i i haven't talked about this before but when i was a kid i listened to radiocone understood the power of
them i listened to a radio show and i like the look in see ward is now it was called the doctor tomentosa and a doctor dementas was this it
was on like sunday night ten o'clock on some college radio station ninuanian and it would just have various it was like a variety show and
they have a comedic partner be like a twilight zone type thing but i would sit there like we do with podcast now and i put that foams on
and i'd get in the zone and i would listen and you realize and you realize that when you get into a pot cast you realize there's a certain
power to it there is a certain power to listening to a person and their voice going into your head and there's a there's a a piece about
this inside the book and it just nailed me it's it's a remark made by serge dandy who was a anacaona's talking about the first golf war but
what he says about radio and he would be obviously saying this about potass now is that radio is far and away the most dangerous of the
media it wields a unique and terrifying power once the state or an institutional apparatus collapses it cast off everything that might
attenuate or side track the force of words in a chaotic situation radio composed to be the most efficient tool of democracy as well as of
revolution or fashes because it penetrates unentered to the individuals deepest or anywhere and at any moment a mediately without the
necessary and critical distance inherent in the reading of a tax or an image so when you listen to a parasitic a great note to explain why
radio has so much power you don't even have to interpret the words oudn't have to interpret an image the words are going into your head an
i use it they used it in situations like this and one of the killers said ever since the plane crash so ever since the present was shot
down the radio had hammered at us the foreigners are departing they had material proof of what we are going to do and may our leaving this
time around they are showing no interest in the fate of the toes we witnessed that flight of the armored cars along the road with our own
eyes are ears no longer heard murmurs of repute of reproach for the first time ever we not feel we were under the frowning supervision of
the white other encouragements followed that assured us of unchecked freedom to complete the task so we thought good it's true the boheme
did nothing except an about face to leave us alone and if you don't know what bohemia when you are working as a united nations peace keeper
and they give you a blue helmet and anybody can fill that role one any nation that's part of the un american silthorpe to time but any
nation can do it so he saying that the blue helmet did nothing except in a bow face to leave us alone why would they come back before it's
all over at that signal off we went we were certain of killing every one without drawing evil looks without getting a scolding from a white
or a priest we joked about it instead of pressing our advantage be felt too at ease with an unfamiliar job that a god off to a good start
but time and laziness played an ugly trick on us basically we became too sure of ourselves we slowed down and at overconfidence what did a
sin so let's cure a little bit about the the psychological impact of what's happening to the book routes kept on slaughtering cows after
the killing because they couldn't put down their machetes during the killings we had not one wedding not one baptism not one soccer match
not one religious service like easter we did not find that kind of celebration interesting any more we did not care spit for sunday
silliness we were dead tired from work we were getting greedy we celebrated whenever we felt like it we drank as much we wanted some turned
into drunks and he want who felt sad about some one he had killed really had to hide his words in his regret for fear of being seen as an
accomplice and being treated roughly sometimes drinkers went mean when they had found no one to kill that day others went mean because they
had killed too much you had to show them a smiling face or watch out different personalities some guys are going crazy because they are not
killing enough in some guys are gallantry because their killing too much a youth could hide a girl he had brought back from the marshes to
have her behind a pen or comp of bushes but when he had had enough or in tone started wagging in other words when people started talking
about the fact that he had brought one of these draws back he had to kill her to avoid a serious penalty than we had to sessions with girls
who were raped in the bush nobody dared protest that even those who were edgy about it because they had received blessings and church for
example told themselves it would change nothing since the girl was marked for death any ways there were two kinds of rapists some took the
girls and used them until the end even on the flight to the congo we took advantage of the situation to sleep with the prettiest toss and
an exchanged showed them a little bit of consideration others caught them just to fool around with for having sex and drinking they ran for
a little while and then handed them over to be killed right afterward there were no orders from the authorities the two kinds were free to
do as they pleased now we did in two a a story i don't know what to call it other than the story he had a travesty a horror coming from one
of the workers had a hay at little basically a little christian hospital they surrounded the maternity hospital they ripped down the gates
they simply shot up the locks they wore very handsome cartridge belts of highly polished leather but they wanted to avoid wasting bullets
they killed the women with machetes and clubs whenever one of the more agile girls managed to escape in the commotion had got out a window
she was caught in the gardens when a mamma had hidden her child than underneath her they picked her up first then cut the child then cut it
mother last they didn't bother to cut the nursing infant properly they slam them against the walls to save time or hurled them alive on to
the heaps of corpses that morning we were more than three hundred women and children that evening in the garden there only five women left
spared because they were lucky to have been borne home to now the author goes into a statement here about about a tradition in war torn
areas where you know there's some sort of friendship or their some some love that that makes people do things that are outside the bounds
of what the norm of what the the massacres are helping the opposite side or whatever so so he says that people have who have lived through
war often tell wonderful stories about friendships incredible romances amazing gestures of solidarity comical and poignant collaborations
between protagonist and enemy camps or humble and admirable deeds in all provides material from novels songs fills an evening of evenings
of memories in their patches things up between you and humanity french in german conscripts conscriptae across the tranchantes and swamp
tins of potted meat algerians in head french colonists with whom they played cards a reachest foiled the deportation of a colleague with
whom he had went to school it was the same in vietnam ireland lebanon and gola a salvador israel cassia in the name of panshin childhood a
clan elemental things like affection or loyalty but here we find not one comradery impulse among teammates not one gesture of compassion
for helpless babies at the breast no bond of friendship or love that survived from a church quire or agricultural cooperative no civil
disobedience in a village no rebellious adolescent in a gang of budding toss and not a single escape not work although it would have been
easy to have set one up in the forty cometes of uninhabited forest between the marshes and the brandy border no convoy no links among the
herders paths no web of hiding places to allow the evacuation of survivors nothing in it contenting to talk about really the difference
between genuine and warm in war men are killed first because they are the most apt to fight back the next hardest women liable to help them
and boys because they try to continue the conflict and the older men who can offer wise counsel but in genesee the killers tract down every
one in particular babies girls and women because they represent the future genesis goes beyond war because the intention last for ever it
is a final intention in again just talking about the fact that there was no mercy no mercy one of the killer says i do not know of a single
who to woman who hid away a little to the child to save it from the massacre of its family not even a tall the wrapped in a cloth or
nurseling unrecognizable to her neighbours because of its tender age not one woman on the whole hill cheated in the way of a rescue not
even for a short moment of trying and what of the other killer said i did not hear many women protesting against two seat toys being raped
they knew this work of killing fiercely head up the men in the marshes the agreed on this except of course if the men did their derby sex
work near the houses and again here's one of the killers talking about the fact that they knew these people and warmer you kill some one
who fights you or promises you harm and killings of this kind you kill the tuseon used to listen to the radio with her the kind lady who
will medicine plant on your wounds or your sister who is married to a toy or even for some unlucky devils your own tootsie and your
children by general demand you slaughter the woman same as man that is the difference which changes everything and hears the lontar of some
one that tried to stop this it was close to noon on april eleventh to remeasure a pulse of been five days but first day of the tipsycakical
area these at dor was sitting on a chair in front of his house resting after a morning of weeding he was a hoofer sixty five years old who
had arrived twenty years before some strapping fellows armed with machetes came singing up the path that ran near his house he is a door
called to them and his deep old voice and lectured them in public in front of the neighbors you young men are evil doers turn on your heels
and go your blade point a way towards a dreadful misfortune for us all do not stir up disputes too dangerous for us farmers stop tormenting
our neighbors and go back to your fields two killers approached him laughing and without a word cut him down with their machines among the
band was is aduerse who according to witnesses neither protested nor stopped to bend over the body these young men went on their way
singing now speaking of family and i mention that some of the recusants were intermarried and had next children and here sort of the
standard operating procedure for that this is coming from one of the killers a trieve you could try to save her you offer a cow to the
leader and a radio with a like to the organizers that you had it out small payments of money to those who were prowling around your house
but that wasn't even worth trying if you did not want to cooperate meaning if you didn't want to kill a toy husband you couldn't bargain
for he was at the head of the list if his wife began to argue she re struck right away and they caught her husband while she watched to
discourage her if she kept on she be cut herself with her children one of the other killer said some one who wanted to save his tussie was
required to show great enthusiasm in the killing some one who breathed weakly or timidly new was all over for his wife growsing or idleness
doomed her through you even complained they talk about i want to the other killers talking about how it was he to kill the the strangers it
was much better to kill strangers than acquaintances because acquaintances had time to stab you with an intense look before receiving the
blows a look from a stranger pierced your mind or memory less easily but there were some that obviously seemed to enjoy as some amused
themselves with their machetes on the toes to show off their skill to every one they would swagger around boasting later in the evening
some slow down their machetes just for punishment if it tipseion out up persuer in a running chase he could be teased with the point of a
machete it would be nasty for him it was like demonstrating the bad example except that no one was left alive that notice and obviously
when you have families you have children and we have children you have babies and he is one of the killers talking about the treatment of
the babies saving the babies that was not practical they were backed against walls and trees where they were cut right away but they were
killed more quickly because of their small size and because their suffering was of no use they say that at the church they burned the
children with gasoline may be its true but that was just in the first day turmoil after that afterward that did not last in any case i
noticed nothing more the babies could not understand the why of the suffering it was not worth lingering over them and as i mentioned
earlier some of the kids were part of the killing and here is one of the killers talking about that many children killed some sally were
sick and by its scared of it but were forced to cut by their mammas repousser completely silent when they hear talk of the killings even
from years ago keeping silent blocks both judgment and changent add to the evil of all this to add to the to the incomprehensible nature of
an all it's if it's almost just unbelievable nature but on top of all this these people were christians they were catholics they were they
were church going people that were transformed almost instantly into murderers and iron of those one of the killers talking about that
transformation that saturday after the plane crash was the usual quirites day at the church we sang hims and good feeling with our toy
compatriots or voices still blending in the chorus on sunday morning we were are returned at the appointed hour for mass they did not
arrive they had already fled into the bush in fear of reprisals driving their goats and cows before them that disappointed us greatly
especially on a sunday anger hustled us outside the church door we left the lord and our prayers inside to rush home we changed for our
sunday best into our work day clothes we grabbed the clubs and machetes we went straight off to killing here's another killer i was a
deacon the one who made a range of in for the christian gatherings on the hill in the priest absence it was i who conducted ordinary
services during the killings i chose not to pray to god i sent that it was not appropriate to involve him in that the white priest took off
at the first stonishes the black priest joined the killers or the killed god kept silent and the churches stank from abandon bodies
religion could not find its place in our activity for a little while we were no longer ordinary christians we had to forget our duties
learned in catechism class we had first of all to obey our leaders and god only afterward very long afterward to make confession and annan
when the job was done again i i it's just it's it's i didn't know if if i could do this book to bring people here to this place and to me
this part that i about you go through is about as dark as it gets in the marshes you heard no children's cries not even murmurs they waited
silently in the mud it was really something when we uncovered a woman with a nurseling the infant would not even whimper it was miraculous
so to speak many toes no longer asked to be spared that was how they greeted death among themselves they estopped hoping they knew they had
no chance for mercy and went off without a single prayer they knew they were abandoned by everything even by god they no longer spoke to
him at all they were leaving in suffering to join him and no longer asked him for anything not comfort not blessing not welcome they no
longer prayed even to drive away the fear of an agonizing death it was too astounding it was unnatural even animals that no nothing of pity
nothing of anguish nothing of evil they cry out terribly catamount of the fatal blow that mystery drove us to many discussions we saw
explanations for these tories who went off into death without breaking their silence accouri ten us sometimes at night because it was said
that such calmness must be a bad omen from heaven and he is one of the other killers talking about that the silent gas from the tootsies
when the totties were caught many died without a word and roland up people say die like a lamb in the bible of course we wander there are
no sheep so we have never heard their cry it sometimes touched us painfully that they awaited death in silence evenings we would ask over
and over why no protest from these people who are about to leave why do not beg for mercy the organizers claim that the tootiful guilty for
the sin of being toy some captain the feller responsible for the misfortunes they had brought upon us well i knew that was not true the
toys were not asking for anything in those fatal moments because they no longer believed in orders they had no more faith in crying out
like frightened animals for example howling to be heard above the mortal blows and overpowering sorrow was carrying those people away and
they felt so abandoned they did not even open their mouths and while hold that was happening where were we like i said i mean i was in the
sea paton on that ship we were had as at in the marine court did like i said something small they got off the relation but it was tiny in
comparison and it was to hear them to hear the killers talk about that there's bears what one of them said all the important people turned
their backs on our killings the blue helmets the belgians the white directors the black presidents the manatorian people and the
international cameramen the priests and the bishops and finally even god did he watch was happening in the marshes why did he not do
stabboard us eyes which his wrath for show some small sign of disapproval to save more lucky ones in knows horrible moments who could hear
his silence we were abandoned by all words of rebuke and re closed from the book with the statement from one of the survivors before i knew
a man could kill another man because it happens all the time now i know that even the person with whom you've shared food or who you slept
even he cokill you with no trouble the closest neighbor can turn out to be the most horrible and evil person can kill you with his teeth
that is what i have learned since the genesee and my eyes no longer gaze the same on the face of the world my eyes no longer gazed the same
on the face of the world to what a what can we take away from us this order mates we we ave to learn something we have to gain something
but what what is it and as i tried to answer that question for myself i fought about something that i say and something that i know but
this made it even more clear that there is evil in the world there is darkness and it exists and its real and it comes from as its human it
is people we are evil it was not was upmost that murdered all those people those men and those women and those children and those babies
there wasn't an animal or some force of nature like a tornado or hurricane to nome then wasn't satanan it wasn't some mysterious evil
spirit it was us and that that is downright horrifying but there is a counter that there is a dichotomy a that and that is the fact that
will we are the evil in this world we are also the good we are the light that counters this darkness and it sickens my heart to know that
we did nothing while this happened and i was there i was off the coast i was on the pomatias one quick helicopter flit away and maybe we
could help maybe we could save even just one person one child or one mama one baby we couldn't make some kind of difference but we didn't
we didn't get the order and so we sat while this evil unfolded and ashamed of that because you see we all have the capacity to bring light
into the world that counter that darkness all of us do in some way may be may be not directly may be not face to face with evil but we can
out all of us can out so the message i take away from this and jack a mi e that i need to focus that we need to focus on what good we could
do to help people who can do can we help who can we help give better who can we in help him prove their station in life what threatened
person can we defend one a pressed person can we free what person what what fellow human being can we remove from the grip of fear who can
we who can i who can we what what person out in the world can we take from the darkness and bringing to the light and that's the question
and the answer that i brought away from this and i know that this was a heavy heavy booked cover and i like i said i don't just want every
time that you turn on this pot cast to get crushed with something like this not on one to dwell on it and i've got some good positive books
i want to look at next but i don't want to know this kind of thing either because as i said before you can't appreciate the light if you
don't understand the darkness and as i said this is truly about as dark as it gets little bit have acoetes ye i gave echo a head up three
or four days ago and i said a man i'm not quite sure about this one this is going to leave a mark and the a i truly debated whether or not
to go forward you know we there were some people that even a even about the ever about the forgotten or there was some people that said he
you know that's just too much you know that's just too much and this is this is this is completely beyond that because the the there's no
rhyme or reason i mean at least you could look at it a japanese imperial soldier and say hey he's a sick person that's doing something for
this cause there was there was nothing here rimorso there was just slaughtered and be that that takes it to a hole another level when
dusthole taking detail but holy do it petition to me the the the thing i took away from it as a sort of personal responsibility that we all
have to to help out other humans and again i understand that every one is not going to be in a military alone front lines fighting against
you know perny and evil understand that but what can you do now about now said this and day want is one of one of things to talk about the
poncas you know i don't feel like i'm really good at hell being you know people with causes and stuff like that i just don't feel it don't
feel like something i'm very good at but this makes you we think and say what you know what can you do now because there's people that are
suffering i mean obviously right now we've got you know we got ices that are doing this same activities if not worse they just tegus
crucified a priest that was just in the news so the evil in still there and it is happening before our own eyes it it makes me it makes me
sick that we with the ability to do something about it we sit on the side lines so fully we start to move in the direction where we take a
leadership roll in the world and help lead the world torn the light then away from the darkness and with that thought let move away from
the this darkness right now let talk about something else not to forget about this but we do have to recognize that we got a live our lives
people got to live their lives and again don't deny that this stuff is out there don't forget that this stuff is out there relish your
situation if you are if you have a amptee player of some kind in your listening to this poast be thankful be thankful that you're in that
situation in look down below you into the darkness and if you get the chance poother hand and see if there's someone down there that you
can help pulasati that heaviness that out of that darkness let's head into elimination questions mushrom the troopers out there got
questions for us hum an you'll before dark about the ah before we go to questions from the interweb what can we do for the nebs supporting
the alocasia well it depends on your mission but in the event of you wanting to support this pot cast any capacity umbandine can do you
kiah do you amadinas ping like if you want to get that book you want to buy this book right here which you should meetin an and i open her
on and although knowing it be verved i'm telling you if you're youmans uld know about what to world yet my tigemach the seas ye right there
if you want an togetha weedle through amazon just click through the link that is on cocopas dot com or jacopo caste dot com or jocatore de
boy you are by eighty six from amazon and you clicketten bosom goes to pot castries so you put in a passively supporting um also unatoned i
this realized earlier today we have shirts cocopas shirts there in other couple of designs and had never mentioned it i posit a pitch on to
winter and before a couple of pairs unto her that's it and never mentioned it so will that's another way to support the bias the acid
yourself for but yourself assured with his eye that just look at the shirt threat jackal stored dot com look at him if you like it if you
like one of hemerobins or whatever get a shiryo them don't get the chaise silenus now um there it is and then of course on it is a a
supporter of the hoast o a n i t dot com slashed and jacob and get ten per cent off anything on it is where we get up a braintefeld etoges
and were jacobites yeah bunch o the stuff cool stuff and quality legitimate stuff i think that's a big deal because a lot in like you take
protesants or something like that and it won't work but you won't realise it now you want to get a clean you want to get the good stuff and
this and the naive mentioned this before you can get caught up on that website moved reading all the interest in it off like all day get
this and all to get these ingredients all that stuff which actually is in a bad thing because you know now but am none the less it's all
right there you can ah you can read about all the supplements that year or thinking about getting i recommend trotecito as though is if you
goin t do hard stuff that's like extended and in hard like cogitur you know across fit situation or that kind of starting a sow's called
across his situation yet an if it's all vetinary it do come lashed ooten reshipping except for the exercise the heavy hexercise stuff oh
yes there it is assumed because of caution on a first question on jack can you tell us your muse on brazen jugement mind set and training
leading into a competition well coveting his great can be imitabere competing points on your week is is competing let you roll against
people even ever train with before that are going to go on souls and percent against you every move matters in competition yes and bring it
ah i competed a town back in the early days um do know you well all this talk about ten cosden and i work for teammates back then and still
are but we can peated all the time and we can petenti old school turnaments the the grapple games they used to have those the the the pan
american submission grappling of a sort o like an some off shoe or another competing sort of panams type situation at my my there was he
the jew morier turnaments back in the day those were pretty cool and ah the copaifua few of those back in the day well at my favorite was
doing the new tregonies because those were like he held up an lay up in the wood somewhere we roll in and be kind of underground and those
were really cool compass so but competed to tom back in the day of one not as you want september eleventh happened that was now my focus
more than anything else and i need to be ready and need be ready i could be having a blown out the i couldn't be even her shoulder so in
furore i had like less time to focus and have real like what's calling a training camp to be ready to compete in i love and i mean i was a
high level you know on the hours is i was you know a brown beaver a black bell at the time and so it wasn't like you could just show up a
weekend warrior and jump in the jump on the mat with you know some some other black bell and it was going to go easy for you was going to
happen so i don't anathematize as i need to be one per cent for the job a book competing his one some ten no matter what you do in training
you cannot get a person as fire up as they are going to be in competition it's not going to happen so it's really good to to compete so you
find out what you wessing hot what if felianine s going to cyclone you cause they're going to be on side and to prepare for him you know
you got a you got at my favorite can you do prepares you know you get guys with her going got fresh people coming on you muleteer body can
be destroyed when fog rolls in and starts getting plain roll in the situations than in the histato when you bring it fresh person you know
after every two minutes three minutes for its one minute six minutes but one person is is is fighting the whole time in other people
getting rested and coming in that's very chaunting it matyobane your technique it pushes you beyond your normal limits and it's an awesome
way to do it so that being said you also can't just do that all the time because you have to train your swollenness as well you need to be
ready to do you know if you're doing a seventi i need be felt go hard for seven minutes and not see everything for a thirty ain't minute
fight which is what you sometimes end up doing the eye you an old time the gem on doing yellin seven rounds you know nine rounds watertoast
may be may you also doing just one round but it's one round that to one three minutes long yea that happens to so i like to do a little bit
of all those things and but ye compete it yourself better and it'll it'll definitely make you better jugular which will make you a better
person you see that pressure you know and another a atactic with is with his kind a good and jeff do this sometimes tell do like a three
mineralists so it's strange because when you know there's only three minutes an you kind of get that allusion that i'm just going to go all
out and the sea how miff i can get this guy i'll have to re minute to get em and for your going hard so you send or urgency is now or than
if you have apaneuthen for your bright but here's the ears of the little chin on now jested this of purpose muttered kind of this little
trick where you're going hard but he only gives us thirty seconds to me so it doesn't matter but something there and you're going like to
think for one so you're like and so that'll have testerton ing but it'll testie your quickness and art and that quickness like a quick but
your urgency you you know you're not going to be just chilling in home nygard or you know cause or causes keep on fantolin the gadado can
ye the in fact i lashed strategy in some cases you know when you got very severe or something like this anyway does it that's not so
interesting one that i came to realize when jeff put in auswanderer we next westenders doit okay i hurt myself significantly throwing a
round house kick recently abdominal hernia at the sight of an old tenditur i trained mama five days a week sometimes more multiple times a
day for two years until last week when he got that injury but now i can hardly see the chair without pain and surgery is too months out and
who knows how long we come probably recovery will be in before i can trade again on a asking is what should we as marshall artist in men do
in times of force tights and injured what do we do when there's a quiet but we miss the storm well one thing with injurieuse going to come
and you cut wood you get sawdust you train you're going to get injured that's what's going to happen i mean it's just a that's disalow was
it long of the land the number one thing to remember he is annie something is really horrible at your super attean your supper fire up and
your training all the time when you get into and you get side line you feel like it's never going to go away if you have a note lean and
you're just like i'll man the son doomed so the the injury is gone a wet go away now obviously for some guys first on first some actual
soldiers are warriors that have been wounded in a permanent way that's that's different and those guys what they do as they learn to adapt
m you know they learn how they got to get through this how they're gonna apter life how are the gontrol with one leg how they goin to do
pull up with one hand a jeffrey know jeffrey out we are doing perpetooated on the anima classes through it if you don't now jeffrey also
fighter assimilate he's born out one hand had the guy to him perepisat lacked belt uleeta at and he had a he has then a little hook he can
put on there to do pull up and i guess the thing was fallen off and to be just throw that thing to the ground and he was just cooking his
is for a over and in no other hand was graven he's doing pull up to i mean if if jeffrey all can just jump due if we did i know six rounds
worth a berthe pauper five rounds for a berebisheers ed it no one has any excuse so guys at the get some kind of a permanent injury that
you won't did something like that happens okay you got adaptator out what you can do but the injuries the the basic injuries the daily
injuries the the temporary injuries that is normal from training that that's you gonna get em and so months course oh you got an injury
goodnight it's a little injury be thankful not something worse you know i i've i've had you know a blown out an go i've had out torn him
cell and you know what you do what do you do when you deteriorate or your ms l you say okay also i did not my asie's not my meniscus you
know the eight the mcwilliamses what do you say if it's your if it is your asoka great that's one the combermere with surgery so none of
these problems are permanent right to be thankful you don't have a permanent injury and even only seems like is goin to take forever like
home boy here who's got two months before even get surgery and then how long is it going to take it seems like and say for ever i had
exeter right does a blot on the ranadoiro member how long it took a erelong time i met it took months to heal from that i don't member that
when i do they not time i did other exercises i figured i was stuff i watched you to pitifu ed out of the moves you know that's what i did
so you two basannah ing devdasi would you do never once the active right you know move do if you eat if you can't move your body all work
your four warm etrangere squeeze it and his ball one of my buddies be out as me what is it the triple threat he did alpines us boom he'll
look right didn't tap at that's the hell people got a tap to it i got carnehan tap bois but all parts he was in he had to get him all
reconstructed so he we had a gollywog dummy we have at the gym we had a big one of a hundred twenty pounds and he would lay on the ground
as masin a four as legs and a full straight brace won't bend it off he was lay on the ground and in laying excitedly and he just pulled it
from one side of himself put it on the ground of the other side of self carpebat the other side back none the side back through the sum so
he's getting his motion of sore of turning on the ground this mass of course stranglin wouldn't we when he find me recovered it was
powerful in now what he would turn underneath us said yet some get some strength of so you got a figure out what you can do you know if you
can't roll box if you can't box lift if you can't lift a stretch and get that flexibility working in some are that you're not flexible well
whatever you ontonagan stay active because i think i'm definitely a believer in the active rest you know what i mean when you just go a
cominciossi on the couch a watch t v no wrong answer run away from that t v you got to keep em cause that tenour blood flowing in a keeps
kitty's more blood more circulation more heeling gitthere that's in your adota and if you but you know still your son at more time in your
day right sore can do i'll tell you what you do get a guitar at right learn to play it torrid a book build the website take pictures learn
a language read more books expand your brain right expand your mind when your body needs a little recomfort when your bodies injured make
yourself smart er make yourself better for your minante bottom line the question was what doesn't man do when the's quiet and i'll tell you
what a man does when there's quiet he takes advantage of it riotan advantage of it get smarter get better you know the ways and with a body
comes back you'll you will be better ye that's a good way to to put it like takinge of it a actively because a lot of times like where the
problem comes about i know the cushite my by set the arret i want there i was watching her out yet ye think you yeah i was what have a
picture of you yet lanthron yea it was enough to think he sent me as mary tex to lomenie the noose for something up but same day though
none the less what were the problem comes when you miss the story you miss the action is your harping on it it's almost like you have this
hole like a hole ittle bee stem or may be that the doctor said nightmoths but maybe i could do it in four cutting you know that it is that
mine set were you you kind in a way got amid to yourself okay i'm out right now i can't roll right now i can't train him and made two times
a day five days a week i cannot do that yet admit that sorefoot act did you work on your videoing stern out on all men housatonia or as a
would you do i forget but i tell you do not say i'll vallyed it do it is harmonised on you figured out while you can do he exaccurately
into working out it not so i would do other stuff like legs and stuart's stormiest my left for a still bigger it not olesantes that that's
that's a good little jump start miss don't horonite yourself that you're you're out your own your rios and then how you said take advantage
of it an that's good i wish i would have known that after le take advantage as is so much advantage to be taken yes there's all kinds of
time you have you a man i think about all the time the high spending and all the mats at meenaygerie with with the reading for example that
backing through eating and um look at i look at it this way where as far as books go books that exist enamorata in the whole weather your
interested in it not interdite you can understand it or not all the information of the world is accessible right now is very more than what
is more than mean time ever all different angles you an aspect of everything is just out there and you have more time now take advantage of
that actively on actively at worship on my question is this as the military man would he do if you cannot reconcile the orders that your as
to do i know that in your book ytalia out believe the mission and a hotel must ask questions in two you believe what happens if after all
the questions and all the expectations it don't agree or belief what is the police the politics asked of view something you're not
congruent with how do you as a military man respond to your incongruence with a mission so this if great question and i am and you know
what kind of tie in with what we just read with a book review of machetes albertus doing his some of them didn't believe what they're doing
they did it anyways wrong answer him then he resulted in the death of the one guy you know you talk about it that's in the book but you
know so first of all as you as you stated it in the question self if you don't agree with some mission that you've been given then you have
to ask the question why and the book extremes we talk about that with the primary examples which talk about his working with iraquois and
how that's very challenging a very difficult intrigantes and the story that we tell him the book is that i i said to myself at a wire they
have in us work with the races olier's my casemate a risk et cetera cetera and eventually i realized why we needed to do this was because
if we dinteth a racy soldiers to a point when they could handle the security in iraq than who is going to do it teases us so i understood
why now i actually may have to ask anybody why i figured that i asked myself why then so as they will to come to it come to that conclusion
but when you are partoowye it's a business ordinar the the gold the old tomato it has to be alive and it is so for example where in iraq
were supposed to die iraqis liers okay do you think that the generals wanted our men to be killed because that the higher res now they
wanted to win the war they want to keep a grisapol that's what i wanted to we want to win the war on a keeper gustis that's a line so
anything that they're telling me to do it must be at some point in the distance all lined with the same golden i have and it's the same
thing with a business do you think a boss of a business doesn't want to be profitable or doesn't want to be africa no somewhere in the
future they want to be profitable man want to be a efficasious is going to all in with that if you don't if those don't aline at some point
that you had a real serious issue on your hands right because maybe you're being told to do something that you just don't believe it at you
at first you know like i said you got as those aliens all the way up and if you do ask these questions all the way up and you still find
okay i don't believe in this mishap now you got a way out the consequences because for instance if there is no order that comes in for
whatever reason you don't believe in it vastoque tions and you still don't believe that it's the right thing to do but what if it's nothing
it's like pretty inconsequence right something that's no big deal and you say no to it like i got got a dissoutes to make your stand okay
well now you your personal you're not supporting the chanchamana more an if you're not sporting or chinaman any more how can you support
the guise that work for you because no noway might get removed and if you get removed from the situation now who's going to go execute it
whoso a go do this thing that you thought was wrong now you goin to give it to somebody that might execute it in a horse way in a worse way
or or you lose control of it you've lost your influence you you obsolefieri tical capital you've imperadore ucation by saying no one not
gonna do that because i don't believe in it what was it and by saying no what did you accomplish because now you have no controlled over
the more year year you can't change it you can't act it any more so i maskilim this will make it very clear what i'm trying to say i don't
think i been very clear i now if you're playing a game right your plantpot game or a basketball game and the raftmates about cale okay so
you say refait i don't agree with this call i quit walking off the court now does that makes sense i mean how bad of a call was it how did
it effect the game and and furthermore once you walk off the court well good or you can you can you do better can you try and bring back
the score can you try and show the rest that yes you are playing fair a look on a good gunden my head i keep in my cool no you've thrown
that all away you've thrown that all the way and so what good is that it is same thing it not this cerere cause that sort of outside you
can membertou own coach what if your coach pulls you out a legate or a coach calls a play to you for you to run a play that you didn't
believe it so you can say you know what i don't believe in that play i'm walking off the field ma'am that's an exact correlation to the
idea right this is military order comes down that i don't believe in oh i don't believe it it's not in a walk away into that is is
problematic because you've you've given up you for surendered your right to affect the situation and that's that's not good and in the
military desolatingly know policy new ones that we might not believe in under present limiting they might be little things that you do you
know what i have i don't don't see i don't think that's the test way to do what i think there's a better way to do it but if you walk away
from it now you can no longer affect it and that is bad so mugera speaking m for most of these things you i i don't i that was in the
military all time don't wisit all the time and you know what generally speaking you stay in the game so that you can still have an effect
constellations now that being set there can be orders that are unlawful or onafiel that can happen right you are in a bad situation working
for back commendone's i wondther what of the case may be i may be there orders or plans that are tactically on the sound to the point that
earraid people are going to die am in and i no situations you know as we were on back to napoleon's maxim again if you knew execute
something that you knew was wrong you're comparable so that as it's time when you stand up and say you know what i'm not doing this you
want send me to even work you want a demon me demon me do it but i do not believe in this and here's why so that is a time where you may
have to say after you way out this situation anatha it is something that's on ethical unconstitutional and you think you're going to have a
bigger impact by protesting it by possibly jefferson your career or possibly going to going eleven worthi your emilita getting courtmartial
all those things can happen if you think that it's so important and that you will have a better effect on it by making this protest that's
your doing you now making a protest then okay maybe that makes sense so you've got like them the maline ask her in vietnam were horrible
situation happened if you were a soldier that was there and said you know what i am not doing this stop and maybe maybe you do rescueing
risking killed but that a situation where maybe you do it or maybe it some mistreatment of civilians are something but i can even with
mistreatment of civilians that you as military is not going to order the mistreatment sedillot going to happen man so if it is happening
it's coming from a rocommended that you're going to be able to destroy when you bring this situation to the to the authorities or to the
higher chain come in so again you know if you're getting wrapped up in some small new one thing yet it immensite put the political like you
you're not politically conventional yment that's the wearyin when you're in a military your you're not there to umea the politics of it you
know you are there to carry out the politics you there to carry out the policy now if there's a cantalice is a gregious re an if it's a
gregious and you think you would do better to to make a protest and end up in jandone be on cannanore and say that is why i'm in jail beati
didn't agree with what we are doing if it's something that the rest of the nation is going to look at and say yeah this guy was right of
course ebionite because it's something that is in comparison that is something relatively small then your probably your probably doing a
worse to help this situation you're probably do less good by walking away getting off the field and letting letting the the the situation
transpire without your presence i want to be there you know i want to be there if i smites were getting passed with a mission that i
thought was a little bit sketchy i want to be there now i want to be there not had protestation a good call so um ye in anagan i'm not
saying that you don't stand by your friends volebat i'll imseng is especially the dis guy that's in the military your principals should be
for the most part in line this is america an if you're if your if you're being told to do something that's that's anamain that ye stand by
your principles but most if it's something that small ited something that you just might not agree with a hundred per cent it as mean your
unprincipled person it means that you are the winning losing the battle but you're going to win the war ye ye like that way way it out ye
ever let is not a light in it that bothers me i'm jumping on the you know on that side of things mexique tion chuckle and echo what
supplements do you guys take besides crill oil and alpha brain and take altobrand instant or capitals i take out a branican it's casey tree
it's godlessness got lost witness to it i could get tabinets taste good of you if you have a little bit of the sweet tooth of some sweet
you been eating like state for the past it seven days um no discord i also take becoming as i mentioned before ah i do get from on it it's
a brought a called strong done that's what i ah that's what i take i tell you i i the getting ready for the parasti do prepare sure like
three days in a row i was deep in pretoria i was pounding some small brain and the echo each teethlike drinking the full alpha brains in it
may be like two of them and in it i had drinked two days row and when i went in to train and i turiddu getting ready for something right
now and i was wrong really good with the leafage is dealing well he has all the youdorter and and dan was lean with not a happy cameraman
in the third day was like i was pretty much done with wrapped up the prepaid i didn't have an alphabet in a hat of rough day he and i as
said i was self vaistour callahan aelian know maybe but a year and i suppose you want to throw from shumack yes tom tick of course like i
always said um again even before this as i took him teinkirche pre work out sometimes you know watteau a time if you if you really want to
do you like working out you know i ayoli working out or it now you always feel like that in norlanden that take some pretty work out with
the aparan instant making together boom katerfelto um is far stanapat instant verses the castles then my brother has a verified this i'd
never taken i take in the capitals with out before it on a sea hear that if you take the capes before you go to sleep cause i don't think
there's like any kind of caffeine or nothing in ougouson so take it before you go to sleep you get um lucidiora yes i've heard that i
potatory body everybody who takes out a bring they say that it affects a dream i don't want my dreams to be any more real than they are
actually youknow e that they you're dreaming when you when you go duristan sometimes yet aparently like the tonalities my dream ses blank
but i wake up and you know complete full athletic sat dress that have that is how i wake up it's not fun ye um but in regard to like
protean powder and nothing like this ah stake yes i had a furnished to get ye i think that's a big deal like a lot of people you don't
people on it some people really into supplements like to be had he now busied new protein powder of comes with his delivery system and all
this stuff um do welation protege you know all this other stuff in it in the um like if you eat food that our des normal food that is a
good delivery system that is tehachapi ally when it's in the form of a rib i santoris ster marthereau a magine so there that's it not that
heavy into the supplements to maybe a multifidum from time to time i i don't elanetic for a while i don't really warm yep um go elorn that
it next weston i'm a contucky trooper and i'm an instructor at our academy but liscow lost three guys last year proudigue how it how to
deal with training these guys as hard as he can and they still lose their lives while working so i peddling with people in letting him know
that m notati goes out oh how do you do with that rope first of all am i got a rat a feet back from yaller out there in the world and if i
would say one thing of them till leave this office thank you for what you do get have a dangerous yam otites he thankless most of the time
and your dealing with the with the dregs of society all day long and then you have to balance that with dealing with normal civilians and
citizens so ah thank you for what you guys you in also i'll throw on top of that fire fighters you paramedics thank you guys will what you
do and again thankless job um difficult job dangerous job where people your helping people that don't want to help themselves in many cases
so tancred thanks or all those nose first responder for what you guys do um now as far as training guys harrd in then you still get guys
that get killed bless em but let me ask is what is the alternative right what would you do not train hartman you i had the first yells that
were killed on a rack work killed under my command or in my god or mark we might emaciating it we trained his hardest possible and we still
took those chatty in telling you we trained as hard as possible and if it wasn't for lack of training or lack of planting or lack a skill
it's the nature of combat at the risk of conducting operations in a hostile environment and altawater i got back to america and i took over
the training for the west coast uphams that fact that fact of losing my guise in combat it made me fanatical about trading and i was
already for atical tregunter but i multiplied it infinitely because it now became my mission to prepare these guys the ant to the assabet
of my ability and get them ready for combat in part of that preparation was making them understand what was it risk and i think that
something that you should do here you know you don't know what's going to happen you gonthier and you don't know when it's going to happen
to every thing you do should be to prepare yourself men tolentini for a moment of truth whether that happens at a trafficker you're serving
a warning a bank robbery you don't know when it is going to happen and till you got to tell of these guys tell them the truth of the danger
and let it sink in and hound on it an i i i i don't lestore from time nosiest it is statement and it's because i remember this feeling than
it was when i got back from remade were doing we being even training and i would see a guy like standing in the street sending the middle
of street which is which is not a good move right that's where both fidon you're goin to get shot you saying in a estreated all time a
guy's ermine and i would see a guy that will be standing in the street and i would literally feel sick it was only for about maybe six to
nine months after i got back when going to the train i i will feel sick to my stomach i i would just feel this all able feeling because it
was i gos waiting for something to be that is waiting for the co shapnell able then i want my gal was to transfer that feeling into their
heads i wanted them to feel sick i wanted them to feel embarrassed and feel guilty and feel angry and you disappointed that they were doing
something wrong because i wanted them to change their behavior which would keep them alive so i would say in this case you you've got your
putting people from training valuable training and of are there still going to go out and do a danger's job but you you don't back off the
training you train alder and you use these guise again god bless em you use these guys that were killed in action as an example of a guy's
this is why we're training hard this is why we're going to polish this is why i want you to take personal responsibility for yourself and
for your training and for your skill set so that you're ready you train how you fight and you fight how you train sir take advantage of
that and be ready yet elsie that that pain of oh you know any kind of fail in this case is the extreme case losing your guise in all you
give a country busi stream cases um and that you know so there's a spectre of of you know of cases but any kind of failure or or or mishap
that causes any kind of pain you can and it's that easy is not easy but you can use that name to facilitate your passion in a corrective
way alligwy say train harder you can take that pain and very focus on good ways of training training hard being attached to the results of
training your end or the process of draining you you don't in it and it'll eat essentially you can use that pain you know dear yesterday
that anemometer that loses to a demission hold right you got beatitude young at work judicandae a guy an gets his legs kicked out from
underneath him okay you got to work you more time souyou take those painful training experiences and you put them like you said you put him
to work absolutely and the analogies that'll come that chilly a lot time but it doesn't always so in those cases you can just just actively
and consciously take that pain you know and and redirect it you can do it i can do that believe it if it doesn't come come natural helps
okanagan advice m you have to continue to work out at fort thirty a m but with two new born twins at home because the struggle to stay
awake three also question and well i have forced the first three of a more born in pretty rapid succession not quite tins obviously but you
know we add that one point we had freets under three so the awe are getting after it and i now part of a got a in full disclosure i you
know i was a deployed a fairmount but well you got those young kids your siege do you got to get it down you got to get it down and this
idea that you're going to get it done on some pattern or some structure time schedule it's gonna instead part yea and you've got a both
sleep and working out and every other thing that you're trying to get done in your life you have to make it happen when you can make it
happen you know you have to make it happen when you can make it happen there's going to be no ideal time you might be working out at three
o'clock in the morning you might be working out at seven o'clock at night membering out at midnight you might be trying to sleep at noon
you don't know what's going to happen i would definitely say when you got the young kids get some kind of a home jim set up at least get a
pull a bar at least get yourself a pull up are cause it if you ever puberty can do everything you can do follow then you can push or you
can do scratch in de spring you can you can make stuff or of you at least have a pollianos gossein there you know it's a half an hour there
it's tontiniers fifteen minutes or it's a power not in the afternoon it's some squaire your sitting there holding a baby try to get the
baby to fall sleep that's what it is it's the stroller to the park with a chalk bag son you get there you can just impoison the swing set
you nat squatted becomes because life is gonna have a vote in the situations and your kids and your family are morincourt ant than you are
and that's something that is a tough areat for the young dad's to face all of a sudden you are not the most foreboding in the world at all
they are more important than you are that being said which i know is most to a pace kind of a fine when i say that being said somebody
tooral of me about it that being said so you kids are more important in you your family's warport you that being said guess what the number
one think you need to do for them stay healthy you gotta stay ealthy you can't get all alathee and turn into a bomb just because you got
kids very looking to you to be able to provide for them for a long time but also looking for at you as an example of the big one so you got
to be the right kind of example anaica fitness is part of that example so they should see that from the day one they should know big
daddy's doing some squats while his old thing that that now a man adobe down that being said this is not a time of your life when you have
new born twins that you're going to be in the optimity you're not going to be at your peak performance that's okay i that's a game a man
you got things go on here a dad you know you not at with twin new dad with otranto knocking to be setting any easier person your on your
dead lift right not on a happenin so but that's not a reason to fall apart at all you got a hole the line as much as you can get a balance
the situation out you got a squeeze in dig an you got to be treated with your work out with your rest with your sleep when the opportunity
presented self which have one of those of the priory otago get it on and you know it'll happen it's not just when you have new born
kinchahan with your job you you'll get some fresher situation at work and all of a sudden you going you gotta scluded know i had i bought
houses over time and i would always fight his houses that were unlivable frae just on livonius bran sack disasters because they were
cheaper hum and then i would go in and do these like speed remodels alone by yourself by myself but you know for instance i did a i got it
a kitchen in one of my alas got it to catch him and we did the whole kitchen plumbing electrical new counters the whole thing and i got it
i didn't get the countertop in because that that was like you know especially gods coming into that but seventy two hours seventy two hours
non stop work what when i moved into another house i had we pulled up the carpet it out there was his nice hard wood for as under the
carpet pulled up water damage a third of the the little bit more than a third or foremost half the fors water damage side yank those boards
out and then sang this whole thing in it was a nightmare partook his seventy two hours i of no sleep like i'd sleep for twenty minutes
waiting for the the next layer of varnish to dry and sitting there in the fumes right but that's retests you got the bit like i said the
day project of work something that's coming ah and you got a figure out how to what you can sit in when you can fitted in and we wisiters
benefit you know there's benefit to that tony minute little session you just did go do a hundred buries right go swing a gentle bell just
go sir i was talking with the other day with a catboat the i got the ah the zabels on light you know i have a amiel's you know i haven't a
rouged jim this on me dosaratha because i'm walking around and sometimes you need to snatch a kettle bellisima you go to that a gentle bell
so so you have that in that bill up nears now you just boom you had out you know you iverian into a sweat just hit on seven seventy charm a
cannibal matched me he just you just do me that if an so that's the kind of thing maybe you know a new born bad you got to have that have
that do be to sit toorey just to hit tom tatches fell ready just to dooneses sudeley palestrina's it good an erportant half it will get the
whole apart all or set a rank of the rinks yes you know something that you can ring a great cause you can do polyeuctes they're very very
versatile very versatile but you got the bottom line here is your life is going to change it has changed so eight dozen mean and your now
what your life is changed and i is got better mum i just got better so what you need to do is he to adapt to the new situation hand and tin
you to drive the excellent but the excellence isn't going to be served up all at once rathe accent ohonoose up a little chunk throughout
the day there where you can grab it up and that's her that's the way it goes yet another tip and am i am a twin i don't have to in you if
you don't know a echecles is a tinny the way i got some request for the echoes story so maybe next podcast we can wear her echoes story yes
um yes sure ahoendoe you three minutes i heard a saaerine but no one when i had my daughter and i'm i'm pretty into working out so you know
to to not work out with kind of heart or not have the time but he's a thing i'm really into like will the luxurious situation rest and for
a long time and seen going to mentally ready like taking an hour to have to get ready for a use to that so that was a big a big change to
to not have that much rest in that had have that much time so now you're doing jacopo catching giddeness lay on etretat different um but a
a a thing that helped on top of erything he said which is in my opinion absolutely cracked hundred per cent um do to add to it is work with
our you know wife or husband if you are girl you know in your intenselie kind of communicate with him tell him that you know working out in
staying in shape is is important to me whatever or an a good way to play it is getting on the healthy at this time with our new gods is
means a lot you know if i do that i can mean a lot to stay healthy do you m so you know if you communicate that all help is well because
you can work with each other you know how like you on when you have a new kids um is can like one guinicelli on a rest time you know you
are and then you know the other guy will kind of stand watch with with the kids and the other the other person can can get rest if you
communicate that i'll help you situation so much yes i am guilty here of unintentional communications because if i your work went in one my
wife and i were a kid or young if i didn't work out in quite honestly if i didn't train you git i'm not i'm yea i was i wouldn't recognize
it but it just would really like frustrate me i and so venters said you know what just get your stupid ass out of here an go train you you
get i rather just have you go ye and that's the one that's what i you know we i showed at the gym at eight o'clock at night late dean would
be done teaching class and i come in there and we train for thirty eight minutes you know just go in there gettin on and come home i so you
know tryout to do that where you're sure right blood there's something i mean i ought mouseline that there is there is a mind body
connection that is undeniable if for sandy you don't find a place to get that aggression out and get that the dorfield and get the the the
good feeling that you get from physical activity and then you're going to turn on turn a little bit nasty yes no good bye and then of
course that that i bet you a waterations ships really suffer from that people to recognise it i think so do i own i in my three from
talking to people a the soothest element that element of of exercising in it being interrupted by a new kids or something like that that
will vary from person a person right so you being all nuts because you can't train you know the next guy might not be that not he might
affected this monrovious much you know is different um an a that goes along with what i said like communicating actively you know not had
to collielike you now here doing what you did but communicate and at the same time if you're aware of it which it can be the hard part if
you are aware that you just not as happy just to know that she really kind of check yourself if you feel yourself losing a temporary i'm
i'm you know i'm unhappy because i'm sacrified a a you training days you're right the red flag of exaction the red flag of hay sacks having
kids yes is the red flag to reason your feeling that is because it's disparition cause i disrupt in your physical activity it so recognized
that fell and in due something about it you know communicate with your spouse of set up a plan i get a pull a bar get a cattle bell in the
house you do and and make it happen ye and then i i at a good point yet it's not going to be as luxurious as now in you know you're not
going to be out in em it's not the andelot of them that will with me that bothered me you no no not i didn't i didn't really pay much of a
price you don't for as far as it moving me when some above me i don't like lusitanica ally but i did feel that delia gosh i don't have that
much time or i don't have the energy because i didn't get enough sleep in it with kind annoying but at the same time i did adopt and i got
real good at em you know like the exercise like jim jim is kin do it like on a pammerstone i'd go on the ground i'd sit with my legs and
feet on a round indicantia man i got real good doing that but am not the less does it is not in detonating um two things ye communicate
understand when your certainty get a little irritated because he didn't didn't train on messantian then and he littering that's a on the
flip side if you have to recognise because oleosity situation where now you have kids yet you still want to go train you got to but your
wife is sake how how can you reconcile gongorine with your bodies you know cause elevate girl friend away from think that that's just some
some funny game noneother minnetaki's another relationship be yaconin on the anesthesia one who sadly importer jealously yes and i suspect
so it's important to to like i said communicate and lam let em know that it's not that do you know and the men don't always get it in send
that but if you just can communicate and effectively get the message that it is an important things you inlays darling what it orto you
well what's it will you on getting onobatis whether it's not running or whether they're baking or whether it's there anything pointed their
girls or whatever the kiss me that what you've got this is what i've got red at these two things if it work out at transome yes you know
that's what i got i do but be be fair that lethegreve tis a week before the kids and you still want to go seven days with three hours a day
on the stand that one got him right on a brig in ottilie six if not how was it really bad and yet i can see thee but the it's tom in a way
it's not fair you know like to not only to your wife but to the fact that you have kids now you know tis only so much joaking around here i
don't i'm question whether i should tell this but i'm going to so there were times when i would come home from work in this ullam work
until seven o'clock at night i come home from work walk through the door dropped my work bag and pick up my jim bag my wife there with
three young kids and she would be looking at me with the expression of are you freaking serious cause you know you i only home for let's
call it for days that i'm going on the trip at home for three days so those four days she thinking cool he's home for four days family time
i'm thinking cool home for four days at pretind but again what she realized was that if she was to stop me she's got a jerk in the house
now not now even i mean just just it just is just a reality of it you know i just would be really frustrated with the situation and in all
i wanted you as you go train because it's parliament want to get on the mat and i want to get better and i want to it's very selfish right
i mean i'll andronovich but at be that that sarbut e the reality is that that's me that i mean ye that men and can't change as she you mean
i will well forsook the story but you know this gonson real obvious in clitiae but the compromise thing you old man you eave a bunch of
kids you got a compromise a u and they'll be like hey everyone else in the whole group by the way the kids even the you know your wife
every one in the whole group you guys compromise a factor of eight onate mendocino promise a factor of point five cause i'm still good to
go to judy's every single day for as long as i've done it you do all the things that you've done before you have handthe yes i don't think
you a seat no you shouldn't do that but i am saying well and i did ye and i and airolo of icannot aware a lot of time in not saying in what
i know i'm being a dick right now and you want i'm okay with me in a dickory know if an i sure fall for not letting during or whatever
there i guess i i might not have been the best to the last hosspetality a man livinia's it's i don't want to say it good but when you have
a new kiotense ally twins an ye know in one tuitions alookin reconcile what's important you know like life every to day you went to
tacketty or something like that and drank every two carat before kids now yet twins or like marelle how you you get to honestly ask
yourself is that kind of stuff important now no tarleton's not important compact against the une but you could say time of my friends is
important all this upset the drinking and i dialite little detailed things that you can easily go without and in a lot of cases do better
without but their vices or whatever when you can when you have twins or nucis or or discipine era you do get that opportunity to reconcile
what's more important you you get for artisette i'm sure preterite all right i'm a congratulations twins the big deal ye do do it the
openings are aching geminata is not a eidolon yes um cockle knowledge is a powerful tool to become knowledgeable he must ask good questions
do you have advice for asking god questions yes i mean now legis a powerful cold for sure a a i mean it's this semester of took right it's
where all your tools come from because whenonabe is nothing and you know you take that one step further and really now ledis this weapon
ultimate weapon in it trumps all other weapons right thought is what wins the mind is what wins the knowledge is what wins and you
absolutely you you you game now ledby asking questions right so my advice for asking questions is resimble question everything don't don't
just exact anything as to crossed question everything i tell my kids when they go to school to sit in the front of the class room and when
they when they with a don't understand something that satin they don't understand something just pretenderette ether and say i understand
the more said a part you governed in that how you need to be a life as how i try to be we you don't understand no word break out a
dictionary and look it up if you don't understand the concept break down the concept until you do understand you do not how something work
digging to it until you do know how it works as every question that comes to mind a moseying that you ask you bore out why i why why why
this like a five year old and everything you see but yes asked those questions and learn and most importantly ustinoskai yourself every day
ask yourself o o my what if i learned what have i coveted what for progress have i made who if i helped what am i doing to improve myself
to day to get better faster stronger healthier smarter ask yourself is this what i want to be this is this all i've got this this
everything i can give his vis going to be my life and do i accept that ye ask yourself those questions will hard questions and you got
answer getting it from truthfully and you got a realize that all of us all of us can do better we can be better you just go take that first
step and that first step is when you begin to ask those questions so it vicunas ing questions asked the hard questions and asked the hard
questions of your sicel indian the answers to those questions were you find that path the path the progress in the path of freedom inside
your mind inititation for the night face all the troopers out there for two einlasse ning spensife in my mind with my strange little
thoughts preciated thanks for sharing your thoughts of me on the inwendig he definitely is cool to have everybody connect for me an give me
feedback giving us feedback about what's going on supporting the pocassett ening downloading subscribing reviewing all that stuff is very
helpful and very cool and we are a couple of the things that we can do that you can do if you want a support your gosport parasolette do
echo oh for thing they can do if you want a hennuyer amazon shopping im displicere link on our website two opsite u dockmaster thought come
right to nobody we do have shirts and i mentioned that before we have shirt if you like those um get some of those and a cone monk your m
if you want inkissi em and in um you can we have a faithful page now ocfuske us come in ashetiel can ask leftalone question yet because the
thames hard to ask questions in um you know a hundred forty characters for less in actually less than that cassinette in the jacolliot you
know um so good oh the fate book pages factotum slash and jacopo cast and you know like it and then you can put your questions there and
one sisson and am of course got up on it on it dot com slashed jackal delamore ousework town yet and you a temper had off boom i support
you too just like a oh for the supplement and the cokeville what not oh yes married there it is then did you got there you have the
donation thinks so right yes were asked for ye at tresson request for the donation situation tom and i did not feel about at first but men
yes thank you thank you as for that and it is available to lupinelli did it yet all in good over all this story for support thirty four at
yallarook for itfor one is his oestrum jocounde hamidie teofan or all that sport thanks forgetting the book tremontes p you know hard cover
kindle audiobook if you didn't know that roviano you know what all that stuff is great but most importantly here's achonet do get up and
get out of bed in the morning sheep off that dreariness and that darkness and clench your fists and go out into the light out of the world
and get after it that's what you need to do so until next time this jackonet
