this is jacopo cast number seventeen with teachers and me jacka willing it's been ten years since april second two thousand six ten years
since those of us and fourth poltoon huddled around the radio outside of an iraqi army post near camp romany trying to make sense of the
confused and uncertain radio traffic of the excels calm and firm voice from the seas trying to termine what truck had been hit and who was
missing ten years since we drove the road back towards the guvener with fear and our minds and hate in our hearts knowing we had lost close
friends but not yet sure of the names ten years since i met my potenciana on the darkened steps of the gov center as he came down from the
sea o sea and confirmed which trucked been and when i pressed for who was gone he simply said all of them we hadn't yet learned that one
guy who was a fucking hard ass who wasn't going to let death take another marine that day and whose recovery has been an inspiration to all
those men who know him ten years since i did my best to pass the word to my team with steadfastness but repeating all of them revealing me
for the twenty year one year old i was through the tears i was trying to hold back ten years of trying to figure out what their sacrifice
meant of shifting views on what it was all for in the end that is something that is still a struggle but i've found solisa purpose in these
facts stafferton eric mackintosh corporal scott procopio lance corporal coon young kim and hospital men giovanni idea were men who chose to
be part of something bigger than themselves men who chose to enter a profession of crushingly hard work sacrifice and danger all for the
simple purpose of protecting the men around them staffs argent mack was the epitome of a fighting marine a stud who exuded proficiency and
professionalism while also being humorous and approachable procopio is without a doubt when the finest man i have ever had the fortune of
meeting a beast of a marine who drove all around him with his enthusiasm and good nature while we were peers i looked up to him and his
natural leadership i still do can at a quiet reliability about him i'll like the usual loud gregariousness that people tend to associate
with grunts he was low key and dependable and for some reason i can still see the way a smile would creep over his face when stupid ship
was going on and he laughed in a way that made it seem like he was seeing a deeper joke that you didn't get yet doc but you was new to the
company and my memories of him are vague but the men who knew him better describe a young corman who was enthusiastic about that his job
the funny thing with cormon is that sometimes you don't need to know much to judge their character besides the fact that these young men
volunteered for one specific duty to save the lives of their malines in combat a more honorable calling is hard to find it easy for to day
to be dark to get sucked into the trap of loss regret depression and anger it's easy to drown it in liquor under the pretense of having one
for the boys but this morning as we prepare ourselves to face the tents of these days we think of scott and his booming laugh he wouldn't
want us sitting round morning like sap wasting our precious days burned with his death like tormented widows out of some nineteenth century
romance fiction he reminded that we all joined up for the same reasons we are infantry marines we wanted to fight to energetically meet the
enemy in battle and crush him to serve thee beside me with whom we would build a bond stronger than most will ever know while the politics
are complicated and the outcomes unclear one thing is certain their sacrifice was not in vain as it was the sacrifice that warriors make
for each other april second is a day that defines us now brings us together as brothers it is a day of remembrance and reflection i dave
gives us reason to look at our lives and say look you son of a bitch this is why you have to live life to the fullest this is why you must
fight every day to be a better man and then we must just remember that scott procopio would call you a pussy for doing the opposite sympafy
gents we will never forget you so that was a post that some one forwarded to me that was on red and it was from an anonymous marine
obviously this rene was from the three emilio he served with an remade who were just out standing mores and i thought that that tribute not
only to the fallen but also a form of counsel to his fellow marines i just thought that that was an amazing piece of writing and i wanted
to share it with every one ablano now speaking of remote which you know just like this marine it something that i think about all the time
and something i refer back to and a couple of pot castago we talked about the band of brothers the first of the five or six who we also
served with in remodified it is a a truly hollowed unit the end if you seen the pomanders band of brothers just a fantastic memorial and
representation of these american fighting men and the leader of that group or one of the one of the leaders of easy company in them of the
battalion was a guy by the name of major dick winters and he wrote after after his after he came famous really from the the first book by
stephen ambrose called band of brothers and then the ministers came out called benorth ers he wrote a book which is called beyond band of
brothers the war memoirs of major dick liners in i i got to this book basically because i was going to do and erotes this even ambrose but
as everybody knows or if you don't know i like to get this source material from the people that were there stephen amos's historian and so
identified this book as i was researching more deeply in the band of brothers i very quickly found this book ordered it and ye there's no
doubt so lemick this off as the talian operations officer asteroid to wear an enemy machine gun was located in a proximately aware a four
gun battery of one o fives was situated that was all he knew captain hasterer to me and said there's fire along that hedge road there take
care of it that was the sum of my orders no detail battle plan knowing telligent summary nothing but a specific task to be accomplished
without delay easy companies mission was to silence the battery in we talk about the basic principles of combat one of them the simple
clear concise there you go that's your orders there's fire long that headrope care of it and this is also obviously in unlivable example
decentralized command you go salveton is responses i got it back to the book conducting a mental estimate of the situation i have viewed
any infantry a soul on the battery as a high risk opportunities since our air forces had failed to destroy the artillery battery in the
preliminary bombardment prior to the seaboard invasion or kould be initiative and immediate appraisal the situation skillful use of the
train and our ability in the destroy one gun at a time so you'll notice is going to his all soon as he knows that there's multiple guns
what is he decided to do one gungaram solve one problem at a time a little something we like to call prior tisane the first thing i did was
have everybody drop all equipment except ammunition and grenades for that was all we would need if things went from good to bad forgiving
you don't need focus on this one task that we've got run down another prior tiennette order right there while the non commissioned officers
prepared the men for the assault i conducted a hasty recognisant of the enemy position a leader gains an advantage in combats able to
appraise the train and the situation quickly and correctly crawling along the hedge row i moved to a position where i could get a better
view of the enemy position the gun to peared to be set in a trench in the head rope and the head drooped by machine gun fire from across an
open pasture the battery was firing directly down cause in number two in a direction of utah beach where the initial waves of the fourth in
infantry division were already landing to got the german guns in an elevated position hammering utah beach where the fourth infatuation is
trying to land right now the nightmare anticipating that it would be too costly to conduct a funnel attack across an open field i
determined our chances of success would be greatly at hand if we could hit the enemy on the flank and silence one gun at a time hit the
enemy on the flank again these are basic principles and i hate calm i easinesse casts fundamentals it'th res nothing base about it its
basic but it's it's beautiful beautiful in its simplicity returning to the company i asinestrians on to each man so everybody knows what
their task is going to be first i placed one of easy companies to machine guns in a position where they could provide covering fire as we
moved carefully into position covering the covering move next i divided aratching and two units one led by lieutenant but compton and the
other remaining with me continoo one head roishterers goer and malarious as close to the first gun in the battery as possible wi led my
unit down a parallel headroom in also sent sergeants lippiani the con to a concealed position to put flanking fire on the enemy while my
detachment crawled of coat cross the open field to approach the gun first so got multiple covering move situations going on right now and
again through the to the military folks that are listenes you could breeze through this description and and miss how important that is how
important and and what a great example of covering move this is got to put down that cover fire you got up put down the cover finacue them
heavy weapons out there bring those at ouse out boys lots of them when my group back to the book when my group consisting of corporal joe
toy pforta i win and private gerold the rain from regimental headquarters reached the hedge that led to the enemy position we stopped here
i placed a second machine gun togane the first gun that was firing point blank at us i gave the gunner and structions not to fire unless he
saw a definite target so he would not give away his position then we worked our way up to compensate here i spotted a german helmet and
squeezed off two rounds later i found a pool of blood at this position but no jerry jerry is termed podura next i sent content with two men
along the hedge to throw a hand grenade at the enemy position while the rest of us supported him with covering fire these guys don't do
anything without covering fire i fired occasionally to fill spots when there was a low in the covering fire due to putting a new clip
contento too long getting his detachment to position and we spent more immunities uld have but in return we received no enemy fire so that
covering fire even though it tetong im but but they didn't receive any enemy fire because they were laying down that fire they were laying
down that call covering fire just as compton was ready to hurl his grenade i started across the field with the rest of the assault team so
that won't we jumped into position together as the grenade exploded simultaneously we heard of aditional grenades at the next position in
return we received substantial small arms fire and grenades from the enemy as we approached the first gun pap i win was hit in the butt and
fell down in the trench rather than complaining that he was hit he apologized i'm sorry lieutenant i goofed i growed on sorry my god it's
beautiful when you think of a guy who was so dedicated to his company that he apologizes for getting hit now here was a soldier yet by
enemy fire in normandy on de day behind german at lines and he's more absent that he let his buddies down then he was concerned with his
own injury pape's action papasainse spoke for all of us now i'm fast forwarding a little bit too they get these they get these guns taken
down with the entire battery now destroyed we now withdrew because the machine gun fire that we were receiving from the manner house and
other positions for mained intense i pulled our own machine guns out first then the riflemen i was last to leave and as i was leaving i
took a final look down the trench and there was one wounded jerry trying to put him ashington to into operation i drove them through the
head on our way back i came across worn off sir j g and drew hill who had been killed working his way up to help us in all we had suffered
for dead six wounded and we inflicted fifteen dead and twelve captured enemy german forces in the vicinity the battery had out number had
numbered about fifty about three hours past since i had received the order to dispose the battery in then so they they take care of that
they conduct some other smaller operations and then it goes to the extorted of de day at long last day was over our success had been to
superb leadership at all levels and the training we had experienced prior to the invasion and luck to the equation and easy company
comprised a formidable team on reflection we were highly charged we knew what to do and we conducted ourselves as part of a well oiled
machine because we were so intimate with each other i knew the strength of each of my troopers to something that he refers back to a lot
which really understanding his men what they were like what drove them what her strength and weaknesses work so he could put them in the
correct positions evening allowed us a few minutes of quiet reflection with our outposts and place i stretched out to catch a few hours of
sleep even though the rattle of german small arms fire continued throughout the night before i goes off i did not forget to get on my knees
and thank god for helping me live through this day and to ask his help on de plus one i would live this war one day at a time and i
promised myself that if i survived i would find a small farm somewhere in pennsylvania countryside and spend the remainder of my life in
quiet and peace now you gonnas you as you hear about dick winters and that's i i wanted to cover at least one engagement when actual
engagement and that that's one of them so a kind of sea the methodology the the principles that he's putting into action but you know i
want to concentrate not so much on the action now but more on the leadership the leadership pieces of it although they're so be um it's
still to talk about some of the some of the combats situations that they get into because they were in a war but i want to check in going
back a little bit from where he came from what his mind said what developed it and he he says this i had a wonderful mother very
conservative she came from a man and night family but never converted to that faith honesty and disappoint or driven into my head from day
one at some point in my discinae to stop like even accenting the things these common themes that are just run through these the leaders not
surprisingly mother was undoubtedly one of most influential people in my life a mother takes a child she nurtures him she instills
disappointed and she teaches respect my this is my mother was the first one up every morning she prepared breakfast for my sister and in me
and she was the last one to bed every e evening in many respects she was the ideal company commander then some consciously i'm sure i
patterned my own leadership of bilities on this remarkable woman so interesting he all he talked about with that she was the first one to
work and she was the last one to leave work meaning she was the first one up in the morning and she was a astonied and with the vast state
but alone he said that she the ideal company commander now the floe that and the military accompanied commanders it is there's several
companies in italian there could be three maybe four maybe even five depending on the task organization but it's it's a hundred maybe a
hundred and fifty guns generally in a incompati so he saying that this that his mom would be an ideal company commander why because she
wakes up early and has a lot of disipline news flash now speaking of the i won't read any more actions ears another action i positioned men
on both sides that rode and prepared to move out in order to secure the intersection so here they are on a move their goatee in an inner
section we can it well led first batoned the company column precisely on schedule i hollered welsh move out just as the attack started a
german machine gun located in a building at the foot of the hill started the fire up the road the german gun crew was in perfect position
at the perfect time to wipe out our entire attack from the left hand side of the road welsh posed six men toward the intersection they went
straight at that inner section and the enemy machine gun the enemy fire however was very effective our men on both sides of the road kept
low profiles in a ditches head that heads down and they frozen place leaving well shines men assaulting the intersection alone to my rear
colonel strayer and his staff including captain hester nixon could see what was happening they in turn were hollering at me get them moving
when i get them moving i struggled out of my hardest to rid myself of access equipment so that i could run since it was obvious what needed
to be done to guess what people are moving people aren't taking action in its obvious to him what needs to be done standing in the middle
of the column on the right hand side a row i hollered move out move out this did no good everyone had his head to down this was the one in
only time in the war that i really blew my top and physically kicked as i came out of that ditch with only my man and hand and hollering i
ran to the head of the column kicked as on the left five of the road then ran to the right side of rode back and forth screaming at my top
o my voice get going i will never forget the surprise and fear of those faces looking up at me with me running around on a road like a wild
man to the chine gutter seemed to serain on me i was a wide open target the bullet snapped by and glanced off the road all around me for
shirt short time i had the feeling of being blest that feeling didn't last too long for i was to find out in a few minutes that i wasn't so
blest and the reason i highlighted that section right there because in the next literally the next page in the book her you get this idea
again this is this the idea that people have of military leaders they sat there these hard as eyes and these kickseys that a runner round
and yelling like what i just read and that i won the high light that because now we fast forward one page in the book in taking the inner
section easy companies sustain ten casualties among our wounded were sergeant lifted a dipper and burst myth another casualty was private
albert elite who was in the age station sitting with his back against the wall when i entered to have my wound cleaned because by the way
major winters got hit and so he's in their getting wound clean now he's looking a private life and he said it i says here i did not notice
any wounds so i asked how you do in life i can't see i can't see he replied i remember trying to comfort him by say it's okay blithe
relaxed tell have garters on and thus send you back to england as i started to move away black stood up suddenly saying i'm okay i'm okay i
can see now as soon as blithe regained his vision he immediately returned to duty if you think about that for a minute that boy had been
paralyzed by fear yet he had the guts and dedication to stick to his buddies and easy company as soon as he relaxed and pulled himself
together he returned to the front rather than taking the easy way out with an evacuation sometimes all was soldier needed was a calm voice
reassuring him that everything was fine in by case he rejoined the company and was wounded in action during the upcoming fight after world
war two he served in the hundred eighty seventh air born regiment in the crenate he was awarded a silver star and the bronze star by the
time he retired from military service life was a company first sergeant so the contrast there is that i only said of pulling a general
george patten a slapping the girondin saint you're not wont get he realized what he needed it which was just comfortingest everything's
been right will be conplainin will get you back to england just just take it easy a year's a a section that i'm sinaun too quickly when
he's talking about the confusion getting in the confusion of getting our men into position was as bad as we were to ever see one time i
found easy company troops firing into troops of another battalion later we had some tent show up for support and he began firing into all
own line so that's bumble rather side and you know we talk about it in our book and it's one of those things that they they usually don't
show it the easy don't portray it because it's hard to believe that things can get that confusing but they do and it's goes all the way
back in the clear example write there now we're going back to blithe in this is an interesting commentary on training on one of our
daylight patrols led by sergeant garnier blithe with point man what he spotted a german sniper in a tree just as he did in training he
automatically said bang bang instead of dropping to the side of the road and putting his rifle on the sniper so if you can imagine your
back in america or the winter were doing their precreated training in england and they weren't using real boats so out on a patron if they
saw something go bang bang well that's literally what the guy did the german reacted first and shop life through the collar bone the rest
of the patrol recovered blith and then withdrew to easy lot easy's lines so gin military people that listen in long forcement you train how
you fight um and you fight how you trade so you just got i keep that in mind all the time if you're givin yourself some kind of a training
scar by doing something like a lipona did this minyute let gun but we called it to barrassin they might early days that's a wall we would
have a choice like what you make so but in danilovgiati m and you don't thankfully now they have we know unbelievable good systems you know
the paintable systems that going on real gun the lasertag type systems so we don't have to use the lip of guns back to the book next sector
success breathed confidence and easy companies success in normandy in still the confidence that they would need to succeed in live to fight
another day at the same time i could not help but think that had i trained the men harder if i done a better job maybe more of my men would
have come on that's something a leader is always going to be thinking always going to be thinking that what could we have done better what
could i have done better now they they get back to england there taking a break if you pulled off the line and he's back an owl and
aldbourne as you talking about he sort of reflecting back on in his nitial push in the europe and you know you got guys there out drinking
and doing whatever they're doing an he says as for myself i relaxed the best i could combat had made me tense particularly since my
decisions now meant life or death to the members of my command commanding soldiers and combat requires a personal detachment from the men
themselves in a sense command is the loneliest jabbin the world looking at myself in the mirror i could see how much i had changed i could
send it another thing that affected me was the importance of discipline the necessity of instilling discipline of my troops and getting the
job done in combat in an attempt to escape the tension that combat had caused i developed a heavier than usual exercise regiment and i
attended church on a regular basis there were only a few days that it intrench miles do eighty push up sixty set of some a footlocker that
a couple of splits and some legonton exercises after the day's work was over as a result i kept in pretty good shape not what i call
wrestling shape but good enough for army work physical activity kept me mentally alert built my durance and kept me supple you got to do it
you got to have that discipline and you got a work out you got to do every day it's that important yet the ellement out kept him mentally
sharp it absolutely done for getafe word that's that's one of the few things that you can do that affects everything i everything in life
if you you are correct i think people love him in in regard to exercise people think well exercise not for certain kind of person you know
meanness person or something like that they for a dumb jack right or as malarious your onaweron thing nowadays people are more hippolito
sire but m de sa half an men and out down at the cause the new stuff whom ye ye but yet it is emits interesting how these leaders that
bentley knew that ye even though those been no so even though i taime to ave been no scientific study the scientific studies now but prove
it he didn't know that he didn't know it yet he felt that he lived it lived in now there an a a position now i begin i'm just fast forward
and then even though i said i wasn't a covered too much the combat i'm covering the combat to give a combat what is what puts these people
in these leadership positions lead combat is the old semi teacher the harsh teacher and it teaches you lessons that you do not forget so
there are around this village of fo which is a village that was held by the germans and they'd been waiting and he been de been a while and
here's winters talkin about here's winters talking about his troops they were now completely exhausted they had had no hot food a little
sleep no rest constant tension and the pressure of combat the worst time was night when temperature plummeted and fog covered the battle
field until mid delator the uncertainty of what lay just yards ahead in the next tree lawn was sufficient to break ordinary men not
surprisingly the men became physically exhausted physical exhaustion leads to mental exhaustion which in turn causes men to lose discipline
loss of self discipline than produces combat fatigue self disappointed keeps a soldier doing his job without it he loses his pride and he
loses the importance of self respect in the eyes of his fellow soldiers it is pride keeps a soldier going and keeps him in the fight this
is what i feared i would lose the loss of will to measure up to my men after seeing others break down you wondered who is next and you
started taking a hard look at yourself i often wondered why i didn't break under the strain of combat one factor undoubtedly lay in the
fact that my battalion headquarters lay seventy five yards behind the ford foxholes no longer was i under enemy observation consequently i
was able to consecrate in my duties without fear of enemy small ones fire another factor was undoubtedly my physical conditioning i don't
think there was a man in the battalion who was in better physical shape than i was my responsibility to insure the safety of the soldiers
also hard then meet at cope with the deadly stress of combat one last observation on combat fatigue when you see a man break he usually
slams his helmet down and messes up as hair i don't know if it's conscious or unconscious but a soldier goes to his head and messages head
shakes it and then he's gone you can talk to him all you want but he cannot hear you when he reaches that point the best thing for
everybody is just to let him take a walk come bet exhaustion of curs instantaneously you don't plan to become a combat at casualty how do
you prevent combat fatigue you talk to your troops and make some excuse to pull a soldier off the front line of course upon a soldier off
the front line increases the stress of those who remained but is a necessary trade off i often asked a soldier whom i saw on the verge of a
break down how about coming back with me to deceit pete to help out for a couple of days in this manner you inveteres for pulling a guy
from the line without damaging his sike so bunches stuff there on combat hate and and i'm not the same that you're going to see combattants
world i mean but you do see people get stressed out in business and i thought that that common about people messing up their hair and
grabbing her head that's a that's a really good indicator of when people are are breaking and i'll tell you one of the things this is
something that we talk about the book as well as for us the guise that had the most resistance to come at fatigue with a guise that were
most interleaved in the planning of the operations because they felt like they had some control and a fortiegue to notice so we had guided
that warn't involved like you know maybe they were new guyomar they just they just work that involved in the planning a whatever so all
they were getting told was like he got your gear on you're going out again i come back to that operation hagadorn goin out again come back
on that operate hagadorn your going out again those guys that gin'rally get involved the plants harder for them because they feel like they
had no control and they didn't see the risk mitigation that was happening and at an understand the strategy well enough lie because i
didn't tell him my fault you know i should have been more engaged with my short of explained to him the impacted having a show explained to
me over all strategic prepictures and i tried to do that i thought i did it but i didn't do well enough and those the guys that definitely
were the most stressed out so leaders out there was just another reason it's another reason to tell people wider doing what they're doing
and get them involved in the planning and get them ownership of the planet so they feel our hansome control over it insatiate mentioned how
they dealt with that one they'd pull in off the line right but they wouldn't just be like straight up straight do payer meteorite no is
like that put pull them off the line in a way that won't there would at mess them up you know he weingott caring i supply you she anoother
for me and get this figured out yet i'll do it i give them a break give them a rest the somewhat were talked about to mackworth says um an
about face in a e talks about he says he every one's got a cup a certain size cup some needle ever bigger cup to others but when the cup
gets filled up that it they're done and if you let the comet filled up an overflow than their done for ever but if you can catch it before
and they can go back a little bit and drain your cup out but nothing not you talk about when you say i i save money elation i i i did ye
tell him ye dissonant a yearly kind of way you know you make make him signed on to the whole situation the eye no doubt about it this is
going back to his disappoint my routine was to shave every morning and then to inspect the line in rest in retrospect shaving in the bitter
cold was pretty ridiculous but the practice had originated with one of my first meetings with colonel sake at the coa sankarapura us to
shave every morning he said you shave every morning for the men and if you want to shave every evening for the women but that's up to you
but i want you to set an example he was absolutely right i remember one morning when we prepared for attack on fo i got up in the middle of
the night to shave before getting something to eat in the process i cut myself a pretty badly i must not look like hell when colonel sink
arrived to check on us before the attack commenced he took one look at me and had a huge smile on his face i later i realized later that he
was laughing at me for shaving on that bitterly cold morning but that was one of the things i did to set an example for the men shave in
the morning and once in a while which stripped to the waist and give myself a french wash a routine that caught every one's attention i did
this for one reason and one reason only to get the men's attention and he let them know that i was going to be around for a while and this
was it as bad as they thought it was going to be made the best of it and what i like about that is his total winess is told a little
wareness of the impact that he's having on his men he knows that they are watching them if your leadership position you've got a recognize
that people are watching you parents ye ye you're a parent you got to realize that that person that your leading called your child there
watching you elina's more critical than most of the time any way then what you say so you know and people will make this excuse can be
saying that the they do what i say not what i do meanwhile you doing all this stuff's not that's not how they're going to dig and be like
oh that's just something he say meanwhile this is how you do it apparently amadeddin it this way that's the way it's done segrais say ye
you got to do the right thing and people are watching you when you are nondescipt this net you are being watched it you are being emulated
am your emotions are being mimico that you might not send that but your motions are being mimicked you get into a panic mode you're going
to have a bunch of people panicking you stay calm you people are going to say come you get crazy your people are going to go crazy your
people are watching you so set the good example and when it premiree he setting as he's maintaining the discipline now this actually
section i don't it's it's very interesting because we had i had made a comment on the pot gas about every you do some one asked what you do
if you get told to do something and you don't believe in it and you know i went through big grey areas look i know there's there's some
grey area there and if it's just something small that you can ask to do and you just if you decide you're going to lay down my wall right
now and bend your fist on the table to i'm not going to do that well then you're going to get fired and now some one else is going to have
to come in there and do that thing that you've been asked to do and i had one person on twineth kind of went back and forth with me and you
know ah he said he it does make an impact when you walk away and i agreed with him i said yes i'd no i i'm not try to say it doesn't make
it impact when you walk away because it certainly does but there's cases word has more of an impact if you stay at you stay in the game so
this is an example right here a pretty shocking example because we have a guide that's a hundred per cent on board and is you know a
straight shooting guide that listens to his chain a command and here's what happens conabo sink was a magnificent commander but this time
he had had a little too much to drink and his order to dispatch another patrol to capture additional prisoners did not make sense we had
already captured sufficient prisoners for interrogation a second patrol would only result in casualties for no apparent reason further
exasperating the situation was freshly fallen snow along the river that it quickly turned istering the day if i followed colonel saint
order the enemy would of heard us coming a long way off what to do i responded yes sir and then promptly ignored the order so that he's
doing what i was basically with what i was saying like if he just said no sir we're not going to do that gesiths gonna get five red and now
were to get someone else put charge and even if he doesn't get fired his hurting his reputation so it's a bad situation but what he decides
to do is go got it sir we'll take care of him and then he promptly ignored the order to now back to the book to give the impression of
compliance however i assembled the men in a building and told them we were not going to send out this patrol because i did not think it was
feasible i also informed them that my neck was in a new if any one ever said anything about it with that the men lay down and caught some
much needed sleep and i took the radio and adjusted mortar tillery fire on my supposed objective then here is here is his fought on it on
reflection i did exactly the right thing and i have never had any regrets there was insufficient time for preparation the field to a front
was wide open and i would have lost too many men for no purpose i wonder what i would have done had i been a career officer concerned about
my own future would i of compromise my beliefs the deliberate disobedience of a lawful order by my commanding officer presented in the
ethical dilemma of the first magnitude but you can see it to guy whose staying on his principles then his principals were to compose the
mission take care of his men and he's wangling of those things on blackandwhite bisons are not black and white because you look at all the
time he did do operations in missions and tasses were his guy's got wonted and killed but he saw what the purpose was now he see something
with hers no purpose and he says you know what not going to do it mabutin tell the boss he just does execute it so it and you know there's
stories of seals and vietnam doing that and i are that from from the vietnam els with tell me have they got directed to do something that
they didn't think was a good missionara this before oh we're going to go you wants to go three comites away and set up in ambush on the
river that's in really tough enemy control areas and we don't know what the intelligences on who's going to come down that river okay cool
and they'd patrol two hundred meters out the gate set up a little parmenter right close to camp where there's no no problems smoke a couple
of cigarettes spend a few hours out there walk back yanghin happened now came down the river i think he'd have to be pretty responsible
though if you got to kinda exercise that course of action a louise gets on his dislike near dear go vellido t feel a heat it's obviously
something that a guy like dick winters did very rarely in the yielding vietnam if they were blown missions off all the time right but they
you know like i said if if something comes up where you completely disagreed with it but you don't disagree with it to the point where you
want a man you want to make an make a stand that's going to make you get fire or now you're not sporting you is any more ye yeou know okay
cool you captain alive that night well who's coming in to take to your place that's the question who's coming and take your place and you
don't know that is and what's their best interest connive because we ever comes in to take your place is going to be a company guta's going
to be out on he's going to be godet's going taone every last direct order from the god and this is houllette to him in here i am i'm a mean
i was a a as as motivated it to be in the military as i could possibly be you know so i'm not sitting here calling from you neangir but i
am telling you to use common sense man you got to put common sense on top of everything and sometimes common sense it was orders that's
just a way it is it's rare that i said this last time as well it's rare not like your kitten these crazy orders from up the chain of
command people aren't people on advancing in the military because there cause they're idiots right you and it's not like they're not on
your team the editing on like they want you to get killed right in it and you know maybe you know in this case he could have got given some
push back and said hey you know what boss hers was going on there's fresh snow it's got every year's coming of my way we don't have good
cover to the front this is not a good operation but maybe hears the tone of the colonel's voice and i said he this guy he is if i say that
and then i don't do it or if i say that it's going to make me suspicious or you know what i got it sir and then don't do it just a judge a
judge a judgment of character but that's what you've got righting on you here to leadership is a you got those guys lives and that's should
be more important you than anything and it's it's a strange dicotomy of leadership because all the one hand dear trained ear oh military
career that you got to take care of your men take care of your people that's something you could turn you down since day one take care your
team and the dichotomy of that is you're going to do mission to wear you could very well be sending your men to their death so there is a
mass of dichotomy there and how you do with the dicotomy you find the balance and the balance is not a cooky cutter response the balance is
different for einar of acheron and how well you can weigh those opposing forces is a is a measure of what kind of leader you are at it
makes me your shippon were getting to dave they move through europe and now were about to go from war to something even more evil which is
the concentration dampened camps so back to the book as they entered his back the book as they entered the dear death camps for the first
time the whole of what we observed remained with each paratrooper two this day you could not explain it you could not describe it and you
could not exaggerate it it did not take long to realize that the notes were intent on eliminating all the jews gipsies and any one who
disagreed with hippers regime the memory of starved days men who dropped their eyes and heads we looked at them through the chain link
fence in the same manner that a beaten mistreated dog would cringe left a mark on all of us for ever nor could you underestimate the
barbarity of the nazi regime even during the latter stages of the war as i went through the war it was natural to ask myself why am i here
why am i putting up with a freezing clothed the constant rain and the loss of so many comrades does anybody care a soldier faces death on a
daily basis and his life is one of misery and depravation he is cold he suffers from hunger frequently bordering on starvation the impact
of seeing those people behind that fence left me saying if only to myself now i know why i am here for the first time i understand what
this war is all about and obviously seeing that evil first hand and not one of the reasons why i think we explore the darkness and the evil
on a fairly regular basis here and that's why i explore that's why my mind is drawn dese things be degourde stand that evils out there then
it steal here to day and the somebody as got a take the fight to the enemy now i'm jumping toward the end of the book and again it's not
really not given anything away i mean we know how world war two ended but this is how colonel winters personator winter's cinara up there
combat back to the book and so many of the coateers returned home yet all would be for ever connected by their shared experiences in combat
over the course of the war easy company alone whist forty eight men killed and over one underbound incurring a hundred and fifty per cent
casualties this percentage was not uncommon among similar units who had fought in the campaign of north west europe at the peak of its
effectiveness in holland in october nineteen forty four and in the ardens in january nineteen forty five it was as good a rifle company as
there was in the world according to arthur stephen ambrose how so many men survived the campaigns in normandy holland bastone had germany
was a true testament to their courage their training and their discipline under fire now i i want to fast for a little bit more to these
he's done is now out of the military and i know we got a lot of people that listen to show cause a lottery guys reach out to me and talk
about that transition a lot of people ask me about that transition and here's dick winters transition while i was extremely happy to put
the army behind me i realized that i was a different man than i was when i joined the army over forty years earlier the war had changed me
in many ways as it does all who experienced combat having witnessed so much mass suffering and the unparalleled barbarism that mankind is
capable of an afflicting upon itself i don't see how any survivor can be ever be cruel to anything again in addition i was a forneret er
judge of character than i had been in nineteen forty one that feeling remains with me to day a full sixty years after the war when i meet
people for the first time and get to know them i can't help but judge them in size them up do they have leadership would they be good and
combat do they pass the test i was also more disappointed than i remembered being before i deployed to europe this discipline helped me
adapt to civilian life once i returned to pennsylvania like all veterans i had to adjust a society the life that you are going to share
with others in order to make a living i certainly never confused the challenges in the work place with what i experienced in combat there
would be no life and death struggles in the corporal world business hardly acquainted to war such comparisons demean the word and when i
read that actuate put myself into check because and i wanted to make sure that i am clear about something because something i am obviously
we wrote a book that's about comparing business and warm but i want to make it clear that what were comparing and what we say is similar in
fact there is a same is the principles the principles of leshi are the same the struggles and the challenges and the consequences are not
the same they are not so i want to make sure i make that clear now what's get to some er his reflections on leadership back to the book was
i a successful leader they tell me i was and modesty prevents me from disagreeing with them i am not so naive that i don't realize the wide
appeal of dick winters to day is based on leadership in combat i may not have been the best commander but i always strive to be my men
depended on me to carefully analyze every tactical situation to maximize the resources that i had at my disposal to think under pressure
and to lead them by personal example i think it's interesting you hear you know teasling back at his humble guy you know i may have not
been the best combat commander but i was trying to be this is a humble man i am not sure there is such a thing as a natural born leader
some leaders are born with special aptitudes or talents but any success i might have had was the product of good upbringing intense study
and preparation and physical conditioning that set me apart from my peers it is dick winters i mean the one of the best kind of a combat
leaders had attacked galeel in the modern era and he saying that it was preparation and physical conditioning the setting of a form
disperse i was all back to book i was also surrounded by a group of men who were disciplined and highly trained to accomplish any mission
and lucette equation and you can understand that the secret of my success was that somehow i always managed to survive another day in
recent years i've been asked to address an encreasing number of civic groups open seminars and governmental agencies on the subject of
leadership most on looking for cooky cutter solutions as to what constitutes his excessu leader what is the recipe for success and this is
this is classic and an actually win when the book when when late night the book came out when our book came out we did bunch of interviews
that got turned into either short articles or video cliffs and any would made the title these things you know like three things every
leader must do and you that's what they always do every one's looking exactly for what he says most are looking for cookie cutters lotions
to what constitute a successful leader hwhat is the recipe for success in truth there are no simple solution just as there is no average
day in combat each situation is different and each requires a leader to be flexible in adapting his or her particular leadership by all to
the specific circumstances required to accomplish any mission it's a matter of adjusting to the individual and do this every day you don't
have just one way of treating people you would just yourself to whom you are talking if i would to give advice to a young bear going to war
based on my observation of one i had constituted the success of the outstanding leaders who comprised the milte american parachute regi
regiments of wormword ould offer a serious principles that i am certain would result great success regardless of the field endeavour field
of endeavor in which the individual was participating share saying the same thing that i say which is leadership is the same whether it's
in the battle field or whatever endeavour you're going into leaders of principles stay the same first and foremost a leader should strive
to be an individual of flawless character technical competence and moral courage if you have terterta means you are a guy that means the
guide you are dealing with contrast you the men trust you have faith in you and they obey you no questions asked that character in a
nutshell kilter also allows you to make decisions quickly and correctly some may question my decision to disobey a direct order for my
commanding officer this is the story we already talked about and to faith another patrol as a violation of that very principle i am
advocating in my heart however i could not send my men to risk their lives for no apparent reason when clearly nothing would have been
gained that we had not already achieved such a course takes a degree of moral court courage which i have found is far rarer than physical
courage was i correct in my estimation i thought so and i have never regretted my decision the same holds true for developing leaders of
competency those intrusted to lead must study their profession to become totally proficient in tactics and technology prior to the invasion
i read every tax comania i could lay my hands on to prove my tact cannonade of professional confidence while other soldiers were out
carousing in the pubs while they were enjoying the social life of the neighbouring towns i was reading an educate myself getting ready to
lead men in the combat getting smarter opening up the books that's what he was doing and that's part of leadership that's ponto his this
caracter istics of leadership is to become a knowledgeable to read and study he goes on don't waste time attempting to define beatership no
need to go to a dictionary the infantry school at fort bedding jurgura has defined leadership and just two words of vaimato follow me and
he's got a dooin right here physical fitness is another prerequisite for success i freely admit that i was blessed with a sound physical
constitution but whenever possible i took the opportunity to improve my physical stamina because i was in such good physical shape i easily
survive to cooerdination training that they went through for airborne while men washed out on a daily basis the contingent from easy
company that completed the training and earned their wings at fourpennies nails because i was in such good shape my face level never
reached the point of physical exhaustion that contributes to mental exhaustion and ultimately the combat fatigue we all experience sleep
thou retterin at times that is the nature of stress but physically exhausted leader when time makes bored decisions in times of crisis
thereto about another piece i have always felt that my principal contribution to this recess of both easy company and second italian was
based on my knowledge of what to expect from each man know your people having selected the right man for the right job i then delicate the
authority to my subordinate and allow them to use their initiative to execute the mission elefantine command there is no need to tell some
one how you towed his job if you have properly trained your team good preparation is always vital to the excess of any operation but
leaders must remain flexible once the action commences steve ambrose likes to quote general eisenhower who claimed before the battle is
joined plans or everything once the battle is joined however plans go out the window next i would encourage leaders to take a moment of
self reflection before rushing into and portant decisions this is a little bit of detachment many leaders don't take the time to consider
carefully their decisions were the implications of their actions in battle i periodically detached myself mentally from the noises and the
chaos of battle i found it useful to separate myself momentarily and to carefully think through what actions i needed to take to compass
the mission again i read this book from the first time last week he's a thitten straight one say in the exact same in battle i periodically
detached myself mentally from the noises and chaos a battle hang tough never ever give up regardless of the adversity if you are a leader a
fellow who other fellows look to you have got to keep going i would also urge leaders to remain humble if you don't worry about who gets
the credit you get a lot more done again this is when people asked me what the most important quality of beleave i tell him that emily
leaders should assume the blame when the operation fails when it succeeds credit the men and women in your team they do the lion's share of
the work and now he's going to talk about humilia little bit more since the release of the fomenters many of us have been flooded with
hundreds sometimes thousands of letters from adoring fans across the nation the attention is certainly flattering and greatly appreciated
but it remains better to remember eyes hours to dress at guild hall hall on june twelfth nineteen forty five to an ecstatic british public
which showered the supreme commander with the tumultuous parade through the streets of london i cremated them humility must always be the
portion of any man who receives the claim and in the blood of his followers and the sacrifices of his friends i think anybody that ever
been relaters position and his been called some kind of hero will think back to that state humility must always be the portion of any man
who received a claim earned in the blood of his followers and the sacrifices of his friends and i think when you use that word heroes
something that obviously didst thrown around a lot and here is one major winters had to say about that perhaps the best characterisation of
what a true hero consists is found in a letter sergeant might rainy sent me in january nineteen eighty two surely before you went back in
the hospital for a series of tasks historian stephen ambrose used the passage to conclude band of brothers because rainy and capulate the
cohesion that became the home work of easy company in thinking back on the days of easy company i'm treasuring my remark to a grandson who
asked grandpa were you a hero in the war no i answered but i served in a company of heroes and i can tell you that i also served with many
many heroes the guys and in passing the bruiser the guys from two to eight infantry the guys from one one eight and the ready first the
soldiers and the marines all those brave men and some brave women as well and to those men and women both soldiers and marines i was lucky
nough to serve with i think that this statement right here from dick winters there's something that i think this very fitting as i look
back on the men of easy company and the closeness we have enjoyed over the years i reminded of the dialogue attribute to a senior german
officer bidding farewell to his men in the each feel ministeries made esuries paraphrasing his words i would say to easy company and the
officers and men of the five o six persuit regiment it has been a long war it's been a haribar you have fought bravely proudly for your
country you are a special group of men connected by a bond that only exists in combat you've shared the incommunicable experience of war
and of been tested under extreme adversity you've shared fox holes and i hold each other in dire moments you've seen death and of suffer
together you've lived in an environment totally incomprehensible to those who do not know war i am proud and deeply honored to serve with
every one of you you all deserve long and happy lives in peace i bid each of you god speed and asked the almighty to shower his blessings
on you and your families now and for generations to come and that wraps the book and no thinking after the last pot cast that this was
going to be a lighter one and i picked this book specifically because i see major dick winters as as an quedile person incredible leader on
rome model for every one on but because we are talking about war there is still tragedy and loss and darkness there and that's okay and do
you that's out there like the anonymous marine that wrote that tribute to his brother from april second and we know there's hundreds of
sousands of veterans at or feel in that every day and if your having one of those dark days i okay it's it's okay it's okay to feel that
darkness and it's okay to remember it and miss it than hate it and love it and it's o catos it never happened and at the same time to wish
it never stopped and it's so kate to one i take it all back and at the same time to want to do it all again and and if you've got in your
mind that that that you think that people don't understand that's okay they don't but you do you know darkness you know evil but more in
orton then that you know good you know light then you no laughter and love better than any one so embrace in brace that darkness on don't
look away from it don't bury it in moosehorn pales listen listen to what corporal scott procopio would have been saying to you live your
life in grace your life with a physical activity and with nature and with jugeait son and with laughter and tara good memories and
creativity he guessin discipline yourself so you can free yourself and moved forward into the future whither's no more darkness and no more
war but be good evening echo but evening little message too to the to the veather o her from a lot of that rooms and ransome at a new
asunder let those guys on you know kinder i'm coming from get a lot of real positive stuff from guy and let some guys going through hard
times and and i know it and i know i'm hoping to be able to a kind of spread my thoughts for where i'm at and how what what i think of
these things cause you know if you get guys like major winters that you know did everything that he did n't war he came back and you know
he was able to figure it out and and a loud oesters war and they do know he said willhayes at a tooth they made but they made it they made
it so i think you got him brace those things and be stronger than them and i know and i say all the time you've got it you got an now that
darkness and you really want to appreciate the light and i think the guys that have been no war they can do that mum and and life can see
me so much better because you know how bad i can be huso speaking of feed back from people rough transition right now but that's what we do
here a collector up troverini in tents rough transitions that you know what you know what a dressing but the rutanti and even that the out
there this lesson right now or the ebony that's not a hat that anyone i spend through hard times and loss eight a big rough transition and
you in an hour of emotionally and you know you'll be feeling my craponne minute and then the next man you feel okay you be laughing and
that's that's old like i said that's okay i think a lot of people are scared that they might be acting the wrong way but it's all right yes
exocetus like our your saying where it may seem like people don't understand and that's okay because they don't that so true because
pinnothera i'll think of it cause my best friends are acute still it may feel em so you had anitorgis that you grew up with grew up with an
maderaner and my wedding yes um so i let them do you don't want to talk to him and stuff i just do my own head i kind o imagine what it's
like coming back right so you kinda consider it cannot enter not show where you consider hey what's your biggest problems when when you're
overseas when you're in the war what are these big problems you got to worry about i kantan let sackett in key when we come home and then
little i let's say it in the war you biggest problem is getting shot in dying your man getting chittenden right are you getting both your
legs blown off or you know or whatever whatever the the your biggest problem is as far as warrant worrying about began then you come home
and on an all your girl friend or your wife is a catou i told you to do those dishes in the piping out on you yes and so in the back your
mind your kind o like okehampton that it was two days ago i was in the desert worried about my legs being blown off and now here were
apparently the biggest problem will cording to my girl from wife yes because from an earl howe variantly colonelle as cheeseloft she's mad
she won't really saw to me and are the dishes yet and then it's just not computing yet you know and then you go next door and and there
beesom is kind on the same level lyethe don't understand and you in a way your living in this crazy world where i can see how that could
candage to him be like me have i wrong is you yes one of the things that i have been here matalotes before he is perspective in and wanting
to see i was talked about from a leadership or spectives like i want to think about what my superior is thinking why is he to be to this
let me get his perspective and then what am i what i subordinating what is there perspective and is a very useful tool to use in what
you're talkin about right now and i remember i had a situation like that where i was at work and i for it was going on but something was
going on like i think we were we were preparing to deploy guys earlier their something major was going on there was major issues it if he
was afghanistan and we were getting ready to place is a later was real big spin of in all this stuff and a literally i come home and and i
mean i'm i'm at work and were trying to figure out or put this plan together and casentin it's riskily know whatever ponchoes i come home
and i go he abbondio said i my wife and she sitting there and all of a sudden she like a pick up the phone and someone calls her or she
some calls her she picks at the phone and she an up she said i can't believe that and i'm sorry i found something you know i thought
someone to ide whatever said i saw wrong puts on and she said o it was some that a long like the wigless the same the hates barnyard both
tickets so with some things you've taken against every that like the is little did not matter in any way shape or form in me at all but to
her you know she had spent twenty two dollars on these tickets for three kids at the time at sixty six dollars and now she had both fell
book vi gildren formosos it was harris dark but what i had to do is well you had to go and perspective in homeworld and i was sixers right
and it was the kids and it was naboth one to sing all the shows or whatever the thing was and so he respective in her part well that a
really big peal and so that's i think something you're going to do as if as a pashum always look at one of the people's perspectives are
and you know what if people are pissed off if you wife freak and how clean do the dishes and i got some really easy solution that do the
tissue that this is a good beerton so music in the anteroom pots and pans and let do this in a hat i'll scrub and pots and pans for alice
but yet it's happened yes that's good man in the you know that if you have the ability and in of the wherewithal to do that to to really
it's detaching you detain looking at their situation not looking at it from our own personal situation um if he can manage to do that and i
think it helps them on remind you like just i used a you at right now and may be some it'll be like a inanime them i go ahead and remember
that nethaniah stuff and i said jostled us all time when i go on work with companies it it's so much of it as i just about awareness yes
and when you become aware of the problem you become aware of the mistake or you become aware of the solution in its taranfeather become a
very easy of promised you be manaar of how easy it can be dissolved some of these things if you just make this small adjustment to your
mentality yell you're aware of is the fact that you freaking to steaming red lining is for the fifth time your wife platinum hing when like
i said you are worrying about you guys getting killed yes sure the dago ye as one of my boys she to say when we were coming home from her
first to poliment he says ten you believe this to morrow we're going to get on a oleander to wake up back and stared teleologies say that
these brothah all right anything else here you we are in fact sponsored by honiton to one o come slash jocko yoongster he asked it some
very good stuff am i perfer of a pretty and shrines that was that that bar all ogeeehee the warrior bars check out the w this is the anti
donatelli about it so the warrior bar it's like it's like it's in efery with some spice in it in a grand berries and its taste yet like the
tender in kolbeinsvik and others that tender beware like that is insatiate really good and like most feared right sir yes gitanos done
you're donuts get your warrior barsad there they're destestable ial short and long term benefits and like the importation is then warror
head that it's kind of a genius solution because you know how people be like it all take my protean shake no worry bars like mad with
actual like food etonians yet you're going to get all i and you can just get after him all day long cause it was here you don't use your
hungry but as ink oleana right now you know adonais what your thinker but then to lie yet on it that consated jooge it temper ten per cent
off boom and then of course if you while you're on line if you wanted to cut the ducklets and buy shirts if you like and bumperising
diggers elimelech was he not looking teelee of those she undergroun whatever oh and if some people will indicate that they wanted to do at
you can donate on stockstadt on as well they pay palankeening or on jocolpus out come as well and ceteian well got to people posting what
there's weather by anfortas awesome ah yes so yes you shannon abazan and you want to sport the poast just click on the arlington and then
do your shopping like you normally would here's a thing i donowat you it's what i added cause of my friends on twitter is truer they are a
lot of people were indicating that they like the books that you cover another calamities book on you should do so on link you should have
the list the library of boons covered and lincoln to guess what i did echecratidas like an now and new ones on jacobites out come on the
top a addidit on the menu or this book it is just as books or out no says book kuranyali on there to have all the pages at the sods of you
know the book what parasitise was gone he clickin it on me in getting he all i was gothiques on okay question number one is taking extreme
order ship the same as apologizing for failures or apologizing for others in stakes i'm having difficulty separating these two concepts
when i try to take on a ship over failures to stinking oneship of failure generally include in i'm sorry ex occurred such a such a well i
isn't just apologizing write it isn't just saying oh i apologise this happen it's part of it part of ownership is apologizing if you make a
mistake you got a own it and generally got a sahaura this happened you got to own that there's been a problem or a mistake or issue and
that does include other people's mistakes but you have to literally take ownership of them you can't say am sorry these other people made
mistakes of that aroint and its look the mistakes that were made were actually my fault and in another important thing here is you can't
just say he guiseley fault you actually need to mean it and you need to believe it yourself you need to believe that you sailed in the
situation to do the right thing or make something happen or make the right decision i make the right call or do the red preparation or
whatever it is it you were supposed to do you need to do that you need to believe that you can't just say it an he said these mistakes were
my fault here's a white it was my fault and yet i'm sorry that these things happened i apologized at this happening and some people see
sorry as a sign of weakness and an honesty there's some you know some legal situation you might be in or some negotiations that you might
be in war that might be true but most o the time i suction environment look inside of a team sorry okay and and an fact an apology is often
the first step in moving forward right in and it generally going to be a little bit of a blow to your egon and at a specially true because
you are mister trent ownership now for missus extreme oneship guess what that i mean everyone else's but i yet to get there but their not
there yet so you apologize to some one it can be a big body your egeas when some one says you're dam right that was your fall m that's
that's going a tree you gonna want a lash back out but you can't m got a put your ego and check and he got to a understand that is my fault
you know why i'm saying it's my fault because i truly believe it was my fault he is cause it is your fault so to be careful in someone
gloatingly could sorehead um what that's a chapter and it's not just not just for you that you're doing this it's cos the team and because
the team has to figure out what the problem is some one's got to take on ersite problem that's you and then not said yet the problem solve
and ill how pays something else and you might have predicted this but my sorry and my apology comes with something else ninety nine per
cent of the time on anatifera so flock pay i'm sorry that this happened this is my fault but i'm glad it happened now to yahoo what i'm
glad we made this mistake we may this mistake right now it's going to set us back a little bit good because when i were not going to make
it with a client you know oh this happened this part lerret fell apart good now he can fix it and we know about it oh this went sideways i
missed it good i won't let it happen again so those a little good on the indias yellowing problems or or mistakes or whatever the they add
to that experience like the experience of being there you know where where wittag through a path and you make a wrong turn now you have
that experience that that's orontea was that looked like that will that's what that feels like and guess what we're goin to wait that in
the future rathen a bunch of situation where it were for example one in the future worse more detrimental no you don't run into that you
learned you'll hear exact confect oldysian i next washin's there await to be a straight shooter though sorry is there a way to be straight
shooter jocko and not be a jerk or pistillate you know this is this is a a touchy one because everybody want everybody has so much respect
for the strait she would a rite had that gayest shootering you want to be a street shuter you don't want to be some of the tedworth obser
what's it opsonist ight you go after a liait deceive her inanition even right so of course we want to be the straight shooter let me tell
you eighter difficult to be a street she with everybody mum even when he will have a tremendous relationship with somebody a tremendous
relationship with somebody now can you really be a straight shooter with him but true straight she i've been a true straight shooter with
probably three or four people in my life in my life i've been astray you with may be three or four people meatshop i had but i'm disaient a
big number got to be some of that you are so in sanguis man i'm thinking about that i don't think that's in a possible for me in my
situation even the cause its ardest at your tootovere on i'll be in the street straight shooter now consider with that means but to be a
straight shot or with somebody at all types yonkerly do not you know so so what do we do instead you got a use to indirect approach m de
and direct approach i'm i'm talking about this all the time and this is a new orsopola people will unpeople come out on podcast well for
they say he i heard you say this and i i'm going to go remotest ion we got as you know or you ever get told your treasure to intent to it's
like no i don't get told that right because i don't believe in being a trio gastit sugarer on what i believe in his trying to get my
message across the people so that it gets a sordid them then and the minute you straight shoot somebody there defences go up and it becomes
problematic so some in the rectorate or when you have these discussions with people when you housekaper sation to get your point across now
how the elms looking at this and i wonder what i could do better can you do help me or you'll want can wed you better you you thrown at the
wheel on it or he will pension like can't you nostras much going on right now mum you in unto take anything off you play you may take the
thing off your plate at precative a small little detail you want me to handle that or you know he seems like you're having a micro man at
this guy over here you men to you want nobody to straighten that out and run that orontides guys taken up too much your time you will meet
take that over i take that person over or you know what the good one he is he can you help me with my team members i just want to sit down
with you and just like have you come to me about what you see in my team members and then when you're you're you're discussing your te
members and other people even your peers and what they do combatut what you're really do as you just toss in some things there away and
little things they are away so that they understand the n it any tent kindlike ching suit regulated you do we teach em or teaching anything
when you teach a move you vanitate right hum if you make somebody teach a move there going to learn that better is so when you make someone
sit down with you and go through the issues that people are having it actually makes them self reflective don't know it but the red
thirtyeight of it so that's a thatsachen that i've used a bunch uh let's see here's a good one i think i'm let you down i don't think i'm
doing a good of jobs i actually i think i'm just be careful now with don seem like if you if you hit the wrong tone and to our witnesses
you got to be tactful eh ah you can't have some more direct questions but when you ask them more direct questions you've got to be sort of
you got to be true yet to be you got a come across as being very truthful in our in your inquisition so for instance he waas the strategy
that you are thinking about over here like before this overfell apart that by but is now here we think in our or a wit was what we thinking
about when you put this together cause i i don't quite i don't quite get it you got to be careful lessonto be sense of gottingen come up
that one can come off bad when they're at war is you thinking for i have here a whereyouwantogoto got to be soft with these it's much
better to be in direct and most of these cases and hopefully you can bordelaise we e me more direct or you can go get that conversation to
be where it needs to be to will you can get the key critical information across but it's very very changing and again it is not that
challenging it's not impossibly did with everybody all with time i always had got my point across the people always you know and i'll tell
you this is something when i would straight shoot somebody i would innocence i really needed to strath you somebody i would write them a
very lengthy email the say he hears what's going on here's what i'm saying and would really craft it with a lot of patience and and then i
would eat it to one i wrote the email i would either use that a godnet but i'd used as a guide to myself like a god this is the
conversation but a half more i tended to him freake a denote yea like a deal note you know i actually read one of her at i read one of
those on on all amtsvorsteher five that is one of those things in it that i kayukwa i got help disgust got to be direct with them he's
making some mistakes i want him to better here's a little deal note for you get you scorn away the thing is a thesis is definitely hard but
it's not impossible you've got it just have the olden mind you gotta use your tack to gottoso judgment and you got to build relationships
have conversations with people and i and now what your intention is in the conversation and just keep slowly moving in that direction in a
haniapa ianthinidae i like when people do it to me when they're like correcting me or or whatever is sprinkled in little comments about the
stuff that that they did right yeating to common practice yet but when you do that though you add in this yet in that's what i like about
you you do this you don sosey don't sofyan that's what i like about you it kindils that person like i'm the guy who does that you know that
good parts ilegitimidad encisco cat tell me more kind o canadium and then at the end doilies something along the lines of like yeah good
thanks you don't think for the time whatever and and be like i got your back he cannot leap yeah there's all come we could go for technique
all all my lone rose bolt could want um you know another one as i a lesson i think you can be a top or former i think you're going to this
is if you're talking to some one that's you know like a subordinate i tanya could be a top or form or here there is the ears which your
kickin asked an yes this in his heresies two things right here if we can get these fixed you're going platonean we give these pishing when
we get it at our northeast look at you i yeowoman ending in the sense of telling me i like you get the someone the allodial like um when i
be like he and i dosenheim in the position in an he'd be like like even later on you know i taximaroa thanks for for going over this with
me i caperent keep it up and you can be like a world champion he did say that and out on owes his he froze at everybody out i know he
nasiedenus we english itfor that moment i'm like hell yeh you know like i hope you correct me more now oetes me how to do this because he
obviously believed just like are you an you know you can be a topper former belias tell me what else walkino what can i do a man and
actually the point in your making is very good point which is um we now look picture goopes pecte of the others on and was gonfounded them
and it is not a smart thing to do so your your hearing what you would hear if you would then eyebeat people be in direct its ardour its
channeling i takes more time it takes more patience and it is way more effective hum fact you know and we talked about how before like some
people they'll be like ham just a i'm distell it wit is you know i tell aldis and and if you don't like it in a man and i go and do that
but calthorpe you you know see how many people follement people on to listen to you make people want to be around you even you know i like
to enter acted concert next question jack old what is the number one philosophical lesson that you've learned from gits de so digito
emphasizes so much of what i believe that it's toughener down but i will but i will throw some things out there that kind of a part of
jugeant what i believe i first of all we just are about being in direct and indirect attacks flanking better after dogiate set things up
you have to detach you have to detach from the chaos and to me emotional you cannot get emotional on the mat attack the flanks got a hit
people were they on expecting it you got to have a plan but you got to be ready to adopt you got to constantly improve your position you
got to have fun while you doing it you got a practice being in bad situations you've got to make your training as realistic as possible
right these are all things i talk about these in all aspects of combat and in business and in life you got to be physically fit to your
mind state sharp that's that's true true and judithe's true in combats true in life got a knowin to tap bright you got to know it at tapage
a notoge up on the single battle so that you don't lose the whole war sadatane for worse case in areas you got to start with that person on
your back gostar with the person with you in an onlock and training for combat you got a train for the sports traces were your outnumbered
you got a bunkerton in their shooting papal at you he got down men that's got to go a trained for the worst case inaros and sainting with
business i work with like sales group sometimes and elderly and i'll say you know be even worse customer you can possibly be that way in
his person meets a normal human they they know how to knock it out of the park here is another one from jigitivka don't judge a book by its
cover and the right fellas you don't know if the person that you're about the slap is jeff governor i been lesser or jolterheaded you don't
know what's going to happen so don't judge a book by its cover ye i mean den you be less apt to her i have than you would get over i guess
that's a good fontenieres en the comte the cover is pretty evident but jane your jelly you know those guys away a hundred and fifty pounds
and if you know a surfer guy and a and a whenever jeff i don't know what jean rode human put jeff and you but you wouldn't think that he
would throw a dart choke on your face ah so that's that prior is in execute in the jugi i mean we just talked about it fourteen times to
night for combat dark about a business all the time you got to make sure that the initiative that your running you don't have to thirty
eight and essie and you get to guess what you hear this all the time you're get you get but to get choked you got to protect your neck
number one you got to protect your neck ah then you can worry about your legnano can work about it arm in the hook and everything else we
can affect the action for our prioritize ye gattie things simple you got it o ye he got avington mind you got to be creative and look for
different ways to win and different things to do you got to make you do a trap and in your up men to le trapper ruptis happens to me
everybody think head happens to me but i only know why i can tell you about me as it is i guess trapped and run wild you inserere are yet i
get stuck in something and i'll just go with one move for a long period of time you got all feareful that i need to be better about that
this apinatus freedom so which egypte more discipline you are in training for more freedom you have on the mat so the more you train the
more you work the more you drill the more you can move the more you can escape the more you can come yet the more you can finish now not to
mention the fear that it eliminates that like you you know how like litigant that discipline you take a two weeks off a lot of him when you
come back from that two weeks like you have that added element of nervousness ikagin i going to gas or am i going to get you know
capodimonte everybody when you know when you know maybe there is a higher expectation on mere something like that to know i don't have the
aaaaaah disparate offisher ah but i would say but number one philosophical lesson i guess is to felixopolis in is the same thing that i
learned from combat and that humility in digito is absolutely one of the most cute humbling experiences in the world and we've actually i
got people now that i started judicous the pod cast and they say oh i just did my first dugulas damn that was humbling yet is extremely
humbling you're goin to get be you never got to know everything you're always going to be learning that there's all the way to do things in
somebody that just started can come up with amazing taphius and that's humbling and there's other martial arts that have better moves that
jennie de pay attention to like wrestling has better take down elegant with the leg locks then catch wrestling some of those things that
all better move and you you fly those i guess what you still need to know how to strike because it gave me arake people down to newton do
how to strike and you can't be colinet be over confident because a bottom line is indugio you will get beak and you will get beat by
smaller guise by weaker guises by all virgie you're goin to get beat and there's somebody that's better than you and if you don't like that
for her if you're eagles n't like that then he got a find a new game with lay ye the cause you need to find a softer game or an easier game
because jugis honest yes and you cannot escape that the natascha be and it's of course this philosophical this philosophy is something that
i definitely carried over to combat and carryover to and i talked a business as an carry over to life you can't be overcome you you can't
be over comfort you never goin to think you know everything you have to respect the enemy that's part of humility you got a respect you if
you're not homeopathy you don't nec respect your opponent you don't respect your competitor and if you don't that's when you're going to
get caught so to me humility is the most important thing that do you you toute aches you ye thinkin of a kin be kind of a not a trick
emaculate said cause can you that you got a metanoeite right but that humility will be tested if you stick with it so then i'll tell you to
quick story but that test being a stout upon me it was like a little after i got my purple belt as really like a remidy stride is competing
a lot in winning then tom and you train with me a lot back yes that was that's right at that time when i was training the view and you are
you know what i you know it if they as there was to prevent toshi gondelore doorside that was the exact tired ominica have a start to kind
o you know give into my own height long go on the man not outwardly but on the insight and am in and ossified you do get you make is coyon
the insulinde and his thing a lot of people that's how you know it in fact a little bit of that is good because you get a confidence that
hunger to even earn more and be better oh so i had that and then granuled with greg since i would i did know me as good but i goiman as
good as i do now and last time i want to see as somerled with him is a white belt long time ago and he just would destroy me sossidge i
cinteotl gratulatio know you've been mining himself like oasises wrong so like a olivetan in my mind ye i've been winning here let me go
hadndsome stuff you know it's going to show greg he my own line the androgyne like a the white dulange the kind were literally nothing i
did work in everything he did work desaits like he did assitance up to septre cap mout so on situation that was the time where i got put
from like the top of the mount in in my own head right to the bottom of the mountain literalist not to not almost at the unorthodox that's
redecorate show good when that happens in an actionless i i occasionally jujitsu peramble occasion you get some one that is really really
good and they don't recognize they'll come up with its people all the time that or they don't come up against people very often that are
better than them ye most people in the beginning you have you have several years of of being beat down and but occasionly get something
that's a great rest or or maybe they were a judo player or something so they come into the game or there just superstrong otherest and so
they very quickly you on a matter of six months to a year over sudden there doing really well if sometimes those people sometimes those
people mean tally they might be good agitet they they don't they don't mentally get it and they become really bullies and that's a that
statoot doesn't happen that often like a sad but it does occasionally happen leave get somebody that just is a dominant force they don't
get humble enough and and they don't because even if you don't actually get humbled you do so normally the beginning you learned like o
because one of things i said if people as i'm not you know because i can tap you it doesn't mean you that i'm a better human and you i is
mean i trying more oiesointo don't i mean that's all it means an that means that someone else was training more than me and they can beat
me and that's just what it is but sometimes people think that because they can tap somebody out that their better than them you know as i
humour ye there is the artabano added to to have that's not what you just do should be about yantabulla of times because they end of just
kind of a one way to put it they don't pay their dues so to stretch you know like a normal beat it the humility less an average over again
again it like a few times with an e overcome it quickly yet and it outwitting a p so you had to be careful of that ye this just be just be
careful at if you're if your person has naturally relied payges make sure you're not getting it turning into a bully ye and let him second
blocky from learning oh i got an ohheenaw would i start learning all this weird game like if your song restie why what i start learning
bottom game ye if when i'm killing with all this other rightlier someone at a better rest on you yes i were just now the combination
because a lot of times certain guys the they'll they'll know the combe to beat dresslin ye without having to do rustling yet esometha just
like that you know so parotiditis i next washin have you ever been so duggin one lucian or an opinion that it felt impossible to admit that
you are in fact rose i actually almost gave up on the question an n because it's been all i learn this lesson a long time ago that again to
the humility that you get from judean from combat and from life is that i very seldom did in on something that i am not a hundred per cent
sure of in and which me that don't dig in on a walk to mount oponent sure of much right who can be a hundred per cent sure of an athens it
ain't when i do do that it's not that one for me to realize in a wrong if my ego man ate janequeo's not that big of a deal to me when i
like i said when i do dig in on the subject ran the decision it's because i know but almost to a one hundred per cent certainty that in
right otherwise when leaf myself a little bit of an out i'm not going to just dig in on things that can't be possible because why would i
why would i do that now when i end up being wrong if i do take a stand on something it's no big deal i'm on a use that is an opportunity
you show that i'm a humble and show that i can admit when i'm wrong and he take advantage of it good and i'm wrong o good and also i would
say just keep your option open keep an open mind wouldn't you feel yourself or your ego is diving in just check yourself aided met that
you're wrong and movana one thing i think it happens with people as people think that digging in and having a strong one hundred per cent
opinion makes them appear stronger or it makes their idea of your stronger but hadn't been so i i i'm not saying to be wish you washintun
i'm just say no i have opened mine because i think that's the ultimate strength that's kind of my opinion that i mean a last time i came
out west to digging in irising a company and they are going through some rough a little bit of a rough patch in they started multiple
initiatives to try and turn some some things around and one of the unition of all the initiates there was a couple that the seal one done
immediately and two of those initiatives when i looked at them i thought it i thought that they were red dundonald so i said look i
wouldn't waste i wouldn't do both these initials to pick one i think this one's the better one just do this one on a think it all cover a
problem and i convinced them that is when he astonished cause they were had limited resources at the time and limited as that so wasn't
like they had a bunch of stuff to spread around but he was pretty sat on it but i convince them otherwise and he agreed and within a matter
of daze it started looks like i was wrong sartello both distans were going to be needed to solve that specific issue so i didn't like wait
i didn't say oh i hope that things go assailing about this i think you are right ah let's get the other native going unless get this
problem covered and that's it and i'm done you he didn't lose respect for meum because i said ay i'm wrong after a few days of watching
what the results are and making an early decision he actually thought it was also any any sir which i wish every one could admit when they
were wrong like that it would make everything round here so much easier and i will that's why i'm here in the first place i lithp with that
so just because when you dig in you don't cause when you dig in you you're actually when you dig in your taking away your ability to
maneuver yeah you don't want to do that good so soon got now should i read this question because this is a question for echo charles so
that even if a gay well this part of it's too questions actually but i put em together is their pretty fulgoso willing what brought you and
echo charles together can't we get the back story there i like the chemistry achochre question for you to answer on jacopone have you
learned from jocondas your life changed since this is echoes first response to a question don't screwed really go on i ecloye of course
which is funny because that's kind o how what brought us to get our part of what brought us together and i think it's good that i answer
this part because you probably remember a lot less of it so of the wash o six i see i see you like the the first you know whatever within
the first year of joining the den and o five but i didn't know you indoctrinating like that i just said her of you from dan um an end in
like oixomenou a boxing club i rolled with you on time i'll still a white dot and ah so they could have been still a five on an uphand then
you know you'd beat me up and you the kind of you are just more like this stoic god be the out imagine the same guy that people interpret
you to be from the outside no not like not intense but just real like boy is re matter of fact you know um so you bet me up or whatever and
then i was so i since i had already heard a year redeems black bell and you know all this stuff that i was like you that's about right you
know you you know good you just do whatever beat me up but that wasn't really sing much because everyone was feeding me up and in um time
went on it's you for a while and i am when i start to kind of get gone'll strange with brant brenton he leaned with him and then with a
less a little bit and then then i you come back i was competing and then you are just around for whatever reason em and then ye de started
training with you i think that national in victory right yes it romotane yeah exactly and i am yet we'll find is that you never came off
like one they like new you like immediately you never came off as this super intense person i give is more like you were just sarcastic
like well let you know i hineline of my friends but you could still always tell it there is something behind the scenes you know you not
your rolinad like you seen you in essie's on too but this guy in a asiago that same feeling but you are always just like all the this real
matter of fact but fun funny like cannon person whatever like but when i say matter fact i mean like gum like that one bisonette when a is
kind of later where i lost two sanours in amenti a goal a plate and when you lose him you get to drain and astafort time i lost in since i
went advanced you know as is doing let it now yet i had never lost and then abasement a gillpot so instead of you saying hey you know to
care nothing that that you send me a tax your sitting across the rain in your right there you send me tachou got caught with a good that's
got a stain on the isaperices you can say that as was like a whatever but i think that um that you'll train together and just kind of
getting e you know you you'd kind o had that thing that you could say that kind of stuff because really it's not that serious you know the
going out i think i hepithets not many people who could have conveyed that though you know it it came in youthink it had to come from you
anyway so ye that's kind of how we met and say and then a kind of after a while i how did the idea of a pokes come up to the weak we kind o
talked about that a little bit before i got a forget the formation but it was in my mind when i went on to roasting we had talked about a
you know we should do something as i you said to me like a well you should do it and so when i went on to a reginae said dino potestatem
par said he usually upon gasped an i kind of bee being attack i sound give video guy i just said had onomatopes and that's why i just said
he how do you do you unmake upon cainito make one eye has everything to us is the total cavanagh he out at them and wanting to tape
recorder what do i need you and i and so then you said i know i i know i do that i could make it happen and then you said it be cool
instead of just you sitting there talking if you had some one to talk to and i said he you're a it would be cool then you'd said i be cool
it was me or my my selling point was that strange if it's just you right just sitting there you know it's it's more strange and it's better
if you have some one to indopting off of a ontassete on an kind o be like a servile so i can like ask questions that can ariette the point
right to some of whom i negotiated on and now in my mind i did anyway um but yet then he obviously gueroino was kind of the tipping point
when he suggested at her they are not as sir good great inside from jeremian i'm glad he did and i'm glad you did it a at we did make this
pot cassapanca to answer the question what have i learned em and the interesting because i asked myself is exactly on cousin i am a week to
go because i am a literally a different person now in ways that kind o art kind of surprising in a way so i took the first thing that's
kind of kind of oh not that surprising but um it's it's very prevalent is on people blame when i see people blaming other people or blaming
me or i feel the compulsion of blame some one else it stands out like a tortum almost like if if in feeling that an it like almost like it
i want to say something to to indicate that i'm goin to blame somebody or something it's almost like a red flag like i'm not allowed to do
that in my own mind when i heard and fast rule and like i said they just stand out like a sort of everywhere though on t v quintette guy
not even my conversation i see we dungeon know so it's like it's like your whole way of life in that regard is to shifted extreme ownership
and the awareness of that and i see another people or lack of it and other people definitely stand out like crazy won't you start thinking
about it yet and i have the luxury of being around you talking about these things talking but examples of it every week right so throughout
the week of my sicanian help but notice it you know and it's fred it helps men because of the fiver ent who in everything like most
relationships are going to apply these principles you know if if you're involved in them umsoala now so so when it comes to ownership and
in really blaming myself tisanne and focusing on my responsibility in any scenario whatever comes automatic now i was say so he said i mean
whether i make the right choice that he always going to be working produces i think but as far as that attitude it it's automatic now
thet's awesome and then um in regard to acaso i've always been into working out and so me not feeling like working out is i always felt
like working out so well as far as not feeling like it that wasn't really a factor but in a bunch of other things in life it was a factor
in then so fit and i see you shannot feeling like doing any as i yet like all i gotta i gotta go to the post office to day and that's on
the low end and then or the other one is in an kiotense hing more important right but maybe i'll wait a wait till really the last man or
being a procrastination type stuff so you're getting into the here and now yes and not feeling like it that means obsolete nothing
something needs to be done and i don't feel like it it and you know how like you have you have certain ideas already and then other ideas
are introduced and then those ideas kind of mingle with your existing ideas and he formulated this cold new courses action right so the not
feeling like it is no excuse that idea came in and so not like it morphine thing like me not feeling like a homestead i'm going to do it
all so tales like this personal challenge now you know and man far as results go and you get everything done it hit me to so much stuff
done and is not so probably compared to youth connoting dry i get stuff done like so many things done during the day that i had never
thought that i could do that many things in a day that's a i'm all out was always looking for me the rest are in apostle that but now i
romans will all be challenging myself to do it anything that as i can an be like salad and on top of that and year the one who said this
was a one time one of things you were kind of tired and you youatt i like this i like to scringeing grinding and then at the end of the day
when i go i go to bed where my head just crashes into the pillow i like that house at some nice you have so won approachings like that now
and also i think of all the good things of have been done a great things and just good things whatever if these people didn't do it because
they didn't feel like it i these things when he got done in you know so he got stuff to do yet do it an when he feel like her now that's
what i don't have for myself now tom and the last thing um is a kind of knew this but man it's so clear now that you can get certain
messages in information and tips and tactics and stuff from from people or the internet or books or whatever but if you're not ready to
accept them you just want except them or they'll just go in one you er in at the other and allowed time that has to do with hossein it so
is like an your neighbor some go off his drinking of your smoking his cigarettes like just what you know you should do this and it can be
this great advice being to i'm not going to listen to you i'm not even listen to you not even to get past that part the fact that you are
the one that saying this already walked me off from what you have to say and that's natural i think but a lot of these things like the year
reading these old books that have these messages that you've been saying so it's not new stuff in a lot of stuff i i heard that take
responsibility for it for your actions that's not new you know if i if i bust out a a you git none street take her something for you act
something comes up on the same he'd be like heatthen no i wouldn't stand out but for some reason when you're saying it gets you think he
can metake responsiblity to so that so ye i say when it comes to listenin to you this potassa the you know the dancers you have for these
questions and in questions i even have it seems like it it comes and i process it we more readily than you know means on face book for
wherever i say yes reasserted that will said that's really cool that's that's great to hear and i've i mean i've definitely seen a la
transition in everything you don't i mean everything you're doing is spot on you and that's legionist see explain to see some one moving
toward their potential as a human ye that's awesome to see yet out and another thing that kinai came to as not a conclusion but it would
his a result is not a direct lie you didn't tell me this but this is what all my existing thoughts mixes with all your imput kind o arrived
that one of the things is that it's up to you an septime what i spend my time doing totally up to me and it's up to me what i feel my head
filled my head with so you i palstaves that i love to love to watch how i though and shark tank and this kind of it and don't really watch
that much to but those stop that's maybe you know two hours or so that i could be reading something that's going to help me through the
rest of my life or getting better at something that's going to help my you know relationships or career something like that and i use that
example because that seems pretty pretty like not inconsequence consequence olcse only two shows not like a spenders a derogative just to
show within harm in that fright but it's that's up to me i'm not missing out by missing wife i will not missing out on a oneself in any
negante future at all i want oefelian anyway actually but if i read something you full educate myself in you know whatever arena that
gonaive by interest or my or or my relationship or something like that that will that will help me ye no i hear it that's one thing i've
noticed in our shop show up at the studio and you take all reading the spoke you i we could get this is sound better and i i read this
thing about you know you're coming back to me all information and it was something that just transition in your brain re such an no at i
could be watching t v in wasting my mind or i could be applying myself and learning ye and that's that makes you difference betatakin i
read actually ah and i read it on with one they wikipedia this pacific thing but there is this uh this automatic way of thinking and it's
called hyperbolic discoma right in all that all that means is you choosing media pay off verse in a catamenia infortunia pay off verses
long termer and he therefore reason sir rivalem a theseus old it exist for in you know in environment it's not current so if you can
basically abe aware that in combat that where don't do the immediate pale things fell just take take what you're about to do evaluate it is
is going to help me other than the pleasure that i see when that whether that in regards the food drinking the shows like if you watch
reality t v e yourself on the one and ask yourself is this going to help me in the future and typically that that answer for those such
things are going to be now and then consider in alternative that you can do and a lot of the stuff can be placable that will help you in
the future and is totally up to tally up to fly out make the good joy yea and the pay off not only as it bigger it lasts longer yea and the
mediate pay off his pad just the amory to that also here and then actually we got that next comment in her a sort of the same vein is
coming from it we get a bunch of you know emails but i just bought this one was was interesting day your some one kind of talking about
their transition here she says i am one of many many people who live in a live as they think they should and end up mid forties lost shall
be and depressed i definitely don't hear a worship you but i am truly grateful for your on mine presence i now get up at five a m daily and
i screamed grand my phone every morning as the alarm goes off and post that shot with another shot for my walk a few minutes in i walked
from hour daily and i started stretching daily for an hour but this doesn't stop there i now have a bunch of friends who are getting up
early and going for a walk or going to the gym getting after it as you say we are all noticing an improvement in our lives so we might not
be military or police we are not planning on becoming jugeaient at this stage redispose who lost themselves lost their way or finding their
way back in part thanks to you i credit you at least twice a week and tell people to find you on to it er i had to write here because
there's no agapit this into a hundred and forty characters and thanks to tim and joe for have you on their shows that's where i found you
have a great day so it really cool you know really cool to hear that really great to get that feed back and oh you know this is what i like
about it but for small you don't i think people are spread the origin and it's really good dear that feed back in fires me up to her anseba
and wile people say well people say i motivate them i'm always a humane um you know that the motivate me that you're out there getting up
at five a m on and turning your life around i think that's all some and also what i what i like about this was they pointed out that this
isn't just military or police or judicares its fur pre much anybody in any station in life in any job any age man or woman any country as a
matter of fact i was in england and my wife's remingled and when i was england i went and saw one of my wife's rents grew on friends with a
husband and you now here's this woman who i don't know forty something years old she's lives in england she's got three kids she i couldn't
be any further de catch from me in my life and when i was i was hanging out with her husband in london before we went to their house and he
said when we got the train to go to his house he had listen you gotta be ready at a for what and he says my wife loves your poast and i
said really had he said no no no i'm serious she loves your potassa we have done night she can ask you questions all my long she's been
asking me the question that she was to ask you and so i showed up in seriously ill it was great she would ask me all these detailed
questions about everything and it was really cold because i realized that this i mean the like i said this person doesn't do you gito dozen
you know doesn't corentin that i do nothing and yet she was had a holeless as long and all these things she had taken away and it was
awesome to see that then it was interesting to castitas talking to her it was on a friday or saturday and as i'm talking to her she had
listened to the latest pot cast on the day before and so she was saying to me you know well yesterday you said this and yesterday at that
and so i home i knew i was talking to her yesterday at i was talking her yesterday and that's what i kind o realize that how how imparts
what we talked about where we now were the words the poncas wars are going to rectly into your brain and i've had a bunch o people say you
know owen your talkin you were telling the story i wanted you to talk about this story of the friends of mine and so so i think that's
that's really cool and um i think that's why a lot of people are getting into the game and join it i because an you just said i and i i say
it all the time there's nothing new here i will not give an away ground breaking at necile's no miracle drug and there's no free minute
exercise fetich nge your life i'm not settling the self help reach your potential through this magical mystery i'm telling people what they
already know and we're talking about things that people know to be right in their own hands like discipline and hard work and consistence e
the wasteth ng then we all know those things but to everybody that's that's kind of know mestinos for a while but they've recently started
pickeder it am good on you yet and yet on that path yet if you and stay in that path that's what i'm talking about and i caelatum like just
like how you were saying a welt of this we already knew we already know about state discipline were any no about all all this stuff for
whatever but coming from you it it helps and then on top of that leviathan element that i'm that i'm kind of really starting to really
understand and feel is that you don't like you untether like you engage you know you you like someone asks you questions it it seems like
you're engaging a lot more so than this somebody i own wash it on me of answer as yet i'm not rude which is i i tried to to for sure am i
would imagine you'd be in a hive when more than me but um and as a result of everything i feel like we're all kind of doing this together
you know you know how the guyonnet they'll post all that you know now people and everyone there posting there you know four thirty a m we
up time to do this every one the outhouse you did now guess what we're all doing it or you know were all doing that if your responding the
refunding to you your responding to them were reading questions from them yes um i'm gonna haner like these are other people yes and
through this weird interweb or actually asking questions from some unknown partner had for having a composition basically ye yet kind of
delay but yet exactly what's going on so in example i i should have described my phone instant saw africa the guse name but he was like
echo sunday work out sunday this was like early this morning maybe late last night whatever sunday work out give one a need to sunday work
on botticelli so i gave him the work at it was basically um ah two rounds five sets of em clean and clean a press five five raps cleanness
by times and then five boris that's one set do five set forty five seconds residet rest for two minutes in the new find more forty five
sextets it but it ouahse'ves allyside hundred thirty five pons causata the exact thing i do after i live and that's like to me that's art
lifting so that art but that parts kind of hard to me the method a mataafa my but i don't know megadont know if i'm in good shape or not
there for as it goes sacina you do it and use that weight but here's the thing if he smaller on your outer don't know how big it is not
here o sacking on water you know so i you know that put the weight didn't really matter one recalled it properly he said later on you like
dan that lows pain but i feel great he was like solid he said ah but i adjusted the weight grierson say okay you know that makes sense but
by my two reasons why i'll i'm into that is his i wanted that interaction i hate do my work out you know and what i'm going to do and i
thought it was relearning were um or earlier to day i'm going to send him back to you give me a work on an ice and i'm gonna do it and but
i make it something at least go to what you do or something you do and i'll give you a valuation royal soulfully i can get some variety and
it'll help that interaction i think that's done estill he actually went into it yes i like hackerism follering an eye war some yet were as
will also your deal left question they must be some aspect of the tipsy situation that i don't understand even even if i m on the losing
side will fight a still want to go down swinging i could tell how much this affected jacal it would sup to be so close to such an unjust
fight and not be able to do anything about it yet the it thetis hard to look at that situation and really understand it that is horrible
look back at it now and now that we didn't do anything about it but but what can we do with it how can we apply this to every day life
because i re get a go down to swinging an i'll tell you this if you if you fight with all you've got waint you go down and all you want but
you got to make that attitude part of your every day life the extra wrap the extra mile the extra brown the right choices to make yourself
stronger mentally and physically stand and fight fight against weakness and against fear the fight against time and decay fight back go
down swinging gave every day everything you've got midsentence a challenge even something where you don't believe you can win maybe the
situation will you cannot win bitiou can't win remember this you have nothing to lose is so stand up and go forward and go out in a believe
of glory fighting with everything you've got every ounce of energy every baisse and every drop of blood till your last breath and then and
only then you can stand down you can put down your sword you can put down your shield and rest in peace i think that's a a'got for the
night so thanks all you too present there doing in and listening in thanks for roemer and you know we started is off to night with the
statement of remembrance of some fallen warriors sorting for a membering them remembering the past remembering war and the horror and the
glory and the heroes naworer ing that and takes for learning from them thanks were connecting with us through the interest you guys out
there are opening my mind with a book that your sending me the articles that your sending me the videos your sending me the connections
your making your making a smarter so thank you and of course thankest upon cast listening downloading wolfwin right revuski terit and
reviews if you are if you feel like it ye in then the other forms of support we got on it of course on it not come flashed jocko got ten
per cent off tom get you some warrior bars strife he yeah wherefor sure ah and some illepecadewe read geenway or click or good a jocobson
and before he shot in an as on cleon them as on link then do you shaftan's cool um donate if you want we got that now and ah and yet he
liked to tashiro coffee mugs bumpers dickers that e without a jocosities and moose solid also if you want to add to the conversation when
you're not listening to potatoes at chackalok oh it twitter have jackaloorie and i met at echo charles and you made the the face book to
which has not been lied as much yet dry and have been slowly checking on em a check we poquestion from him a kayak the aspace book dot com
slashed jackal to cast and i think slowly regeneration to getting the questions from there i everywhere probably really fanarin is a good
question but long questions i mean ye that it's hard good muff don't take pictures of long questions and post him cause i copy in paste
them into a document or sirafous out there that took pictures of questions and i twitterin said he right that ye so ye cool and there it is
tom g and if you or give you interesting in the book lay fabio extreme ownership it's all these basic principles we talk about all the time
you can get it in hard cover candle or you can audebit you are you look as myself and lay reading it so or any books that you've covered on
anty's pocas that's a jocatore dot com by the way on the top men you click on that that book that will show the description and what part
cation at such an cambion that as so finely and most importantly it everybody out there you sit in there with your head forms on a listning
thank you thanks for deciding that he you arganio the line that you're going to fight through the discomfort and the weakness and the pain
and you can oget up an get after it so until next time this is jackoo out
