this is jacopo cask number eighteen with a cochers and me jocelin gooden ah good evening he who fights with monsters should be careful lest
he thereby become a monster and if thou gaze long into the abyss the abyss will also gaze into thee so said nic and that is really what
we're dealing with here in the world in my world fighting fighting against a monster and talking about what goes on not only the outside
world and the evil that there but also in the world around us and also inside your head and said my head there's battle that all that can
be raging every minute of the day between strength and weakness between the past and the future between good and evil between light and
dark opposing forces battle in against each other and we we all see evil i mean of course there's those of us that had been dowar where we
see concentrated evil but evils everywhere around us around every one disease and crime and murder and abuse and loss and there predatories
prey in nature and in human and as i said before there's part the world where we built a nice bubble where we can all but remove the evil
of at least distance ourselves from it and in doing so we can almost almost forget about it almost but it is thin thin tener and it doesn't
take much to release the demons it doesn't take much for humanity the farmer and that shows itself often in war which is one of those
things that can very quickly relished mons there are dead soldiers dead women dead children every one's dead sore headed boys sometimes
morose sometimes laughing beaten up in our barras would broken jaws and ruptured lungs we were herded into this war and killed by the
hundred we didn't even know how to shoot we couldn't kill any one we didn't know how all that we were capable of was crying and dying and
die we did we called the rebels uncle and when our boys throats were cut they begged the rebels please uncle don't kill me what did i ever
do to you we so wanted to live get that into your head you fat smug general who sent us off to this slaughter we hadn't yet seen life even
tasted its scent but we had already seen deaf we knew this smell of congealed blood on the floor of a helicopter and a hundred degree heat
now that the flesh of a torn off leg turns black and that a person can burn up entirely and let gasoline leaving just the bones we knew
that body swell up in the heat and we listened to every night to the craze dogs howling in the ruins then we started the howl ourselves
because the die at the age of eighteen is terrifying we were betrayed by every one and we died in a manner befitting wheel cannon fodder
silently and unfairly by night they kicked the living crap out of us by day we unload corpses i have no dreams in this tent and no charred
bodies chase me at night i just plunged into a dark pit whether is nothing not even war and i open my eyes when it gets light a person
changes very quickly in war he may be scared scared by a dead body on the first day but a week later he can be eating from a can while
meaning leaning on human remains to be more comfortable that's a book giving in to right now it's called a one the soldiers a war by
arcadian he is a russian soldier foulton both wars and chessman the first and the second the russians fought against the cheshires and this
is actually a book that a bunch of people left weakish rt peace and then talked about the war and chesham the lessons learned from that war
a bunch of people hit me on twitter and said to check out this book and i did and they were right in a great narrative and it shows you the
impact of his war on the soldiers that fought not and once again we are going to see the veil of humanity ripped off having evenor bent
first to kind o look at where these soldiers came from back to the book here you won't find any smart handsome boys in these tents they
were got out of a war by their rich daddies leaving it to us ordinary folk to die and grani the ones who didn't have the money to pay her
way out he denies ten sort o sons of labourers teachers peasants and blue collar workers basically all of those who were made penniless by
the government thieves feeling reforms and then left the waste away these tents contain the ones who didn't know how to give a bribe to the
right person who thought that the army service was the duty of every man truth and nobility of heart are no longer virtues in our world
those who believe in them are the first to die now one thing that i'm about to get into his thee the treatment of the russian soldiers
which is absolutely just gainer it's it's it's just gangsters he only recondite it the way that the soldiers were treated the way that the
military was wrung with us by brute force within the old chain of command so there was no escape this is what they were dealing with so
there is an unofficial set of rules a kind of a code of laws which if violated incur corporal punishment if i stuck my hands in my pockets
i get a thump on the head that is the privilege of the older soldiers a spirit in a spirit is what they called the new soldiers they came
spirits a spirit should forget about his pockets entirely otherwise they will fill them up with sand and so them the sand shafestone
twodays later you have weeping sirs you can get a beating for anything at all if a spirit doesn't show respect in his conversation with an
older soldier a grand ad who'll get beaten up if he talks too loudly or goes about the barracks clattering his heels gill get beaten up if
he lies on his bed and the day he'll get beaten up if people back home send him good rubber slippers and he decides to wear them to the
shower he'll get beaten up and lose those slippers i gifest thinks of turning down the tops of his boots or walking around with his top
button on donnerfest tipped back on his head or one side or he doesn't do his belt up tightly enough they'll flash him so hard he'll forget
his name he is a spirit the lowest dregs and it is sanities job to slave until the older soldiers have been discharged and then he goes on
that sort of the that sort of the basic military situation that therein and that each raised in and that sort of that the garrison meaning
not the combats situated bistouries ndard russian situation if you're a soldier now here's the situation esent there is none of this in our
regiment all of that stuff is just child's play it's the big leak here i can walk how i like and where one i like and it doesn't bother any
one they beat us for a completely different reasons or older conscripts have already killed people and buried their comrades and they don't
believe they'll survive this war themselves so beatings here are just the norm every one is going to die any way both those doing the
beating and their victims so what's the big deal there's the runway two steps from here and they keep bringing back bodies by the dozen
will all die here everybody beats every one the tembes with three months of service to go the officers to warn off sirs they get stinking
drunk an then hammer the ones below them even the colonel's beat the majors the major's beaulieu enans and they all beat the privates and
the grand dads beat the new recruits no one talked through each other like human beings they just smack each other in the mouth because
it's easier that way quicker and simpler to understand because you're all going to bite it any way you bitches because there are unfed
children back home because the aftercourse addled with impoverishment and hopelessness because a demeas three months left because every
second man is shell shock because our mother one makes us kill our own people our own people who speak russian and we have to shoot them in
the head and send their brains flying up walls crushed them with tanks and tear them to pieces because these people want to kill you
because you're soldiers arrived yesterday straight from training and to day they are ready lying open on the air strip as lumped lumpish
flesh and flies lay eggs in their open eyes and because in a day the companies reduced to less than a third and god willing you'll stay
among that third because the one thing that every one knows is how to get drunk and kill kill and kill some more because a soldier as a
stinking wretch and a spirit doesn't have any right to live at all and combed as actually to do a favor i'll teach you what war is about
you price you can have you can all have a smack in the mouse so you don't think life is too rosy and thank your mother that she didn't have
you six months earlier or you you all be dead now every one hates every one else in this regiment the hatred and madness hang over the
square like a flow black cloud and this cloud saturated young boys with fear just like pieces of barbecue being marinaded in lemon juice
only they get stewed in fear and hatred before they get sent off to the meat grinder it will be easy it will be easier for us to die there
so you've got some of you know the things with the thing you hear recapitulate time to come robbery the the a spree the care the
brotherhood the all overs just gone now you're going to get to a point in any dosett it where you get to the front line to ersten they're
fighting and they relied each other and they have the door soldierly brotherly comrade love for each other but as a unit throughout the
ranks you can see it's it's it's awful and this old before weaving it to the fighting you collateralis toward evening he wasn't the first
to go missing a couple of weeks earlier two soldiers from the eighth company had taken a machine gun and tried to go home no one looked for
your colette storming of grasse was under way and second the italian tried in vain for the third day to take the cross shaped hospital
suffering high casualties and we were poddon for the third day at the first row of houses in the private district the storming operation
was faltering and we didn't have time to look they lifted him as a deserter rode off his rifle as lost in combat and closed the case it was
the old man in this is vater sort of a special police unit that they had within the military o man it was the old man who turned up our
missing man during the night while they were mopping up in the first line the one cottage cellar may found a mutilated body the rebels had
slit him open like a tin of meat pulled out his intestines and used them to strangle him while he was still alive on the neatly white
washed walls above him written in his blood with the words all akbar god is great so that you get a little bit from the enemy and we
already talked about the abuse and now are going to get in this sum some blue amble some fratricide half an hour later we got shelled by
self propelled guns in standing in the street with a company commander when the first house on the right suddenly shudders and start to
collapse in the center a huge split spreads down from the night for balconies gerers and force ports out and seemed to hover in the air
turned over and then drive themselves on the ground with a thud small debreece scatters into the yard after the heavy blocks we don't know
what's happening in squadon instinctively caleinda rusty shrapnel riddled garage and look all round us then we realized that its friendly
fire the company commander fumbles for the head foam of the radio on my back and start to call the patine commander i call over the spare
radio that standing on open ground with the commander scrambling after me still wearing the head forms one after the other him standing
over my head at me crouched between his legs we shout into the mouth piece for them to see firing tangled up in the wires and the head
forms we forget all about the shape can think about his reporting that we are here and they should hold shelling that we must stop them
from hitting our dies oranien poured out of the house and stand dumb struck all the porches not knowing where to run huge hundred and fifty
millimeters shells waging more than sixty pounds roar through the air above us and below up the upper floors one blast rubs a whole
vertical section of the building vanishes leaving just rusty steel entrails judging from the shattered walls another shell flies down the
middle of the yard and hits the house on the left before it explodes time loses meaning we lie behind the garage pressing ourselves into
the snow how long this last i have no idea finally it's over with two seriously wounded the shell that flew down the middle of the yard
exploded right inside their head quarters while two men were there the leg and one side of them was blown to pieces and the other had both
legs torn off again we run the wounded to the carrier on stretchers and load them inside again they make no sound that except for one one
opens his eyes and says quietly get my leg sigi the severed remnants of the leg and carries it up along beside the stretcher five of them
carry him in pieces four taking his torso and won his leg they load him into the carrier the limb is placed inside behind him the other
wonota dies some insight here and i think this is this is a striking and i remember when you're a kid you grow up you watch warm bovis you
watch war documentaries you watch world war two films are on black and white and sometimes people think that war is black and white cause i
ance and he thought the same thing and here is i always used to think that war was black and white but it's in color it's not true what the
song says that birds don't sing and trees don't grow in war in fact people get killed in the midst of such a vivid colour among the green
foliage of the trees under the clear blue sky and life homes on all around the birds brim with song the grass blooms with bright recoletos
dead people lie in the grass and they are not a bit scary in appearance as part of this multi colored world you can laugh and chat
alongside them he managed doesn't freezing go crazy at the sight of a body it's only frightening when people shoot at you and it's very
frightening that war is in color talking about this one of these civilians especially the mothers the mothers have it worst of all in this
war they don't belong to either side they get brushed off from the russian generals or or soldiers shoot at them and as one priest we freed
from captivity told me the chastens take them off in the mountains and rate them kill them and feed their inner to their dogs they have
been betrayed by every one these russian women they died by the dozen yet still they wander round chest with their photos searching further
sons and what's happening to the suns here's what's happened to the sun then the cheshier killing our guise they took prisoner they shout
from the end of the street to garrotin and show a few soldiers badly beaten and with their hands tied behind their backs the cessions laugh
and shout something out us and their language and then quickly put one of the prisoners on his side on the ass fall panis head with a foot
and stabbing twice in the throat with a knife the boy jerks is tied hands and whimpers and a black chuckle spreads from his slash through
on to the road the chesson's go back around the corner leaving him to die on the asphalt he lies a long time on his side without moving and
then he starts to twitch he jerks his bound hands and tries to turn over as if he's uncomfortable then he falls quiet again it is painful
for him to move and he will be dently lies on his side with a gaping throat that keeps pumping a black trickle when we think he is already
dead he starts to twitch again and tries to crawl then go still again this goes on a long time blood pours from his throat and smears
across his face his jacket is slipped down to his elbows and when he jerked his arms blood spurts from an artery on to his beer shoulder
bastards says mercy unable to bear any longer he jumps up and shout over the buildings just killing you fuckers shoot him you bastards
faster he unslings his rifle but o supalel managed to grab the barrel they grip his arms and pressing to the ground mercy scots holding his
head in his hands and moaning bastardised bastard to he whimper whispers the boy soon starts to choke he can't breathe and blood sprayed
from his mouth as he coughs sometimes he loses consciousness for a while and lies motionless that he comes to and once again tries to crawl
when he stopped moving altogether the churchings ot him in the back with tracherous the bullets passed through his body and ricochet into
the sky they also killed the rest of the prisoners this time they don't appear from round the corner all we hear a streams before they cut
each boy's throat they shout all akbar we hear this several times and an hour later they throw the bodies out into the street savagery and
unfortunately savage re breeded more savagery then the downward spiral of sadism and in humanity meanwhile stories of horrors elsewhere in
chechnya kept filtering back to us a friend of mine told me how his battalion entered some village of or another it didn't get shelled much
and was almost intact but around the main square wore large crosses upon which russian soldiers had been crucified they had been nailed up
by their hands and each had a few bullet holes in his chest they had all been castrated the commander ordered them to do a sweep through
the village all the men who could be found were heard it up into the square they were thrown down in piles and our soldiers started to hack
them up one guy pinned a cheshunt the ground with a with his foot while another pulled off his pants and with two or three half glasses
severed his scrotum the serrated blade of the knife snagged a skin and pulled the blood vessels from his body in half a day the whole
village was castrated then the battalion moved out or dead men remained on the crosses as i said savagery breeds more savagery and here's
one of the worst parts i think this is one a worse part psychologically four for this soldier for our cadi and many of the soldiers that
were fading fighting alongside him we don't know what we are fighting for we have no goal no morals or internal justification for what we
do we are sent off to kill and to meet our death but we don't know why we just drew the short straw happened to be born eighteen years ago
and glow up just in time for this war and our blame and there the only thing we have is hope the hope that we will survive and preserve our
sense of self and be able to remain human beings we all feel the gust of it all we feel the injustice is injustice of it all so acutely
with our eighteen years each one of us that survives this war will truly believe that such evil should never happen again every shell that
hit us tore apart both the flesh and the soul or how outlook on life crumbled and collapsed beneath this demonic fire and there is nothing
to fill the emptiness in it the only thing we have left is ourselves and are brothers in arms all we know of life is death if any one ever
asked me what were you fighting for i will reply for those who clung to the ground next to me we fought only for each other or entire
generation may have died in chechnya a whole generation of russians even us those of us who stayed alive can they really be those same
eighteen year old laughing boys who once got seen off to the army by their loved ones no we died we all died in not for now there is a
point where where are cadour he's there under fire and obviously you know he's feeling a pressure of being under fire and there's a sniper
and he thinks he knows what a cypress behenna percent sure he just kind of think he can i saw something and he calls for fire you know her
would she directs heavy heavy cannons um from some armathie towards that fire and the next day or two days later he finds out that the what
happened to the people that were killed in that was like it and at yer old re nine year old girl and her grandfather until her as his
thoughts on that yesterday i murdered a girl i suddenly felt sick and there was nothing i could do about it there was nowhere to go and
begged forgiveness i had murdered them and here was irrevocable now i would be a child killer my whole life and i have to live with this
eat drink raised children be happy and sad laugh and cry be ill love and and kiss oar touch this pure radiant creation with hands that had
murdered touch your face eyes lips breast so tender and vulnerable and leave greasy traces of death on our clear skin these hands these
damned hands i should cut them off and discard them i will never get them clean now i stuck my hands between my knees as argue them on my
pant legs i understood that this was psychosis madness but i couldn't help it it seemed my hands had become sticky like when you've eaten
food in a dirty cafe under the sun murder had stuck to them the vilest kind of murder and i couldn't get it off me next day he is in the
chowfa rereading then one of his buddies hands in a tin with some oatmeal when it here eat that we saved it for you thanks i took the ten
and absolutely started a wolf down the cold old meal then i stopped remember how the chechens hid us yesterday you know what it turned out
we killed a girl when we fired back an eight year old girl in her grandfather and here's the response from a leg it happens don't think
about it it'll pass if you're going to put yourself through hell every time it happens you'll go out of your mind people here kill and get
killed they kill us we kill them i've killed too it's just war all on lives aren't worth a thing here let alone some one else's don't think
about it at least not till you get home right now you're still too close to her she's dead and you're alive but you're both still rowing
and one place only she's below ground and you're above it and the difference between you may only be one day now going to a another little
section when they've gone into a place called orgon and they've got a appreece perimeter in old factory we are holed for the fourth day in
a row at the canning factory in our gun it's the best place we've been so far during our deployment and we feel completely safe inside the
fence that skirts the parmiter the trouble with this war is that we are permanent state of encirclement and can expect to be shot in the
back at any moment but here we are sheltered we relax april has arrived in the sun is already beating down we rock around practically naked
wearing only our caught off long johns an army boots and we are we are alike as brothers and brothers we are for there's no one in the
world closer than a mastiate soldiers with life bitten arm pits sun brown necks and otherwise white putrefying skin the while this very
reflecting on some of the things he seen and he says i remember the photo we found near chatty of the little checheo he's only about to
seven but he showing off with a rifle in his hands while his man at all his momsons along side beaming utter little grown up son how proud
she is of him so full of joy for the holy warrior who already knows how to hold the rifle there will be even greater pride in her eyes when
he severs the head of his first russian prisoner at the agent seventeen at twenty he attack a column and kill more people and at twenty two
to run is own slave camp then at twenty five they will hunt him down from a helicopter like a wolf flush aminto the open and fire rockets
at him as he darts between shell craters splattering his guts all over the place then he'll lie in a puddle and stare at the sky with half
open lifeless eyes now nothing more than an object of disgust as life crawling to his beard we've seen warriors like this grown up from
such boys from cobs into wolves and i think my mother would have flayed the skin from my back with a belt if i'd never thought to pose with
a weapon when i was a kid enough no sense in dwelling on this now later everything later sir we kanata about the suffering that they the
abuse that there taking from me from their own from their own military leadership docebo the friendly fire situation to be and he heard in
an enemy that gets a raise to fight and on top of all that there is nature and the indies that they have to deal with my bleeding starts
again and my long johns are permanently incrusted with blood we all have it your rectum swells up and protrude out several centimeters half
your backs eyed hangs out and you sit resplendent like a scarlet flower where where are we supposed to find wiping material we stripped the
remaining scraps of wall paper from the store rooms and rasped our poor back sides inflicting further harm on ourselves and sending blood
gushing from our pants war is not just a tack trenches firefight and grenades is also blood and feces running down your rotting legs it
starvation life and drunken madness it swearing and human debasement it's an inhuman stanch and clouds of flies circling over our battalion
and as time goes on he sort of starting to feel like the end of the war lest they under his deployment is going to come which starts to
actually intensify the fear for him i live with fear constantly now he began that day and dozen a bay i'm scared all the time the fear
alternately turns slowly like a warm somewhere below my stomach or flood through me look with a hot flush of sweat this is not the tension
i experienced in the mountains but pure animal fear i can no longer sleep i don't trust the centuries and spend most nights in the admin
building or on the parade ground i always keep my chest farnese stuff with loaded magazines that have treated for food and cigarettes i
have about i have about twenty five magazines and still seems too few i also empty a few clips of bullets into my pockets and hang about a
dozen grenades from my belt it still not enough if they storm as i want to be fully armed and that's how he kind of finish is out and that
complete distat fear and then it's over but batalion leaves for where we are be to be discharged for us the war is over it starts to rain
the tires of the vehicles squeal on the wet asphalt and rainbows a glimmer in the spray thrown up by the wheels i open the hatch and stick
my face out under the rain large drops fall straight and evenly on my skin the sun hangs heavily on the horizon and her callemaoho ows in
its rays the that's it peace this borman day is the last day of our war chapel's dead and so many others i remember all of my comrades i
remember their faces their names at last we have peace boys we waited so long for it didn't we we so wanted to meet it together to go on
and not part company till the whole paton had been to every one else's home and even after that we would stay together sat together live as
one community always close always there for each other what will i do without you you are my brothers given to me by the war and we
shouldn't be separated will always be together we still have our whole lives had of us now as we hear a lot about these days the war ended
but it was over was an over for these guys and at this point arcady is now back in his back in the city and he's talking he's walking round
and eastling with people and you see here he meets up with some other veteran wounded veterans that are basically on the street about a
million military personnel passed through cheshire ten years after the start of the first war in nineteen ninety four that's the population
of a large city fifty divisions of seasons soldiers who bring there filosophy the philosophy of war back to civilian life with them when
they return at the age of eighteen they already killed men who were sometimes older than their fathers and saw how these grown men died
from the bullets unleashed by their hands there were no voices of authority and there was no god either they were ready for anything there
were no women in the world no children no old man no sick people no cripples there were just goes dangerous ones safe one and one with
potential three of them meaning three the veterans three of them meet and sit in the subway near my matrosa every morning they have five
metals between them six crutches to artificial limbs and one leg and a common hatred for the whole world they've been coming here for a few
years now to sing songs and they are always the same songs in the same order they sink terribly but that doesn't bother them they hate the
people they are singing for they see the world from the low and not just because they are only have half their bodies left but because half
an her souls are gone to their closer to the spit drenched as folk than the people's faces they no longer have the strength to get up and
start a new life on plastic legs and no longer wish to these young men don't want to try to keep up with life any more all they want is for
the war to last for ever and for them to be a part of it for furnishings one of them brought a small travel rub a small kishengunge sit on
and a tape player went to his comrades leave he stays there on his own i don't know his name and a dozen matter he is my brother they all
are brothers given to me by the war the whole of moscow is filled with such brothers there's at least one at each subway he spoke first
where did you fight then brother i told him then he started a ramestu where when how he told me about getting his leg torn off when his
carrier got him bushed a shell hit the armor by his right hip he didn't lose consciousness and even saw his ripped off leg jerking and the
boots scraping on the rivets i did ask him anything just listened in silence and he calmly spoke and without any hysterics just discussing
life i don't understand this world these people why are they all live what for they were given life at birth and didn't have to fly away
from death have a good life people but how do they spend it do they want to invent a cure for aids and build a world most beautiful bridge
or make every one happy no they want to rip every one off sashay as much money as they can and that's it so many boys died we kids and
these people here frigerater lives away as ignorantly as a kitten playing with a ball and have no idea why they are alive pointless people
a whole world full of pointless people a lost generation and it's not we coverage eration it's them those who didn't fight they are if
their death could bring back just one of those boys then i kill all of them without hesitation every single one of them is my personal
enemy he lights a new cigarette from the stub of his last and pours a fresh shot of poggin and then he laughed evilly and his eyes flashed
with hatred you can't go on enjoying yourself while you hours flight away people are killing each other children are still dying and
there's starvation and yet those people are willing to pay seven hundred roubles for a theatre ticket that's ten thousand for the family
just to amuse themselves you can live for two months and chessmen that money i must be concussed because i don't understand this i is can't
get my head around it there is a war going on in the country and they don't give a dam so that case why we shouldn't give a damn about them
either not one of them should ever die without knowing what war is i want for them to to cry out at night and clinger sleep and without
waking to dive under the bed when the new year's eve fireworks are exploding in the yard and wine there from terror like weed there is
guilty of our deaths as those who kill us who sanatogen why won't they striking in moscow and blocking the roads we were being killed and
grasse why why won't they screaming and tearing their hair out when they saw on t v how dogs fed off the flesh of their boys why was there
no revolution uprising or civil on rest how could they send their sons off to this slaughter and i go and have fun live drink beer and on
money withey were dying down there winget were flattening the mountains and tearing apart children and women when wounded chechen kids
rotted in cellars rapping the stumps of their limbs in rags and infection crept across the wounds there also guilty of these deaths we are
here to get what's ours and we are ready to kill his hatred of date to suddenly as it had well over his eyes received once again behind a
film of indifference half truth everywhere has sincerity half friendship i can accept that here in civilian life they only have half true
small measure of truth we had in war with a big lie so many boys died and i survived the whole time i used to wonder what for they were
better than i was but i survived surely this is not by pure chance maybe i lived so that others remember us i am a reminder he says it's
obviously you know the suicidical og ical damage and this is some one that is still reeling from the war and i tell you when i when i came
on from my last ponent you know i didn't feel like that but i understand what he's talking about when when i came home from my last etonian
knowing what great sacrifices americans were making overseas including my friends i remember walking around town in just looking at people
and it is difficult to make that transition mentally back to where people care about the stupidest things and their complaining about
things that are just no human being should ever be given the right to complain about and as that individual right there was saying kind o
what i say what are you doing with your life what are you doing with your life because people of paid purely could give you that freedom
the what you doing with it and now we get the author's view and you can kind o hear his struggle as well no one returns from the war ever
mothers get back a sad semblance of their sons it bittered aggressive beasts harding's the whole world and believing in nothing except
death yesterday's soldiers are no longer belonged to their parents they belonged to war and only their body returns from the war their soul
stays there but the body still comes home and the war within it dies gradually shedding itself in layers scale by scale slowly very slowly
yesterday's soldier sergeant or captain transforms from a soul's dummy with empty eyes and a burned out soul into something like a human
being the unbearable nervous tension abwa the aggression simmers down the hatred passes the loneliness of bates it's the fear that lingula
lingers longest of all an animal fear of death but that too passes with time and you start to learn to live this life again you learn to
walk without checking the ground beneath your feet for mines and trip wires and step on man all on the road without fear and stand at your
full height in open ground and you go shopping talk on the phone and sleep on a bed you learn to take for granted the hot water in the taps
the electricity and the central heating you know longer jumped at loud noises you start to live at first because that's how it's worked out
and you've stayed alive you do it without gaining much joy from life you look at everything as a windfall that came your way through some
whim of fate you lived your life from cover to cover and those hundred eighty days you were there and the remaining fifty odd years can't
add anything to that time or detract from it then you start to get drawn into life you get interested in this game which isn't for real you
pass yourself off as a fully fledged member of society and the mask of a normal person grows on to you no longer rejected by your body and
those around you think you are just the same as every one else but no one knows your real face and no one knows that you are no longer a
person happy laughing people walk around you accepting you as one of their own and no one knows where you've been but that doesn't bother
you any more you now remember the war as some cartoon harley want saw but you no longer recognize yourself as one of its characters you
don't tell any one the truth any more you can explain what war really is to some one who's never been there just as you can't explain green
to a blind person or a man can't know what it's like to give birth they simply don't have the necessary sensory organs you can't explain or
understand war all you can do is experience it you're still waiting for something all these years god knows what though you simply can't
believe that it ends just like that without the consequences you probably waiting for some one to shed some light on it all for some of the
camudu in say brother i know where you've been i know what war is and i know what you've been fighting for that's very important to know
why and what for why the brothers the war gave to you had to die why people were killed why there were fired on good will justice faith and
love crosshilt ren and bombed women why the world need to lose that girl i saw in the runway with her smashed head and a bit of her brain
lying in an amaboona to her why but no one tells you and then if you yesterday's soldier sergeant or captain start to explain it to
yourself you take a pen and paper and produced the first praise as you start to write you still don't know what it'll be a short story or a
poem or a song the lines come with difficulty each letter tearing your body like a shard of being pulled from a wound you feel this pain
physically as the war comes out of you and on the paper shaking you so that you can't see the letters you are back there again and death
once a once more rules everything the room fills with moaning and fear and once again you hear the big guns the screams of the wounded and
people being burned alive and the whistle of mortar shells falling towards your prom back the dead rise from their graves and form up a
great number of them every one who is dear to you and was killed you can already spot that from milor faces i or vaseline for eyes the
potenciana they leaned or do and whisper and their whispering fills the room go on brother tell them how we burned in the carriers tell
them how we cried in surrounded checkpoint in august of nineteen ninety six how we whimpering them not to kill us as they pined us to the
ground with their feet and slid our throats tell them how boys bodies twitch when bullets hit them you survived only because we died there
go on they should know all this no one could die before they know what war is and danish with blood the written words appear one after the
other bagadine to by the pine while death and madness sit behind besides you nudging you and correct in your pen and there you are
yesterday's soldier sergeant or captain and cost a hundred times shot the pieces patched up reassembled half crazed in stupefied and you
write and write and wine with helplessness and sorrow and tears pour down your face and stick into your stubble and you realize that you
should not have returned from the war in that is where the book closes and those those of the demons those of the demons wied i survive why
not them what about the innocence we killed and i good for anything else besides war and it's not just a war that brings out demons life
does stress and mayhem and accidents and crime the madness and loss losada that attack that attack your soul and there is a saying in it
something like if i kill all my demons then my angels they died too and i say no i say do not killaden instead understand them know them
it's one of you o a tendentur you have to know your enemies to you can defeat your enemy ten the best trick the devil complate is to make
you think he is not there and that's what these doomed demons duke they hide de they pick away that she and they set up on you but don't
pretend that the demons aren't there got a no you got to understand them bring them in old then close hold them die so you can control them
so you can recognize very form and the presence and their actions and when i read about those soldiers living in the street barely living
lost on how call and drugs i think it let least in my mind that's not because they surrendered to the demons because they didn't see them
they didn't know that they were there they didn't recognize them and they got ambushed and it fight it you know fighting if the punch that
you don't see that not you out and in war the ambush that you don't see that kills you and in your mind is god a be the thought that you
don't see the things that you've done acknowledge that you try to ignore the ones that you try and say aren't there that you don't admit to
dose of a ones that get you those of the ones that drag you down those the ones that make you weaker that control you that pull you into a
bowl of pals or of boor into rage or depression when you see an alcohol acordado or someone has some thing dragging them down atonatiah
they failed to croyait that that demon is there and that demon has control over them and they fail to recognize that they can control the
demon i say no or enemy no your demons and that way you can control them and fight them and keep them at bay and she don't need to kill
them a fact or even know if you can kill them their part of you the part of what makes you you you the part of what makes me me i don't
want to kill them because if i killed my demons then maybe i kill my nagell but you need to put them in their place you need do control of
them keep those demons in jack so they don't set me up on you and nash she and in oconto you in there's one more piece of this the stronger
that you get the weak or the demon get the more you control them the easier they are control it just takes that awareness and that
ownership and that recognition and the mind set so that you can live your life as you should in control and on your tones not on the terms
of the demons in your head so set them and watch them and control them on them and then live your life to once again it appears that i have
gone to that dark place ye who recommended that book but you remember the eye i will i'll haste figure out but you know we i think part of
that in you know you and i were talking prior this and i had to tell you you know this is part of me i i i've attempted to sit down a
couple of times with the big positive podcast and i'm sure we will but i got some demons in their two that are talking and this is what
they're drawn to and i want to face him i want to face him i want to look at him i want to go to it to wit him and another thing is as both
to soldiers said people shouldn't get to live without knowing what war is like because until you know what will is like or at least in two
you open your mind to understand what it is where it comes from what it does to people benethe it's a whole part of humanity that you're
not seeing in the darkest part and you got a recognized at a specially because if you don't recognize that that darkness is there again
you're not going to see a beauty you have in your own life and you know what that was dark and that was deep and you know what in the next
ten minutes you iry laughing at something where is it be injoined something we're going to have some fun and i think in that respect the
pot cast it reflects life because life has up and down and has misery and it has sadasia also as fontinale her and that's what reality is
in all those pieces for me the struggle the struggle and pain that is life that is the education that the reward that experience that you
get that will make you better and i think that's why we keep ending up here but we don't dwell there in i don't dwell there and i'll think
people should dwell there that's one of the best things about recognizing when you got these things in your head if you try to norbiton you
face them guess what i can move on and in ten minutes you and i manage about something i don't know what yet probably you there we go where
already there the demon for the night has been faced my friends like a solid get to be a good stuff to the night the internet to be
internet stuff that's right the interweb beknown a web we are in fact sponsored by on it but on a dot com lashed jocko to get your warrior
bars also known as the anti douanier year don't i don't i don't get you don't get you warrior bar did you sell some good proteins good fat
not much garson know it's fine you what's funny if you're not if you're in the mood like creakings for some pringles or something but a
sooincide warier bar will ye a more it'll el inlay know that a icings for the sweet cause it's all delicious i won it on a decomplet jocal
get to percent off to m a m as an cu'tain event of you wanted to support this potato in that way said le foreshowing on amago to jack in by
the way up come up there's book right here the book that i read to night i know it's hard for book and it was real deep and dark in its
it's tough reed a manly put its also great read afoot to say this the book is called one soldiers where i sat it on i said briefly i'm
saying it clearly now one soldiers war by arcadian it's a great book and go to amazon and by it because it's it's just it's just a
fantastic book and it'll open your eyes to a parlor that most people try to ignore i don't believe these should ignore it to check that out
and you can by the best that you put the rest the books on the yet in starting to put the red the back o lakelet le it lacking okay does my
falling it i make it clear enough that you know that the important it isn't that's absolutely tree it is senior fault and this will not be
up there that thou one is up there put it to one one excellent extulitque through they can get out amazon and its awaitest the spike as if
even to view one in to do that and if you want to shop or any other stuff in him was on disliketh that clear website and you go and and
then we get a little little piece that which is awesome screw waiter support the ah website to we can buy cameralike and so we can buy new
knives to put on his desk actually we have a very good supply of nice got a bunch of cold steel knives they sat out which are oromasdes
there it is and if the one who further part the pocasset some shirts if you like if you think they're der cool when you'd learn visiplates
edom is not a cold oajaca on her says good backward soldiers as i i was talking to a guy and was basically saint aliston man you know we
are going back and forth we or taxing and when i forget what started it off but it was something along lines of you know you got you know
you got to just put your ego and check here and he said something like it you know we all need it put our iona he said i got to put my
eagle and check egotist we all round a put a egina i got at work on that too of course we always so and he said yet and i'm not the one
that has a tsiri my face on and then he and i said ye you're also not the one that wrote it three hundred page book about yourself and who
has a pot cast that's named after that is your name no believe me i i well got a work on it well then sir things different because i made
the shirayoshi that in an anenomes the president thought if you haven't seen us shami go mary jackoway sixteen bumper stickers so ill yea i
did it for the greater good i guess that's a i guess that's cool i wonder what kind of cars are those going to be on the gong to be on you
know volkswagen other going to be on a mercedes put those onblushin we must see i think meteors and shaves maybe her the most part yea o
sure ye that know gets in your open vehicles in nettie's see you pretty good none the less if you want a bumper sticker on your car but
every kind of craze at um and get those at joculators out homes will i a sure pompeius all this stuff if you want to i must go cool first
question jacko and someone who has been getting after it for his long is for a long time and it increesing the way i see the europan of
mobility would i've been in to start stuff for a while myself deaf any perspective on the difference that most bility in form can have on
performance not just on addressing printer preventing andre did you encounter any material like this on your younger days in your younger
days as a seal and an age when a lot of younger guys will just slam through things as some one who is still very active in your forties
curious decomposer what your thoughts are fires high your to ponies self as well so that her first portique tion about farmin to check me
came ability affecting performance absolutely i mean technique it can right in any sport and is twenty where you break into a new sport you
realize on portentaque as the think i can do that as an you try it you there's a lot of technic did you hoseason example but any sport that
you play that looks like it's not that horrid you go ahead and try it you realize how much of a every sport is technique so technique is
absolutely important mobility is also important and ah it being able to move well and move smooth we you know there's that hole i don't
know if it's a a a trend going on right now but this idea of a movement to training you know the same thing you know how how you goin to
move well how do you move your body well so mobility is absolutely enough make your better performer now when i was younger the i mean we
just did not do this stuff it was just a merciless no stretching bad diet no mobility and when we were sore or whatever we just just were
so athanas e um and at an end looking back i wish we knew more of that stuff we did didn't know what at the time may be people knew it i
didn't know it my buddy's didn't know it we just did what we did we just worked out hard and just out with the pain and when we were sore
or at an injury we just sucked it up and just drove through it and i'm sure that's not good so i think there should definitely be a focus
on this kind of stuff um and it you know i i think with one of things that i think i like me i need more folks on that cause i i don't do
enough mobility or gotdough stretching never mind less mobility like a motor of missus dretching right as we actually you know you know
what eighty bravo whose injudicious for one that is iggensbach really a creative game but he won't give somebody there black belt unless
they can do the lodes sick which is crazy i mean i can't come close down a load or sit with it when you put your feet on top of your five
and he's to herd him talk a couple of times about em you guys that will completely inflexible big football players and then he's like a
know you can't you tobacko can do let us and these do just put her mind to it you know and can do it so i just like anything else you need
to set on goshi don't think i'm quite willing to step out on to the gonado a lodes lenows maybe that's somebody to set in the sand and now
it make it happen and i think though i think things can a people can go too far with that stuff and i've said this before like some of that
extreme yoga where you're just in yourself an not and going beyond what a human supposed to be able to do it's not i don't believe that's
good for i have a couple frensie one friend of particular that was a hard cord yogis is in the open i got out hard corage and in he said it
he said he believed it caused a lot of problems when he got older his back in his spine and his neck and his joints because he developed
laxity you know you veevee looseness you have a higher probability so i think you should stretch and be capable of the full range of motion
of what a normal well oiled human should be able to do i think one you start putting you know your arms you know backwards upside the own
and behind and between your legs and then back up again i think you're going to have this use with that also think i do get some mobility
from the long conceit do from i do de scots right i go all the way down on squaws i do a lot of overhead squarsail up i do full range
emotion polus and dips on getting that movement do in serving you gitano constantly ye got a stay got to keep moving you know that's what i
think you got to do you to keep moving you got to move and was that a very eden in make you move in different treasons running swimming
surfing yogins all different cats of war not skinny after it but he tole you know at sather thing that i i did right down here is a note is
man where i was younger we just didn't tap that often in the judicia you know you everybody asked me every everybody that hits me up on
tower and says first day audited class to morrow what's which your advice my vices taper and tap off and is your eagle if you let your ego
control the tapping mechanism you're goin to get her any it might not be instant like my neck is jacked up of had next sorry that's from de
muster that's from being in a gatienne not tapping and being in arm shakes and not tapping that's for twenty years of not tapping to that
stuff because i can take a pretty good joke so it's cool that you didn't to happen you got out but after twenty years as what you got some
neckties and not to get a ride erily in buds that i definitely definitely buds had something to do with it too but just wear and tear but
the additional wear in terror from unfolded definitely you know i think adroit do that which was all unnecessary it was just hay i'm not
going to tap to this joke a heartsome neck i lithersome noises and there i'm not tapping to it yet not smart yes is lose neck one cause
there is an element of pain tolerance that can that help you in annext stuff sooty get a bias a new guy and then your religion as this kind
of new but he might not to do harm are might be in a passing going hard and unnecessarily because he doesn't know that control yet and if
you don't that really that's when you get in get them duff capriata people for if he start tapping right when you feel the pain that's
wrong too because a lot time's guys would put you in it and it's kind understood that boom you're locked in you may not going to any more o
the kind of expect it that you don't have that i might think or not doing a right or i'm not i he has more fluctooatin thought only a ring
harleigh do it harder exactly especially as lafantaisie aright and then boom your hurt not good rogero said malachi extend with arm and
eyebrows she said this i may in a way where you don't little kids like little babies yet two years old but he lay in the agenore yes for
the most part but they're not going to do this weird yo yo in holesome ways it they're like double jointed or something they won't be able
to do that kind stuff but so put loosely these two year olds they have full flexibilities and you just lose it over time as you gain masein
reduced as you you know everything gets stronger than stuff and if you don't put your body to those motions you just kind of lose it so
let's say if you were in destrehan for the from the bean genetic full play a part in rattatattatt ye can be but so in a way you can get
back there you is got a work on dodington's for is just like anything in new york out year by a pushing too far seems kinda weird because
like yes that's a out of no you can stretch her shoulder way behind your back i wave behind your back you will have any really real
strength there are meanwhile it's so easy to be back there you know and so not this it seems like your joints peninger for to be stronger
it i agree soboliferous support next question how did the seals deal with fatigue soreness and beat down and the beat down of buds and
ascot without getting injured well you just get used to it and again you know i see all time bugs and ask you to which is the candidatial
training after you had done with buds which the basic underwater danasorg ho that's a short party or career muliera a fraction of your
great means nothing um it but just like any working out you get used to it and if it's like when you work out when you if you haven't
worked out for a long time or some one at some one that just artwork out from nowhere never worked out before there can be sore as a hall
and when they first work out i just had this happen me cause i got i want i went on the road i went on rochepot back to back roach hips and
i went overseas came back when i came back i got sick so i was for like three weeks i hadn't squatted heavy at all had no body at all i did
was body with scotsmen pistols to lunges that's how i worked my life stirs no wide sea do it you can do you know tell room and some
returning party europe and when i came back i was all happy and i got on that squat once i attend i was sick and then once i got done being
sick had gotten it finely felt good i got back on that squaw rack in man my legs were destroyed four four five days i am talking you know
having a hard time sitting down and having a hard time standing up it was gnarly and but but that's just because my body just it just
wasn't he a lost that element so of course if you just started working out if you're alengon sor oldtime that's that's that's because you
got to get used to it um anybody you do get injured just because it's massive we repetition you know there was a guide that we had that was
a trainer an athletic trainer for a professional sports team and when he was there the aigret example to something called buttelar syndrome
which is when your patala because of the way you're running it rubs on your your femur and i become problematic any he said in like a whole
season in the enfleld see may be one of those injuries may be too and you have to figure out one it is and when he was working in buds he
would literally see thirty of those a week do you just get to see i mean there's more people there's ten times the people but it's still as
massive amount of injuries and it's the same thing in this seltings beams it's your shoulders it's your back it's your knees at your ankles
you get abused and it's it's it's not the working out that doesn't do you not working out its carried a guy on your shoulder over the rocky
drain out the desert ancettery on a bass which you get hurt it's jumping over a awful wall and you land on a cinder block that breaks and
you be you know if that's the kind of stuff the working out dozen really do it to you i actually well one of the things would when i was a
cash to commander we are going through landwarfare training and i would work out every day and i would roll with guides blankets him
subgenera with some and i would you now kiser because you know where warner had derided or during the night and i was kind of making fun of
some guys that would take it more in and is lined or need that your weak and a faint at and sure enough right after we got done i got
something called burst side is in my elbow because if in land warfare your consigning down on as you crawling you and then i was indiction
the mat and i do bang it a couple of times and sure enough might elbows swelled up and i had to take motraye food don't open your mouth
draconetus keep it to yourself um so you know it egania was i was hammering guyst in a joking manner and so they hammered me right back
when i had the the motion pills to try and heal that up um but it is like i said it's the it's the the injuries come from not from working
out in fact i always think that lot working out prevents the injuries you know that i think that's true with everything i think that's true
what you gesuiti that's true with life and you you you work out your strong your joints are strong you your muscle densities better your
emeutes work out cause it'll prevent injuries more than i and more than i don't worry about i look at worthing out not as injuries goin to
happen i look at birkendale an a last thing is you shouldn't need to like completely rasheral every day in your work out i mean you
shouldn't be going to a point that you have massive muscle sore as over your whole body or over even body parts you don't need to do that
you don't need to do that ah you know do you want to push yourself yah you want to pecherel but you are speech so sore that you ate like
can perform your job as a and also i like you know active rest you know i hardly ever just do nothing occasionally a well occasioned on
broken down new and just each stake and the shell but ah but i like to the active rest you know i like to do some kind of jog swim sir
whatever in any know axletree if i have a sore back i love getting on the map it just loosen everything up feels so good but that's only to
certain level yes cause when you're a white belcher a blue folder hope purple bells been that breaute you're you're getting off the mat
sore i don't get off the batotela selenitic man i'm tired i'll be we trained to day i'm not that was a no factor you know the n'oseraient
begin now if you get into the take down that element though the that will feel to be noted you it you we had your back but even to take
down elements you know if you're just going to do curtainette down to going to last how long an if your back or old garden work a something
else is set it in the bottom might as you work out you do some of these work out and you'll get used to it you'll get no one and then you
won't be so sordid ye that as that be kitaris i ah i that's important a part where you like don't bet your doubt you yourself do cause the
exercise it technically freely split hairs here the exercise doesn't make you stronger the recovery from the exercise is when you get
stronger so yet accessary of the whole system it makes it from but when you recover from that exercise that's when you're stronger olive
you them it's really a butt or count itself is what induces the recovery so sure yes so there you go to em you well i get total kinds of
different plates right different approach ye like you you prefer the active rest um and not going hard every day some people they prefer go
hard every day but then nell have tell straight up to three days of ethel you know but yet in a recovery from that exercise that the ticket
faced ainmire like the muscular you know destroy like if you can do squads intil you can't walk mum you can't do that all right i yeou
don't need to rent you need you initiate that grow you don't need to destroy them mean and you can do you know you can but with him with
the metabolic visioning you can really can destroy yourself a lot more often and if you're doing it right you should relieve beginning
muscularly sore from your metabolic aneta if you're doing it right but then again it isn't that really aspect from his well to it is as i
indecency be like a heavier a can a quick route that's the beauty of workhouses you never get bored with work and once you can change the
next next estion jocko he ever you tuditano would it a striking or be better for combat situations okay so yes and a definitely this is one
of the things as actually a i read things about this and people say wollnow i mean why would i see a labor have ter use you know and to
hand combat wave a rifle they have a pistol they've got bodies with them so you if you if you have to use your hand to hand combat you've
done something wrong and that's actually completely wrong because you know there ample you go into a room where there's people in there and
none of them are armed and you have to get control of him you can't just start shooting people you're going to have to get control them so
how do you get controlled them well again how does striking give you control of some one at the answer as it does not it unless you have a
miracle catch that you can just knock people out with one touch of than you can handcuff from people don't boxers don't knock each other
out consistently you know it's it's very difficult to noxon out and so this idea that you know striking is better you absolutely have to
know how to strike but striking is a very a very inconsistent way to get control of somebody to very very inconsistent way to of controling
people and actually that the sad thing is is that it's striking is the most traumatic to the to the person that your applying it to and in
a wise to do something or we were taught something called a muzzle strike right well you basically hit the person with the muzzle of your
gun and the people that were teaching it would be like thinking that that i just stop to people m like you'll you give him one good mules
tripe because it does it seems like you know muzzles a fairy strong arenary small point of impact and you think all fit all my force behind
this small point of impact mass really going to yell persimmony and an take em down and i saw hundreds of muzzles strikes and there really
brutal and they what what they do they cut you they cut you open very badly as a laterally bad cat with that like a road we bring ifland ah
but they sell them did they actually knock the person out into what he do then you muzzle strike him again and then what do you after that
you muzzles strike him again we go so you end up just to beat in a union them but it's fortibus a harsh being because you give using a ah
you know a pretty sharp muzzle of a weapon which is cutting mopani it's it's it's not the best whereas if some one can get control somebody
in the grappling types anerio get control of them you know clench with him take him down quickly you can get control very quick quickly and
they feel it and they resist less because they kind of feel onden they also don't feel like your errington whereas when you're striking the
face men what's your natural answered griacinto you in the face you can put your hands up well if you put your hands up may your turn at me
no got at you an order so it's a it's kind of a kind of a bad deal so yea and in what you get personal ground obviously that more you know
that better you're goin to do and that's why you know it's good it's good to have that well roundedness but you definitely want use you
know you definitive good ground gave me what i have to strike in to of course and but the gitate ground a ground game is a very important
because you've got a control people and in a combatiant everybody you come up against his not a combatant and they still need to get
controlled in some people you can just motion to them to get down and that's great and thou can tell the lay down and that's great and you
can have your interpreter telling to put their hands behind their back and the nat's greater you can say that you knowing learn a few
phrases which we always did we always knew a few phrases to tell them to you get down show me your hands or whatever but then you get the
person that may be they don't respond to what you're saying and why don't they responding and this is something i see you know and some of
these police videos when i yelled you you know did on canal well you might be scared you might not know what i'm talking about you might
have had forms on you might be deaf you might just be frozen with fear you might be a bad guy you might be getting ready run all those
different things but if you're not doing what i tell you to do i got to get you to the ground so how mignoto that and again i can walk up
and take a swing at you but you know i've been punching the face many many times hevn't been knocked out but twice so all the time i've
been punching the face you don't many many times i don't know how many but many many times it's hard to knock someone else so if you think
cause you walk over to strike me on the yoannet then you're not controlment tis not true it's just a fallacy so you're going to have to
know some and that the thing this all was back to this you know the case and i forget what the case was but somebody got choked years ago
like in the seventies by a police officer and i think they died or whatever but they band choking the banned choking from most police
forces so that's why these guys were to they do they pull out their protonoe people he was a big big thing with rodneyking you know why
didn't some one just go and put this catulean i have no more on his body you know he'd be o k you could bring him back to the jail cell
he's not in to have contusions he's not going to have the craped give no permanent damage whatsoever but it wasn't allowed because of the
because of the political situation that i happen to years before you warnow to teach some one how to choke some one to put them to sleep
completely incapacitate them yea i mean the toehold is a beautifully powerful thing and when you have when you have them you saw the
rodneyking tape i mean there's a round the consort there's a multiple cops beating him that's a clash example of what i'm saying just
because you strike some one dozen even with a billy club doesn't mean they're going to stop if whereas when you put a shoold on somebody
they are going to sleep you they they are going to see one hundred per cent and when you have three cops going against one guy some one is
going to get a shoe old on a you know and and despite what they did to ranheim beating him he wasn't stopping and so yet one of the things
i really hope that the ah that the landforce ent gets the ability to use to entrain better to use show called to use other forms of
grappling because it is absolutely superior from a lanormand perspective and from a and from even from like i said from a military
perspective when you go into a roman as noncombatants in now that you have to get control over judenstadt beating people you want to use
the minimum required force and yet when people aren't complaint you have to be able to do something ye so ye that the minimum required
force that essentially makes striking obsolete if you're trying approach it that way here at that's in a regulation you know you
ateronnonte regulation if you're if you're a human ye and you've got a woman that is scared or doesn't speak your language or as petrified
or whatever the case may be your answer is to strike her in the face it and whether not by the way what is her husband do when you strike
her in that a sin as opposed to he come over you put your hands on it you gently pushed a ground he feel some resistance may be you have to
do some sort of manipulation of a joint to get to control but that is so much more mild than a muzzle strike to the face and if you know
what to do you know judge it only no brain ye an it's it's not hard to do to people and even any of sea sometimes um on one some trying to
get you know gain control of put there arm behind their back a chicken wings situation he'll do it all hard and real harangue they kind o
got to add that element of pain so the guy will kind a quite impotent judges stuff to you don't have to put that pa it's just that
controlling what you just can't that's why i lottie were talking about this to day how lot of people after they get their first time in
jeduthin or early on an ogetto guy will talk emit and tell had the thing in their minds like all i just have to go harder you know i i can
discendens kind of contagious otago harder but i could because it's not a hard thing it's not a like aggressive feeling to get controlled
like that you just simply put your old and you know this ties so much to life ye we talk about me you hear me talk about the saltine's
going back and forth to somebody on write other day about i'm like you got a use to indirect approach with people so picture this next time
you're dealing with a person that's combat have and i mean now i'm talking about verbally combat every where men or there there idea is our
combative against your companies is the first thing you want to do go up and punch him in the face or muzzles strike them because what is
the reaction of me what very actions going to be of me mediately be defensive you don't want to put people that predicament you wanted you
that you hit you on them you want you want to get them feeling of me when when you're going to sleep you when you something put a choke
hold on you you're done meyers going to sleep you sneak in behind so so don't get this idea that when you're dealing with people in a
confrontation not only physically but of verbal or a mental competition and i intacco rotation in you know yelling in the street i'm
talking about in the office i'm talking about dealing with more or supported from talking about doing with your boss or whoever think about
using instead of thinking about hey i'm gonna you know smash this person in the face and tatsing me the wind no it's not generally it is
not generally what brings you the wind is okay he was what's going on let's sneak in there let's get inside their head let's let's not
aggravate the situation i let bring the situation towards a better area will we can use or control yet you won't get the wind you'll get a
fight yallery got a fight in other something god yea you be if they are combative and your answer is to be more come batonnier in there
anfion there inside ye even more commonly than in you gethsemani um peter in them and graces there doing good stuff with bland fortement
callousing you go to an actual police tactics so it comes from one solicitant and and you know what ever ever if you are a police officer
out there or your inland forcemen ben you don't the andora's great guess what there's a yogi studio everywhere in the country right now go
train some judatting star training no big deal just to start training yeah and i have i have a friend a crag he from from from how he a
good come see em on face look at all like repose stuff sometimes so like he'll come down to skate park whether you know you got called or
whatever on that post the and he'll see retting yet food gating or i'll race somewhere with whatever is but he's these aguecheck he's a
proper brown donation alantean that's what it is he has the confidence if that's also ye be be good guy you know began with a dour meusian
jocko had in prepare for buds specifically and where were you physically wise within your class and must be a physical night around here a
physical activity nights rodeleins are to night seems a so howdie forbids well again you got to go back to these now nineteen eighty nine
nineteen ninety and atrior for bud back then well we didn't know anything i didn't know anything there was no mediator was no internet than
was nothing there was even a book so what what it i do and it wasn't even we was just an eye to cause all alone i didn't know when he seals
i did know any was on them in in any kind of special operations at all so you're just young and stupid and just acassous looked at it and
said it appears that seal training is a bunch of running and swimming and pushing push up and pull up and rope climbs and dips looks to me
like in the pictures that the recruiter showed me they were wearing boots and if and fatigues so what did i do when to the army named
bought a couple paratu pants bought of completers of jungle boots that looked like what i saw in the recruiting office and i just ran with
boots on i swam i did puspone that's what i did to get ready for there was no period detachent any plan it was no i wasn't doing the
wadiyen there was no worn out of the day i just ran and swam into boltsprits and i did him a lot and and and actually i did him a lot but i
didn't even know what i was capable of her waviness was cape a wolf because back then he could look up on the internet and say like what's
good as far as populi had no idea you know so i think i could do eight ten it solid no it's not not when you are going to sell training but
you know you just had no idea just out pa that's an i did know how to do get to be able to do more i i just did a bunch but does not work
though i mean didn't that work ye ye right it did yeah i mean of you a bunch of oomanoo much polesino give better policy to a bunch of dem
ter give better diffidence of rushing to get better push ups and luckily ran with boots on that some one thing that got like eyes had
trouble with a thing nowadays they use these contrasts like tennis shoes the the boots that they run with her like really lie and in loikin
buds in their really light athletic kind of boots but back in the day they were straight just the hard court jungle boots on and a lot of
guys that promised in blonga stress fractions small that and i was good to go as i was used to running in boots because i was a knuckle
head and then the other part to question his we were was in my class all about the middle the pack that's where i was i was not the fastest
i was not the fastest running not the fastest swimmer i wasn't a fast said the obscure course i actually failed to run when i decided in my
old titbullians that i would just pace myself for this run and ah failed to run miss the time it gets the the the the run was supposed to
be for miles but back in those days there was no supervision on the instructors like limited supervision i success and so that the wrens
would be four point three miles four point six miles and for on two miles three point miles didn't really know and it was fine to be a
swathe and an actually were allowed to wear a watch so you had no idea what you're doing so i just said oh on the pace myself and keep a
good steady pace and i felt and so from then on there is only one way i ran missus ida's hard as i could as literally as hardly when they
bowed the isle to go i just ran as hard as i could until the thing was over late to lady feel though like did you dis pace yourself too
slowly or did you pay himself and then shoot you started gasping anyway no i passed to myself an i wasn't fast enough a that's it i faced
myself in i wasn't fast enough i just in gilgad i was there i was right behind the cut off point she know they're like boom in the guy had
in me gets thrown the you know one guy had em against turned away like nagyened so i never face myself again all i could do to spring
that's that's way loboros work for in niehaus go as hard as i could i cause i i wasn't the best that any of it and the only thing i was
maybe belittle but that rat was anything i've talked of it before him aiming that racey weight like a ruck sack i was a little bit better
at the normal not definitely not stale but um but you i had had an enceinte double water polo champion in my buds class and i had a a
lympic alternate dimness in my bunsen both those guys were still at apician they're both i mean those are some of the tap top athletes in
the world if you in the unintention ships of water polo and erdely pic alternate dimness you know you're just as a specimen and both was
casquin day yea and there i was joe averau ah yes the bottom line is though you get to the youths you ems no one cares about but no one
cares about that stuff it's a base line of training and that's it that's why i don't talk about it that often it's like who cares and
budded was there like people who had on like let's say ilsely good head running milanow was here people would be eitel they are showing off
to be like first you know no i wot tunawai in a resting first and if you if you ran track more cross country you were going to be fine and
buds for running unless you got stressed righetti you swam or you played water polo or whatever you are going to be fine in the running so
if you did some kind of high school sport that was related those who you were going to be pretty good to go yet the were they like tralee
you say they are trying to win their trying to be first yes course of his time with honest for i aren't you i am it seems like i yes
prairie guess at you in that situation right do your best an be the guy a man ex question to do it on the most powerful tools i use as a
military leader is rehearsals could left to hear you thought unrest so oursels an this is actually shocking that i've never talked about
where souls rehearsals like that like a wogdelenk a dressers for itand there totally critical and one of the biggest parts of preparing for
a noperation correctly you know we to have this thesis one third planning one third year prep and one third reversals that's how you're
supposed to spend your time and it's a it's a it's a rule that gets violated very often because people spend too much time planning and not
enough time for hearing so we would always i would always try and push the persesh as possible and i would be when i was a cohen i was in
charge of troops i would try and push her heartland then when i was training troops i would try and get them to her but is hard like i said
people get drawn into the planning piece a plan without her heroes not a plan really so you know definitely used the rehearsals were
hearses much as you can be hard on yourself during the roles were hers contingencies at something we used to do that i was pretty intent on
was reusing the contingency so what could go wrong here what could go different at the target area what's a different alternate route that
we might have to atteghei and just just go through a couple of those continuances and actually when you do that make sure you if you are
heracleonites your verse your herman plan was say a walk through it three times then you are hers two or three contingencies go back and do
the main plan two more times you so that's what they mean eve with a ayant that in their head and that you want that in the head cause
otherwise i'll be a little bit confusion but you definitely wanted some contingencies as well and we also would rehearse the things that
were the things that happened all the time so even i know good example was as like our great team which is the team that candages in to
blow up a door so you can get in the building and they have the little procedures we dentaria preaching or hearse over and over and over
again so that there really just smooth and good and there not to talk and they could do things very quickly and and you know the way we got
into vehicles and out of the eccles we always rehearse that even though we do hersey mean by the end of the payment you for her that
hundreds of times and you still go on a dismount vehicles and and get information because it's just another time more muscle memory for
everybody and you could do with all the all the stuff that you do in the field you know whether you're callin an helicopter for a casualty
of vacuation hogans up that landing on your heart that if you time sister know couple times for your olotoraca that way when it happened
everybody knows what to do and this i'll viously translated directly to everything else i mean especially in business i mean we we were
with construction companies and you know i talk a lot of time to about safety with construction companies because they lose lives they lose
money they wos jobs because they have if they have safely incidences and how do they handle when they happen what do you do so you know
rehearse in them mergency precedure of it something happens we using the set up before you start a certain type of you know construction
operation that's good even with the sales oral like one i won't when i you know a lot of teams that every business has just about every
business has some sort of sales force in it right without a trying to sell things and how do you reeser them well you you do some roll
playing where you know somebody gets on and plays the supper horn to client you know somebody gets on and complains how do you lay let's
resolution going to talk through and somebody calls up to complain and in two or three iterations people will improve avanother handle
complaints and how they hand was super hard client how they overcome some objections but you do that through hersel and that makes you just
make you better you know it some you that the i mean another reverse would be like a we were with the gas oil industry so how are they
going to handle when there is only oeliana handle when there's some kind of a ecological prober of fire what ye goin to do you know oh oh
you're going to dial the number okay let's check the end number right or how long is that number been in this little pamfilo's been sittin
by the phone you know wenteline that got checked out a where's where is the communications knows what if they get hit with the alternate
plant so just yearers are awesome the finance world we see as well what kind would if there is a drastic down turn in the market or a
drastic up turn do you have a rehearsal of what you're going to do who you're going to contact if you have decisions to make triggers have
been hit just for her that stuff now just refer it so everybody knows and it's very very apion i was in charge of training i had a very a
very square away and fired up a cornets or medical support and he just you know i talked about rehearsals on time or whatever and he came
to me said i we're going to hers all earache evacuations for all of our different training sites and so and he didn't he come back an he
find you know he guess what this one i found on this one the life flight that we are sposed to call didn't exist any more he went out of
business or they changed their number whatever or this eletta we were planning on using have house on it now you know so he found real
stuff and you know what this particular guy great guy he in that time he got all those casualties plans sarea and in that in that year we
actually did to reactivation from training sides for real critical injuries and both of them went supersolar of his efforts and they ran
full red hearses for horses and so just just that kind of thing it then those things save lives for sir just doing those forensis yes
rehearse rehearse and rehearse it anything that you're doing as it'll make you better yes they say were you i would think that any time you
in a situation where a bee on the spot is the big factor you know where it where you have to make a decision quick you know you don't have
a day or two days and you know analyzing the condicion um feel like thou rehearse would be a critical part of preparing for something like
that yeah an in you can do that with the decision making sure you can set up all kinds of rehearsals for the sierras on making in whatever
industry your in just but what i like to do is make those decisions critical make those challenging so that your putney on the spot your
put a leader potentate you what one thing that's very cool about this and this is something you could carry over to everything to you to go
to decentralize command it goes to installing initiative and people do you run rehearsals where the only solution is to go outside the box
of the plan old during the rehearsing her elersley only solution is to disobey what the order is one thing ye prison endres bringing
subsidiary to you talking about rehearsing when there's decisions that men need to be made to this is going a little bit from the hersel
almost into a training scenario right tharaway from the hers a warrior hersing a specific operation into a training scenario where what
you're trying to do in training is your tritet people to think dinkie to think on their own and that is the most beautiful thing that you
want as a leader's you want all your people thinking and you want them to pleating with a completely open mind a mind that's been
completely freed from constraint and the way that you do that one of the ways that you do that one of the method algies you can use to to
that is everybody's got their box right that they're stuck in so you formulated problem that the only way that they're going to solve the
problem is to get outside of that box and you one of the one of the best ones as you put somebody on the situation were you preparator's on
them now you say he no matter what you're not allowed to go across this line handout in a situation with half the cross that line and the
only way there going to want his cross that line and then they come back and they say with tittone not cross that line you know what i
didn't tell you get your your gineselli didn't tell you to do not make that investment even this critical situation or i didn't tell you
not to do that if we had an ecological disaster that was going on right so you need to train people to use common sense that's what you
want to train me to do and it's a very hard you be surprised at how and how constrained people's brain kit mind yours everybody we get
stuck and to its great to do drilling and training where you are actually opening up to mindindenger any kind of constraint were you
conseived perspectives that are different from your own and you can see outlets and solutions that you would never unseen you trap yourself
inside your box and those of the kind of training snares that are outstanding and those the kind of trained neres that make people better
leaders and better decision makers because the key thing that they learn how the dews they learn how to detach even at that moment we talk
about it all the time but if you can't detach from that situation and you can't detach alleno for way from the picture to see that the only
way you're going to solve this promise by going across that line that you were told not to go across if you can't make that detachment
you're never going to cross that line you never can open your mind you're never going to see that solution and that is a horrible trap to
be stuck it you know on the move boiler room where they during the training they give them to you now to fail thing threat the even this
index all the index cards with re bottles in ice all my wife won't amy by this larionow oh your wife on your family i ate if you do fieri
have seen it i have seen it still ye there's some good a good training in herenow to orecome those objections and people become better it
and the more the more you give them to chew on the better to get an insisting where your trying to give people the tools mut you know i
want to go into that narrow to ask them a question what i'm training them that they've never only give them objection that they never heard
before and what them think on their feet let them see let them step back and say he you know it is among the cards were going to go with it
right yeah the cartes like dead that would fall within rehearsal right right real anteek sanded rears the united you they get ninety five
per cent i of the of the comment objections that you get you know you taltocan salesmen they hear xaminations you talk to a foam salesmen
or an anteneasmus or you know whoever calls you up on the phone that here the same that the solar people write this older people call you
all the time or the power company cause with this or the cable company other cable company cause you with their offer they hear the same
objections all the time you know what i mean so they trained for those for sure rowlandites of coming out of bonds and they were like he in
a and come here i got some of tecate sum the ones where you can do sponsor child loose curtings right so i'll say a you know yet you don't
we we we donate but we like to research and look in too and before i could really finish the satin irony we i like to look into all the
programs that we do it two or tree or considered nodier i could finish the son bright one i finished the scent in seyolo are concerned
about where the money goes and all the stuff in he knew everything oianthe guys are getting it vance straightness for faringhea here good
for him is trained next question duckford the pages what's your opinion on calisthenics versus weight again for me bold i like em both you
know with calisthenic you get that endurance strength you get some flexibility in some mobility out of it they're pretty natural movement
right they're pretty natural resisting that you're doing with your human body and so they're going to be more natural waits obviously make
you stronger the more explosive at a certain point they also can be more injury inducing and at another point there also less injury
inducing so there is a certain point where if you have an injury in your shoulder and you normally would do hand tanpuras which means your
lifting up two hundred and thirty pounds well with waytrain you could lift up forty pounds if you want to write so sorsiges both ways where
sometimes calisthenics might be the more injury inducing thing is sometimes wait training might be the more injury in doing things that's
why you got a balance that two of them you know and for instance when i if i like i haven't my ankle compliments ago and i could not put
any way on the scrap part so i was just doing you know pistols and and you know air squats jumps and box jumps you know as using things
that are a didn't have a wahai could do all that for the minute i put weight on my back you anything above body wait it's started to ainsi
just need to let that thing he and i use the cow of senex to get me there and then the same exact opposite i had ah my shoulder was to
weeks six months ago and i was happened to hard time doing hand saint push up cowas just the wrong angle and saw as his using just using it
was doing press with a lighter weight than my body weight in order to keep the blood moving in corde in order to keep the order to keep the
system moving cause that's what i think you got to do so i beg you gotta be yet find a balance a both which means which means i'm not
greatest one of em i'm not going to win in any weight lifting competitions in a knockingshop edition either and there are some guys
especially now i mean there's some guys that are getting in sick shape um you know you watch the guys in the cross vigenerie now there
savages and they're doing both the calisthenics and the weight lifting and ashes reading something about it the other day and it's becoming
more weightlifting focused you know whether it's a long we waded crateras with fication say to getting that more focused but if you want to
win the cross fit games you got a bee will lift some heavy way you got to be all too dead lift the lot snatch a lot clean and jerk a lot
and if you can dead left a lot clean and jerk a lot and natator going to be able to do and at least you practice the other movements the
moselle pull up your beebe much more apt to be able to do those things then the other way around and so i mean it for somebody that can do
a body weight snatchin more likely to be able to do fifty pops in a row then somebody that's it will do fifty pottentates focus and life is
he able to automatically do a body weight snatch of mazes the reality of it that is all i think right now um but the bottom it is on those
i use both of them i for i like a triamond that balance and i think i use both of them according to what my body prescribes me he and a lot
of this stuff completely e book together the fitness eloise i got some folks that helped me out with it and they're going to they're going
to you know my put these these things into the fitness ebook at some point sonontona get out this stuff takes a long you don't think it's
going to take long and but it does fontium the altering for his late um it depends fully on what result you want to that is true so in me i
think i love him you speak tender from the same you know with the same result in mine but like if you want to put on muscle mass it's real
cut in dry that wait is gonna yes is going to help you up and you what's in it my opinion interesting with um like kenneth calisthenics i
say a body weight quite right anything more your pushing your own body through space not necessarily with the weight but as far as that
exercise has more nor muscular activation so if you do squat rather than led press that has more normal lactation oh yeah but i mean i'm
not in that the the the but you're talking about also waited squaw yes eareye so basically warn't saying is it's kind in ieuse any kind of
like weight lifting machine and i don't remember how long ye so like curls you know you always do curl voltige like if you did ahlriddy
posted a picture of some of the bumper stickers on the squaw rack and somebody said we need to make a bumper sticker that said like this is
a no colours i got a wision a big cake and you know what felt it i will say this that being said i don't think i've said that this sir i'll
tell you what i have bicetta bide little bit bothersome you know a little tweak in it that for a while yet been late at for a while to you
and i actually will now do some colonels supget tis just to get that for range of motion with some weight on it and i feel like that is i
feel like i should have kept doing curls and maybe i injured my bicetta little bit from the lack of some focus straying around it i could
be wrong i could be wrong but i feel suspect of my training methodology because i i hadn't done curls in a long one i'm cause you know you
think it hey why would i do curls when i could you clean right sir that that that sort of a that's my mentality monolithic in a what do
clean and then islington a you know were the vice of any thinking with the chart with a with the triceps and think thing with all these you
know movements that i kind of betend blow off because they're not full body multi joint movements which is sort of the gospel of strength
and conditioning um you know i wanted to squat i wanted to edless i wanted to clean gestion to do these movements were amusing my whole
body but i think you know what why not accent those with some a little bit more focused just for thee the additional work on a focus area
than that and the benefit that that gives you a strength in that specific spot so if i'm sure i love to hear some opinions about that on
you know somebody you get some feed back to me and tell me i'm either but it yet that is more that those are correct and if it's i hope i
hear it's correct cause i'll do it more than i do right now what like curlton to is just this more to some focus body part exercises will
again and think this is really important and of course you you're working out for you of course in that just the nature of working out you
can't in famous can't get your results from your work in it right so again like i said it depends on what you want it to working out true
so you know how you just said i as is that's the gospel of of stringing conditions hateful byway so you prefer these things that's not
everybody in also so if let's say some one who you know he's worked in office or whatever you want to lose some weight or he's kind of a
you know more of a skinny person in outstept on muscle mass for a book on pantries and you want to get stronger you want billie polish but
for incessant do squad as less sure we agree there but if you want to put on muscle masakin your shoulders or your arms but everything you
do these other things curls then you know that everyone you for that but not to us to say that that's not a benefit fishal type of work up
yes that's a reality yet not a reality that i choose to particular any kind o you know you have muscle mass o tea an you know you say she
is in and on the body building program no not there's no hat coming for me not much anyway that cool that's question when a right by ebook
on don't hate on the body going on here i want a copy too do you ever compromise and if so when when you're dealing with other people and
dynamic situations and relationships deals you're trying to make things happen of course yes the in fact i mean in many aspects leadership
is really all about compromise gobind ing to the common ground between different teams and verging different approaches to the same problem
in regie's personalities of the people that don't get along with each other that you might not get along with weting agreement in different
courses of action all the things geraci compromise and actually in many cases the failure to compromise is a failure to succeed as is the
way it is but those of course those are all external compromises with other people other human beings that have their own personalities and
egos and issues and you as a person or i i have work with them i have to make some compromises with them cause they're not me but
internally it's different i mean what myself i have to hold the line and there's areas within myself where i cannot compromise i going to
work hard i am going to trainard i'm going to try and prove myself i'm gonna on my mistake i'm going to confront them i'm going to face my
demons that i'm not going to give up or give out or give in i'm ganistan an i'm goin to maintain my personal self discipline i do my utmost
to live a life that is worthy of the sacrifices that were made for me and for us and on those points there will be no compromise not now
not ever teething that's all i've got for a night so thanks to all you troopers out there for dominion and listening and thinks for things
for getting it out when he gets dark here and we start talking about the horror the horror to night and one soldiers war and we did it with
the forgot highlander we did with a machete sees in i know it's hard to listen to but i'll tell you doesn't it just make the sun rise in
the morning that much more glorious when the light comes in nor sir fans for connecting with us through the interweb that this book was
actually from people on toward so you all made me smarter and made me better and die me a different perspective so thank you for doing that
thanks for supporting the pot cast listening down loading subscribing reviewing and also the other forms of support that we get it on it to
come less joola's like a mutual support yet you colstaff any get a discommend ah through onion you know if you shot an amazon or an by book
through amazon a click through the website jocatore dot come or jackpots up come and um you know you can do it that way or donate if you
want em or get some cool toshers and bumbershoot mugs and consoigned dug this or you dig this and you want a kind of see this stuff that
then i talk about in a documented form you can tuck out the book extreme ownership that was written by myself and late babinot from the
seal teams and at available in hardcover or kindle or audio theorbo lay and i actually read the chapters that we wrote so if he had feel
like listening to this may be electress ned that checked out and as always oh you troopers out there in the field out there badly demons
bay fear or guilt or alcohol or sugar or ego or anger or procrastination or one over for a weakness you are up against fight those demons
take the fight to them stand up face them get after it until next time this jackal and echo out
