this is jacopo cast number nineteen with echo charles and me jackwell an i want you to think about something in a one year remember it and
that is that these books that i review and go through the written by people real people there not movies in when you picture what's
happening in the book don't picture it as a move as we get inundated with so much can agree that we actually think the world is movies and
television but these books they're not movies there not television their real and these things really happened and in happen on a screen or
just in some one's mind and they weren't played by some actor to a talk about the fear that a soldier in gray was feeling it's not part of
some script isn't just a book it's real but the wheel parson parson a really had those thoughts and nose fears and where rattle off the
figure of eight hundred thousand tories killed by the hotheaded genesis that's not just a number those were extras in a movie there were
people people like you and people like me people with families and friends and hopes and dreams and jobs and live people in so remember
that now as we joined united states marine corps recoit chuck adam november nineteen forty three at the marine corps recruit depot in san
diego california a bay that training was a new experience none of us would forget it was tough rugged and required perfect physical
conditioning after we read the bayonet chapter in our guide book corporal leary marched estate training range along the shore of san diego
bay to learn this leo art of war i remember one paragraph in the bayonet chapter that got my attention the rifle and bayonet in the hands
of a marine become a deadly combination of the spear sword club and shield at night this combination weapon could kill silently and with
surprise in hand to hand fighting when the rifle cannot be reloaded and the use of grenades would be impractible in practical it is the
decisive weapon at these times the aggressive bayonet siderail win leary quietly explained and a salt is the critical moment of any combat
and a bayonet assault executed by determined marines canter the tide men eager to engage in enemy with cold steel will strike terror in
their ranks he emphasized four points one get the blade into the enemy it's the blade ekill to the roofless vicious and fast in our attack
never pause in your attack until you have won there is only one winter in a bannatht make sure it's you seek vital areas but don't wait for
an opening make one the best killing one are the throat and a belly a solid rifle but stroke in the growing wall open her onmes guard
deliver it hard and then go for the kill four protectoral your rifle and banana good shield use their protection by dodging and parrying
but remember the best defence is to attack first strike the first blow and follow through so the train in these young marines avoidin ten
forty three to inready go and fight they know for a fact or get ready go in fight and you can see the psychological aspect of bayonet
training you know it is an absolute assure you you might get in a bayonet fight but this is a psychological training to get them aggressive
to get them in the mind set of striking first to get them in the mind set of killing coats what they're getting ready to go do and as they
continued to train this episode took place now there there a little bit further along and training and here we go during a marching break
one hot afternoon a marine remarked screw all the trading i'm sick and tired of all this pussy footing around i want to get overseas and
slap me a jap this remark was made in the presence of sergeant george lucas who mediyah him off saying hold on sunny let me tell all of you
a finger to about the japanese soldier number one he's not the caricature he see in the newspapers with bomb sight glasses and buckteeth
the average japanese soldier has five or more years of combat experience there army doesn't have a boot his division like ours don't forget
the japs have already conquered half of the nations in asia remember prahara not only are they better trained than you are right now many
are old hands at combat fighting and have a strict military code they live and die by called bushido literally translated it means way of
the warrior with their code combined with their pledge to die for the emperor who they consider god they will die before surrendering jap
soldiers are well equipped and are experts with their weapons they are trained to endure hardships which would have most of you guys right
in your congressmen i don't like japs but i respect them as fellow soldiers i learned my respect a hard way on guanaco jetsams are the
worst the world's best snipers experts at the art of camouflage and get by on a diet of fish heads and rice they will never surrender and
will come it harry carry rather than being taken prisoner hack they don't even have cormenin they are wounded they are considered damaged
goods so sunny moldave and don't ever let me hear you complain about your training again there will be a time when your life will depend on
what you learn in the days ahead that's obviously any one that listening that's in the military that's a landforce men that's a message you
to get to you younger troopers that the training that you're doing your life may very well depend on it at some point in the intafere in
the near future in the far future you don't know but you've got to take advantage of it now we get to win a chop tatum it is done with but
camp and he checking in an emitation ero of my third day at pendleton this is camp anlon for those everdon know what that is it's in
southern california on my third day at enlaring on my bunk when i heard footsteps echoing through the empty barracks i looked up an threw
the hallway came a cheerful looking marine and dress greens on his arm were the chevrons of a potumagan a hash mark at dornton sleeve and
combat renrien decorated his left chest the lump is it his buddies called the lump the lump and i jumped to immediate attention after
spitting the sergeant stripes on his sleeve looking straight at us a smile crossing his lips the new rival said quietly and with a thority
and he's men howsever thing going ambleteuse ant john bason he was husky with genial handsome looks than his uniform had a comfortable
travel book i noticed strands of jet black curly here peaking out from under his garrison cap which was said at a cockaine while i
responded to his greeting eight hit me i was in the presence of a marine corn legend manilla john balone was the first marine enlisted man
to receive the medal valor in world war two for actions on guanaco were heard about him and became i never had the courage to ask basileon
directly why he had received him etolonel i didn't have to ask i already knew all america knew his story was required reading in every red
blooded household sergeant john malone's metal one citation read while the enemy was hammering at the marines defensive positions sergeant
balon and charge of two sections of heavy machine guns fought valyuntly to check the savage and determined result a salt witnesses who
investigated the results of the night's action during daylight remarked on the gruesome evidence of wholesale slaughter of japanese
soldiers in front of basons position they counted thirty eight riddled and mangled enemy bodies at credit to the kills to the fighting
sergeant using a forty five colorist and his faithful machine guns this remarkable feat was accomplished during the night when basilone was
at the same time changing spent machine gun barrels clearing jams and running barefoot for ammo to keep his sections guns spitting death in
so if you know anything about bason after he did that on conical he they pulled him back to america right and with the repute back to
america was a wish bassarion and make speeches and all this documented very well or or imitated very well or shone very well in the movies
the pacific were the series that the cific so he gets pulled back to america and they make him go out and do these war bonds speeches and
ease these not avenge not who he is right is he's just a a guide that wants to get after it answer he literally goes to go to his commander
and says listen i want to go back to fight on the back to war and by the well house doing those bombs sails he was living you know complete
life a luxuries used meatbone stars and he was getting treated like a movie star and all that did nothing for him he wanted to go back to
the fight so he anup going back now some of the other training i had to throw this and there one of the other a serges that was help in
drying them was a ginnabris and among bisness other talents was as was his ability to instruct us in the art of jujitsu this thought to
escape a half nelson had locked by relaxing holding our arms straight and letting our body go limp once out of the hold we could reach back
and pull the legs out from underneath our attacker then by pulling out a cabrie this showed us how to despatch our assailant so he back
then leading a little bit of the digito i know a lot of people were recognized that that move trained and all of us a course was to prepare
for this island hoping campanari that's what it was and for captain that started on the black sands of e wogans they hit the beach one
ogima you know after the wark up going overseas more training in a way they finally get to this point where they hit the beach and here he
is on the beach for the first time and hears what chuckety i noticed a long marine walking back and fore from a shore among hundreds of
pronti kicking behind shouting conward and demanding moot pitcher but off the beach he gave the marine corps hand signal for follow me a
group of men respondent fascinated i wondered why he was in digging in like the rest of us as he advanced as he advanced i recognize that
the solitary marine was none other than gunrest john bason charlie companies living legend and the marine corps i can was headed toward me
and steve his dungarees were freshly washed and irons his helmet is helmets was on hooked he held a card rokarna his left hand and he had
already ditched his cumbersome gas mask mason wore light field pack and showed no fear as if this evasion was no more than a serious
training maneuver i also saw colonel lewis s plain the twenty seventh marines executive officer he invasion with the only two men standing
up shouting obscenities and orders the ford surge of basilone carried them to a position only badelon and plain defied the fire storm
raging around us move out move out thou off the beach you gunson's a bites they screamed kicking us wood ruin the but right and left what i
fall was yet another mortars falling in the same spot as before it sploded seventy five feet and funeste me the blast shock wave whipped up
black dirt that pushed its way into my eyes and foreaninst making me bag it was uncomfortable nasty but my worry wasn't for myself i hope
that dirt was woodnote pon basilone ran up wacke on the helmet and pointed to the area where i thought the mortar shells had been regularly
hitting only when the sand and dust cleared i could see that basin was pointing at the aperture of a reinforced concrete bunker or block
house the structure probably house a seventy five millimeter a larger canon whose field the fire was directed down the beach to our right
it was a big bastardised ible killing power it sells were stalling the advance it by killing men of the fourth division and they have been
firing treverts which is basically anti personnel shaped a lip explosion sky and rained down hall on ground troops running thirty five feet
to the spot backyarnder was now dialite aperture of the block house cannon we open fire again in the tracer roused were right on target now
i was pleased my bullets forced the enemy gunners to close their gun port with her arm report closed but one of the block house was blind
even though it was temporarily out of commission i still wanted to fire at it that's signal to me to commend finagan i directed and then he
directed a frame for operator corporal william peg a marine of imposing size to repeat the precarious path taken by the demean along our
line of streaking bullets she got some covering move going on i got chucked atom laying down fire and now you got a flame flower operator
if you thing about this plan to ser carrying big giant looks like copitas on their backs they waved seventy or eighty pounds and obviously
these are prime targets you know for the enemy to the enfees these things and of your wearily things on your back or your didn't sniper
shot at you and every one's trying to kill you mason whacked me on the helmet to signal cease firing i didn't want to quit everything was
working perfectly why stop i could see tracherous pounding into the building and let and felt extreme satisfaction with my accomplishment
never less i ceased firing as ordered and page this added the guy carrying the de flame thrower staggered under the seventy pound weight of
his tanks and equipment cautiously moved toward the shattered bunkered walls sticking his flame for knowin the smouldering hall he ignited
his napoleon three hundred fifty pounds per square of pressure in his tanks there was a loud roar of the sound and looked like a fire
spitting dragons jawed erupted the unsuspecting and stone men inside did know the horror that was about to engulf them they were cast
instantly in the center of a roaring inferno and incinerating searing hell i felt a surge of elation when the flame shot and side it wasn't
because the gruesome conflagration and agony that were about to overwhelm the enemy but because of our success no one could live through
popes nepotine sergeant alone had directed this operation by the book exactly the way we'd practised it at penton and kept carla so it's
perfect cover moved and a reason he sees fire is because you have to see fire so that the sole the guy with a flame for an actually get
close enough because when you're shooting at that building there's ricochets going all over the place so that he s a see fire to last
moment to the back can get right up close as i lay prone again ready to fire boussod astride my back startling me bending over he grabbed
the machine gun bail and one hand with a practice motion unlocked the tripod releasing a gun he screamed in my ear get about and follow me
talon ran toward the roof of the old block house grabbed what was left of the cloth allthetime arms and i followed him at a gallop up the
slopes of the ruined and placement standing on dat we could look down on the rear enterance as the rear entrance of the pill box there was
a low area thirty feet in diameter were some of the japanese defenders had run to escape the blistering inferno inside balon caught them
down firing from the hip the machine gun vibrated in powerful arms he sprayed the enemy soldiers held by the ballon bale a wooden handle
fastened by wire to the barrel of the weapon that was inspired by basons medal of honor engagement on canal when he was burned carrying the
habishi gun without the bail at war have been nearly impossible to control the blistering machine gun when it tripot was taken off mowing
down the screaming japs with purely amerce slang pitifully the men were frantically trying to wipe away the still flaming jellied gasoline
sticking to their tortured bodies the future smell of burning human flesh nearly made me want to vomit basons eyes contained a fury i had
never seen before his jaw was rigid clenched hard and sweat glistened on his forehead he was not in a executioner but a true marine
performing his duty for me and others who saw sergeant bazon's actions during our assault his leadership and courage were overwhelming
meanwhile charlie company riflemen and steve evanson shot the japs as they screamed in agony intense basalt just completely intense and
again this is a guide as already won the medal valor as out there taking charge and leading troas no beano i was not required to be there
he could be back in the states with you know in hollywood rubies with the wit of with the movie stars but now they their ears back in
combat back on he will gandle we came under intense fire from a gun from gun placements on the slope of mount servantless than a mile away
and took shelter in a crater made by one of our own sixteen inch guns from a oratory large bomb more rounds fired from enemy positions at
the north end of the run way started to fall in or immediate area we knew some one was watching us on top of everything else we began
receiving incoming fire from off shore us navy vessels these were not misguided rounds we had moved so far in fact that this rolling brag
that was intended for the trenched japanese defenders was now hitting us so now we were bracketed by serbati by the enemy held high ground
to the north and by her own navy how was one to bring up these points of of the able and how otitis no one realizes that now hordit is to
do be conflict fires and combat back to the book of the three dangers we face i feared our navy the most i oneteen the destructive power
that their shells caused when they pounded the japs beech defences i firmly believed we'd be killed if we stayed inside our giant shell
hole with what seemed to be an instant common consent every one in our small group started to fall back basilone stopped the retrograde
movement in our tracks by ordering diggin and hold this ground come hell or high water i'll back for more men manilians perfect that was a
jonason name was manila john manella john professional combat expertise broken up a human log jam on the beach and wiped out a major
japanese defence position now his moral leadership would hold together a small group of green troops in the advance position i gungerpore
from our position toward the landing beach seventy five yards away a group of marines was advancing toward the runway with bason in the
lead this is so to basnage back get more troops and now they're coming back to their position i felt momentary elation gone baton was
coming back with more men then i heard enemy round following to earth from the relative safety of our shell i watched in horror as the
explosion tore bazon's body a part it was awful it looked like sergeant bason was down some time that afternoon the word reached us
basilone dead america's hero dead my own hero killed how could he he be dead i couldn't believe it the legend of basilone a legend born in
the jungles of guanaco the heroine read about and became whose stature had grown larger on the black and bloody sands of ewe as i held the
machine gun belt for him he was gone we will all miss you i thought as tears cut pass down my grime covered face i thought a baslin's cocky
smile curly black hair and the way he wore his hat at a jaunty angle of one year yet a unique personal style and carisma for me at least no
one could ever be like basilone america the united states marine corps and charley company first battalion twenty seventh marines had lost
a hero dead at twenty nine basileon staff strengthened are makeshifts squad resolved showed on the faces of seventeen marines told the
whole out position come hallerian we were ceiving fire from all quarters the shells were pouring in on us shrieks and howls and shredding
the earth around us enemy gunners in surabaya turned their ballistic attentions on us using observed and directed fire from their love lay
five and shells from ships mingled in the brew of devastation smashing across the lot landscape cervantes defenders continued shooting at
us while japanese mortemed north of the air field pursued their deadly pounding of the reins along the beach the invasion area was a tangle
of equipment and supplies smashed vehicles and sunken naval craft reserve in support units continued to pile up and congested mass
thousands of men the dead the wounded the terrified and those trying to unload supplies sangier the black sand we were now targeted by our
navies gun fire i wasn't sure of the eyes and bore of the projectiles or if they emanated from a battleship or destroyer but i did know
that they chilled my blood as they came shrieking in we would be safer if we withdrew to establish lines so that we would be behind instead
of in front of the navy shells but sergeant balon and ordered us to stay and that alone was sufficient enough reason to remain none of us
would disobey his direct order we believed it was only a matter of time before others would reach us and we be freedom of on rutley the way
this is this is to unexampled this a cumanus first combat experience his first combat terence out of boot camp in some training in hawaii
did some training on tara and then boom heries back to the book turning to my right i saw an inspiring sight survivors of our brave company
with sergeant window out in front followed by loyd herd and the amicis were approaching us what we were witnessing with a remnant of baker
company we were happily reunited with her and the other amilcares but devastated by the news our company had suffered severe losses during
the beach assault with seventeen men killed and fifty one wounded couple hours in seventeen killed fifty one wounded so now were these
reflecting on what this morning is feeling like our first morning on ee when we are paying to helplessly by mortars on the black sand
beaches we were minded of warnings by veterans who said the japser the world's best soldiers with a new mortar though chilling those
warnings warn exaggerated even the blunted vice of the vein convey the pure halo of an enemy mortar attack there was pure held to be caught
in the open when the japs opened up with a full mortar attack the sound of mortar swished washing through the air froze my blood against
these invisible missiles there was no defence if we were caught the open all we could do it hit the deck a fox hole offered little
protection from these high trajectory vessels because they dropped straight down on us again this is a lack of control of your environment
we've heard this over and over again the indirect fire the mortars the artillery that you can't control and it's a random and that's the
most horrifying thing to everybody the rear areas particularly eastern or landing beaches where support forces were working suffered a
bloody pounding sunken broach landing craft piled up along the beaches multi millions of dollars worth of valuable equipment in vessels had
been systematically wrecked by deadly accurate japanese shelling to breathed idly back and forth in the frothing surf human wreckage the
wounded dead and dying literate cold sand engineers sband shore party personal struggle to create order from the chaos doctors corman too
often fought a losing battle against a grim reach reaper watching over a battle field armed with simple field dressings and infusions of
hold blood they tried to stem the tide of human suffering and life blood boring into eels lavatide our carman turned into angels of mercy
they saved the hundreds of marines daily and tried to ease the pain of the hopeless cases with liberal injections of morphine now to her
was obviously a famous picture from you will jam of the marines raised a flag on what one cormantin raising the flag mathias a cornbearing
a flag on he won't jima and this is what it looked like for him and this is not mean you get the impression that the fighting was over with
that fighting was not over he is look at the picture alberka we want we we hadn't queen close yet but they did take a prominent transeat
ure this what it was like for captain as a twenty six marines pressed their attack and mortars began falling in our rest area japanese
weapons were capable of firing from one end of the island to the other with fousands and marines crawling around in concentrated areas it
was an easy task to keep our advance in troops under fire from our reserve positions near the beach it was possible to witness the battle
raging for the possession of mount seramony through sergeant windows field glasses we took turns watching the upward progress of our men as
they approached the steep rocky slopes it appeared twenty eight and rinse at the base of the volcano has from the battle e obscured my
vision but we could tell that it was one hell of a fight going on i felt sickening to be in reserve watching a battle where men were dying
almost before our eyes it kind of seemed like watching a motion picture from the wrong end of a telescope if that makes any sense at about
ten thirty a m steve slapped me on the back and pointed turned sir a bonesetting paid him to see that i tore it around and saw stars and
stripes clearly on the peak waving in the breeze the twenty eighth marines were now king of emo ewiges hill cheers from thousands of
merissa and reverberated across the island i felt a surge of pride i was proud to be a marine and proud to be an american fighting on eel
but we weren't attending a picnic live shells were still dropping on us throughout well steve and i soon forgot the flag raising as we
busily ringin our fox old digging deeper into mother he will cause like it or not the word was the japanese still occupied more of the woe
than the marines to prove that they were still the man of landlord the enemy sent a message for a concentrated artillery and margarita now
couples go by and captains feet are getting mestur from being in socks and the wet and so we need to get some some clean socks and there's
basically one place to get him given the condition of my feet i knew additional socks were imperative i asked sergeant window for
permission to make a run to the dead man or casually pile to look for a pair the dead man or casually pile contained clothing equipment and
weapons of danger wounded marines i had to go a quarter of a mile and as i hobbled there i felt uneasy in a big guilty about the prospect
of being a scavenger but i had no choice the demands and horrors of eels battle field left no other ready solution to the problem of
resupply i hesitantly picked up a pack only to drop it instantly there was a bullethole straight through it i found another one intact and
solely lifted it trying to see the stencil name of its previous owner curiosity got the best of me it wasn't any one i knew undoing the
straps i carefully removed the contents there were two perfectly clean and dry pair of green wall socks a salad folder lay at the bottom of
the pack and it fell the ground as i shook out the contents i opened the folder a photo of a smiling girl beamed at me all my love did joe
maryland was neatly written across the bottom of the photograph i carefully replaced the folder on the back and said a prayer for joe and
maryland ye you're taking dear from dead and wounded marines now they're out o tenuities through continuing to make slow progress but they
are making progress leaving our machine guns we spread out in an infantry style formation to come the area our search for snipers was
fruitless but we did find a dead enemy soldier in a clump of bushes the smell rotting his corpse almost made me pu the stanch good dag a
maggot steve said bloated the body was a spider trap and almost unrecognizable as having been a human being his uniform was charged so i
thought that it might have been he might have been hit by a flame thrower bloating at caused the tunic buttons of the cadavers uniformed
popoff the note was no skin on one had been the face but the future flesh cad scaped over swarms of flies were attacking the torso and
maggots were wiggling in the eyes i guess we were lucky you will had no buzzards a rifle lay beside the body no one touched it they might
be boyra don't screw with it later resting in a reserve area i looked at my watch saw it was three thirty p m had decided that eat a
caraton seeing the body of dead japs had become so common place i could erase this one from my thoughts it had nothing to do with me i'd
become as hardened to death as ondertaker moving on pausing to consolidate the men were hit with grenades mortars and machine gun fire from
their exposed flank and rear in this is taking place as there performing an assault on a hill cleverly the japanese had sprung a trap more
to fire from behind three sixty two alpha that's the name of the hill caves in front of the cliff opened up and alpacos first button the
wattle hardest hit incurring heavy casualties at one thirty p m a the alphian had to pull back as quickly as the hail of machine gun fire
and bullets were to low more men were lost trying to save the wounded the work that had gone into arming and fortifying had hill three
sixty two alpha the japanese version of imagining in france was awesome and it was serving its designer's purpose it was stopping the
marines the trap sprang shut and we were in it japanese mortars winged in greeting or attack we took cover machine guns and rifle fire
rapeed from every crack and crevice in hill tree sixty two alpha the mountain was spewing death and destruction from every fissure and his
volcanic hide there was no way to fight back we couldn't see our enemy but they could see us and they had a dead in their sights we
scrambled over the rocky terrain without cover stephen van carried our machine gun followed by pops whitcomb and lloyd heard or amabaean
orchestra of marine and jap borders marching guns rifles and artillery greater roaring shrieking clamour inducing terror throughout the
ranks stopping our ford momentum with mounting casualties and nightfall approaching we consolidate our positions in dug in we were
literally nose to nose with our mortal enemies some of the enemy positions were less than forty feet in front of us the days fight had
constipation and estimated one hundred casualties for a gain of two hundred yards a typical day's fighting on heel going forward continuing
to push back to the book mortemain gun and targeted rifle fire torn to the company men started dropping on all sides dirriti my eyes and
the clamor of explosions and bullets pounded against my ears the range we faced a lot was alive with an enemy that was impossible to see or
kill captain man shine kept forward crept forward he could see the chaos and disorder of our situation standing up with a cool purposeful
manner he took charge he looked as calm as though he were directing a training we new for a camp pendleton we organizing the company he
directed withdraw from our untenable position he seemed to be everywhere at the proper mode moment personally assisting wounded making sure
every one got out of the japs trap captain jimmy man shine never ran out of courage and his self was heroic actions saved probo company
from destruction but he did run out of luck he was the last man still in the trap when he attempted to withdraw towards our line japanese
soldiers used him for target practice riddling his chest with multiflores killing him reacting to the loss of our favorite officer the
company found a collective fury and determination we organized we rushed to the offensive because we were too close for artillery fire
support or are strikes the fight developed in a classic as a classic marine empetre attack small clusters of men advanced by fire and fast
movement until they found an obliterated each concealed strong point or individual enemy soldier van's gun suddenly stopped looking their
way i saw that he and steve were down suddenly i was overwhelmed with rage and all the anger i'd stored up against the japanese burst out
without fog or hesitation i sprinted into vance position then had been hittin the back near the right shoulder and the rounded axident his
left side seeming shot twice and was white with shock by reflex he was holding his hands to his stomach to stem the bleeding blood poured
out around his fingers as he pulled his legs in a feedle position i could see the pain on his pinched face knowing that the japs which
shoot stephen van as they rolled around on the ground i grabbed their machine gun into my arms and fired from the hip like basilone did
sending led into the cave to suppress enemy fire i was in a hot rage and swiveled the gun about so its bullets were ricochet ught the cave
and decimate those bastards who shot my friends clouds of rock dust billowed from the cave's mouth i poured fire into the caves black mouth
until the belt round out for a second i stood there the thirty cows barrel smoking the japs which shot stephen van were silent nothing came
from the cave no bonds i charges no moans nothing just smoke and dust my senses returned dropping the gun i turned to stephen van i knew
they were dying i screamed carmen with the cup with the cave suppressed and the area safe dock marsh ran to steve and knelt over him then
turned to van seconds tick passed seeming like hours i waited for doctores her grand out to join us and help me and marsh drag van and
steve to cover maranjevol with morphine why i broke open steve steve's first aid kit and handed the search suretta he shoved the needle in
the develes i screamed stretch of errors this day of violence fear killing and made in left me on the edge of despair sergeant window
talked to me in a personal and marine way tatum he said let's go we've got a job to do my mind slipped into a protective mode when events
beyond my control took over from that afternoon all and i purposely tried to avoid getting to know the replacement amours and the marines
filling the lot of those we had lost i didn't want to know their names where they were from or to see their girlfriends pictures i don't
want to get attached to them and suffered through the loss of close friends again the war was still going on thirty feet ahead i wanted
revenge unseen our enemy continued to punish us as we consolidated our gains for the day an attempt to to clear the newly seas territory a
new private are replacement called me the edge of a bluff he had spotted enemy soldiers clustered in a pill box and was trying to show me
their location i couldn't see what he had found and was sitting down his arm while he pointed or head side by side all of a sudden a crack
rang out he jerked forward and was dead before i could catch him a sniper's bullet had hit him between the eyes instinctively i called for
a carmen although the man was beyond help when the medic came up he said i can't take it any more i can't go on if they want to they can
just shoot me right now the blood that covered the medini form was at his own medeiros dered non combatants under international law but the
japs in carabou international law after ten days on elohe hadn't fired a shot he was too busy stopping the flow of others blood i didn't
know what to tell him i put my arm round his shoulders and said i understand it didn't seem to help staring straight ahead he cried i just
want out of this war then some one else yelled are men the men dried his eyes picked up his kit and left to go patch up another wounded
marine now it's twelve days into the invasions of de plus twelve march third was a bad day for replacement officers letenant tarsia
harrington and leach all a sign from the twenty seventh poplarest were killed in action with almost no experience commanding troops in
combat or anywhere else secondlye had been cranked out of offchance holes the marine core created its new leaders with assemblyline speed
harricanes were commissioned officers for five months when they were told to lead protons and dead become bad brave and experienced pens
hatters or substitute quarter back in a game of death they never even knew the men they were trying to lead now he got to the fourteenth
day by mid morning word swept through our ranks colonel butler has been killed but larabee writing in a jeep to a conference at the
regimental command posting order to save time along the way he decided to check out the terrain he impiccati would be as men's next
objective when the vehicle approached a trail junction near an old sugar mill his party took a direct forty seven mometer here from a
japanese anti take and he was killed in saintly the driver and neocomian him were seriously wounded it was another evil tragedy but not the
last shortly after colonel butler's death a sniper killed my squaw maid and camped tarara placemen p c love or jenkins of free o o freedom
wyoming as he rested between us salts the voreign days short of celebrating his first year in the corps janin's lost meant the first squad
was down to three members billy joe called for a baby face marine go for gus anderson and ralph jeffers now they were actually pulled off
the line for a bit and had a little bit of a rest during our day of rest my head ache ewers and i consulted a cornet my ears ring i told
him not impressed he answered it's normal for years to bring him combat he gave me suasion my headache and as handing out from i showed him
my leg wound he jokingly said too bad you won't isn't deeper if it was he'd have a ticket off this damned island the aspern didn't touch my
head ache i grew worse my ears rang constantly and i felt nasus i was getting weaker and i knew it and so what we've got now is the initial
stages of combat fatigue he started a feel it when camellias one of his other guys were tremellius gave me hell about something another my
mind was hazy and numb i didn't answer him about mid day the word came down move out our day of rest was over i reckoned boofully we formed
up to move out and a spread formation and immediately began taking more fire a man is the nightmare take comfort when to ha holler as and
we scattered like a covey of quail seeking refuge around it a few yards from me my pulse raced him a battle senses told me to move
sprinting i ran for a rock outcropping thirty yards away when i was half way to safety a close round knocked me to the ground more than
artillery shelling it scared the hell out of me in de day but the fear i felt now was different my hands trembled fortunately the baron
stopped quickly i changed smoke to settle down my head pounded and i go down can't water until my stomach was upset my legs felt paralyzed
like a childhood nightmare in which i wanted to run but couldn't the company moved out but i stayed where i was all i could think was
vocear tucked the japs and tucked his whole island a flood of ever of other folk everything serenita gled thinking process then awareness
that i was alone and the fear of becoming a sniper's snipers target prompted me to move there was another conclusion if i stayed where i
was the marine cora would shoot me as a deserter self preservation and thinks kicking in i told myself get off your but start moving i
looked for my vanished company eventually i heard someone calling my name through the hazy vision i saw sergeant window walking toward me
when he was close enough he looked at me datemark he asked let's join the company and don't worry you're going to be okay you're goin to
make it i followed him without argument or objection before we set in for the evening at three thirty p m window said to me tatoo'd you
back glancing at tramels he added you're out of here too your both finished get the hell back both of you the track to the rear and red
beach to our starting point fifteen days ago took an hour there were no tears in my eyes i had combatative so there done and they get
pulled off the eye and they get put on to a ship so they can recover mentally from what they've been through so there out there on this
ship and obviously there out there with a bunch of other marine to have been wounded back to the book tremellius and i felt completely out
of place we were among the seriously wounded marines and i almost felt guilty that i wasn't wounded physically or wounds were to our minds
and there were no band at just that could be applied to them there were no drugs that we could take that would raise the images of war at
filled our heads mother nature with assistance from modern medicine could heal the flesh but the mind is differed you can never forget the
pain you suffered in a place like i will demand the scars will always be there tremellius and i had been labelled as s s f or shell shocked
combat fatigue this label had a negative connotation i suppose this was the result of the general misunderstanding of this type of
condition it did not denote a lack of courage or resolved to fight it was a condition caused by the inability to continue past physical or
mental exhaustion most marines who suffered combat fatigue with the one who had survived to fight another day and it nother day and another
day the lucky ones got the million dollar wont on the first day and lived there a cover they didn't go back into the siege time and time
again as tremellius night done each day to see the decimation of young lives the deaths of bodies who were closer than brothers boys whose
parents hopes would be dashed by a message from the navy saying we regret to inform you most people never have to witness the killing of
some one they are close to a loved one who is shot or decapitated watch a brother whose face is filled by the look of deep shock that
precedes death they never feel the helplessness of watching life bleed out of a mortal being those who know war now of what i speak i
decided on sian that i would never apologize for my actions on enigma or for falling prey to combat it i gave it my all obviously in this
day and age we been dealing with a lot of combat fatigue pitied and i think one thing as i as i read through this i thought back to colonel
awkward book and about face in one of the ways that he describes it is he says that basically people have a cup and different sizes cubs
different people have different sized caps and the cup sir civil and i get filled up it's down you're done you can't take any more and you
just got to go away and and i at this is the first time as i read this obviously cottam show the stream courage over over again and he
points out the fact that there is not that many guises that went day after day after day after day and were lucky enough to knock it
wounded or i guess you could say unlucky enough yea and eventually they reached they reach a point where they can't take any more now you
do get some guys that can handle more n i thought of this to day it's it's just nature right it's just how you're how your form and on
knocking to be mad at someone because they can't bench press five hundred pounds right some people don't have that that's not part of their
physical make up the thought further parter physical constitution or the mental constitution and the same thing here some people just have
a higher propensity for this type of mental stress so they can handle it more in that doesn't mean that you know some one that can't bench
press five hundred pounds like me doesn't mean i'm a pathetic person no it just means that i don't i just didn't naturally inherit those
genetic that give me the ability to bed press five hundred pounds now in its same thing with what you and her it meant tally in some people
their cup get filled up especially when they are lucky or unlucky enough as we just discussed to survive day after day after day after day
and fourteen days of thinking that you're going to die then seeing your friends get wounded or killed again even back up back then oh he
said it had a negative connotation almost like you weren't manfully tough enough right like you had the luxury of not getting shot and all
this stuff right and yet you still couldn't act it almost yet that in my point is number one to support what he says you've take any body
anybody's can have a breaking point and the britannia be different spots and and he was like like were saying he was either unlucky or
lucky enough to antigone you look at it to survive fourteen straight days of this i and that was where he wrote some people would reach a
break in for in five days but we never would ye that i and some people would last a hundred days but we we would know that because they got
killed and i meanwhile the when you get hit how he called at the million dollar wound wife up so when you get it every bortree from that
the flesh in man medicine you know it held it so yet they that's why i called it the million dollar room citosile in a way you look out you
know you have to face these terrible horrors that lie beyond day ten day even for fourteen fifth you know you and then he nyuee going until
you fall out his eyes and he and you got a break at some point you know and every one has an like i said it's just a wood the way you're
made up as a near genetic code maybe you can take it for seven days maybe you can take it for twenty eight days but the most important
thing that he says that if there's that out there that think man i didn't do enough wrong i listen are says i decided on five cantatas
where they were not to recover i decided on sihon that i would never apologize for my actions on the ogima or for falling prey or combat
fatigue i gave it my all and that's all anybody could ask now he dedicates this book and here's the book dedication this book is dedicated
to my brothers the marines who fought the japanese army on one of the darkest islands owner ogima on our voyage to e o we had dreams and
plans for a future we were young and buoyant our hearts were filled with love for a families are bodies are country we wanted to survive to
come home together then we felt the flames of that pacific inferno to my marine brothers who fell on that rock i owe every day of the life
i've led to you simpering and here is a roster of some of the people that he knew one will gema lieutenant colonel john butler first
battalion commanding officer killed in action captain james jimmy man shine killed in action second lieutenant john a dragger died of
wounds gunnery sergeant stand leaf blacke cavato died of wounds gunnery sergeant john basilone gildon action pic bruno spike meereswogen
action p loyal lemon kildonan percy clifford steve evenson gilden action p carl tax thompson killed in action corporal frank posts pickle
gildonian pas lavore jenkins gildon action corporal george shelf kildon action private ralph jeffers killed in action by edward j tucker
kildoon and those are some of the names some of the people of the six thousand eight hundred and twenty one sailors and marines that were
killed in action on a place where the marine corps awarded twenty seven metal vanes which was a carter of all the metal vanders that were a
warned during world war two and one closed this out not with a medal of honour sitations but with a silver star sight for pic edward j
tucker for conspicuous gallantry and intrepid as a squad leader serving a pleton of company bravo first the coloney seventh marines fifth
marine division in action against japanese enemy forces on he will chiavagno islands fourteen march nineteen forty five heedless of his own
painful wounds and refusing evacuation in order to remain with his men in continuance of an assault against the bitterly defending japanese
private first class talker on hesitatingly braved a deadly hail of hostile fought rifle fire and machine gun fire to rescue a wounded
marine lying in an exposed position although mortally wounded while administering first aid to his stricken comrade private first class
talker by his unself escortage and devotion to duty had strengthened their morale and fighting spirit of his entire company thereby
reflecting great credit upon himself and the united states naval service so as i had said and as i always say war brings out the worst in
us but i can also bring out the best and there are thousands and thousands of heroes like peas edward j tucker known and unknown that of
made the ultimate sacrifice for our country for the marine corps for their batalion their company their patoon the squad and from the
friends and i want you remembered that to be in all that darkness and that black sand and all that evil in the world there are heroes and
brave men and men that don't take lives but give their lives for their friends and while we do talk about evil also always remember that
the world is also filled more filled with good men and good women had good people and remember those people and in moments of darkness and
temptation let them inspire you to follow in their footsteps because there is no doubt that the example has been set so it's it's really
just a a another situation when i when i think about the dicotomy of war in the economy of combat in how it brings out the worst in people
metals brings out the best in people and i think that in order to appreciate the best in people you got a recognize what they're up against
caterans what we're up against and you gittha example bad example of people that shine they shine in the circumstances and if they can rise
like that in those circumstances in those situations facing such horror well then maybe we can rise a little bit too it may be we can shine
just a little bit brighter and bring a little bit more light in the world and i say i go it up looks like i set us up for another rough
transition and yes i think so you my apologies but it'll offer a bit of a contrast right yes we will live like i said this reflect life yea
and you go through horrible things you'll be face as some tough times that's what life does to you you and then a little while later you'll
be laughing now and that's the way life is you don't have the way this pot cast seems to go through yes you have a bad day work he come
home boom your son and daughters got straight as vere you go got their report card right i've got to dig that you let's go to the interweb
questions who before that i do have to let you know josiane did know where our sponsored by on it an i bet you don't know what that is it's
where i get my altabin a ottomar said memory um on it dot coms last jocko if you want temper sent off your honest and that's apparant
warrior bars if you don't know what that is crilloire your joints working acrington strong bone no forgive at the war what is strong just
some cronies of for your joy radiant at let enough addition to yes i like to elaborates just do you feisty that be ducatoons werderkaese he
no don't it worrysome also have coffee now which is still venture and i in get after it with a mcafee on it do confused jocline sent off to
also internet related stuff in the event of you wanted to support this potassia way here some way to a shop that amazon before you go to
amazon got a jocosa or jackal store dot com click on the amazon link you don't pay naything extra you just kind of sup pass at least
support this pitation jackino cause you're shope one click yes one cleckheaton yes efforts the pooteena everybody by his averything with
amaye well he is under ward doing a little does a lot right here that's right eowall concert good knowledge to night yer if you and some
shirts that i be i think they're called cockatoo come get some sure if you think very and have schools i think they are or a coffee mug but
is up before the enemy on its pretty cool it in a question steatopyge you weird dreams by the way if you take it before you mislike it and
i i am were dreams regardless rright ikey actually you know what they don't ee you wear dreams big give you a weird awareness of your drink
i'm not making that is like an official claim on saint that's what happens with me and that's what here literally everyone else who am
taker the good yet doesn't really happen to me for some reason or cause it's not is a stimulant by the way you still go sleep good ye take
it before i go to bed at a slaveman jocko i want to hear your thoughts on over a detachment from a police officer and i'm sure military
personal experience the same over detachment defined as emotional separation from moment which required emotional response in family and
profession to what he thought on overdetermination ely obviously an always encouraging people to be able to detatchable your motions out of
the situation but this happens to what my brother right here sacans police officer say ay sometimes you we think about being over to tache
it is some need watch out or because you don't want to go through your life when you have no more emotions to intorno living a life than
you are robot caramanian and you don't you be to have emotions so ones i thought about this i thought how did i watch out for that and it's
something that creeps in on anybody that does anything we could at covenanter be a copper or of military person i mean you could do if you
are any job that you have will you affricans just get all emotional about stuff a maturing finance if you're anything you could just become
detached so how do you delighted you like out for what one thing that i did and still do his compartment alive and drawled it will
segregation between work and home um and there's a really easy way to do that especially for people in our caps or it does matter what you
do whatever that uniform is that you were at work whether you're compete your military whether you were in a business suit at work when you
get home take off that youniform take it off matter fact if you can take it off before you get home i'll leave it at the office because you
went to leave that there and when you get home put on the home clothes right the t shirt a comfortable tea shirt a flip flops the the the
shorts be be relaxed at home nebbishy ically in a different uniform at home not even a uniform in a different change change your pearance
and therefore change our state of mind a little bit different music right whatever is that you listen to it work hum go to something
different at home you know when you're going into work listen to the first hour of jacopone hilyer coming home he listened to this
acatalectic you wont have a different attitude ah did different language right don't come a home thrown around the anagrams from work and
and you know i have talked about this for i never swore home i sorelie hall at work but it never swaimous a different language on i was
completely compartmentising when i was in the work and when i was doing at home and in check out your pasture will you standing around your
house like are you stand at all cross armed in glaring at people let's just ask the question are you nemonie weaver stand for your talking
your life to randallites like a pistol shooting sanehat's that he no no you know are you are you digging for underofficial better you look
in the kitson but no said i you want relax right and another thing is find some odd you know what is maybe maybe group of people that are
in barfeooted that can be hard i mean and i lucky for me my wife made friends that were outside of the eel community and so i got a bunch
of bodies that were had nothing to do with the selims then had their friends of the earthers by a wife ye friends and all husbands of my
wife ranelagh of people that i still hang out with all time they have nothing to do with the military at all and in fact he meteth ears but
as follers you could get from military personnel one could imagine and but that's another thing that helped me segregate the two now of
course i'm not saying you got to let your guard down a hundred per cent because you shouldn't do that but you should let it down enough
that you can enjoy life mandou got it to tax sometimes now ththat being said cause it's got a hat is going to help you make a decision but
there are also times worth and not good then if you're detached your wife sir otakou it's not going to be good you still open up yet a show
some emotions and one of the things about being detached here's a peers of paradox you got to be detached to tough so that you recognize
when you're not showing enough among you don't i say it or if you're so detached that you mean to catch you on how he do realize that oh my
god i'm not sure in any motions all i'm too detached yet so don't try to be a tough guy that's just being detached because if you're to
catch enough you realize the ore being hootch up yes and there is too deep the wo obese like if you go you know you're in a debate argument
fight whatever with your girlfriend wife right and your detached let's say you know you're right let's say you are right humanising to do
with anything when you're arguing if you go was picking enough all in my experience yellowed agree with that in my experience but here's
the thing though because we're yololtoca way i just want to make a simian when you are the argument we like your wife or your close friend
owen and you see a boss your subordinate where did you write or not is a most dozen matter at all far what matters is what you're trying to
do with direct on your trying to move me and is winning the argument being right wrong and to help you move in direction over that's the
real question yet so detach for a minute and figure out the instruction yes cause i never care for red aron that's not never my go well in
an argument with something deenee i usually don't care that most fair the most part ah yen in i think a lot of times i allowed him a people
do care whether right or wrong all my god do they care for lego syce arete right a wrong yet and i'm proved beyond you know like a
reasonable total questions you eyed full i'm one percent right you're wrong yes and so even when people are wrong they'll still wanted just
win the argument right so that's that's that's bad what can be even worse when you are right yet the other person is a it looks say your
wife is emotional camenis is a known thing that the girls generally speaking they they want now that i care more so than they want you to
fix their problem like if someone has it if your wife is even a problem that at worrysome thing ri they just want you to care that that yet
light on with them i would be a want like all this tricking advice you know you that gentlemen i'm not goin to categories not by an hit the
generalising so these you're in the debate or some you know i said i yearn argument you're in a fight and you know you're right and lessay
you are right if you're all detaching mean like well here's the logic behind why right and ye of this air tight case that's not going to
help your relation so yea she was snow first off that you care she's mad she said she's whatever do you care about that that's the way you
win not the argument that's why you in the situation yes you know and so not only are you not only do you get out of the fight in tact as a
relationship but you're the good gum and really that's part of the reason why should i see cause good guy but i hope we wander so yet at
that justerfication while my wife likes me in all the other is as yet no that's that's that's it but yes i detest so you see that but be
attached cause you care yes yes and show that you care my and then when you go back to work you are come europe military person beebyside
person put your uniform back on put your boots back on but your body on the bacon locke and load and get back into detachment seaman motor
now at the question kind of implies this too and i will want this out i mean at work you also can't just be detached all time because
you're bearleader your leadership position is so you can just walk around us detachment remoove got a show motion you got to relate to the
people you work you with you got to be a human so that they follow you or you follow them or the case may be so the attachment you have to
be detached enough to recognize when you being too detached yet less hardoye no question i was hoping to get your thoughts on bullying if
rechid as being bullied what would you tell him o her this is i guess a little wiolate fame than drogue tion because i you know what i
goosey he your ideas to get you didn't you get to mediately um get them in there and let them start to learn or what is like to deal with
people physically and it will build up their confidence and it will be false confidence will be real confidence because they will know how
to handle themselves they will have people that are trying to take them down to the ground and trying to choke them and they will learn to
stop that from happening and they will learn to do to other people when warranted in so that's how you prevent bullying in my opinion you
also get him to start going poppeuse you get him do little but a boxing may be you a little moitie i'll tell you had an jim over the years
we've probably had half a dozen kids that have come in specifically because they were getting bully it schoolin and every one of those
gazes within three months four months may be six months at the outset the parents are coming me in san he's not getting balloting i more
and andsome times there is that that that incident were of had a few students that have you know these kids are now ten years old getting
licked on getting picked on getting picked on and all of a sudden they start training to get to and then one day they choke out the boy and
they never get picked on again and there confident and their not jerk about it they become defenders cause they know what it's like to be
belise don't like to see other people get boy to me so i would say you know get your kids into jujitsu if they're getting bullied and it
will not only teach them to prevent themselves from being bullied it will prevent them from becoming a boy here because they recognize what
it's like and what the power of physical intimidation is in and they will not like it yenoughe them not become a blialt o stuff they goes
on at home in everyone's different every family is different but a lot of times believes peep peep of kids that become belief they're belly
that home so being a believed as a result of something else you know so yet judicious it helps your cat your confidence in your security as
it is to you will feel less insecure appearance kids so that alone is really powerful even if you were prone to becoming a boy and this is
kind that this kind of well known i i think it's pretty well known that usually when you're bullied like one someone's bulling someone else
even adults it's not necessarily about beating a up and pick it on a beating em up as nets less about a physical part of it and more about
just the mentalist so when you learn you got and men in telling you i i wasn't really belied or nothing like that but when you start to now
you go you have it in your head it's it's almost like you can't help but just radiate that kind of secure in confidence so wouldn't it if
you excite if you're if you rolando juno and a boatable he will gather immediately in this programs like specific programs having to do it
you justice in a bully prove and i'll be so men just generally speaking you learn this in you gutter you just basically you just stand your
ground and you basket there's all these different ways to do it but you call out the boy like are you are you trying to fight me right now
and just standing up to him will usually stop the willing cause if they're got you and your like oh i don't and i'll tell you this i yet
even though a majority of the bullinger or mentor psychological is it's all on the premise all the billing is built on the premise most of
the time that i can sisily be yes with their for you can't do anything i occasion you'll get some well young keep scrappy little wild mouth
kid that just bullies people just on the fact that they just don't care rright that a rare as a rare breed most bullies they feel like they
can physically went in therefore vacant mentally abused people and one that once the one the victim realizes you know what i can actually
take this person out the whole dynamic change is here and just that that that first stage of standing up to him to even verbally at tilly
in the belief in a little indicator with you she indemnity but some believed they might be like has sideseat this guest feeling a little
triumphant to day and you get a strident up to me and then milt del push it and then when you know that you disoit man you can do with is
realy easy as it kit don't they itke down now o slape faces men hereto wish i knew it when when i was a little kid teaches you perfectly
where to be in war not to be where you just control the fight to get leave bay and a man o i wish i say went on i wish they was around on
yo e question how do we do with being in an environment i am forced to be in i'm an i'm eighteen eighteen years old and have one year
school of high school is just the place i perish and it kills for eight tivity all of the information taught is easily obtainable on the
internet i don't feel like i have any purpose in school learning things that i'll be of that will be little of little to no use in my life
for eight hours a day just seems dumb and having asked burgers in eighty h d does it make sitting in a matats for ninety minutes easier
also most report are not about achievement motivation are anything but would rather plate safe and stay in our small town all their life
would let to hear your thoughts on a forced invirile i will tell you that ses fought contained in that arrogant probably in captivity large
large number of humans in you know high school myself being crude in that rope myself in my buddies will were growing up mowed want to be
nice cool we wanted to get out we were to get after it we want to do at her went just the world we wanted to make things happen right not
necessarily good things either but just things need a it is wont to make so happen and yet when i hear this is a kind of very normal so
first lie to that cave man you're just feeling what normal people feel i mean not everybody because some people really enjoy high school
they enjoy education not a large number the but some people recognize that it's a it's an opportunity you know i schools no portunity in
it's not bekington and it's not portunity to hang out and meet people and you know kind of live that party or life i mean esortment
relaxing things that's one most relaxing faces of life right you just have nothing you know pressure um and i see no pressure and when
you're in high school you like will now have to take a test and you homework exaltarit ah this is another thing that i was think about with
a forced environment so i won i was a kid i worked construction and you know something as i wor construction with re pretty rough
characters and one of them had done paramount of time in prison and one of the things that he said to me was you know when you are in
prison if you stand right next to the bars in your cell you stand right next to him then your lock did there but if you walk back away from
the bars and you see what kind of freedom you got inside that sell even though it small it's bigger than will you stand right next to the
boers ah so i was had this feeling of you know just step back from the barillot and and i actually explain that to imaduddin of mind when
with he would feel trapped in the navy you know could even the sultan's i love that you know but guys were sometimes start feeling trapped
in the hat navy and and i'd say i do we know what if you want to get out get out give yourself an out if you want to but just then a cess
it from a position he say now an i could get out of i wanted to so don't stand so close without i've come stuck in the navy to back now you
don't have only got on to it out and then they look at it then or you don't at you sudabe it's not a bad deal a pretty good deal and that's
what i would do miseration like this you look at going high school i mean yet you're trapped in school for eight hours a day but eight
hours a day in school plus eight hours a day of sleep if if you sleep that much that leads you at hours a day of doing whatever you want
and right and that's awesome plus you've got weakeneth on in there you so you got a lot of opportunity do all kinds of things going to high
school for eight hours days a small price to pay for the opportunities that you have while you are in high school so it's i don't view it
really as a as a forced environment i view it as an opportunity i mean do they got a jim there what he don't hear gonna learn something
even if it's stuff that you can learn on the internet why not have a human teach it to you that's pretty cool in you know sit in that class
i learn what you can get if you got eight eighty heatburn ers okay let's see how our discipline can get control over that and we challenge
ourselves to work on the patience and were companionation paying attention to so skill i learn not wenongonet eines ill it's a skill to be
able to sit down and read something that you do not want to read then it's a skill it's a skill to sit into a class and listen to a lecture
on the subject that you do not want to listen to that takes me i jes got a cool a twitter that next time i'll try and remember it read it
but a guy that was like a hay i hated school and i'm going through the class right now an i got a right use responses to these to these
hareing assignment i was gone he is really bother me and he said that i was as in a pocasset you're fired up about linguistics and fire up
and so i said you know what i'm goin t ownness me fired up to tears tears is of reading assignments apart and dig into and find out what
the words mean if he killiow to i'm in the same boat by the sack that's outstanding so again you're not trapped unless you stand right next
to those borers at ten from your face so that back away from the bars look around and to a kind of freedom you actually have it you got a
lot of freedom may not feel like it i'm well you got a lot of freedom you a lot of things to take advantage of from time to equipment to
education take advantage of all that stuff to get another year left killet may it happen in that's my ahaie to the senior in high school
graduation reading her a payment antietam skilled i skill and mention reading stuff that you don't want to read and remember how i said no
meetin back where the that's not that that's a common thing people would just i don't want to read an order read a book you know that's not
like no that's pretty come ill i people would prefer not to read wiloo at whatever but if you're willing to read or you like to read i
would even go beyond it almost called that is a super power not like a super perlice its superhuman renaming but that's like an insect
major advantage and i mention this where all the information you ever want to know is out there and if you can access it if you know how to
read you can access but is a thing like will vitiating knows it and we were another people especially here in the earth you kind o know
that informations of all the information whether you understand or not does it different in this information can help you in probably
ninety to ninety nine per cent of anything you want to do it can help you become that achieve that all this information on you need the
information than you just act on induit right then why is it why aren't why isn't everyone just successful in everything they want to do
and every single asingan all the information you can learn all the skills berating about it all of it right now lacked discipline because
they do on a edit a who wants to put in all i very or get a booking read it to thousand page book on economics even though if there were
just a red that read it three times they would know exactly what to do what to invest in where the er you know a lot you have on powerful
information to become on a rich or or dismay for money or whatever so the reason that people don't essie don't want to read that's it
meanwhile and we talked to at this before meat while you have time you have time to read if you have time to watch t v you tendered you
have time to aingodon whatever you do in your spare time of ten very going of the beach won't help you in ways that reading can help you
and watching reality e can't help you as much as you can otobu it's one of the things that it's a beauty such a chore i think for a lot of
people of his readers have chore instead of being bedizener unity yet and i think the the reading like a somonour just inject all the
information into your brain matronhood it you know but it's that reading that's the joy that's what they don't want to do so consider that
right he mentioned that de altisidora tions avalonians it but in school you you have a teacher who knows his information you can ask
questions about it you can make the will i've read suffitient really get what he means right there i read again i don't really get what i
regani still don't get what it meant what it he means by this but at school he is reanimation how explain it you know and to salarise
hanyatengona you hand out after everything that teachers as you can raise your hands tell me lanigan he's right there every class it is
your opportunity feeling sir extesive up for the reading out like that tallien's like one days the light the legantine right it's new yes
this is poscopsahe and that you're just absorbing information right and it's not this thing where i start it to start to get into reading
it's is like like when you walk into them for like her off psychology in this room battle seaning in this rock you true you at all my lash
the all this was here this whole time i want here at this age i could have been doing this the whole time this reading owerheert tones i
only she schachen denying it keeping the light off don't do that somethin or reliable that just quickening the lido godlike joedelled
hership required the attic or acting skill in the case of the under performing subordinate i mean obviously in a way yesterday definitely
more complicated in that as well because and we focus before i know a foreign it is if you want to make an impression your kids they have
listened to you when you told them fourteen times in finally you know you've been all calm and the deckinagiri this isn't a wide you give
it on everything you're supposed to do in the extreme ownership a hand book of leadership and their still not listening to you and you go
you know what i've got a show some is am anger ear anstey realized that a really serious so that time when you might have to flip the
switch and act it like your ain gree for instance an you know this is part of detachment because if you are a controlling your motions and
you decide you need to show some emotions then you're gonna need to do some sort of i guess it would be kid sidered acting theatre some
attract to make that clear now it also my alleviation where you don't want to show that your frustrator you don't want to show that you're
angry you e don't want to soil your if you got your team look at you you and you you don't want to show that you're frustration or gay yes
you got t act ocanna i'm sangota a cool i've got it attachable bit and just a cool and so that those are both i guess those could be
considered acting but at the same time i don't think it's this ingenuous and i went he you are there is no tell you why is because remember
when i was on sam harris and we were talking about being brave than he i think it was he he said if you pretend to be brave well then you
are in fact being brave so if if if you're one did in the street and there's mahinui going on and i say no one i don't want to do this but
i'm going to potentate brave right now an i run out grabblet an even ours pretending to be brave i was brave i think cause that's what i
did you know i did the action it's the same thing here if i'm really angry at you but i decide you know what i got to keep that inside and
i've got act like i'm calm we'll get at what i did was that calm therefore is not acting that's what i did as a person so i guess i'm
really not acting at all because i'm being me and me is detached and acting like a calm even though i'm super angry yet you are a kind of a
weird paradox you technicality about this before it you are acting but like to like are you saying is not disingenuous because there's a
difference between what you feel and how you behaved like feelings and behaviour so if a man at you for something and i don't yell at you
and be all it does that mean i'm not matteo but it doesn't mean that for wellput what if i i am at you and i do i do my aunt my madness my
anger makes me yell it that you all that means is my feelings are driving my behaviour just because your feelings artimiev doesn't mean
it's disingenuous you know so you can still be mad you can still yell even though the yelling isn't because you're mad the yelling is for a
specific result till just like are you saying you still be your angora yes you are acting your asking but your acting because you want a
certain result yes that's what i say you are acting because your youniform not acting bement your anger is driving your behaviour your
feeling is riving your behaveyour otherwise you're just your asinus i agree with you when we're talking about it before it etagainya going
for result here yes and that's the question the actual question is it specifically says under pounder performing subordinate and so clearly
yet you and of shows anger otnit realized that you really serious that they may get fire that they knew to improve that they need whatever
the case may be yet and yet it's with your girlfriend a wife it shall me get well out of times he knew how like you be like any enation
your saying at all common whatever and carrying knowing you care about orsonna that you care about them that is a big deal verses if if
they suspect pianail situation seyeedele you i shall be a war on you care people quite deare cockle i care next question at what point does
loyalty and what could become martyrdom for a human that you care about become out waited with a desire improve oneself but differently
loyal to be therefore loyal to be there for a love on tea may employ it again a tough situation or downward spiral is an important and
admirable trade but when does he go too far that one should become selfish and began to cut the tie visitacion at everybody's got to deal
with it some point in their life and it obviously i am all about hoping people i do and everything you can to help people outright that's
great sir ah but you got to take care of yourself first and i think i think the things that i fiofio go in an airplane and they say hey if
we lose freshening master dropped down and if you are with a child take care of yourself first then you can take your godchild so what
happens if you don't take your yourself first then you pass out and now your child doesn't get help to now you both die from lack of oxygen
and so the sort o like life right if you've got so many that's dragon that's going down in the downward spiral and you decide that you're
just going to pour everything into them well then you're goin to go down that down on smile was well and now you're not going to be able to
help him so i think you definitely have to get yourself yet to take care of yourself as a person so that you have the platform to take care
of some one else and help some one move in the right direction and said don't think you can let yourself get dragged down too far i down
these fast ave to get the oxygen mask on yourself and ablaze yourself and have a platform to help other people without getting dragged down
and i'll tell you something else by the way often times when you think you're helping some one mum you really justini them and you you see
that with the addictive you don't people aren't in case of a diction it's awful and the people that are trying to love to ones that are
trying to help them by saint oclock all i'm goin to help you though i give you little bit more money right now but this is the last time
and then the next week it i'll give you a little bit more money and all the doones by an boeotus or whatever a diction that they have and
it's harlee it you are actually even though you think you're helping them your actually hearing them and so i think of it i guess it's the
big knight for a detachment all the pot gastrito got it to tache you got to make sure not becoming emotional you got to make sure that
you're seeing the person and the situation for what it really is not what you want it to be but what it really is who they really are what
they are really doing and then when you're attached you're going to make a logical decisions from that point of detachment to decide
whether this person can be helped and how far you're willing to go to help them and you gorrem you can't be a hero to everybody and you
can't help everybody all the time and agin i want to hev people out when they are in trouble but you need to maintain your own stability in
life so that you have a platform that you can help people cause if you burn down your platform and you throw away your stability not only
woe you not be able to help that person but you won't be able to help anybody including yourself eventually yes yes and you you say i like
you and help him without letting them them dragoon to far so that point that too far point was gonna different for everybody in every
relationship so i think you be kind of get a handle on that like what is too far away what is you know me being dried down too far as a
getting in the way of these important things in my life you know cuyo talking about when you cut those ties that's you know that means
you've been jodon too far where you got to cut this test oh so i the i think that's important usome people they're just that's kind of
there thing you know they'll get dragged all the way down i only to lately word down to help yes yes exactly which can be fine i think i
think you bet that's people's kind o thing i i think the there's all kinds of different people and i think that that i don't ocatillo
because i think it drags both parties into the into the starshine if they go all the way the called like you know they lose some importance
stuff in their life sir but a janisaries the tahaiti but some people that they you know it's like that's kind o there i don't know i see
their line and life citosile it's a bad thing to her adela yet like the thing they like it so listen the soul helping persons enabling
right so the two kinds of like correctin amid the terms wrong but it's it's direct help in system aal so direct help is like the suspici
obvious help like take tectae the consideration of um like giving money to homeport i where if you if some one had had the cup and is like
you know help me you know giving me money basically i profane bucks in the tinaco right so that's that direct but verses systemic systemic
would be okay i'm in a contribute to a surbiton yet or no more oninoor systemic than that so i'm goin to contribute to a program that gets
people on their feet basically giving people the tools to help themselves right so that's systemic that that goes it that doesn't solve the
superficial problem it's like what it's like instead of watering the leaves you ought of the roots that so instead of giving money to help
a homeless person which can potentially a hewers yes because just like what enabling is look if i'm almost guinie hey look i'm whatever
whatever my situation i'm all a home scindias ing for money i make fifty bucks to day at this corner i'm a come back to morrow i make my
fifty bucks i have no other skill if i if you and help him if you would if some one came in instead of fifty bucks or five bucks or dollar
whatever big gave me some skill however they do and on magical pale and i gave me some skill some i don't know i knew that age sourest
something an i go you those skills and gone then i'm helped you know so yet helping versus enabling i think the e e got a put it into
perspective and give it a lot of thought when you help some one and i think the people who enable people or who accidentally enabled to
people all that is them not putting enough thought into it how help him cause eatin they really care but then the enabling him and on top
of it was which makes it more of a challenge for people enabling the people to care about is they get a pat from giving him you know
whatever it is they they give him or or lying for him or doing this other stuff like a help them for that day to give him that that pay off
a little field of ye alpathet day i gave the home element he so nicey gaze that that homeless guiainia all day i went giving change he's
over here giving him five bucks on really i'm not saying all the time i'm not saying all this time but potentially you could have basically
just made that corner more valuable for him to work but then sally said tam so like i said i i think something now would help is pouting
with how you want to help fifteen help system ically that that's the way to help better so that it was now in my opinion that a question
jack how you get over feeling like an impostor as a new manager i feel like a about to get found out said welcome the leadership had
righter is the thing here is what you're actually scared of what you're scared of most likely is them knowing and finding out that you
don't know everything he roderigh does let people don't like to admit when they are all now yes yes and the same that you need to know is
to key it's okay not to know everything is perfectly normal to be neuration and not know everything in the world you don't have to know
everything about this particular job that you're going into a what the yonne to know everything you don't know to what you need to do is go
in ask questions listened to people in an say anton i have done spider before i've never ennever work with this piece of equipment for
kishori through it she made to it as one to make sure in her stand what you're doing make sure i get it oh okay now it's not an excuse to
not know anything because if you're leadership position you should be studying and reading and learning about whatever the role you in said
you can understand it all study the man you will in the regulations in the procedures and i'm not saying to follow all those things blindly
without common sense now that's not one of saying but there is a knowledge base that you should you should have quired very quickly when
you roll into a leadership position so put the work in and then apply common sense but this is the same thing that i say every time some of
the asked me about how do you read this or how do you read that or how do you lead new people or how do you let see your people it's the
same answer eretime be humble listen to them beyond time wore a card treat people with respect wave that decision carefully calked to be
bow and then make a good decision empower your folks can lead don't like romanae them but give them at the same time clear guidance about
what the expectations are it's just leadership and when you're a new leader it's all good you don't need to know everything you not
expected now everything and showing that you could admit that you don't know everything isn't going to hurt your reputation actaeon help
your reputation as a no and be humble as some good questions learn as fast as you can and it's okay and you know i was thinking about this
some in the eighties and perhaps even in the nineties when guys were losing their hair and going palmerito they do a commoveret to the
dimpler over their balding scalp so it didn't look like they were going all right right and i'm telling you as a leader don't do a
leadership come over ye as you now to the desave it had right i eyetooth going yet and i'll top allgood just goin to shave it off they i'm
your new leader don't know everything it's all good you know here's where i hears one of week give me a hand yea no big deal a good ale ye
don't do so if cold over it umtetwa tell me a few agree with this net it generally speaking am i watching demolition man with the the long
list he sniped negative seat denis facing nameday edified like your convoy but maybe it is would be a enough anyway gentler he's this kind
of underground a rebel cause they sleep la is erieson explanation to make you share though that you shoalest for if some ready still
mobarec ally but the intendatur winter and umber is turning to this like over sensitized it you can't swear you can't eat junk food it's
the law like you know so everyone's all nice and real weak and stuff like that but there's a guy boho rebelled against it went underground
right and little eater of those guys is called gedor friendly i am sole go down and he is regarded as his huge criminal right and so
demolishing comes back the long stirabout him but anyway he's back to help rid the world of these crimes so he goes any incolas ed your
friendly and there not ravel they're not these evil people there just like to trying to live basically a freedom a free life you know and
they're like othe's a cable whaol these people attire right and he's like i'm no leader sometimes in a duson shit and people come with me
friend this kind of what he says he so isn't this is so he is a question sir plongeuses chin how this gushes kind o like worried about a
people finding him out that he is not a leader right isn't that like a huge sign of humility that he's like on the inside he's not yet i
know what everything you own a call like a man i don't know it all you know and i'm worried about this it's actually good side you are
correct and good sintegaliska i want to do you an tudor he wants raish meassefim at he said were about it so that's that is good that is a
good thing yet like his humility is like it's so genuine that that's one of his many worries of being a leader you know let me cousin it's
better than some one says you know wot i'm about take over as an inverse i'm on this anomalous holohan going hringhorn and to old knows
anything that i know so it's got a rat yet you don't read that gurdon this next one is sort of a statement and sort of a question bracton
there so many con from long force me i thought it was a pretty informative statement based on one of the other part as that we did and it
says this i currently work of vice but i had my share of use of force on the job i quickly learned that you can't knock every one out and
that applying jugo will reduce injuries to you and the suspects of so talked about last time where is it i if my method of controlling used
to strike you i'm going to have to beat you over and over again to get you to submit whereas if i noted your joke old tom you're good that
to the cot the choke hold or corrodes we called it is still committed in our force policy but only in an immediate defence of life
situation basically using a coolis considered dead leforce and equivalent with shooting some one there was a time when the elapsing was a
went in out choko in the eighties during the peecher officers were applying the corroded choke on picidae daily during one of those
incidents a male black died from the choke being improperly applied chief gates made the mistake of going on national television and saying
that mayoba at a higher chance of dying from the choke due to their physical make and larger adam's apple as you can imagine this cause an
outrage which in turn caused the department of fall to political pressure and make the corodities almost impossible to use so when i kind
of alluded to this in that last podcast that there's the thersel what happened a guy got choked to death there was political pressure chief
gates comes out and says that in actually i went i went on mine and researches a little bit he may like every classic mistake you could
make all this and that's why they outlawed using cools and an actually as i read through it day a bunch of kind of all i referred to
running beating and said here i had guesswell this this individual with with bats and sticks and billy clubs whatever and angosto in and
they referred to that then when they looked at the choke calls being used as one of the major cases that they say and let us let people use
the joke old of this does apantes guy goes on as a certified or can which is a recontented for resting control are con instructor i feel
that apartment taking away our ability to use a real naked choke as caused many unnecessary shootings and anjure to suspect it saddens me
to work for department that is being run like a poor corporations of a police department so that's kind of a bill up right that's why one
of the read it because there was just drudion in there in acidity much in line with what we talked about last time an in police work to end
and also in you know combatiant where you doing with non combative people in a hostile and iron in other words you go to a building to
capture a terrace and there's there's a woman in there eaters kids in there others teenagers in there that are not combative but they're
not complaint either so they are never gone you're not going to shoot him but you got to get control of them now gets into bookstore of the
leadership question here how do i keep moral up and stay motivated when i have no face in the leaders and when the leadership has turned
its back on time after time the moral is at its lowest point even lower than post ninety two riots according to the old timers we were
trained in the academy to be warriors now the apartment does allow us to con colorless warriors only guardians this change in mentality
will sadly cause only more bad shootings the more officers getting her so that a bed obviously tell situation and like i said for the
judication i think this is bad on the togeither pling is is a far superior way like i said of consoling people that striking as that
sisterly now on the leeshun that leader suppression for me i i have my own team right i got my people the people that are round me that i'm
going to buffer all this bad moral and all this upon a buffer it away from my team man a make of their lives deodat's my goal i am in a
lead toward of what my idealist right i'm going to lead toward what my idea is now in order to do that well you got a play the game so that
you can get more influence if you don't go play the game you say hey the the roses don't know what they're talking about budoor talk about
and we to a thou go play the game you so that you can get more influence and and that means doing what you have to do that that means not
sayin he or moral socks and we don't have good leadership no it means no okay where going to move were going to move forward here's the
gold here's what i think here's what i believe he by the way i'm going to run this up the chain i come and i'm going to gather the date of
myself i'm goin to do the research i'm on a totemists rative or i'm going to study the cases and on a present him and say he hears with
happening at red that from an onomato situation just from pure logic we had this many shooting with that this man instance we had this many
we've had this many a suspects turned up with with concussions there's only one thing that causes a concussion to a suspect getting hit the
head sower having you know forty two per cent concussion rate may be we could drop that down if for you something that doesn't cause
concussions but still gives us control you got to be got to do that leg work and make life good for the people at work for you and that's
that's that that can be a little bit hard to do but it's not that hard you don't they you your supported look at you as the guy in so the
way you carry yourself in the way you present yourself in the moral as you have is the moral there going to have that's what they're going
to see as the way it is and i've always viewed it is selfeesh different vied in them good and bad some one have good commands and there's a
there's a new commenting officer over two years of supine so you get a new guy that comes in and an might be a lot different than the last
guy he might be really good he might be really bad and you know what it doesn't matter doesn't matter to me in the seton as a potichomanie
or even as a squad commander or even as an eat five and a seal petoen just one of the sled dogs i don't care what the upper chincona as
guess what we're going to do things right were going to make things happen now we're not going to disobey what's being told but if we're
being told something that's wrong is what we can try and get it in a run up the chant man were going to be scared away we're going to play
the game that we can make the changes that need to be made because i care about the teams just like this guy cares about the the the
flectere wanted to be a great force wanted to do the right thing and so you got a cake that attitude that you controlled your pardon the
world and the more you improve your partner world and the more influence you gain the more you'll have control over the big picture as well
there's no company no corporation that maintains just supermoral the time it doesn't happen you know pep every company every business every
unit every force every team has ups and downs and they have leadership that comes in and takes over that everyone considers to be bad and
that's that's the way it is but you got up on your little piece of the world and then as you on your prisones what every one starts
performing well and as you perform well you gain more cloud and as you gain more cloud you can influence real change and that's what you
look in to do so don't let don't let that leadership that bad what you consider me bad leadership just don't let that permanent your head
in your world buffer your people from it and then do what you can to build the best team you can get so that you have more influence so you
can change that policies and the procedures that you don't agree with it's a long hall i know it i don't have a miracle luciano you manitou
it's tough that's that's that's the world that's the world yes that you and when you dealing with the political elements of it and then at
the same time you have the public eye on you you know so you know as far as the exposure and stuff like that it's the new venetianised ian
general it's easy to to spread all this negative stuff it's easy you know so like one of those jobs where it it in a big way it's um it
only gets attention on something wrong with when not you know yet and i would take advantage a lot of this negative press because wages
negative press like you like this guy said he we're getting more shootings were getting more beatings well why is that let's look at our
procedure at hay boss you know what we used to use this to hold and we had a amount of concussions we had cement of shootings which you
could present the information logical way that proves what i know to be true what this guy knows it or what anybody had ever done this fell
a pear before nose to be true right that is that there are certain techniques that are better than others and a co cold and a grappling
types anerio definitely works better to subdue somebody then striking them in the head repeatedly until their knocked unconscious at that's
just the reality of it and no one can argue with that and the only reason that they went against it for political pressure so how we how do
we defeat that we gain cloud we move we continue to get in for enweri our power we we strengthen our allies we build a coalition and we go
forward and we went and it might take three years it might take three months a might take six years this guy right here that wrote this
might need to be the chief of police himself before he gets it done in but he that's what he does now he keep keeps on the right path and
keeps moving a right direction i i does the right thing so that he can't get advanced he doesn't make a bunch of emotional argument against
people that have a bunch of power and put himself in a bad seat for them when there looking at him like he's a rabble rouser no not a good
thing an you got a bill you got to build the relationships up the chain of command so they become respected so that people do listen to you
that's what you got to do that till you make it happen a man and the one on a side note that the chill cold wet jever all isn't just
submission that's that's kind of you now nibian of the great things about you gittit like ane it kind of seems that way sometimes if you're
not if you don't do you get through whatever you think all this kind of digital he'll sell you we'll break your arm you um the the kind of
the glamorous part of it is the mission for sure but the every other part of it is control controlling the situation all the way down to
controlling the egosthena to when you consider like just just an a concerto riscontro in jude when your alington ricono just that alone
will he will help you in line fortement just that alone no no i'm let alone the whole of juices risk into that help you along so you don't
need to necessary and i'm not saying so the choke should remain an i'm not think say that i mean for some in to die i mean i know this guy
died because it yokels applied incorrectly slepowron neck or is that adams zaporogues and by the way if he had if he was better adjudicarit
he would have applied it but the guyele olenin then a cuff them and albergo which happens all the time a class war the way in training does
you put the sleep latinitatis this leap on even to whom any time so unchaste for some one had died from a coat from a regular and on or
more chilkin got a shoke on for a long time yet where you're anime so tired just from choking of after he goes on conscious you have to
keep choking took in a prolongation take a lot you the real you probably what you said probably or crush her a high and denoting it's
called that ye and basely your adam's apple crushes you set you win bipin the guiding a tracoma in time yet that is a very very rare have
ever introduce you now i have had i have i've seen appointive got past out an went to sleep and some was deacon him and you'll just kept
cranking didn't realize that he was out for a couple of seconds in it and it ah hernando do have to watch out for it but at me that is so
rare compared to the amount of time that some one gets hit in the head and gets brain damage in a man that just happens all the time yes he
and this joke that you can actually do that doesn't does that kind of stuff but again if you know digiti you know the positions you know
the moon you know the submission if you can do submission and you're not panicking they feel very comfortable on the ground you feel very
comfortable engaging our combat you feel very comfortable engaging in this struggle an you're used to it you do it all the time to have
free now ye you're not adrenal and just crank in a guy in the head with a billy club over and over again and what did he do he puts his
hands up why because he tried to fight me now he's just trying to protect his head but you go keep trying to fight you and that's all your
hitting him even harder yet so yet it's definitely a tough situation and and the way you win on the ground in is with you jutahy you win
this leadership situation it is also with you gito don't go and bang heads with the chain of command a that's not how you are going to win
this fight the way you in this fight is by doing you get to against the leadership and you get in with them and you gain their trust and
you make them think that you're the man and your amis awesome and oh by the way i know a teams also and were totally agree with this policy
and we've sported on this policies working grey in a southern policy oh you know which got the phone paletan so good maybe we could do
something to fix that let me do it in research that's how you win you got to play the long game still find in that that analogy like
duggera ly what do you toustain a good position right that was you good position knowing where to be in war not to be you know where to put
your weight or where to put your force and were not to bloourfontin yet in the other big pieces that injudicious that i was more referring
to although those were all correct and the acts but it's also a you think i'm going to choke you but i'm actually going armored rain like
that's the hat up then you flank people in tacendi rectly an you infiltrate and you you do things in directly instead of going in just
pistach other war patrician i don't do that suttu yes leading up the chain of command i think that's kind of a new concept i not one late
it we get our you know that's a that's a chapter in the book he or is actually a subjecting the book but it's one that people are always
have a hard time getting their head around because i always said like my boss did whatever it wanted to deal yeah i hope don't understand
that that's the way it is when you build trust you take the time and you build the relationship and you prove over n over agin that you're
going to do the right thing in the right to tuition and that you're going to take account of bility and responsibility with something goes
wrong and that you have a good handling your shoulders an sure knocking emotional about things and you do all those things and that you're
driving in supporting the mission guess what you're going to get your andsoforth yes me your losses goin to do what you want him to do ye
mean all you do the same thing with down the tennants that down backlashed doing nothing in a crazy and cause he just annotate it doesn't
seem as intuitive you know be oonalaska any one could ever have is he you know what my boston give you one at that why i failed i hey you
know what our bosses won't let us use so cold right and therefore we can accomplish our mission weldon that's what i'm gonna make i'm going
to i'm going to lead up the check man and i'm an get my superiors to let us do we need to do and you effectively cause guess what the the
leadership isn't wind your leadership is going to be a line with what you want to do do you think that the leadership of the alla pd wants
you know a victor as a suspect and persto get ye a rain damaged ale now they don't want that they wanted they want them to be rested
properly on what has lost its a whole line years ago if you presenting something to them that's going to improve them and move them towards
the mission and support the ideals of what they're trying to get accomplished of course you're going to get for it nonchalant these little
political battles but those are just part of the challenge there just born of making it happen you know that heart of the jogies yet when
your rolling guyenne them not to fight patadyon seafight left question joli do you think having an aggressive mind set is the same as being
a practice so actually looked up the definition for these two words aggressive and proctors so practice is treating or controlling a
situation by causing something to happen rather than responding to it after it has happened and aggressive is ready or likely to attack or
confront characterized by or resulting from aggression so you can see that the the meanings are certainly the similar and i definitely
think you have to be practise in the world you know you want to be unedicated what happens not responding to it and ye that means our
eating or controlling a situation as much as you can ride sir that's that proactively means you ready to attack eesas i always point out
that dozen meaday walk around with your chest post to read a beads with every one around you it doesn't mean you confront to people over
time physically your men to e hand on without that bepestered plan it doesn't mean you go stratford in the conflict without thought and
without reason doesn't mean you engage in such riconoscere no that is almost never smart but what it does mean what a gresson does mean is
that you're gonna get after it you can amove fast you're going to think faster gontaut thinking outmaneuver the enemy that if i could the
enemy is going to attack me or in a cainist if i think the enemies genasee you the piece of train i'm going to be there waiting for him if
the enemy's goatry and flank me too late i'm already going be flanking him so i don't au aggression as an outward attitude i view
aggression as an internal character trait a fire in your mind that says i am going to win i'm going to fight in in battle and i into use
every tool i have to crush my enemy and not too it might be fast but it also might be guile and i could be at frontilatte it also might be
a cover fascination he could be ahvungah display of power but just as likely it could be eight subtle political manoeuvre natatores estime
the unstoppable fighting spirit the drive the burning desire to achieve mission success using every possible tool every asset that every
strategy at tacticis about victory time aggression is the will to win and if that kind of internal inalertness aggression is your default
mode then you will win in i think that's not of god for night so all you to perout there thanks for joining us in this conversation that
listening and subscribing and if you like it go through a little review on i tones a posted on your social media so do what you can to
spread the word swenge more people out of the darkness and into the light tenor connecting with us through the into webs and if he don't
know on twiner i'm at jackall in an echo is at echochee give a shout out there or ask us any questions you might have and of course thanks
to the companies that support us and please support to company that sport us how could he do that echoes on activate the twitter thing i
latour's in like easy to talk to untie insane like a lot of people they'll be like maybe a follow up question to some questions on her or
something that you have heard something that won't require big long extended answer and i that's a i think from what i've seen what veerin
t the good place to ask ye for sure you if you'll get a question asked on to water i might just respond and say no i would never do that
ray yes that's an excellent idea or whatever it orisa hey obstinate that upon cast yet that he the good spot though i think it's not one of
the things where you'll just be like a jacobin and then it goes ignored not a i being an iligant keep the self for i mean there's so to be
lonesomer yes also a but i the definitely will like anybody that put something pertinent yeah yeah man some ysate to talk to me imitate
some time to talk to each alatoona and i tried to the same thing even though people are more dismaying jokes to me which i slid prefer his
my answer there may or may not be reliable well this itchabod if you want to put bicester ways of course and you want to get some solid
supplements the only supplements that you take right yes and done actually to me too aside from what weird three work out that is sometimes
seeing only some of his taken from honiton guarantee ohayo unit out comes last jocko get a worry your bar deyself that favour i would say
sententiam but the word or that might be the innovation do that or go to amazon or before you go to onion go to jackpots com or jackastral
comes clicked through the link that he can support that way sprinkle anapaeests but was one click belated organ a shirt while you're on
their tolleston if you like him you don't have it yes you like him gliddington persicus and mugs to though by the way gesitha shackles on i
ran most outlandish a product that we could make of the figure that out with the most outlandish jocko product that we could come up with
it is upon twitter no what outlandish product you are thanatopsis the emigrating i will i also if you want read about these principles if
you want to read about them these principles in a more official manner you can check out the book of tremontes that lay famine hard cover
kindle audio book the audio book is read by myself and lay so you can oh you can hear us talk more and then finally and most important
thanks to everybody forgiving aggressive as you attack you weak missus and you make yourself better faster stronger smarter healthier and
of course thanks to every one out there for setting that alarm clock opening your eyes springing out of bed and getting after it in until
next time this is jocundo how
