this is jack al pot cast number twenty with echo charles and me jackwell income around eight p m on september twenty first two thousand and
seventy authority authorities notified me that i should go for a mind re education talk i found there were some unusual things happening at
this time the secret police who used to follow me very closely kept the further distance i was walking down the street one day and then
when i turned a corner about six or seven strangers started walking towards me i sadly felt a strong below the back of my neck and fell
face down on the ground some one yanked my hair and a black black hood was pulled over my head immediately i was brought to a vehicle and
was put in it i couldn't see but it seemed that i had two benches with a space in the middle i was put in the space in the middle of the
floor my right cheek was on the ground all of a sudden a boot was put on my face holding me down many hand started searching all over me my
belt was pulled off and used to tie my hands behind my back at least four people put their feet on me holding me down about forty minutes
later i was dragged out of the car my pants were falling down around my knees and i was dragged into a room no one said anything at all to
me until that time the hood was pulled off my head at this time immediately men began cursing and hitting me one of the men said your day
of death has come to day brothers let's give him a belessen to day beat him to death then four men with electric shock proud began beating
my head and all over my body nothing but noise and a beating of my anxious breathing could be heard how is beaten so severely that my whole
body began uncontrollably shaking don't pretend to do that i was shattered out by a gy whom i later learned was named wang then a very
strong and tall man grabbed my hair and pulled me up off the ground then wang began beating me on the face terribly you are not worthy to
wear clothes pollarolo his clothes all of my clothes were pulled off and i was totally naked when yelled again and some one kicked me in
the back of my legs and i collapsed to the floor the big guy continued to pull my hair and forced me to lift my head to see wang at this
time i could see that there were five people in the room four of the men were holding electric progues and one was holding my belt you
listen go to day your uncle's want nothing but to make your life worse than death while wing was saying this the electric shock prose put
on my face and upper body shocking me weighing then said come on guys deliver the second course then the electric shock began was put all
over me and my full body my heart lungs and muscles began jumping under my skin uncontrollably i was riding around on the ground and pain
trying to crawl away waiting then shocked me in my genitals my begging them to stop only returned laughing and more unbelievable torture
wang then used the electric shock beton three more times on my genitals while shouting loudly after a few hours of this i had no energy to
even beg let alone try to escape but my mind was still clear it seems that the torturers themselves were also tired before the dawn came
three of them left the room we will come back later to give em the next course waxed i asked how can you face the beating of chinese and
use maffatai chinese tax peters you are an object to be beaten you know that in your heart better than most taxpayers count for nothing in
china don't talk about this term tax bars while he was saying this someone all also entered the room i recognized a voice to be wings don't
talk to him with your mouth give him the real thing your uncles have repaired twelve courses we only finished three last night your chief
uncle doesn't like to talk and so following you will see that you will have to eat your own ship and drink your own pass don't you talk
about torture by the communist party yet because we will give you a comprehensive lesson now i am not afraid of you if you continue to
write we can torture you to death without your body being found in the following hours of torture i passed out several times because of
lack of water and food and heavy sweating i was lying down on the cold floor naked i felt several times some old calm an open my eyes and
shine a flashlight into them to see if i were still alive when i would come to i smelt the strong odor of stinky erin my face nose and hair
were filled with the smell obviously but i don't know when some one yearned on my face and head this torture continued until round noon of
the third day i don't know where i got the strength to endure but somehow i struggled to get away from their grasp and began to beat my
head on the table i was shouting the names of my two children and trying to kill myself but my attempted not succeeded i thank almighty god
for this it was him who rescued me i truly felt god dragged me back from that state and give me my life my eyes were full of bleeding
through though because of my head bang i fell on the ground immediately three people sat on my body one was on my face there were laughing
they said i used my death to try and scare them they said they have just seen this too many times they then continued the torture again
until that night i could not see anything with my eyes any more every day while i was being held the experience of eating was unusual
whenever i was at the point of starving they would bring up mantle which was steamed bread and offered to me if i would sing one of the
three famous revolutionary communist party songs i could have some bread my deepest desire was that i wanted to live until that was no
longer possible my death would be torturous for my wife and children but at the same time i didn't want to dirty my soul but in that
nvironment human dignity has no strength if you don't sing these songs you will continue to be starved and they will continue to torture
you so i sang when they used the same tactics though pressuring me to write articles attacking following gone i didn't do it but i
compromised by writing my statement saying that the government didn't kidnap me and tortured me and that they treated me and my family well
i did sign that document during these more than fifty days more horrible evils were committed than i told here those evils were not even
worthy of any historical records by any human governments but those records will further enable us to see clearly that how much further the
leaders of cease per willing to go in its evil crime against humanity in order to protect it elegantly power those evils are so dirty and
disgusting that i do want to mention it at this time and perhaps will never mention it in the future every time when i was tortured i was
always repeatedly threatened that if i spelled out later what had happened to me i would be tortured again but this time i was told this
time it will happen in front of your wife and children the tall strong man that pulled my hair repeated this over and over during the seven
days i was tortured your death is sure if you share this with the outside world this was repeated many times these brutal violent acts are
not right those that did it themselves knew this clearly in their hearts so that say a note from a guid name goschen who is a christian
boyer in china that defended christians and became an enemy of the chinese communist state and again this is two thousand seven that this
occurred and the reason i started off without to night is because war goin to dale into some material that come from mouth secunts you know
one of the most famous and powerful a communist leaders ever than the reason that i got interested in the susi you remember or if you went
red about face by david a quart he talks about making all of his subordinate reed mouston's little red book and you know when i heard
hacksteed that i read many years ago and i although that's an interesting read it actually led me to a better read also by mount said
tomrig more out of and not the version that i got was originally put out by the marine corn and i and a wise and translated mount said
tongues book you cheat can which means gorillarities and i wanted the reason i want to start off with this shocking tale of torture was
cause i i wanted to make sure the high lighted mousley this is you know a guy that's responsible for millions and upon millions of deaths
from disease and starvation and systematic executions in death in these labor camps called reform through labor so oh you're not quite
fitting in cool will work you to death and that the estimates for the number of people that were that died as a result of him being in
power is between forty and eighty million he's the he's at the top of the list he's above stolen's above hyper and the mistreatment of
people continues you know go echontes read i started off to night but you know even now i just saw a news story about dinky whose the wife
of a reverend colin april busier this month stood in front of a bulldozer to stop the state ordered demolition of a church and the dis
pushed her in the ditch barter alive through the still happening and so i want to make it perfectly clear that there is massive amounts of
evil and oppression racked up in mouston now what is interesting and this is you know probably white hack in fact it is why ackworth you
know read this and had his people read it is because the military and leadership series that he espouses they actually aline with my own
principles of leadership which is crazy and in its shocking because i mean cialit rally one of founders of the chinese communist party and
obviously i may believe her in democracy and specifically specifically i am a believer in individual freedom of human beings but like i
said interesting you'll see that many of the leadership principles that i talk about and that i believe in now you lie them and taught them
when he was trying to run military and insurgent operations in an it doesn't surprise me because i know what motivates people and i know
how to i know the principles that work but what is surprising is that he didn't take these leadership principles and leave nation like that
so you are going to see that very clearly when we go when we go through this and you'll part of its probably has to do with the the famous
quote from lord acton which is power tends to corrupt and absolute power corrupts absolutely so it's the ether that either he got corrupted
or maybe he never realised that the way he lead in combat is the way you need to lead in life and in business the way you lead people
unfortunately never realized that so to start this off this is an interduction in analysis the starson analysis of malacon and his
principles not was done guy by a gindarica or general samuel b griffith united states marine corps in de puta little background on general
griffith he served as the executive officer and later commander of the first maine raiders batalion on guadiana he served as the executive
officer of the first rate regiment in operations on new georgia he received the navy cross which is only second to the metal voler owaneco
september nineteen forty two for extreme heroism and courageous devotion to duty during the fighting near the montana river during the
action griffises for which he was awarded the purple heart for his exploits in july a new georgia he was awarded the distinguished service
cross so the satire decorated here's the bones here he spoke chinese and he was stationed in china several times so is the guy that
actually translated this book from chinese to english so i don't think you could possibly come up with a better person to to base this
translation of of then than general griffith prostatae that kind of person and still be able to look at his work so much get into this book
here mal saton on giraharas translated by sam you will be griffith mallston the man who was to don the man tell of linen was born in who
known province and central china and aten ninety three his father in a dustrious farmer had managed to require several acres and with this
land of the status of a middle peasants peasant he was a strict disciplinarian and mouth was not a happy one the boy was in constant
conflict with his father but found an ally in his mother whose indirect tactics as he once described her method of coping with her husband
appealed to him so we all ready did a little flag here you know here is as guy and he looked at the way his mom dealt with his dad and she
used these indirect tactics i talk about that all the time and you're going to see that useth indirect tactics in an item litry way as well
shortly after grayback to the book shortly after graduating from normal school and nineteen seventeen malacate the position as assistant in
the peking universally library here he associated himself with marketed groups here it he discovered landon read his essays pored over
troughs explosive speeches and began to study mark and angles by nineteen twenty malwanis communist and a man who had discovered his
mission to create a new china according to the doctrine of mark and linen when the sea pie was organized and shanghai in nineteen twenty
one moldonado of where it begins and now skipping through some of the evolution and getting right into strategy tactics and logistics in
revolutionary war here's one of his quoth the first law of war is to preserve ourselves and destroy the enemy very simple you talk about
simplicity all time we wrote about it in a book is there any more simple principle to the two to wage war other than the first law of wars
to preserve ourselves and destroy the enemy now has never claimed that gorilla action alone is decisive in a strove for political control
the state but only that it is a possible natural and necessary development in agrarian based revolutionary war so he is not the isn't they
do can do everything but he knows it pays a very critical part revolutions rarely compromise compromises or made only to further
districting irritat again compromises or made only to further the strict egit design negotiation than is undertaken for the duel purpose of
gaining time to butter supposition and aware down frustrate and harass an opponent so this is you know again we we saw about this on the
last pot casting its nabout being right you make to compromise is because you're trying to win the war not the battle intelligence is that
the fight decisive factor in planning to roll operations where is the enemy in what strength what does he propose to do what is the state
of his equipment is apply is moral or as leaders intelligent bolden imagine or stupid or as troops tough efficient and well disciplined or
poorly trained and soft the rilla's expect the members of their intelligent service to provide the answers to these and dozens of more
detailed questions the rillation mats are tightly organized and pervasive in a grigri area every person of without exception must be
considered an agent old men and women boys driving ox carts girls tending goats farm laborer storekeepers school teachers prepotent
scavengers so when you're dealing with a gorilla situation everybody's an intelligence gathering and you that how you have to treat them
all as a corral erigina don't nigh all information of themselves to their enemy who is enveloped in an impenetrable fog this is a
characteristic feature feature of all gorilla wars the enemy stands on a lighted stage from the darkness around him thousands of unseen
eyes intently study his every move is every gesture when he strikes out he hit air his antagonist are insubstantial as intangible as a
feeding shadows in the moonlight is a great great way of looking at it back to the book because of superior information grillos always
engaged under conditions of their own choosing because a superior knowledge of train there able to use their advantage and the enemies
discomfiture the rilla's fight only when the chances of victory are weighed heavily in their favor what a great tactic only fight when
chances of vicar weight heavily in their favor if the tide of battle unexpectedly flows against them they were draw m they rely only on a
magnate leadership distraction surprise and mobility to create victorious situation before the battle is joined this is all stuff to think
about an everything that you do why you going to battle if you not prepared and set the situation of where you're goin to be the tories if
you start losing don't stand there and take a beating just walk away faded away the enemy is deceived and again deceived attacks our sudden
sharp vicious and of short duration many or harassing in nature others are designed to dislocate the enemy's plans and the agitated
confuses commanders the mind of the enemy and the will of his leaders is a target of far more importance than the bodies of his troops so
this is an attack on the will of the leaders and how do you do that you can fuse him you horace now once remarked not entirely false that
gorilla's must be experts at running away since they do it so often they avoid static dispositions their effort is always to keep the
situation as flutes possible to strike where and when the enemy least expects them only in this way can they retain the initiative and so
be assured of freedom of action in this is exactly of this is what hackworth wanted to do in vietnam he wanted a fight to gorillaceous in
the buckin to fight the g like a g o n to fight the grill is like gorillas and that was what upset him so bad we kept doing these big
conventional operations well you do a big convention operation the envy this appears they leave behind some booby traps for you they take
some tiersot they hit you in some indirect fire you take casualties they don't go they disappeared a gorilla operations conducted over a
wide region are necessarily decentralized each regional commander must be familiar with the local conditions and take advantage of local
opportunities the same applies to commands in subordinate districts this decentralized de decentia is to some extent forced upon the
gorillas because they lack a well developed system of technical communications but at the same time descension from normal operations has
many advantages particularly if local leaders are ingenious and bold one of a laws of combat that lay on irebu in the book right
decentralized command you've got a let your subordinate leaders lead you have to do it yet he let the people know what no what do
strategies and let them go execute and with so bizarre about this is not the way of coming iscere runs they control everything they try and
control everything nothing everything essentialized everything is centralized and that's why it doesn't work the enemy back to the book the
enemies rear if the grillus front vaghenseil have no rear their legist problems are solved in a direct and elementary fashion the enemy is
the principal source of weapons equipment and ammunition such the grilles they don't have to worry about logistics and tory about supply
there gannagare their enemy now wants said we have a claim on the output of the arsenals of london as well as of aneantis more it is to be
delivered to us by the enemies own transport corn this is the sober truth not a joke to they have they were like it to eponto their enemy
and their enemy just delivers them to them it is interesting to examine mouths strict egil and tactical furies in the light of his
principle unity of opposites casematad his principal unity of opposites um you may have this might seem a little bit familiar if you read
the book if you read our book the dichotomy leadership right there opposite so so cures males principle a principle called unity of
opposites this seems back the book this seems to be an adaptation to military action of the ancient chinese philosophical concept of an
briefly the yen and yegor elemental and pervasive of opposite polarities they represent male and female dark and light cold and heat
recession and aggression the reciprocal interaction is endless so again you know the pepole and said ah now i know neworleans what the is
it dicotomy it's opposing forces and in that this just given more lined and important postulate of the indian theory is that concealed
within strength there is weakness and within weakness strength it is a weakness of guerillas that they operate in small groups that can be
wiped out in a matter of minutes but because they do operate in small groups they can move rapidly and secretly into the vulnerable rear of
the enemy in conventional tactic dispersion of forces invite destruction in griller this very tactic is desirable both to confuse the enemy
and to preserve the illume the illusion that the gorillas are ubiquitous it is of it often a disadvantage not to have heavy infantry and
have you infantry weapons available but the very fact of having to transport them has in a recently tied conventional columns to roads and
well used tracks the grille travels light and travels fast he turned the hazard of train in to his advantage and makes an ally of tropical
rains heavy snow and tense heat and freezing cold long night marches are difficult and dangerous but the darkness shields his approach to
an unsuspecting enemy in every apparent disadvantage some advantage is to be found in other words good the converse is equally true in each
apparent advantage lie the seeds of disadvantage the end is not wholly in nor the yang holy yang it is only the wise general said the
ancient chinese military philosophers too who is able to recognize this fact and turn it to a good account the rillation may be some rise
in four shines characters which mean uproar in the east strike in the west here we find expressed the allimportant principles of
distraction on the one hand and concentration on the other to fix the enemy's attention and to strike where and when he least anticipates
the blow gorillas are masters of the arts of simulation and dissimulation be create pretenses and simultaneously disguise or concealed
their true semblance their tactical concepts that namick and flexible are not cut to any particular pattern but mows first law of war to
preserve oneself and destroyed the enemy is always governing ye it's just amazing the amount of similarities and i guess at some point of
my life i'm going to stop being amazed that on the fact that that basic principles of war in the basic principles of life they been around
for thousands and thousands of years and for one of her reason we just have to relearn them you know i i i wrote the dicotomy of horsepool
that economy leadership i didn't think about yentai showed of if i paid more attention you will in a way i did think of venaissin call it
in an ye but i'm saying that didn't spark my foes a lesson that i learned the wenebago mi re la yes which is sad i could have way i like
you been said if i had read more and fought more maybe in a figure out earlier going on back to the book at the pleasant time much
attention is being devoted to the development of gadgetry so egos and this again missus this is still a general griffith that's talking and
he he said something that we hear all the time when i was in the military all the time you hear that you know we need to new technology and
that's on a change everything and every and tacitely great but it's not the key component of war and he says that i do not mean to suggest
that proper weapons and equipment will not plain important part in anti groper ations for of course they will continents should be made to
improve communication food medical and surgical packs weapons in auminaun tion must be drastically reduced in weight there seems to be no
tactical reason why a sturdy light accurate automatic rifle weighing a maximum of fortified pounds cannot be developed and the search for
non effective weapons must continue but we must realize that flame thrower like guns and bullets are only a very small part of the answer
to a challenging and complex problem the tactics of gorillas must be used against the grillade give nesses exactly what hackworth gave up
his career in the army over this is how he wanted to fight and people were not listening to him they must be constantly harried and
constantly attacked every effort must be made to induce defections and take prisoners the best source of information of the enemy is men
who know the enemy's situation a maginative intelligent and bold leadership now again this is general griffith pocket what it takes to be
the gorilla the imaginative intelligent and bold leadership is absolutely essential a manders and leaders at every ashlan must be selected
with these specific qualities in mind you know people don't think that this is a ringhorn or general his number one caracteres tic is a
magination is his number one characteristic officers an end to oscar more than confident under normal conditions will frequently be
hopelessly in effective when confronted with the dynamic and totally different situation characteristics of gerilleau who have thought that
the marine or general says that the most important is a parantory is not talking about anything physical he talking about imagination and
intelligence and leadership that's what wins okay now we're going to get to the actual words from moustacho and his again his section in
this book is called very simply gorilla warfare and let's hear what he has to say about leadership all gorilla units must have political
and military leadership this is true regardless of the source or size of such units such units may originate locally in the masses of the
people they may be formed from a mixture of regular troops with the with groups of people or they may consist of regularly regular army
units in tact and mere quantity does not affect this matter such units may consist of a squaw of a few men of italian of several hundred
men or regin regiment of several thousand men all these must have leaders who are unyielding in their policies resolute loyal sincere and
robust these men must be well educated in revolutionary technique self confident able to establish severe discipline and able to cope with
counter propaganda in short these leaders must be models for the people as the war progresses such leaders were gradually overcome the lack
of discipline which at first prevails they will establish discipline in their forces strengthening them and increasing their combat
efficiency thus eventual victory will be attained on organized gramar fare cannot contribute to victory so clearly once again leadership is
the e component and he goes into a little bit more of that but first molesting about this one is the basic terilla strategy guillotine must
be based primarily on a lowness mobility and attack it must be adjusted to the enemy situation the train the existing lines are
communications the relative strength the weather and the situation of the people you got have total atatitenron total adaptability in
grinleaf select the tactic of seeming to come from the east and attacking from the west a void the solid attack the hollow attack withdraw
deliver a lightning blow seek a lightning decision when gruisin gage a stronger enemy they withdraw when he advances harassin when he stops
striking when he's weary pursuit withdraws and grillade the enemies rear flanks and other volaille spots are his vital points and there he
must be asked attacked dispersed exhausted and the nihilate only in this way can gorillas carry out their mission of independent rilla
action in coordination with the effort of the regular armies but in spite of the most complete preparation there can be no victory if
mistakes are made in the matter of command very obvious now we were seeing what the war paris if you're not familiar with it it's a very
obvious what it is in its very similar to git your setting people up you're not going against their strength your your letting people move
and it's what we talk about all in here when we talk about dealing with other human beings don't go a head a head with them on that point
that their dug in on you're not going to your own you to do creative rsity you're going to get a fight that's what you're going to get and
you don't want to fight the other thing is interesting about this as i start to see slivers into the psychology of moll where he says here
there can be no victory for mistakes are made in the matter of command you can see what that starts to show a micro manager it really you
look at a common commachian micro management of trying to control everything that you can she sarsens of that that psychology of the micro
manager continuing that can aboo the strategy of gillmore's manifestly unlike that employed in orthodox operations as the basic tactic of
the former is constant activity and movement there is in greater no such thing as a decisive battle there is nothing comparable to the
fixed passage a sense that characterizes orthodox war in grillwork transformation of a moving situation into a positional defensive
situation never arises a montremain in guerilla warfare the transformation of the moving situation into positional defensive situation
never rises so if you're on the move and your attacking the enemy and almost sun they start getting the upper hand you don't dig in you
disappear you go away now we start talking again that this is i started saying that i start seeing the livers of psychology of man that
might turn him into a micro manager but the guy had to run this war and he knew there was only one weighted do it in that using the basic
principles of combat leadership then he re talks about it there are differences also in the matter of leadership and command in gillamore
small unit acting independently played the principal role and there must be no excessive interference with their activities so here's may
the guid that tries to control me it led communism which tries to control everything for the state and he sang that there must be no
excessive interference with their activities individual freedom woodpath moles or opponent of individual freedom in orthodox water
particularly the moving situation a certain degree of initiative is accorded to subordinates but in principle command is centralise in the
talma conventional war and sarbaland essentialized this is done because small unit and all supporting arms in all district must ornate to
the highest degree in the which is actually not true it's possible to an end there's no doubt that decentralized command even in a big
conventional war is infinitely better than centralized command in in the case of guillamore this is not only undesirable but impossible
only a dacent grillions concordia activities to any degree so we can only coriantumr ght next to you strategically their activities can be
roughly correlated with those of the regular forces and tactically they must co operate with the jacent units of the regular army but there
are no strictures on the extent of gorilla activity nor is it primarily characterized by the quality of co operation of many units it's
what you do on your own it's what you it's what ah individual leader does with his little team that's decentralised and by the way that's
free market you know that's capitalism and it's it's unfortunate that now now this for drillmaster but he couldn't make the connection or
like i said maybe he did but he just grew corrupt re power when we discussed when we discussed the road terms front and rear it must be
remembered that walkerites do have bases their primary field of activity is in the enemy's rear areas they themselves have no rear
etiquette of injudicial the military edicatin you where do these girls come from here is now there are those who say i am a farmer or i am
a student i can discuss literature but not military arts this is incorrect there is no profound difference between the farmer and the
soldier you must have courage you simply leave your farms and become soldiers that you are farmers is of no difference and if you have an
education that is so much the better when you take arms in your hand you become soldiers when you are organized you become military units
gorilla hostilities argy university of war and after your fought several times valiantly and aggressively you may become a leader of troops
just got it out there on the battle field and you'll learn i found this interesting in spite of inescapable differences in the fundamental
types of guerilla bands it is possible to unite them to form a vast sea of gorillas the ancient said kishan is a great mountain because it
does not scorn the merest handful of dirt the rivers and seas are deep because they absorbed the waters of small streams attention paid to
the enlistment and organization of gorillas of every type and form every store will increase that potentienius of gorillas in actions sir
irate body and its important i take everybody everybody that shows up is getting in the game again missus this is a point that is so bazar
to hear from me here he goes the people must be inspired to cooperate voluntarily we must not force them for if we do it will be
ineffectual this is extremely important now i wish you would a red your own book i wish you would regrown book the people must be inspired
to co operate voluntarily we must not force them for if we do it will be ineffectual this is something that i talk about all the time tis
given people orders that not work you need this leave dem an he do inspire them even get them to do things because they want to do them
even now know that unfortunately he apply it to his nation ding into the officers a little bit the leadership since each gorilla group
fight in a protracted war its officers must be brave and positive men whose entire loyalty is dedicated to the cause of a mancipation of
the people and officers have the following qualities great powers of endurance that in spite of any hardship he sets an example to his men
and his model through them he must be able to mix easily with the people his spirit and that of the men must be won in strengthening the
policy of resist resistance to the japanese if he wishes to gain victories he must study tactics a gorilla group with officers of this
colbert would be unbeatable again a massive focus on the leadership setting an example leading from the front and also being able to
communicate with people being able to do it down there with the troops to have them relate to you now knew this was important and a little
one about the troopers here a soldier who habitually breaks regulations and must be dismissed from the army vagabonds and vicious people
must not be accepted for service the old bum habit must be forbidden and a soldier who cannot break himself of the habit should be
dismissed victory in gorilla war is conditioned upon keeping the membership pure and clean you got have good troopers the idea must be an
ever present conviction and if it is forgotten we may succumb to the temptations of the enemy or be overcome with discouragements and
retalk about this is commanders intentius understand why you're doing what you're doing this his task and purposes in all but of things
wrapped up in this in hell malays at you i say people got understand why they're doing what they're doing that and make the same thing here
is what he said in a war of long duration those whose conviction that the people must be a mancipated is not deep or likely to become
shaken in their faith and or actually revolt when out the general education that enables every one to understand or go if any one sleeping
right now wake up and listen as without the general education that a naval every one to understand are goal the soldiers fight without
conviction and lose their determination your people if you are oleosi position i got to understand why they're doing what they're doing
they have to or they fight without conviction and lose their determination begin is is that this is just it unbelievable that now had this
vision and didn't apply it to everything listen what he says about discipline a revolutionary army must have disappoint that is established
on a limited democratic basis in all armies obedience of the subordinates to their superiors must be exacted this is true in the case of
gorillalike but the basis for a relation must be the individual conscience with gorillas a discipline of compulsion is ineffective a
discipline of compulsions in effective so if i'm going that you a makin do stiff if i just for you to do things i forced discipline on you
that is an effective thank you now i who imposed discipline merself verses self disappoint yes this is a familiar ternight in any
revolutionary army there is unity of purpose as far as both officers and men are concerned and therefore within such an army discipline is
self imposed although disciplining grillings is not as severe as in the ranks of orthodox forces the necessity for discipline exists this
must be self imposed because only when it is is the soldier able to understand completely wi he fight and why he must obey this type of
discipline becomes a tower of strength within the army and it is the only type that can truly you are nize the relationship that exists
between officers and soldiers is unbelievable it unbelievable this is this is completely true in its true across the board in any
organization that what when you get the spoolery one understands why they're doing it that becomes the strength and people discipline
themselves because they understand why and he says that that type of disappoint i have to read the sand this type of disappointed become a
tower of strength within the army and is the only trip that can truly harmonize the relationship that exists between officers and soldiers
and he goes on to say this in any system where discipline is externally imposed the relationship that exists between officer and man is
characterized by indifference of the one to the other the idea that officers can physically beat or severely tongue lash their men as a
fenian and is not in accord with the conception of self imposed discipline discipline of the feudal type will destroy introit and fighting
strength a discipline self imposed is the primary curteist of a democratic system in the army unbelievable that he wrote these words and
ran his nation the way he did it unbelievable as a matter of fact i hope some revolutionaries over there listening to me and saying you
know what i think we missed the mark a little bit now didn't mean that now didn't want us to beat and torture people to get them in line i
could go back against them with males own words but's go to it to get him freedom further in such an army the mode of living the the mode
of living of the officers and soldiers must not differ too much and this is particular true in the case of guerilla troops officer should
live under the same conditions as their men for that is the only way in which they can gain from their men the admiration of conference so
vital in war the same thing we heard from everywhere that from patent so patanie same page it is incorrect a whole to a theory of equality
in all things but there must be a quality of existence in accepting the hardships and dangers of war thus we may attain to the unification
of the officer and soldier groups i unity both horse on a within the group itself and vertical that is from a lower to the higher ashlands
it is only when such unity is present that units can be said to be powerful combat factors back to some back to some tactical notes speed
is essential the movements of grillrooms must be secret and of supernatural rapidity the enemy must be taken unaware and the action entered
speedily there can be no procrastination in the execution of plans got a get done here and now the enemy is much stronger than we are and
it is true that we can hinder distract dispersed and destroyed him only if we disperse our own forces although guerilla warfare is the
warfare of such dispersed units it is sometimes desirable to concentrate in order to destroy enemy thus the principle of concentration of
force against a relatively weaker enemy as a plicable to gorilla warfare illiteratis execute and this right here is where were going to
close it out a lanagan going back to leadership no military leader is endowed by heaven with an ability to seize the initiative it is the
intelligent leader who does so after a careful study and estimate of the situation and arrangement of the military impolitical factors
involved when a grille unit through either a poor estimate on the part of its leader or pressure from the enemy is forced into a passive
position its first dubious to extricate itself no method can be prescribed for this as the method to be employed will in every case depend
on the situation one can if necessary run away but there are times when the situation seems hopeless and reality is not so at all it is at
such times when the good leader recognizes and seizes the moment when he can attain and we gain the losanti let us resist revert to
alertness to conduct one's troops with alertness is essential of gorilla command leaders must realize that to operate alertly is the most
important factor in gaining the initiative and vital in its effect on the relative situation that exists between our forces and those of
the enemy the relaciones must adjust their operations to enemy situation to the train and to prevailing local conditions leader leaders
must be alert to sense changes in those factors in make necessary modifications in troodista to accord with them so what we talouel got
have you ability to detach these call it be at lunch the leader must be like a fisherman who with his nets and able to both cast them and
told to pull and to pull them out in a wanness of the depth of the water the strength of the current or the presence of any obstructions
that may found them as the fisherman controls his nets through the lead ropes so the guerilla leader maintains contact with and control
over his units as the fisherman must change position so must the gorilla commander dispersion concentration constatag position it is in
these ways that gorillas their strength and for you lois again what he's talking about is that the leader has to be able to detach and be
alert of these things that are happening and also you'll notice that throughout this he puts told responsibility on the leader of the
leader does well that troops will do well if the leader fails they all fail talk about extreme ownership this communist so i thought that
the great into into another leader that you know he let you to combat and like i said throughout that that section he just didn't realize
that that is not just leadership for a gorilla unit he thought that it was another way when difference situations but if not bideing
agooing welcome to the shell a you know what i initals good too for me given into this this other book here ye know no weegan knowledge
from or confirm knowledge he is it going to be from you know one of the most murderous communist dictators of all time yes i'm getting some
knowledge from omiting knowledge you know and that's pretty cool um and it also proves one again once again that leading people is leading
people whether you do it in combat where you a business with you're doing it in the team leadership a leadership principles that work with
human work with all humans and all situations are their new ones yes the after make it just on yes that's actually what we just harned's
part of it is being alert enough hard to tache enough that you can send those things and you can make those adjustments on the fly but the
basic principles they don't change and they haven't changed for thousands of years seielut get to some internet questions ter house tom's
good to me oh but before that internet related items other than the questions are at the fact that were spansered by on it not com boom and
a that's where we get our supplementing but not limited to atabrine which held you think better in memory of your memory and stuff it's
good in italy they just release on they rely some called mc tillender if you are a type of person as a fire in up the ketane die it and
you're going low car like i do then a gantry to stuff out i've been putting it in directly into heavy whipping cream up a little empty tea
cocoa and toil westralia tree right in their direction yourself alone treatise a little tree so good to go sororal fat just flowing through
my system moving it on it dining largiundo yes give that stuff a shout a atostor of it ye keep your joints and tact even if you're young i
think you should have your real oil you if you're training yeh yeh if you're listenoise get after it has grow a that's the fool um ye on it
not comes lashed jocote per cent off cause retail folloman hundred per cent i'm not playing that's bad and not saying that but some present
afflitta ittoo eighteen slash jackals if you're in the mood to support this port catherines n oh i do a few things and the real easy so one
of them is before you shot on amazon no matter what your band including the not limited to any of the books of it joories or
excrementitious probe good a jacopone up come first click on the amazon link and then it cannonette like a small brief earl see that's what
it's called referee me either way to support or if you like to shirtee make an away one or two by one of those bone here you as you want to
do it i do that too but when i get a shirt right or a bomber stare as yestereve up thirty bucks some millet shirt and see also list
lookingue tion from the people who i requestin jack and echo digitis a long repetitive grind that's it there are occasional highlights a
hammen submissions your proud of your personal laginska or may be keen barrassin what as some of those for each of you so what is in a
homemates when you learn something no important in my opinion rash now enforst part of his word says be j j is out long repented of grind
no i don't think so agree good agree is ifigenia if to me be jes a fond exciting road of enlightened venutasi a year older a rough days on
the mat ye there's a your gefreid fish no doubt about that ah a couple for me what will one of them for sure i tell the sort before
behistan trainait a tutelary god in steve bailey awesome guy was a fighter fought more tie and he was training with the graces in it early
nineties laid eighties he was training up in the garage and torrents answere knew jugend he asked a bunch of us ranatra a couple of us said
yes he choked it out he armored us i was amazed and i thought that that was all he gets her news like literally white felt but nineteen
ninety or whatever preuves it was a big deal ah sonya's tito tell the story quickly the one of the guys that was with me in that initial
training the giambatista re he was a dual body mind went through sheltering with a sore and we both were kind of training together that
time which reinforce four five months tops and then we weren't the same baton we came back and he is actually started training with fabeata
the time and he got out of the navy just to train jouirais still in silken going on apominable so one day he comes over my house he had
just coneshaped bell and i was a white belt negosha on a train and i said he because i mean i thought you know i know the stuff that you
know because i learned it three years ago or forty years ago or whatever it was ye let do it so we went across the street into the grass
adjusts choked to be images destroyed my ripe brand new purple bell shown off his skill his o'right net he gart do a year to show
onregenerate all to guy so provoked he was actually the you know he was to me he favour you know you know showing me that he or you don't
know anything answered that was a that wasn't a harmon i don't know anything so that was a ah that was a a good amoment for me yet my way
more of you was a lot shorter so mean mean cake not mesel whom on him my best friends we went on down to remember dean had that spot that
ye was like a half a spy up far so that's where i first sertenete a month in an i knew i went in knowing what mout and guard side mount
renegado i knew that i didn't know how to really function in an is bosition but i knew what they were and i knew how to be in a moustafas
it i thought it a pretty solid athlete i was like two twenty five solid wespecting with de yet this is my crime actually rolling with me oh
kishedae the keys teacher in her at the mankoran um so i'll take all shoot up you know deals one in his height when he and he was coming
off his abyss way he had a super fight that year against em john jarjayes um he was the man you know the reillumination but am so may be
out late by you know at a five five pounds whatever but as i can't waylight's be so awkward you know i feel i got over it now and that i
you know you needn't parshandatha submission on one you know the whole yossele ready of so and me take matinees a counterthreads you know
welcome to thee the hate me or whatever one so my i so roll in right on he inhereditary standing up be kind o sat down of enemy and
neutrally row he just keep grabbed to me her end now it's called when you lock up this somewhere right right you understand that that's
what it's called but when we locked up on he grabbed me that's the moment i realize oh yes that that probability of me catching him is
literally at this point zero deridera just right when he got me on a allman just the way he was and it just didn't feel like you could just
do anything and then of course he'd beat me up and ominous roll with them remitting any vetinnary eighty sestinas usala n you can do it
certain position he gets kind of under you and then he picks you up arouan walk around with you so he did that to take notes and then when
i rolled with him again he did that to me but with me he grandmaisons the wall not hard to thorlakson just to show me again that you know
the chance of me actually doing anything or having any control over this whole experience was was zero um so that that's that alooan as i
occationing is wetmore because i was bigger than him i knew i could with more wasteth and oh that you know at this one but it it didn't
matter at all um so that yeh that's when i realized sort that so got a job more pirates i wos a white belt a white dot but i was training
of this is it so after he comes my house he destroys me i like a aweather or giving the address and i i walk in on my alanson it from them
and a glass of her you want to try a class mellowness that fay ye at novius so go in there start training and just some taken classes
emunctories down from team go take a lunch class i would train with this in the morning and want to can get trying with all training in
that i come at night i take it being his last i take the glances and then to open that and then then fobbed cook kick dean and i after that
that night o'clock and tell us to get lines and ah so one was a string but i still like upright so that god shows up as another seal and i
didn't know he was reechoed i didn't know him and he was strong and he was a blue belt rights i go is gyseldson be good but we have some
wars right there's a white belt yes a blue belt but i'm trained out said diego he has really good digito obviously m taine with dean
learning for probe were training all the time some pretty good for a white belt arrest so we haminaea war he is only in town for about a
week or maybe a week and half the nineties light don't or white horner so we were going stale meat every day stale mate stale mate tale may
the last day the last day he gets a gift mounted on me he was a restless in college a college wrestler and and you very competitive guided
a great guy by the way the last day he liked nose he wants it he gets moundaneta a a a choke a geopelia exton just puts the pressure and a
tumashi my face doesn't care and gets into my neck i tapped and that's that so so this guy now we you know he goes back to the coast we
continue in our careers i'm now training even more you know i'm just training and training and training and training in train with ben i
went and of going to college when i went to college a train even more in an then finely so i would see him occasionally you know and it's
all your silurians train and still training tentacled woke competed and worlds and did well worldscape botauga you on worlds probolen
ventuario and so finally like ten years later so now i mean i i literally deems man training partner for something like twelve years at
this point and like you said this wendenstein and so we we i i'm going to a seal conference on this remote location and i look at the
roster of whose gongoe there and he's going to be there and i went a home deponit like a thirty by thirty canvas um a canvas yokota to put
on the ground so i could train with him though and then we and i i sent of an emails i casuto a conference let strain musical tely look
forward to it on like i do to her and so we get out there we fly this place we meet up and i say let's train and we get on the mat and i
just you know like a thousand times better than i was and in again at this point i've been trained with dean complied gone through all
competition face so anyways an he's been working he's been deploying in a cold benassis i mean i just trained more and and i was just all
over anisow semitenth dives and then and then i you know he can asaddle kent you just show me some stuff nolenter for you thou the victory
ye yeah yet but of but it was funny and that i will always joke with them about it and i kinda tell that story like almost i i put the spin
on it as if i was thinking about him no find masanath's if but a and then one time years later i saw him then and we were in in ah we would
deprecate pentagon hadn't seen him for a year or two and i see him in a man my my cake uniform you know with short sleeves knees oh you you
look and skinny losing weight and i look back and went said i'm just trying to get down to your weight class and it is more even than a
time he just laughed but a right guy so raparlier a great cat that's funny that that happens a low the time where you'll develop misthreat
er it be this kondo thing where you trained in the eleven the come back and think or someone whose hangs are on you develop that little
sense of competition usually happens with a guy whose close to you you kind o start with you or maybe a satined man you just start off the
relationship for lack of better come start off at a similar level now and then you kin o developed as little competition like nearly guyou
know yea and yours when you get off the bus when you get off the training but it's your alose time rehanging better if you that's why you
can't get off the bus he yes stay on the boss at all cost you got it down the training but he got off the bus completely depradation way
red yet and if they're on the if you little training body on that but oyes harry very hard to kenderdines been a series of operative time
you don't want o him that's that always den and i talk about a lot he is he was keanne from lanktree months with the front head or just
just a hammer me with it and just couldn't get out of it smashing me and then when he goes on if you want to on it just to put your hat and
happens with your hatter side and i'm white from i saw a try to my sire and you didn't it's been three months and you didn't show me that
new who what's your deal now and ah but it also showed me that that is sometimes when i remember from that is that sometimes these istanbul
moves or so effective in their so obvious and all you need is just to get that little bit of knowledge to make you be able to escape this
position that i was held on for three months if yeh aenolithic but the musings like two high high we live side onwentsia marius yes you're
right but it's it's it's the best repeatal thing about sitting on ever knows nothing is it don't get off the bus beating never know what
day you're been a learn that saying you know what minute what training partners connoy hey if you moved her hips right here you you have
cats mew you yes no yes actually denton me something in that exact same scenario he didn't he didn't have me with it and then teach it to
me he he just was he noticed that i had an opportunity to do it just a small thing is that it's it's hard to explain without you know doing
that but he did that and but it was just a matter of instead of moving your hips the natural way that you always like to you just tristrem
the other way and he breaks a certain grip and that he can contribute but ye so it is so true what about em like umbleness ments that i no
i don't i get embarrassed on the mat if he get tap out happens right ye will not bear espy it you even if you get caught i mean just
doesn't matter why how would you be barred ye but ye an embarrassing is a strong term because that's true i mean i don't think i've heard
proveniences like ah but i actually is i think pretty much only with you here and if that versing is just like one i think back on an i'm
like manatou have been may be mentally tougher remember when i like given to like a costabili your real good at it cause i only catch it
with you jennowai realized that weakness i acted like german male and jeremian would you do notary casseroles and there's a few tens or as
the eiimit to myself that elaidi n't want to deal with that at that time and i was like mad at myself but i was never reliant time re
rolling one explore your go it isn't but yet be you tested it the other day because you have a thing and whatever i do do you but you were
a cotton shirt peloton you so after rolling for a while i continued is like a like manator board it in certain positions yes and you are
water boarding me the other day you and but men in no no factor no roasting even into the one i that at forficatus eliot a go to justice
heneage you get ye gone salina but i agree with you not a great saint think it was a day a anolo king back to resinous wood to missions are
you proud of ye like again that sort of like the embarrassment thing bray you do submission he you're yeditor yes anywhile to people in
like these elm catch you one day right and i go good and that's all some yes you you do works refusing i would i will admit that that right
there i'm going to catch you one day that's that's there but not teneiya or significant degree because i'll tell you i have had a about you
i'll catch you on day had i known you have in your mind that now you are aunt and if you were to tell me not i have that my station will
know him i i i accept it you know because here's the deal if i just didn't want me if i didn't want you to ever catch me what would i do
wouldn't row with you right he and i don't care in your name i'm in i'm going to row with you all the time ye whoever steps on the mat
yenyontatideron get up out beastlike at a little better yes ye any cannot present those opportune of be like old cave my games not all
perfect because he doited realize how many holes you have you know when you and you salterello do make like a little mistake in his wolfe
less and too sometimes you make a little mistake with somebody and your lax with somebody and they get and they might catch you whenever
one normally you went a hundred times more you didn't relax it that moment but you can't live in that world because you got her relaxing a
train otherwise you won't explore new positions and get put in compromise positions in all that so yeingana it's not to any real
significant degree it's more just like a fun kind of competition thing that you have with certain people and you are like a you know do you
you don't talk dashover that's got unforced thing i'm the victim of that attitude george may be will you have your watch i dilatator good
guys roll to day for there only each other that laughing there had having a really lashing to the like telling jokes to each other in the
was my turn to go into enamored till there boring in as their smashing and their bringing in and it was it was it was bones bones jones
just jonsonem and strong and good and it was tailor taylor callers just a complete beasts and those guerrah other it's all give and laughed
and they come with me in a willing and the heat now cause you know what they're thinking exactly what you just said maybe they get that cat
a get it to dave he it will be a grand note if you have this with cific mind set which it which can be common um and sometimes you might go
in and out of it where if you if your gods are predicated on like something outside of just learning to juistice people would be focused on
the bell now i allange my purple belt or whatever and went on i can get no pololand then people tell you the answer really is if you want
to answer that question put in the time put in the work learn all this stock and what tale come to you ye syllogistical it's the same thing
what an i talk about people in there in your career you know this i want get tremont where if you re under career to get promoted it's
going to be a grand ear if you're in for if you're earnin your career your trying to do a good job like when i was in the military i didn't
care about the motion is so trying to do a good job on that you a good job you'll get noticed at some point in the end you'll get your
promotion is put if all your conduced gimlets and the new for all that stuff is wooton to be fun yet and it's let in as lacking you see
people at a eatin on one's do they eat you tell cause they'll one when the teachers around they won't roll with good guys and get good work
they'll just you know they'll do stuff on hell avoiding rolling loyaute want to look good and demosthenes or a look i'm roaming like a
purple belt give it to me you know so they have that kind of approach to it and it gets in youantee a grand cause you no like man how many
hours we have put into the thing of your focus on when i getting it abel and you get farinato of that sometimes to its far anacondine
depends on your environment if everyone thinking like that or of thirty in vocal about it gentian help be canoeful that and be like may be
that's kind of the thing you know you are to worry about your felt we men i didn't even know that there causent was gogottes it was all no
genso i didn't really know really above belts and jimmy member jimmy he he was like he come to class to morrow we have promotion so be sure
to come and now that all that's cool i thought he meant promotions like some brands were coming in to promote or adain stuff ottoe a fun
time so that all he had atsochta and i like a aright if ben got a light botissa i don't i can't really make it because usually i i work at
night or whatever and he signore want to come and i was like a right i say i'll try and so like an asioli promoted as i would at a man and
i didn't say what is that me an ill but i was like i'm being esciting your bluebells like oh yeah i guess right you get belt right but i'll
train anything competing and i think that that i learned like all i mean i think as a white potiore into it you learn the most in malfatti
because you're going to tear up to it you know the learning curists nor step for sure am but yet i think that's a good attitude to to
maintain at all costs like maintain that as to i just want to learn the next thing to learn if the other ambiguity other thing that a
bomber onetime topic is people get the vervelle that you never see em again yether get their rowboat never seen a good wiedeland ever seem
a ginnery know and you just start now when you get your publilius to get good that when you start in to become a real dogiate yes yes when
you when you have a la not one save most or all nothing but you have a lot of legist weapons yet your satanus him for any of the certain
learn how you the tidiest younger about and a blue bell i mean a perlet you know all rose pepeeta germanico petitive you know most of the
blue bell unless there's studs are you you you're knocking of the really threatened with anything even positionally but the poor but all
the fossero know you make a mistake with elberad there and down till you entity and yet in that that's a weird one passion my experience
anyway um i've seen there like polar opposites as far as that kind of personality the guy who will get a belt in disappear or the guy will
get a belt in the day he gets his belt he's like like his been training for six months when you weren't looking or something just in that
one day because i think it's a mental thing a therise vexat are out of ye yeah in their mind or ingenio don't be in a hurry to get your
belts to any way because you have so much more your free to make mistake not a bob your wife fell i kept one of my buddies as i'll white
boat for like you and i said and right now you don't is betrayed for ten years blue bell goody overseas he been traveling all this stuff
and he should be a popolares yeah he's tapping out black bell so they're going to give it to a forthestait yeah's a belting is in its
easier sedan done i think especially if you are in a certain environment or a certain type person but um but if if at all possible don't
think about the belt not one on by your belt and thingthat the nicotined yes that'll be the one way take it into this little ram of finger
into gesuis along repetitive gray no gartering that's why but i'm setting that is a good way to definite that definite factor yes because
peteus golfo your experience or observation how does one learn humility and on top of that talk about gaining more self confidence so this
year was actually too questions to question one of them how do you learn him a humility and the other one is had you gain more self
confidence of course i pared these together because there's a dichotomy in those to right to if you have a bunch of self confidence in your
not being humble and if you're being come humble an don't have self confidence so a juliano orgy of this of course what we were just talkin
bout tegeaea when you start you gito and well will turn this into a metafor for life we start gogetter quickly learn number one that you
can get beat that your not everything that you thought you weren't right and at the same time you started gain confidence immeditate you
more confident because you realize that as you have knowledge is things that other people don't know and so it's the same thing would life
because if you're in life and you step out into the arena right you're going to realize that you're not you don't know everything that's
something you're going to realize and the more that you realize that you don't know everything the more humble you but also in a interfere
way actually makes you more comfort because now you're gaining knowledge because you are stepping into the arena so gets like what you
gipsy when you spar and you roll you're gonna get tap yes but the more you do it the more confident you get and the morning you except the
fact that you don't know everything you like the question before like a war do you embarrassed about i'll you embarrassed in the sport
don't be embarrassed go there and get tattooer ing you know and and that's what you have to do in the life if you want to gain humility and
you want to gain self confidence and life agetation the man right you've got a step up in lead you've got to step up and talk you got a
volunteer for the hard job you've got to take risks that's how you're going to gain the confidence and the now they could sometimes you can
get me sometimes you're going to win but you won't make any of that that progress unless you take the opportunity to step out on the mat
steppin the arena step into the cage step on to the stage step up on to the leadership pedestal that's how you make it work cause when your
humble got pat wouldn't you milty comes from you realize that you're not perfectly in you realize that nobody is so it's like that old
thing a walking and picture of him with their underwear on or whatever we you realise that everyone else is human that increases your
confidence do not look at everyone like their old er their masters the there's not they're just other people and so that's what i would do
if she want a gain confidence and you want to gain humility both them get out there get on the mat giton the stage or in the game into the
levarsi position whatever the case may be and live to don't be embarrassed and don't be abusive when you do do well you letterin tiefenau
you giustino life you realize you're not going to be his always someone that's better than you that's okay just be humble on from it and
when you know that there's other people that are going to be better than you o'kayo could be confident what you can do benevente better
than other people yet were out talking with gregg and tim to day about em but humility so there is like internal human humility and
external humanity so external humility is in a really humility it's the guthlake when he talks to people when howe talks but on the inside
he's like a a better than you or natisone and the opposite is if some of the opposite dick on the outside he's like a a like a connybeare
i'm the you know i'm the greatest sum of a beaten my time he is dull in all this stuff and he good i am um but on the inside when it comes
down with one looking when it's sunday train he's learning from every one some guy a white belt gives of give him a tip he considers a tip
is as gonna help me you know so he's houmet allows him to learn from everybody and you know he ends up being more successful um because of
that humility you know and that's like the internal humility you trustees yet now am i now some people there like hay i am i'm not cocky
i'm confident umhum do you think that there's like a difference becomes often difference eh abulyiements and the atoica because you have to
be confident but not to cocker confidence i you know confining i i know i could i know i could win this match or hey i know i can make this
happen or i i know i can lead this mission or whatever let's ilisson on with that is carkeis hey i know i can win this and i don't even
need to train a hayko i can lead this mission if we don't even need to prepare it that's cointet's wrong is so confident but not cockiest
simple dicotomy of leadership which is actually in the book in so yes you know there isn't illanoy know help some time some people they
won't do it in early and in terms of em being a leader or anything like that they'll just do it at kindlike you know these people and like
yeah because they talk about themselves all the time or something like that right so in those cases secondaire ate it where a cocky person
is going to talk about himself in out good he or she whatever is unprompted confident is there going to answer honestly about how they feel
about their inappropriate or skill or whatever but has to be prompted there are elusive way and be like him the greatest fool but if there
is some one's a cateau know a honest question do you think you're the greatest and they really think they are the greatest in their
experience or whatever they are going to say the honest thing no that's like a confident persia i was my daughter said the other day i was
considering bringing my daughter on the my oldest daughter on the poncas and plascut painting a lot i'm not goin to do it itbut you know i
was like what kind of questions what i ask her and i said well towers kind of experimenting i said tell people something that they wouldn't
expect about me or something that you recognized ameinon of things she said when she heard me talking to some one about you just do that
didn't know me and they will like oh oh de tranyon yeah i do and they said are you good and i arisaig inn i i've been trained for a while
so i'm all right and she's as really like i was surprised at how ill you were even doing did it you for twenty years they ennison don't
know somebody for all that person might be better than me ye as a reality you know i'm in a gown yet really good heney and you know one
time listening to this in turn the content think in my experience year reaction to any you did to questions in that way where so i don't
think i've ever heard you and i know you for ten years having an he eight years was an i don't think i've ever heard you say yeh i tapp
that guy out i don't think i've ever heard you say that ye be if i asked to no no i i can't even i can't rely like picture you saying that
age i tapped it i captioned one of those weird things to because it it it in a one way it means something in an another way doesn't reaving
began at the train of rionga you you right a mistake you know he exactly and then i kind of the point where it intrenchings it doesn't
matter your right but in this immature way that in a parted that if you've been doing to get to for even a little while you'll have at
least this much of it in you like eighteen a thing and i was reading a thing just pin on line a little fun thing where it was like
unwritten rules of jujitsu don't go and talk about a tap this guy out to day you don't do that and that's true here but this the reason is
an article like that is because they've a small part of man that in all of us that once to say you know hey you now meet what you're close
friends would be like he did you get him in any eikyou come home tell your wife doesn't care at all by the way so but it's there in you sir
but with maturity you're not going to go and say heliachim out o you know yes but would you i mean were in specially now were pinacles i
still don't have never had you say i got him i tapped him out even when i remember one time i'm not to say who could he the word now that
and he came and visited in an irade just beat me i was a hen of the probable when you rolled with him i dance the whole rosarians you
afterwards i'll take he so you don't like i alsidia happened cause i remember that's how you always ask me here all the hay what have you
know like a huge goitre so as you that in your like i found it really felt like you wanted to say it but it was like almost like you had
this rule almost or some there you were like were you're getting tough during a nelatha i'll say i er factories that car that's what he had
it i have an i just kenerleys that no i don't think you've ever said that and i think it's probably a sonorous ah i had a guy one time that
passed my guard an no wasn't on some somebody passed my guard and held it for about a second and a half and then stood up and and literally
ran around eritrea of his victor yet told me about that he has kiyo know a tree the belly seeing to you but although i would make i'm not
saying i would never do that that i might do that as a joke you know oblatum panther he was coming for a boisterously for a while has held
me back because people got so intent on passing my guard and that i had to defend it as if i was defending a tame i'm not kidded into how
and it finely like a probably six months ago maybe a year ago as it now i'm sort letting people pass my guard just so i had played
different brought part of the game at ansina i just now now i'm not that concerned about it any more people get no crazy if makes us he
sent to lie command every thought of help parents ultimately deployed their children into the world and the theatrales yea and so people
been asking to autoloading since the pond cast or an and i really have been avoiding it again one of the things i was considering was
bringing my daughter on possibly in a not going to do it and you my oldest daughter she sixteen and i was thinking self if i was on a video
or a recording when i was sixteen years old i would not want to hear that i would not want to be that you know just wouldn't want that so
lucinde that to my daughter even though she supernature smart articulate they would definitely be interesting but but i'm not going to
subject her to that kind of in firemen and the other the other reason i don't want to talk about parenting very much is because my oldest
kid is sixteen i have no idea if i've been successful not i don't i mean do ingratishood great that's cool but a ednoth ten years before i
can pass judgment and asking may be the more that because what if there's successful not because okay if there successful what success then
they got into a good college if they got a good job that they have lots of money to that thy have kids spells house cars wotever it but at
the same time when if they have all that but their miserable because that happens all time i meet people like that all the time they got a
bunch of money they're not successful because they're there an greed ter upset their depressed their life sucks so was i good parent if i
drove them into that position he may be not now so i'm not i'm not i don't like to i don't want to talk about something that i'm not
feeling supercanine about because i can't pass judgment yet my i can tell you my opinion but even that i want to influence you and i don't
have factorial you about beershops been in leadership positions hard ones and i can talk with the least so some level of confidence that
one i'm saying is true because i see it and i've seen it in the military absentin world and i seen on teams of seniawan of different places
so i have a pretty good feeling about it parrington like it it's just it's just a little bit different ai don't know because it's
definitely a different interaction now and for everyone that's been waiting this entire toaster comes that being sad you do absolutely have
to use decentralized command with your kids because you're not going to be there for every decision that they make or not going to be there
every time they get past a drug distorter of retinendae alcohol and they need to drive somewhere or every time they stumble into a bad
situation or they see some one participating in something that's wrong er they see some one perpetrating a crime and maybe they could do
something superno than a be there all the time so just like decentralized command you have to set them up yestereve them guide lines that
they're going to take out there commanders and ten they've got understand right wrong they've got a understand long term goals a gounde
stand consequences they've gone understand account of ability for their actions and they got understand i think this one was important
things to keep teach kids as they found on their stand how what they're doing to day is going to affect their lives in five years in three
years in ten years in fifteen years the things that you do say and some adults don't even get that i'll mersenile now what you're doing to
day is going to affect you long term and there was sometimes in a where i slid into that you know where you're sualtem's you just don't
think it's going to last forever you know freits goin to do what you're going to do and i so that that's commanders in tentative your
subordinate leadership which is your kid the understanding a just like moussaie understanding of wiser doing what they're doing why their
health matters wither education matters why respecting people matters why creativity matters all these different things explain them wise
that they understand so that when they all out there and may have to make a decision the after they have to choose that they understand why
the decision matters and therefore they can act appropriately and i think that what you have to do as a parent who is in fact leading your
children the life whether you like it or not yet and then in the think that that's gone a g i e good move not getting to deep into specific
things about how useless if italy parent because they like is there even such thing is perfect parentine everyone like everyone to will on
desires for the the way they kids turn out is different some people want their you know their kids to be this free spirit travelworn don't
get nilled gone join the military in eighteen right well that he can hereingefallen tially yes so that ye that depends in in i think that
the the umbara you're saying about like them even some adults don't know that othenin of your actions that that goes on in the front of
your brain here and that's the last part to develop as a human being philosophership boys especially right teenage six sixteen seventeen
eighteen they give quipped with basically all the hardware but the soft ware the far the controls it is all gamut so they are physically
strong they got hormones they got a divine probably they have a right to know right so they gointer despise basically shooting off their
guns with now you know now you know whatever the softer is the you know so there it that's when they mainstays that's why they make all
these these crazy mistakes with their free easily influence through friends because the part of their brain that that helps of the
determined okay this age this consequence is going to come along with this specific action is under developed and on average any given but
an average it gets fully developed at about twenty four twenty five cesero coaat plain some o ye it does the absolutely does he so
netherton making so so ye that in that that pre probably explains why dealing with teenagers becomes harder because they have all this
hardware in the software still tribyune am but back to the perfect current thing is no real perfect parent people want different things for
the kid and everyone's different air one has different philosophies i spenceonians my red this or at that so the outcome is going to be
different and those different outcomes are gonna appeal to different people how it's basically like if you have a specific i'll come that
you want your kid to have it's good to be determined by a bunch of things but i i think in my in my experience and both being a parent and
having parents setosa em is consistency like if you could give you vanessae or you know some kind of discipline they are imposed in or some
kind of just idea that you want to you want to to stick with your kids be consistent on it don't you know don't say hey no jumping on the
bed one day and then the next day you don't see your lazy or tired to whatever and you don't say hagdon jump on the bed because they're
going to be like oh well is this a day can jump on em is or is it not i wanted jump on the bed on you're not looking gestation be doing
cause i know that's an when you say but if you're noineteen t they're just going to send upgathers no jumping on the bed causton influenced
by somebody there any git rules and how do i act how do i be what do i say what do i say they're goin to get that from somebody and if
you're on inconsistent you might as lout be noise on the t that comes on sometimes if you're inconsistent with it durgo get it from an know
someone who is more consistent at could be the neighbor it could be tavy that could be vigita they look up to in school not very smart or
maybe his were on another a teacher at you know that you adela whoever they go to get it from somewhere so i think if you be consistent
though get it from you and the more things that you that are conducive to their success in whatever whatever you can sir confess the more
or success the more consistency you display in regard to those things cause you ve all dotcom you know that come that they want you know
that if they act a certain way it's good of facility this certain outcome you know that or you should hope i held me to so if you just
can't remain consistent on those issues to shape that ye that's when i'm nork i'm going to throw one more wrench into your system i was
kind of agreeing with all your saying but i say how this out there for everybody if you got kids in my opinion your kids are not going to
be you want them to be they're goin to be them in that is the biggest hurtle to get over mentally i had to get it i fought that becasue i
want doing but guess what they're not there may be what they are very human and i got four kids and every one of them is completely
different from the other one they all came from me but they're all in the hall got raised with the same me and then my same wife and yet
there all radically different yet why is that it's because they're different humans and so if you try and impose your vision on your kids
it will not be successful i and you'll have a melt down at some point that's my opinion i could be wrong but that's my opinion and i am not
an expert on painting and i don't want to a people to obey my thoughts of ferreting but i got asked the question so i answered it and i'm
going to leave it at that yet that's instable in so much has to do with ternant it is yet so much as do with their environment so where
each get like litigator kids right the first kid come in you now coming into the world in bomination the psychology and all the yet of
titian i'm not even saying necromaunt the psychology part of it i'm disaforested ferent experience all together being the seceded same
thing he has that one keen than all these little kids behind him you know such dougout right out they gave you a different person you know
so that's where you can asee you ill all these crazy different personalities we were aboard we were raised in the same house same parents
by friends were the signal time but just starting out it's like horthe ever your received prices right that game um or the game show races
right merle school tobarker if he did somebody else now they all there's again called pink and it's this this is a long six botanically go
where it's like this board right and at the end is arete's little slots and you drop this kind of this instance of all it's like a little
pup that kind go but i get the image it's like these pins so it goes peporismenon disgust rearmed a lot to the one and you can kinda out i
forget if you can control it or none plan the so adhesions of ford but there's so many different little things that i can hit and go this
way so at your consistent and iconsistencies push on direction it ten to go but then all the sod all these other factors are in play that
you can't control so he ventured that thought is in that true how you say you can't just shape exactly where you want to be on in pliny
don't i say hey i'm going to get it in that little sotraran then he goes there every time a really hard to do that you know raceomatology
picklock into it same thing its exact ponekertrain in all jacopo plainworth night gone to far all right next question be careful your kids
as amaynable be guides to give them the broad guidance her concession to give em why health matters wyegate matters why respect matters wi
creativity matters will let them understand why so that they can make their own decisions because they are their own people true story next
question so what he think about cross it seems you do a lot of the same movements and work up schemes cross fit i think cross fit is a is a
solid base for things i also think that crossed actually deserves a pretty good amount of credit for getting the general populace of the
world moving in the right direction when it comes to fitness ah i've been doing cross fit type stuff before there was such a thing as cross
fit the i mean the movements that using cross that are are movements that have been invent anything new right but they did re introduceth
kind o like a graceful to be honest with you and and there is you know both agrayable and cross it in my opinion are responsible for really
a paratime shift in those two arena the arena fitness and the arena of martial arts of niflo that martial arts in the seventies and the
aides what was it it was to do his coradin was come food it was a kid it was traditional martial arts it was not full contact boronias it
was distraitly different than what it is now metioche from the grace family who created the ups and broadcast it in got the information out
there and spread the word of jugeth part of jugend part of the use is that you have to learn to wrestle in you after one instructs of that
all kind of came afterwards but it's all related to the initial the initial besoffen gracie and exesa thing in my opinion with cross fit
you know cross fit again were people doing olympic lifting years ago yes they were poticary small if you okay you look at the the martial
art scosse enty plooies places in the in the seventies and eighties it was ah those weird hio machines and aerobic stuff and the thing that
women would like tie round their stomachs and with like shake them i mean is all kinds of bazar a bazar stuff and the the that's just
stuffed was just ineffective and so i think crossiers credit for um spreading you know that the knowledge of squatting and clean in jerks
and pull up and muscle open all those and so you know again i like i said it's you've got there were the castles before across it there
were linthicum before crossfired those people were incredibly fit but cross it popularized those activities in those exercises more than
anybody else was able to i mean crossettes popular i mean if you look at the number of digitius and cross fit boxes and the country there
probably of the same growth pattern so am i definitely give crossfired it for bringing that kind of well balanced fitness to the forefront
and i think the programming you know is fine a for me is all that to random i like stuff to be a little bit more scheduled i guess you
could say and aims at need more volume than what they have ah and i think you need more focus to get really good at some things you need to
fulton to do a more often than the the the straight cross fit would prescribe biheron now people realize you know for a while they can held
the line of like no all unedited is what it says do on the cross fit work out of the day just like in the beginning jugerait at all uneeda
is just degraded clearly both those attitudes are wrong you know what you really need to do is get that base and an open your mind the open
your mind up and you get to know yourself what your yogen your physicality after a while and then you know what your weaknesses on you know
what i hurt you any know it you can do more of and you know what you should do less of so i think that as a base you know like if someone
just randomly says you know had never worked out before what side i think crosser'n place to point him you know there's some other really
good stuff out there but you know if you icosahedron and i think it's a good starting point it's goin to keep you the basics of squatting
politian theresa million people that are no say they don't really teach you olympic lifting properly in eiderstrom again it right don't if
you want to lend to be in littelton cross fotis not going to be the best place to learn to be a unticketed edge get in the limitless in
coach e a if you want to be a great gymnasium get a gymnastic such pity want an introduction to stuff a basic interduction then i think
it's a salad and again i think you need to give it credit for what i did and then most important indeed to keep an open mind that things
change and you will you have to change we all have to change and adapt and grow and evolve such a can become better so that's my opinion
yet the crossed undeniably wedded would it did is to working out in some cross fit work of can be heard i did cross it for a little bit and
am even for someone who's i can pretty good shape like the can be heard and what an element of cross fit that i i'm not sure if this was
intended from the beginning but it got this week quick is is kind of a group a already and environment you know um so what it did was it
turned it into a noose yes straight up sport now and in reality is exercising the oharteris in being for an twohey who wins the cross the
games was he called the fatakie fit so it brought senesino this more benetite to to do rather than all a got to do this charity cannot be
got to work out it made it into like an activity like form and not just ocymoides easy stuff with you know the girls on the weekend it's
it's for real you know like a a hard work out and to put you through you get in a group and across its situation and there going to be
halling supporting you and it it's wait easier to stick with a work out program when you have people supporting you and they support you
like for real support you there telling how you finish manaia all the stuff and your way more likely that cheesies rather than some one's
like all her you had to make it to the gym to the oh yeah maybe maybe not or whatever and they give you good gutis again it made it made
fitness but unquote fitness be popular on onestissima anna community in oyonwa that units i mean like you said there is there was already
some of these but they're like okay body building and you know on the maybe some eroics but it dented that sensation like a aseitas much
more pie i mean you look at a company like roustem they didn't exist on our oive years ago but etoile i have it my old squaw rack thing as
ancient right and it was kind of hard beget back in the day you will catlike boom well ropes to a bone or there you will be you are going
to send it to you in a shower your house and in three days you and they're selling hundreds of thousands of them i'm sure i and and why is
that they're so in rings there still in boxes for boxum replate bumper plates used to be you never at one lie i had wid bombardin the wye
where i grew up you know and her hootoo guy is that would actually olympic left than you go oh ow that's cool but never in a gymnast any
jim now no no almost i shouldn't say that cause the the twenty four hour fitness type glooms if they did i do that i ave been in one of the
long sides of it was felt kitalya all over hell all her in in there's a weariness twenty parentintins i go there you know from time to time
yeallowe have straight up up you know protein gregg she um he's a trainer and he's at the benevolent bade full on bread you want to get a
creators in on you can go to toyford leonardi ferent ladoucette is different road which is a big part across the is well but facility was
alabama at the there ye all about you that is that's all thanks or crossed right yetta's exactly your point you know theramene t question
an he gits on learning about in direct communication would be handy for business or parentintins a gontanille in question yet he had a
loantika was saying that that's kind the way you can't really do talk about such because there's actually if you want a pontificate
equations is infinity for peroration this no end of the printing misionari because it's just so ambiguous i don't evelina's parenting is
leadership of the principles can be applied yes but there are some dynamic there and here all inurned ye that's where they are there is
your inurned is apparent there this emotional thing that you have stronger than you have it for any other person ever going to work with
that as you know you want them to succeed more than any body elefunt them to see you or them be better you want to to do better you all all
those things and that's the dynamic that makes it tricky and then there's this weird dynamite of the way they look at you and they either
want or impress you and they want to rebel against you or the sous being emyonleni on them so there's just the other dynamics within the
leadership confine that arthaber challenging and again i can't judge whether i've been successful yet because i've only have a my oldest
daughter in sixteen and unesoteric and and then i have a daughter another donor some little nanna know that there are specific mistakes
that i have made i know that then a eoonomist like what is that me an you know i mean the fourteen yokemate extreme but because really
success or outoffices but really driven people people are just you know you get somebody was neridii hodancourt it's the usually usually
because some need so during development wasn't fulfilled and i'm not saying a canteen say it's a bad thing because as a result their driven
because psychologically it like a need that needs to be fulfilled so since that little cup remained cunatai bit distraint fill it with all
these other things because like went on new skills developments new situation in their still trinitie that little clychau and is
manifesting in this other way in all through business through you know beings navy seal you dido champion eowawa it may be but a but tip at
gleasie shingle time venture this exceptions or made the aticinian none the less you can usually find some need that went on fulfilled
somewhere for people who are super driven so if you made a mistake parenting i was that really of a stake you know it in that kind of
situation so like as the point is it's it's so ambiguous you know you hinklas the successful parent you know ototototoi don't want to cry
are boupares exilo i don't feel like in a forty on it ray that should be a giving in chancton as hard to even how can you be waiting i'm
doing it okay job well ye soldiering if they're not in jail or or so perdicted to like drugs as to like this or or then you can say okay
i'm i think i think in my opinion i am not within the confines of being a successful angono at sincere talking about it you see some kids
i've known kids you kids that grew up with with nice parents and all that and may go off the rails yanath really scanty you do blame the
parents i mean lion' know it might be an it's because of the parents yes but that's not the question of do you blame the ireton an oleander
a question on your about a nature nurture some attack about that here in a minute but if you indirectly back to this so in direct me
occasion his hobbies stremely powerful it all so tricky to pull off because you can't let your emotions show when you can't just speak your
mind you have to think about what you're going to say you have tithing about how it will be received and understood by the person or by the
people that your talking you got put yourself into the their shoes and here it from their perspective that's really a horn to do and the
other piece about this another piece to think about if your trying to improve your indirect communication go into your conversations with a
goal not just a go of the conversations self but a strict gyp go of what you're trying to accomplish a commanders and ten i i are you
having this conversation what is the end game what is the end state where are you trying to wondering to make happen ye and keep that mind
as you talk to this person or the group of people and then we and we act to see how you're saying and at how much what you're saying is
leading to the end state that you're looking for you because sometimes we just think about the conversation itself in the conversation self
dozen matter what are you trying to do in the end state that we talked about before i have few podcast to go the argument that your having
whether you're right or whether you're wrong doesn't matter what matters is the end state where you trying to get this to be what are you
how you trying to influence this person and remember that the best way o wind is freer ponent cannot even realize that there's a debate
that's the best way to win and you get some people some people instinctively counter everything that you say i they have response they have
a thing that they can counter everything that you say don't do that if you want to work on your indirect communication skills of exorable
what they're saying right the best wait get better at indirect communication is to listen listen not tambuli ten and as a matter of fact
when you sit back and you let people talk you're progressing so much because most people don't want to listen most people we want to run
their mouths and if your refined yourself running your mouth you should put yourself in check could you give away too much information and
so you want to listen you want a train it actually understand what they're saying and hasn't got an if you don't understand what they're
saying distaste to explain to again act can you teosinte again that miss daintier in wanderstab i implied that i want to understand it
implies that of doing my best to understand getting plies that if i don't ustani going to be frank enough with you to tell you that is how
you get better it in direct communication because the more you listen to somebody the better you understand their position nowand when you
no where some one's position is the better you can anuvinda position the better you can get to a flank that there you can make it
adaptations the better that dicky have to win from that how you get better at indirect cunican yeah you mention how am i you like if you
don't listen and you know how how you failed to put yourself in the other persons esitating called the curse of knowledge right solely
insightful sometimes we tend to forget how it is to not be the hileyar how it we forget how it is to not know everything we know that's the
curse of knowledge like the knowledge retical blocks you from identifying some one who doesn't know you know so and that hoeing this these
weird details in how when you get enough knowledge certain significant knowledge becomes common sense to you when my waterdale it's not so
you just habitually or unconsciously you you might as litster it right meanwhile they don't really understand and then your dislike oh you
know i don't know i am doing wrong kind of thing got the chrisomed goat out from the outer watatotahro ologies i like that the goal time
for one more or less was ship jack what is more important in being successful at achieving your gold nature or nurture kay so this is the
classic question of nature verses nurture and in my opinion neither in my whole life absent people from every different strata in a few
times he had everybody at i v le tied with a silver spoon and head former gang bangers and hood rats and the same time yet preached and
kids from blue collar families and everybody in between there was kids with with the big strong families that were briley close in at kids
with no families tiptopper and kids at were abused everything we had everything and in all those different groups there were some people
that were successful and got the job done and some people that were unsuccessful and couldn't get it done and worked businesses now i see
the same thing people from every walk of life from the bottom to the top and i've seen every type of the different types of people be
successful so to me it's not about nature or nurture it's about choicest people that are successful decide they are going to be successful
they make that choice and they may other choices they decided to study hard they choose to work hard they choose to be the first person to
get to work and the last person to go home they chose to take all the hard jobs take on the challenges they decided they're going to lead
and would no one else will they choose who their gonneau with and be associated with and they choose who there going to emulate these
people choose to become whom they want to become they aren't inhibited by nature or nurture they overcome both and all tell you something
else it's never too late to make that choice you never too old to decide where you are going to focus our efforts a post to make the most
out of every situation so to me it's not about what you've been through in war you were it's about where you're going to it's about the
choice is that you make it about choosing shoes to make yourself smarter and stronger and healthier yes to work out and study and eat good
food and keep your mind clean don't let nature on nature make you toe to make yourself i think that's all have got fortnight so tall you
troopers out there in the front line of the battle field on a frontline thanks for joining us in this conversation thanks for listening and
subscribing a goriot or review and i tones or pinetti youth social media charite everybody know that we are here and we are moving forward
together into the fray and tell them all that we are not scared of the dark because we're here and were bringing the light fecondite with
us through the inter webb and if he don't know on tower um at jaca willing an echo is at echo charles we also have the face book and with
that i'm what is it slashed jackwell in the dewy your ye anina oliolles jallaladin we have the poast one red that's tactful tuck him slash
chuckle potater you go and get on there give us a feed back gerome questions let us know what you think of what's going on here and then we
got companies that some companies that support us support them true oh for the face book thing to ume don't really post that much on their
but when we do posting will postes goin to be like quality stuff i won't be dislike you know is just a bunch of stuff for a cup for before
one to tea an ten yen i i haven't quite got down my sistem i've definitely we went on every question that is posted on either of the face
books i am definitely taking it and putting it into the question banker doesn't mean it's going to get answer on the pot as because we
don't find an answer thousands of questions i but i'm definitely looking at it on leaving it sometimes if i see a a a trend of the same
question and tom i see it four five six times unless it's about parenting then i i seeingness something for five times hay i'm animated on
there and and we'll talk about it some of my just answer because i know hey you know that no one cares about this question but you whoever
you are somebodies answer or may be in a long answer um and so ye you get all there i'm looking at it you know i haven't quite got down my
sistem fray spoke yet i i only just recently have starting to figure out uh the different parts of it because i've never used it before and
i didn't use it that actively some trying to get better at it um but that's why taters real easy for me yet i preevented yes yes a lookin
pasicles changing as well but in in regard to them on like cause what you do is like twitter you just like the page rights like follow only
like you to follow em but some pegs men you you you follow it and then it's a blanchotte it's like and this is starting to be not that
relevant maybe once a week i'll see some relevant to so what um what i'm going to do is like anything i pose is goin to be bery relevant or
even like mainaka like a you know how arcourt before we start recording i might pussented it so no angelina the amber the memory once in a
while so i no no harm the fall ye like to like it even if you don't want to answer question or ask questions but please aequam trying to
give to respond a some of the comments you know what i mean kiltie on there every once in a while it yet i think that wears is is easier
dislike a sad because it is a sublime to yees but either way they're both great um on it not come slashed jacotot's three you ten per cent
off your supplements and the thersites f em to so good a man that you and i and our not superinducement said a thing but the one that i
take and you fagin's hard to tell the difference lotties between brands but you can tell theyre rends and it is like the worry by frexample
in my opinion that's one of the most genius in some of the elite bestemmiatori garrotting came out longears no not even close but when you
saw best jerky as some one who's into fronty in on your anunitu like fifteen sixteen or like a beach jerked with dan that is to erlangen
invented tapeall the time he so considered the warrior bar is like yeah way better it's like me jerky but but all you view him but the
howsoever asked her fell away that but point is the stuff on on it it is good and you get em percent of so that's like a no brain er um ah
in it a constichooted then the amazon clicked through you go to the the pocassett which is a jack maccatacomb or jocatore up on loan and he
clicked due to the mason before do shopping and you can pass only support or sightly i say in my tent my actively pretty bowering exactly
and then i'm lapels for the donation link and that's on jocasta come to pay now yet i say we use papoose but it's on the nonetheless and
you know for a one and to set man it's so cool to be like scheduled with your saying anything here's some on radiant yes i kalians and
video cameras ammuknow than organiser is sure undoctored out come be one has jackals head on it with the word good backwards you look in
the mirror as bedhead this always some good come from echo ionia was facetious as well in assam there is an e they are niemals if you
wanted some more of this stuff i reference it several times and i had bought a body of mine lay favayer we wrote a book called extreme
ownership is available in hard cover kindle or audio book and we actually read the audio book so if you want to hear us talking more
there's eight hours some decade yourself into more stories and leadership and it's good times and finally and most important in thanks for
making the choice the choice to make yourself better faster stronger smarter healthier and of course thank everyone for making the choice
to get up get going get aggressive get after it so until next time this is jocundo at
