this is jocko to cast number twenty one with echo charles and me jackwell and our guest to night he is mister tim kennedy who is an active
duty army special forces soldier ranger sniper and i may fighter little bit of that gisela bell so its fighter in the upcurrent fighter in
the u v who every ones awaiting to watch fight again an american patriot god bless america and is an all round beast that is enetia pretty
scene right now a kick as he mustache and he's got that going for to and really excited after on the show as you know there's not been a
lot of guess on the show the only other guest that's been on this show so far as been mister laffan who was one of the two commanders work
for me in remedials appointment and wrote the book that i wrote with him and we had a pretty fired a pocasset about a lot about the things
that we went through experience and you know no i new and new year a little bit younger than me but ah you know you just been through a lot
of the same kind of life of ten and mistake and the stake and saying in a stuff so pretty cold to janowo little bit to day and get to talk
to you and we for everyone that's waiting to know the result of the grappling death match between ten cannehoot we we can even conversant
because it still to the indecide if it happened to day will we read on a time time to get a little a dinged up injury and so we had to
forgo that and so instead of which went out and slaughtered some meat to some mazin barbecue as coming from a taxi was like really or
taking it to be unto a vague fear had to do it not ticipate so also with us of course is echoed charles good evening i go good evening so
organ it straight into it a two questions i got a totoque tions from the internet every one is lifelong exploded a grapestone should i ask
me as like my tones on fire and a foison the internet broke and both to get upon a question some thanks everybody for asking a bunch of
coal questions obviously we can't answer them all and but we're going to try a wee they take a crack at it and at first born an i jes
started this old thing off with cause it for any minit does now you are because i bring in a lot of fans from you know me may or whatever
but now really you don't want a people that listen to me i think they might be judicatories people and and stuff like that so i guess the
start is off with a question that would give every one a little bit of background about you other than what i just said i some one said he
i'd like to hear a little bit about tim canadian at what led him to endless stoneman go tell ah grew up in central california a rule
california when i say from california people like omanek or hollywood as i no like you sir i like do i speak spanish i argue with mexicans
i ride horses and that's all there is to do where i'm from i was beautiful there but ah it's very rule it was like an hour long drive from
my books place to the gas to them the supermarket um so i know is as like the christian version of a boy scout a royal ranger and grew a
hunting and shooting em and into pretty normal can rule kids like there's a lot in it the marks the trials and crystals like their front
taxes seems like a pretty natural thing i said a decent athletes i wrestled and always wanted that next thing that next mcall and a satin
college is fighting a my just one the essais like i find jason miller ringed con a gilbie's king which in the tournament as an eight man
what had five tournament a truck the was in my corner mass use was the raft and am is for three fights in one night and a one at which rank
me in the top ten in the world and a that was like august thirtieth of two thousand and one then september eleventh happened um ah watching
plans find a buildings pass me off pretty bad so at that time i was a pretty bad person i add three women pregnant and m within the next
couple of weeks i also found out that i had possibly contracted that each iversen um as pression fighter and gradston or can i do comcommon
california thought a pretty awesome and like all revelations in life um when you are not reaching your potential it's a stark horrible
reality and that's what it was is this wake of call that i was a piece of ship i should be probably buried would be um what i have certain
i would have served the planet better and i just not continued consuming oxygen who see your sad and that that trigger moment for you as
winterleighs everything that was happening you said yourself man missus onagon with my life so far yet that the attitude as time to get in
the game yet all correct here but i think a little bit more umegae like i am a super nasty piece of potentate yea lay my dad and amazing
human might malmsmead you and my sister and my brother you know like even to the day i aspired to be what they are and then i was like a
man umbrelly bad so i go down to cuter's office and i don't know the difference between special forces aye seals a ring recon im bein a
ranger being a green brasilien in a like obviously were it other all one of the same man is like eyes sonnay know be chuck norstral they
laughed at me um but it's what i got the reciters office i when i thought i was like this awesome american again taking my saisset like a
so cool that i m in a go do this you know i calcelated there's two thousand people in line of head of me you know the are not now at one
tousand not one hundred which would been a lot two thousand people in in rule california were like a man i got to do something and they'll
be neat it so un again a complete piece ship that so that now was collie the genesis the origin that's what brought me to couters office
and then through the course of trying to figure out you know their as bad score in your g score in the college athlete you know like what
the right that was i wanted the fast this thing to get me behind a gun um with people that one in a kilbane and that i and not being the
green brace as you don't want to things i i was on a a interview in england and i was talking about the fact that america's pretty
restrained in the way it handled things but i also said that if we get pushed to a certain point and i don't know where that point is you
can't describe it none can predict it but that's a case in point you know something happens like september eleventh and you got two
thousand men military age mails and rural california standing in line a to go and make the ultimate sacrifice if need be you can't forget
that about american now i can't forget that about him you go to pearl harbor unowhat iful wi you drops in bombs on us for you know because
your pissed off about the economic so some oiled deals ah we're going to drop neculea bonds on you you you come and flacons in our
buildings were going to go and try to wipe your colt rot office planet for fifteen years and that's where we're at now they get a freaking
clue don't faquita we get pissed off if you push us too far is pretty much it you you got eyes like this or in a like letaba decision yea
it is if unfortunately you can see that because it is american because it's an isolated place and it's a very comfortable place to live and
people are driving round you know while you were you know find around on a on helicopter get ready get inserted on a target there was some
one else in around the mall and their cattle a escalate get ready going by some new you know apple soft ware or hardware and that very
altimeter no idea what that's like so we do forget in america that of what's happening what can happen to us and the threats that are out
there we can forget about that very easily in a lot of americans do i know a lot of america that don't mericat wasn't this pokas they don't
forget that and they nightwear about all the time but there are americans and have no idea they lived so isolated from the rest of the
world that it just with the thought of going to war for them it means going to them all as it doesn't change their life doesn't impact or
life at all were here in california you know like that perceived you tipene the sangero of the united states and is to ours norther yet two
radicalized fanatics bring machine guns the on agraffes are maharees and start on people down so i beg were come into a cross road where
people are again at either need a wake up and stop beam pandered and title little bitches um or we may not have the same type of life and
couturiere that we've always claimed america to the half and be ye a the kee point of that thing freedom and the freedom to move the
freedom to go to that ball is the free of of all those things that we definitely take for grannie had it for over two hundred years and
forget what it's like to live in an oppressed society they're goin to learn at her pretty quick ye ye and that's a that's one o the best
things that the military does for us to get travel is all these of the places in the world and to see what the rest the world lives like
that i can alack from the interweb because i didn't mention that ye know that there's other countries that are first wild countries in
europe that are nice places to live to i get that but with that the olsen us in the military to those places free you know we don't get to
go to the the first world countries that are a nice we go to horrible voices where there's wars half an in and so on that's all pressing
the world out a cone and its acre and that's what most of the world a wit is like i think got it germany's nice right you know but you said
beljins really nice teliatnikov you know from the fifties and to just don't know bout two months ago will like a man in a great cackling
she's and coffee he was left to her and believe nice oh crap they're pretty much breeding testher top so shut your face if you're talking
the jacobean the world actually is and at the same time you be you talk about like where you don't get sent to the nice laces and the
people complaining they don't get sent to the bad lassie they don't go on a vacation of life beriah no after so ye they'll course they're
all hay i i've been all over the world too i'm inyati all this horror is that you claim to have thinkyou know panadoes that beset its that
i have tekana perspective like you live in san diego california a intreating gorges torn must be pilate on the planet to a you've been to
some nasty places am i think in like yer give a go in and yang and you know balance of life and crap a with the amount of evil that you've
seen you've seen the sermon of betokened the same woman got a beautiful family you know you've been in anatomizing career run a great
company yeah you saw horrible things too but like if somebody's got to come and talk to us about our perspective on life you know and like
oh you don't really understand have you you know best bent time and france like beth i have first of all to sacontala about france even
though parishes got their as kicketan which would have been like a complete massacre and everton yeah i understand and you don't understand
and tell you been with me to like corseted or the pack afghani border shot you pickaninnies just at that was that fees you you cannot you
can swear if you feel the need you i'll try not to where i should at running late as as walking out the hotel ah to come here i got a
grandison that man again in some great deed back about your presentation yesterday ah did you know that you said facite times is like a
beaut tenants is that it pasionate carved a we all on the pocassett swearing and we talked about it for like you seventeenth we cause but i
might basic point was i tried not to swear on the block as the resection through is because this is going to be out there forever and if my
kansar going to listen to this and other humans organises and to think man ye i'm going to try not to swear and i see were sometimes but i
try not to but sometimes it's needed and i believe in you linteatae can't was needed kennet's try nonfat sometimes not relations the
lamination mark at the end of the sentence some oonnet you sometimes it is all right and he thing else on that oscar up i had all first
question or his life lavoisierian out warmongering out of the gates strong so getting to america will but next question a lovesuit fought
on current military lanormand self defence technica what you both would incorporate to make better oh that's a super broad question you
know i'll merriton c in a talk about a little in on the poast but you got cops police who have a hard johnsonville generat something dear
here so i can i i could never do it never will want to do what you say to me my yes dreiveland with the dragnet you know for fourteen calls
and in the fifteen call you're doing do you know some domestic indonesian justices horrible hard job in that you have these outings were
cotangent people could shot and sometimes they are i mean i see some of these police outings there's no way i can approve it and i am all
about killing bad guys and some of the shooting should just say man that copenny look at it the same way and i say that cop deephaven the
treasuring hired and i what really hers is that i know how to trinobantum better and get him better at that i know you do i know how the
money they don't have the time and all the money they don't have the time a lot of times they don't even have me experience within the
department of some woman knows how to train people mentally connect what it is it's mental preparation of gang someone ready you handle
these scenarios because it's just an unknown snarth's what it is and one of my worst examples is this guy pulled up to a seveneven at all
is all body came with the guys the whole thing on video the guy gets a call his gay togonatee even pulls up in his crusoe eleven gets out
of his car seizing away start yellow on in the guy's wernher the yes walking away from him he's the cancioneros tree sprees the guy doesn't
freeze and find his yollande to cop standing in a wide open holdings got on your free breeze sivinty guy turns round looks at the top
reaches his hands in his pockets boncassenite down falls the curve rolls is on his stomach can comes over rollover starts to search him he
finds polished off pulled his hood off he's got head fulton reaches in a pocket he's got an eye pon on and he was just sitting there
listening to music couldn't hear the cop turned around reaching his foster off the eye pone and you know the cop who not a call to a gay to
the gun and think he read for gone dossitie blood out had you to hear the coptic fell arable you once you relates a omobono true to go kay
of eumaeus like the class fingie no other before of like i want to save this guy's life of and is not on a happen so and what i know is
that that guy goin into that situation from the detour think some one's got a gone don't stand out in the open and talk to him get behind
cover and stand back and hundustani hundred cordonices get on your loud speaker and look at him and watch him and you what he's doing it he
theresa real threat but go expose yourself to my standing out the middle the open a war if he does have a gunny peagins you and those are
simple things that you know you could do to improve the training what you have to do you have to put people in stressful situation during
the training and that's what we didn't tissues i now let will you guys do in as afiou get put in these horrible stressful situations where
everything is getting destroyed or be shot with pain fall and their blowing smoke ones up and all rags hit you they do that in the training
of you get in come but you're not freaked out you and you can handle the situation traharet less you know it's like a pretty simple and ah
i we we do it in austin we do a stress as a week says i was just barbesin the range and kit where were doing like a lympic lips to a sprint
and then you pick up your gun and shoot um art long and you do like a five mile run and he soon you step on the range it's like five
hundred targets sees loaning down to line em that's so i know and it feels normal for my heart rate would be pounding so that i can't hear
anything besides my own beating heart might ears sweatered in my eyes sweat dripping on my optics by grip being jacked up because it's
covered with sweat and me a little bit of blood size tripped and to my face you like and that seems normal if i went to a range and shot in
like a vacuum in liquid like air condition red and like you guys like all right ah no you can't shoot fashion than one round of second and
he'll draw in from the whole ster solitis ino how a good time here i would know it to do i i beg this is really uncomfortable i am consumed
you start screaming at me and throw in some family so i could just at least shoot you know honest am the training footboy brothers police
officer my dad's a place officer i would please scottie ninety nine ah and how is the stoundists of twenty one years old i was astounded at
how they were not prepared for anything one was like or have it this all tony you try to accustom me he then happened me now my westwere
bloody you know i had a cow on my leg i have one couple my arm ah but i had like a six or seven of them cut together and there was like
there's like eighteen earlier twelve of em yet left and they didn't know he do there this is a toy one year old kid it's not their fault
just like you said they just don't have the train he do with that said if i caught tells you generous get on the geofrey ground talk to
about it later under i got i guard you know the constitution so well in your life the greatest lawyer about you know legal criminality shut
up lay down in one tataite out later or have your lawyer do it if you can afford a way or just to have talked to starting towards her just
give those guys more training and you got to do the right kind of training you got a duty i think you got to do for on force man on man
raining and we wastage ministeiran force on for training he shed the unit all the time all the time i had even a herd of the parting doing
it that's horrible sin sir i whatever i mean whatever whenever you goin to use an you got to have people humans other humans that are
maneuvering on you that a reacting to you don or drawing on you or the not or the ranger hands or their pontoise one where the running
scared to edit for some force in the fields um you wood you use is your op for seals sotherst and is there nothing better then on who wants
to win everybody every one you got to win it so it we at four brad would you like a sacner born or use in other acceptor do nothin fer any
second guy like this is their chance they're goin to do everything that they can to shoot in a sufcient it's if it's another esepus then
the the level of competition that competitive nature like oh amenorrhoea of an ambush or a crawl up into the ventilation and try to shoot
him in the top of their heads from the from the air conditioning no there like taking quickly sauce and cutting the ventilation open a man
instanter with jeer and you know what that's what what redoutant dat's what the enemy does his name than with the moose do sir just not a
cut they built false walls they built drop trap doors they do all that stuff and i i was had a had a group that was going through their
land warfare turning this youths and ask failed and so we were retreating the making god make them go through again go through their fixes
their feet ranging up his these be giant training exercises with all kinds of chaos and they were doing their first re retreats to trying
to pass the exercise this time and i go out there and in listening to their brief and washing to do the hersleton with her so and they all
come together in the the senior lestage can put out to order and he looks at men he goes a jockeying to say to his god and i wasn't
expecting it you know so i said no to forty forty man sealmen i said yeah i got something to say you guys are going to go out there i'll
gainst six other gods there's forty of you you guys got machine guns grenades and you're forty of you i say go out there and when they
start shooting at you hung those mother facers down and murder them and their light and so to trufal away and they're all fired up and then
the the senior and lifted genteeler standing there and they said a man thanks for thanks for you know get mary fired up i think that really
helped them out and i said you should hear well about to go tell my god what a inweave my guys all kinds of reward any one that they could
kill i they would capture bodied could get a perimeter they would just completely what your saying in completely mud suck a and draw into
the most chaotic situations and a poof all this conversation is that your going against other human beings and other human beings that are
going to do unpredictable things and that's what makes the training gallanting and attatak life gentian's will make the situation shown to
get a real scenarios unowhat these people are going on how many how many times have been dealt with some you know enemy or or unknown and
you like wanting god's name is this first doing iraq or afghanistan i did i didn't fight not ganization be lookin as someone going of this
person is n'sait are they doing right now why are they doing that they're going to die if they you know it's just it's crazy ye this thing
about a human as though human you know there's like pointed departure from logic you know and they live in chaos and some people can't even
live without chaos and then we're going into a place where coluerint languages are different you know what is the norm is different and
were trying to enact what we think is normal and there like booro crazy am i now know your crazy and i yes it's all for cosso and you know
what you get you if your coffin you don't your force doesn't have the the money for this or they're not doing this you can absolutely train
you actually absolutely train in judea in a may in fighting so you get more comfortable more confident no situations and the other thing
i'm said to do in the past is man i i know it sounds lame but watch some you to pity osa watching you two views of these like the thing
that i just described watch that you too video and set it i watch you to tidoona and before combat you know i watch before you too i watch
warm movies but documentary stuff so i could watch these guys and accident get see what was happening in their faces because you can watch
people on you to watch these perpetrators and start to understand human nature better to spy watching what they're doing just roll your
mind go your brain only and on you better shooting dry fire there i wanity per cent of my my practice time of shooting a without bullets in
my gun you know and there's like a few gray masters that are out shoot me or now a so drive fire now he yaqui yes the interne in the
internal of it were on to no verendryes not bode well for time o k from mose either don't know they recently removed baitarani i teleki i'm
sorry but they removed bayonet training what makes you drink as grow you know what makes you bring gradatana change no blood blood in
lighted it for a plicata the that's the motto i and so the quest charlatan i i i guess i prisoner just for entertainment value who you have
kept an at true in at the question i had any said we doesn't insel warrior spirit or not eh tim kennedy your opinion believe i don't even
want to dignify this question with a response i don't ah it so infuriating is so ye i get it were knockin have bayonets on it for you know
we are in an army now that she tapped or dictating that that's no hour on a train with that said during bennettii it doesn't give you a
thirst for blood but gives you an understanding of what war like and war is chaos war is hell war is ugly worse disgusting wars violent
most of all its violent and bannerin while you're running around a fixing your bayonet and see what makes during grassgrown man but but
niggers yeah that sounds primal it is primal wars disgusting and you have to want understand it and may be of trained in it so that you can
appreciate what it's going to be like so he'd get there the first time you've seen crazy and chaos and anarchy and rage is there is not
there it's entraining novitates what exactly what it just talked about the outeat what we just talked about and the other is what that
question happened made me do a tim concupiscent waters can a it would uselyest ion and the other piece of this is tim said in that i'll go
and call a little bit of a ram he set that war is crazy and chaotic and evil and disgusting and savage and in a way when you're in war you
have to become that and you can't just become it from nowhere to half to develop that i say over time but am about as the hour says work
that way and so this type of training which i would call prime truly ruth people use that word all the time primal i'm actually using it in
its in its proper terminology you sich a ramolini on taking a tool used to kill things and attaching it to a cot a tool that used to kill
things am so i can practise with an tolabon top of another course tool about how to kill things and in your going to take that thing eager
up yours lament into a thing that looks like a person in a potato nosed over and over in her shoulders got a hurt and your hands are going
to hurt you know and like your noblest errs and cut your hands up up against your gun he didn't realize you had to hold it that way and you
may make the metal not that i'm that in oranside that time next time because i can't do my shoulder you know like these are good lessons
learned ye yeh yeh so let's keep the bait turning bring it back bring her back next question can you and still the will pickin the will to
die in soldiers without a corollary nihilism yes and we get a direct answer from time excuse what we accord you talk to out it when we said
no in the contrast of things like your life i think is a personification of how to do that now if you can't have beauty with unless you
know what ugly looks like true know you can't have hot if you don't know what cold feels like you can't have evil without good and i don't
think that you can teach people how to sawhorse hing everybody how to be like murderer killers um o soldiers that can just do rot make
robots were showing them how did you something and the reason they can do it and not be complete psychopathic murderers occasionally once
lived through on a antheat not very often it's because the humanity of us like what what is the thing that stopping us from killing you
know echo charlie here of the many trained you are am you know it's our humanity you know and that and in my appreciation my beautiful wife
and my kids you know in love outina's and bared your motorcycles like that's normal to me so when i have to go and to play and see
disgusting things and you know make mistakes like thronged into a room with women and then having the livewires of my life the reason that
i'm still saying it because i know it witses of at the and morality and humanity so yea that at that how we an you can do it is because
guys intelligent guys at that end up in units like the ones you are i can understand what the differences yes yes and i think that i think
that this is something that ththat is again referring back to the culture of america that otopotee starts to slip away but but you got to
remember those two thousand men the line up in rural california sure so sure there was a little handful of the legal cooling kill some
people but there was a lot of people to an hanriot and protect freedom and so i think it's not only something that you instill in you work
on conte training and like the through the train that we just talked about of stabbing or shooting man shaped targets or even better on us
insemination i mean your shoot not other people hum it in still in you that you can't do that but i think the values the american values
that we are taught as people growing up in this country are they do respect life they do respect freedom and the the right for the pursuit
of happiness the things that you just talk about and albius motorcycles wife kids those are things that we respect and i'm sure you've been
in the situation i know have been in it many many times of where you're taking the the man from the house either you killed em or you're
taken him away and is a going back he's not going to back that's what of the things where you'll ask just as a as a person you're looking
at the yuletide kids and you know you're kind of thinking herself well you know he he married the wrong guy but you feel bad for absolutely
i mean hey sorry you're you're little eust beautiful kids on the planet your dad's not come i back though your dad did the wrong fingured
also ibid those kids were in a balaenas a bomb to him himself absolutely is not the same type of human now that it's no no we are if not
it's absolutely not it that was one of the most that was at that was absolutely one of most a disturbing things that that my guse would
have to deal with was it sergents using kids as shields and thank god i had some really good snipers that were able to kill guys that were
literally using kids as human shield him we a guy walking porus were in a bombast and were using thermometers and he had a kid in front of
him and his trying to cover it cause we heating the cur he was trying to cover himself to cold get close enough his hole is it out like
take my kid take my kid and the only reason was he is trying to cover the distance so he could hurt us with his bombast which had glass and
trappings and stuff ye so presidios gines was bodies of water and pulls charged em so no it's not noevian they're not the same human assess
they're not they do not the fervor me to see their samhan heftiest value for human life um when ye when i watched marines jump on top of
afghan iraqi kids trying to protect them from a long going off not using the kid as a palm janinoso not not american kids these are marines
or navy sore army guys jumping on top of local kids in the just kids to save them different understanding what you manity is do so we get a
your question very question you can do it yet if you can definitely and we have done it as a nation to a ardonia we are continuing to do it
ill they without a stronger military um ever guy's coming of diten years of war the experience the training a while we have been drinking
for the past five years money wise it's given us a d would had to fight wars the war differently and now now i don't think there's i'm
talking like sparonara or even the war war two aramaic like that's the type of generation of warriors that it small goatlike point five per
cent on the um but there there no real no doubt next question number five on exactly how much better are agreed bras that the seals at what
he think we have to a the first just like me at a datent one years old i didn't understand the difference um so every especial mission unit
as a pretty well defined mission and all demoder am i would never want to get in a gun fight with a bushiness on a boat anywhere near the
water i mean within like miles of water it would be just a tasherie am i also don't think there's any one on the planet besides special
forces that can do a force force multiply like weekend you can take twelve of us you can drop us in denial leave us there for six months
then we probably over through the government and place the president the new president in place and running economics the wa the power
plants the commerce transportation and like each of us the twelve less ah had like married at least four or five veniality that's you'd be
onderstand like why we have to speak other languages why we have to go through economic and um you go political classes it's because we're
different like the missions are different warped to do is different um and because of a different mission we adopt different products and
those products are a group of dudes that are the baddest dudes the planet on the planet for what they have to do the and i am an i left
that question there for a couple of reasons number one was because it i thought it kind o funny you know is all you ever ever of that had a
sense of humour and you know the real question you know which is so come with us about really to finding that i'd say the exact same thing
that you'd say i would add this to it you yes you know you look at rangers you love and seals you look a green brae you you look at more so
and every one's got their own little special feof what they're really good at and as a bell that we better at that than the other group and
then within the seals within the rangers within the with an assay got different levels of guzerattee i know you probably work with some
seals it you thought what are these guys and you by work with some guys that will be sent down a lovebook with the eyes and the same thing
would be at work with some assaguays mate's goeree garontelet able i would do anything for these guys and sometimes you look at me go in i
want to how these guys may made him traugott team as i get to teams and like did you really pass it election derision court really hard for
the american public to understand is that there is an oxplain it a bunch time on the pocketholes like any other organization there is the
top guys that are you know that totally bad ages has just made it there and in the bunch asheville then are totally solid guides they get
it down all of intention guys at just the they barely got through and they stayed in and that you know that part of the way it is now but
one thing i can tell you for sure is the special operations community i don't limit my respect for the special operations community alone
for me working with the army that the conventional unrevised camarine core ammoniathe always good other arts good tears they are constitute
your rifle company of awesome etaples worth with you cause an disposition people than the lake locked up in occasioned ed every one while
and and maybe they go and like tarsome thing apart and they get thrown like some rommanees good oodooville to kill again notes meet to the
dunrora outstanding organization and then there's units were in the army that are on the livably just scared away professional and they
have a hair in tiberhind dumb of glory of falak of a better word and so i like huge fan of the entire military of de tire you as military i
am but like you are you pride a seal be i mean my hello a opaline and not unlike when army plays navy like i don't know crapouillot like go
to for finola beat navy and on from one in this decade ye i am your century to be honest with you i literally don't care and the biggest
will when we are revideretur and with them or in cora to those guys the sacrifices that they made were so t they were so just impressive
dat day what these guys did and you we had of course we do have better trade we do have better dear and yet those require buttons and
companies would be out there doing i mean their first all terli in in the city you know we're going back through a little for we got a
little bit of villegas and anuals you walls great jim the roching powder exactly hosanna of that they don't have any of that we are a
dropped a poltoon and protein to miratam three a a bunch of marines at like saved our lives were like knocking on their gate that two
o'clock in the morning when we weren't were like two hundred meters away and we didn't want them all emerger us and they were going to
helepolis lettice in um or air won't come pick us up and we got in there like you guys beating t rats in a year we would be in pretty much
a gun fight ever shine night you know like ye do were taking the day carry you got a god leoline doubt about that ah next question will
american to a row we that's rules of engagement continued to become more bureaucratic and cumbersome poor will the us regain the will to
win a a first all guys there have the the will to win and to tell wait till people shoot at them not like not like near them like you like
as the arowes um not like i used to be if somebody's shot and you heard the gunshot that's like any shot at but now we have to be able to
actually say that we were shot at that's like bullets snapping master head they that hearing the whiz and in the crack that's close that's
what we pretty much have to have am far away so so just let me put some kind rotha because we don't have not every one that listens this is
the military may time context around what ten jo said that's freaking ridiculous that means you're waiting until you're about to get killed
before you take action if you're waiting for round cause when rounders snap and over your head that that means your you're under
suppressive fire just about you can no longer maneuver so this is like waiting until for for a civilian as is waiting until the knife is at
your throat before you decide to defend yourself that's what's what times talking about as to be a salesman being like your commission be
salesmen and you see if it enticin comment be your not allowed to engage him a at ye actually have ter wait let him pick up the product and
the walk over to you and ask if he can buy it and almost have the customer be walking out the door had he already set the product down
grideline to talk to him that's when you into engage him to amiens from a sales perspective yes that does and go charlie wisdom thrown it
out so not get not to him ah well see first of all the rip rules an engagement there are not going to be the same here so i think some
places like afghanistan and iraq have been capitalizing on and how syria on our rules in gagement i don't africas after is like okay we
know the americans are only allowed to go to the last concealed cover position and there not allowed to directly engage in less they have
been actively firestone's americans over there were not on a shoot at them so they can't shoot back woiski all the africans who there there
to help the like intentionally doing this and they're pretty clever about it the bookham but then right now with the radical eyes sells em
here the fanatic moslems that think that they're going to come here and be led to do that no bar remember for a harbour removed with the
alamo or member nine eleven shit will be different if you think you're going to come here and play around are we will not exist no not a
danton dom is a lot of policial corrects other stuff from time to time and its peaked the ages he does i you know one of the things that's
going up a lot and is right now and we got asked him questions about it is women women coming into combat rollo inside the military which
you know first of all credit to the women that had served in the wars and ibsen women i've seen women in remodeling on casava to go out to
help my god a god less fearless fearless reliant bosom totally capable at their respective jobs full credit and then there is a limitation
in my opinion as to where you would want to intentionally assign even to the things that women can do that we could never do that is true
i'm in south america i want to get some intell i can go in a bar and work it for a month before i get one inform it i just spent you know
twenty thousand dollars of taxbearer you stick girl there an hour neahest but she like you you set you see you seleucus i'm olais am put a
hundred pounds on her back and trout the back of an airplane i love women there later going to break the it's uh just a filata factor of
what is it muscular scaleton anatemy an that of me there you go thank you and ah there differently and thank god the belt effort because i
could never give birth she there way toungaiden we are like what what it now is like the mere talk about it the pinnacle of exercise ah
what one really good way to judge would be the cross the games on very well rounded athletes that after have strength in durance agility
etcetera and a the differ standards for men and women there are different standards for mensarii different standards and let's say special
forces selection i would hope not okay so we had the same standard um you had given an example the cross the games yeah i mean was it was
interesting i was watching the duthe finals of the crossbeams it was last year i think and the event of met the finals men went first it
was ten guys or something and they came out in the first datolite physical activities the first one was a pagod lingwood it was her heart
out there at redlintie had of interesting room eaton school and you couldn't go home until you did it and this one was i want to say it was
fifteen the tall so pre paul peter and he had a greek is come out they asked canoaboa and back down they get on without they have to jump
on a on a roller and row a certain amount of cowries out of god i then they moved down the line and their picking up and clean thither
cleaning or cleaning and jerking waits that were increasing in wet as they went towards the end and there was a ten minute maximum find to
complete this evolution so the guys come out boom that go they all go hard it's arteche pigworth the come down their rothera they lift away
to their dandery body finishes tician first place on cacolet girls turn and the end and they have it set up for the girls there doing the
same thing they make the weight a little bit lighter but they have the only basic concept and the girls come out and these girls that they
look as big and strong and as i do or you do an annotating these drolette amazing across athlete beautiful to and they come out and out of
the eight or ten girls that goes into the first thing and hit the packboard only one of them can make it up there toucan the other seven or
eight or nine athletes can't even get up it and then the girl it took her so long to get up a packboard in that when she got the rower she
was exhausted she got done with roland she didn't complete the rest of the course because she ran out of the ten minutes time of it now in
and to me i've never really in fought too much about the physically i was figured you know what you get a girl at a good enough shape may
be they could make it through some of the training that is required for special operations but when i saw that it really did leave an
impact on me meant to leave of how different it is in atellanae thing i was at my jim several years ago and i hadn't rolled with a girl of
judicio a long time right i may be platero an almost sudden we had a girl that was coming into town that was of a black belt and judge and
was a multi time old champion and great technique in and so i said my wife was going to atower on the mat and she's like you know pay you
on a roll and in my mind i thought to myself okay you know what i got bring my acart now we i mean this girl a world champion she's not a
small girl you know i mean she's a hundred and sixty hundred ty five pounds in and you know if you make a mistake against a hundred and
sixty five pound black belt your on a tap that's it so i said myself you know what i got i got a cure flightering my age at her and we
shook hands and as soon as i like grant and with guesses i touched her key and she touched mine i just realized there's no way that she
could ever sit in it then now i meet on less i just was completely the wasn't goin t happen because she just didn't have she doesn't have
the the strenk man what a talk about that m o o ing you to do it or hearts to twenty something years i stare at the seater day like wee
hand within a second of touching somebody avenida about what they can do i mean with it second said this isn't just like you you in this
misogamistic sexes way a moral with his girl if she did have a chance after i touch that's not what it was this this is like one of the
best grapes on a planet annatese and of making black felt an instructor that legitimately had the rod the revelation the like realized that
this isn't possible yes and i had actually echoed you to strive a story last week the first time you ever use a wife felt in the first time
you ever tried with telitetti as soon as he touched them they locked up with beale's anythin' do anything at this guy too i i failed to
mention that that yes when you are a graters is you tiensu sack you go oh oh this would be tough if this guy doesn't really know any thing
you even know things like hagino watch out for this guy you don't had position for he is really good you can feel all that and he's a
clinch ye in so yet that's what i so i should have stated that but as soon as i made contact whether i sit myself while i was a i was
mistaken because this is no factor to less say one in a thousand wheen could make it through one of our spectacle tions em which i think my
b a little unrealistic on a sly i'm thinking more of like one in five thousand could could do it that still doesn't mean that they should
be there i must in a shouldn't or they should we have to see it would i can't be is dictated that we have to do it and then second we can't
change anything otherwise it undermines the entire idea of being special if you have a special unit and there's a special requirement to be
there that requirement has to stay the same if you are going to then change that requirement you've been changed the unit and then ave
under mind no woman earning her chance to be there it's going change chemistry is got a change how the team is going to function am not for
the worse not for the better we just don't know what that's going to be you it is not just for small to special operations is not just
military i mean it's any job that requires physical strength that's what i'm talking about i'm talking about physical strength and if you
can't maintain if you can't do what the job requires of your fire fighter you can't pull yourself up a ladder with carried a a eighty pound
rope on your back or eight on hoson your back you shouldn't be able to have that john and ye so it's just one of those it's wolesley tough
things because he i got by the way i got three daughters right i got one son and three daughters believe me i want my daughters to be
success for in one letter and on every opportunity possibly can i but i tell you what something else i do not want my daughter's going on
to the battle field if they can pale one of their bodies out from the street if they're gifest less you we two hundred thirty pounds so you
wait to sixty five to seventy with kid on oh more often than he is got wider okayannie my my plate an my first appointment were twenty four
pollyanna they weigh five pounds the whole thing not that like dashall bought the kausalya ye it's like thiyaensayeken off tonnelier is
just as getting wider as yet they they're not going to pick up two hundred eighty five pounds at o'hare now not in half i normally a two
hundred twenty pound guy right and i love amigorena carrying maniac so while my kit is normally like twenty thirty pounds i had been ababcc
with like twenty grenades because sometimes i like i'm on a flashing his room and sometimes i like i'll bet frigate cause i don't monedowa
in sight you dyet guise like you and i preciate when some one like yourself takes a certain artistic perceptions to count back any said
yourself you don't what these will fracas i like them i i like with a view as so little there's a mean visitors mariani like that i like i
like people that have that artistic expression that they utilized it combat to express itself the beautiful things to cover not portunity
but is that the ah that's the political correctness and bureaucracy in the military not a good thing she hears another one how do you stay
positive having seen the absolute worst than humanity man these i beautiful burnet of desolation her beautiful brunette busy babe that
begin in a pekin that would drink perverteth me ye boneham so yea i have heard kids and women scream thy tregeraint the room there having
their dad shoot from a getanittowit ah yes he do donkeys go down well cause the village lied to us yea o watched bombs get dropped on
entire villages who knew that they are people like not that people they are good people near bad people and watch the all the voting
scrubble um i love life i love my wife i love my kids i love a sunset i preciate art i play the piano i wish i could appreciate beeroo for
but like everything about life is that much sweeter because i know how nasty and ugly it is and if any point i forgot why i fight i forgot
what right was i forgot um what you manity is of god the moment where is like i wanted to kill something i'm good at it i'm good at war
there's nothing else i'm good at and there's that temptation because you are good at something you were to go to more of it to go and spend
time doing not if i ever have that that realization that i'm actually doing that andante i got in i'd go be a salesman i tried self he is
uncare not i'm talking to a rout takes i'm just or hand whatever and this is a subject i comes up that i think people want to understand in
the civilian world and you've definitely nailed a perspective that i think most guised feel and i would say on top of that is that war
while it does expose you to the worst part of humanity in my mind for ever i will i don't think i will ever see anything as moving or as
beautiful as men rollinat into a horrible place day after day night after night risking their lives directly indirectly for their country
for the civilians that are there that they're trying to protect and for ech other now enter to go to memorial service after memorial
service and realize that these are in again you know i was trying to remind everybody that listens to this when i say memorial service i'm
a pocket about a a dog paganisme body in a uniform of talking about it kid talking about person anna person that sacrificed every thing in
in everything everything they are and everything they ever will be and so yes war will show you the worst part of humanity but that right
there is an incredible party humanity and i don't care about the politics of it i don't care about any of that but you're talking about men
that will give their wives for their friends now and when i have that in the back of my mind then that makes it very easy for me to stay
positive very easy for me to wake up in the morning and say i'm going to do my damdest day to live a good life and osgood things and trying
to honor those guys so i don't think war make you worse i think wardmate you'd better no services there memorials they're not like just
some dude at a a young and youngest have got it and his wife was like you know why you bring em back to me you know john it's like to lose
him you know you don't we had you know you didn't know him as like bitch pose i didn't i sat there and took it you know like we we think we
should there to talk about as were staring at a tree for twelve hours yet you know i don't you far snow like woman you know i know his
favorite paniwar on you you know i don't every single kid name of athotes you kids when their birthday is you know you don't think you
think you know him better than i know him now much time did you spend with him in the past five years you know day and night sixty hours
straight taking his blood he on be covered in it that we know like this isn't just some memorial you know i want to sacrifice the or talbot
is this a different level of you were talking about intimacy the brother soon we say it about the destiny next to us it's the the is not
the sum due you know so some plushlike in a movie like these art duds he was they would die for him as for a reason it's cause with no one
never known somebody that close and never will for ever and they're the best detonatin yes your adorer i go charles ginneeyeh your you when
he starts talking i'm sleepy is in next word there too much vases i can't take it any more she you yeah all right let's bring it back to
your little bit i want say a lighter question but a little bit of a of the easier question if a non fighter wants to learn physical self to
fancher and how can they start first of all your heads not con yourself anon fighter where that is every bore every duthoe out of the
gination has the keepable to be a fighter if you just so chooses to be that in every dude is a fighter so first turn the switch on stopping
pusiano cried no exactly old formation telessigamma or predictors we were predition we've got to go to have the eyes are eyes are infant of
our head the right anitoo they with other note of the side over here were well watching out for accurate privateer too so you are you are
correct i gainsaith i cantharidum in so ye that's okay that's got so with a mind set where you're going from there am so you asking the
question it's really to me just a choice anything's better than nothing and then of the n whatever that anything is then there's degrees of
better there's idoine s like a right or wrong you know you could do crawley could do moetia box you can do digito hill cross the as self
defense now but anything is better than nothing but then the degrees of what that is i you know i think a little bit better for me to found
the ional martial arts are always the best to start wrestling boxing meditation you you step out against guy to as el little bit of
knowledge and any one of those there pain to me as a little one if he has a little bit and all them or he's really good at one of them this
kiss you ask a by her going to sleep the of the you heard me say the same exact thing actually ye you get i wish they start would you get
to a the reason is you are i have a natural defence for someone trying to strike you in that is run away you know someone save your
covenant a knife or whatever i'm gonna run from you it's okay it's defense i'm being defensive i'm run out while that's no elletorale it so
i came on a hundredth you as the aero in your wall as in sakashira exactly less yeasting that true few one reason i who had asked to defend
yourself is if i grabbed you and now you got to know how to grapple some kind of grape right you got to be able to get out of that and so
that's why i say star would you just and then for me boxing a leading it these yer to learn the more i ask and you on to learn a little bit
of a exciting and then on ian wrestling i mean the you can just give targettin them too but there's the the butting is in america it now
there's all these places to train there's a gideon ever averse ay every corner and i mean it venango a unsocially completely out of the
jararaca take you on a tour of like seventy four totally lit yet said digitales and san diego and now they all have more tired they all
have boxing goupiner ones doing every thing enough and so were thing about like the so self defense oriented marshal art so would you be
tantira ihutai think those are good augments so i i think once you have a base of dedicating resting and moti then i think cool now learn
to romagosa looking at weapons or the on looking at nice i think it's good but i think from the beginning i would rather invest my time in
the the the big four understand agree to get a foundational pillar side rise they can do anything you want a man speaking of that there's
some of that asked about as to de risped like to hear more about and response it of jokai's going to be involved in that half a lunch to
day took me a barbecue and i was like duty have to come to one of these like idea these as i i know it or are finished know that when we're
done well but all over yo play you got you you lord me down the texas i forty seven times to tatiana have a shot i can re think i like food
shooting working out to git to machine guns i mean yeah i said it might not come back once i could down now and it would yellowstone a care
and will fill most of it and you see jocko like we're in a cement the side of a little bird and am so people get mad sometimes when talk
about hunting you know i tell you am come and do it shut your face oh the farmers there pay us and either exterminate that the animals or i
reviewed you get a comitat my house were going to eat up the organ a eat bison you don't work on it eat some rum marable bear nice sand not
a lot of wild pig caused the pig there taste lie malet ah why get marital about hunting because i want to be doing it instead of you i
hittell you that talk about talk about because pleathe people that might not know about the s d response says she to response she
pedominates sheep dog it was a phrase coined by m colgran and he used as a metaphor that a yet the sheep which is like the normal people
and they just kinda cruised eat grass and live in their lives ah they're not eve about the predators that are out there then you have the
wolf and those are the things that when at the sheep grasped doesn't taste good we get canines these in her and am so the wolves want eat
the sheep i there's nothing that would stop them and this is in the reality of cantiche menial generation is i got a bunch of sheep um what
i mean it like the sheep war really type hants flannels had beards and never carried an ax before did outini did not a break down a gun
didn't know how to clean an animal let alone kill it um if those were the sheep then that's what we have the thing that separates them it
is the sheep dog and ah the sheep dog is genetically more similar to the wolf than anything else it has the same natural instincts am the
only difference is that it like sheep not dead or blood in their mouth it likes keeping the sheep a wife am so that's what she gog is we
give people skills to make them be the hardest person somebody of her tries to kill so if you are going to go and get a gun fight with
somebody that's come from sheepdogs you better be damp good if you think her onto go hands on and start tusslin with a guy that or lady
that's tachevo better plan on it been bloody and violent as when they come and they were the inishtore we have requirements beautiful
finnerty course uh people are afraid of their own blood monotone of our sons then seen it have seen it on top of the persons that are
turning with you know um and if not the frightening thing it's like cool the fight just got started ah so that's what it is it some we are
putting confidence and technique and skills in the people about bein ard to kill her and i took a look at some of the videos and stuff and
it's something that people been actually asking me for and i mean the process of setting it up but ah i think that the vedas are saw the
room and you know anybody that can get to one of those courses no matter where you are castell covered both on the spectro fright i i could
go and i'm going to get something out of it yet and i someone on the complete other end of the spectre like echo couldn't go no true till i
bring guys like jake sign alarcos a m ten but blake so just in that group we have a couple of professional competitive shooters um so every
time i do want vingrette i'm getting better now like i'm trying without acosta a right but my point when you have you have women in ever
shot a going before that case is that right yeah yeah an old you both are first to wilton do to civil in class as we've been doing military
man forcement for minute and he can we we i on fair in this society that were it now if the sad that we have to give like we the things
that you know i think it would be a huge disservice for you not to share the rays on like you do em to a society that is now vunerable so
that now is like it selfish for us not to do this and it's i think in human so when our first two civilises both courses had people that
had never shot a gun before now i not encouraging you to come to a sheepdog course if you've not our shot a gun before causten's up being a
huge ah banou for us gionto put somebody with you the whole entire time and that instructor could have been used to help other people get
better so its littell selfish to your your come to choose course i'm not going to say no you know you got a learn the stuff to say a wife
you have people and trains and just walk out a bathroom some machine guns they will they go to a christmas party and saberings tart mon
people down the hole this is a difference are an i we can't we can't and and in the copse and lane forcement cannot be everywhere all the
time and then in the what's the average response time in america for in it six minutes and that if you ringlike a night in a city with a
lot of cops in it you go out and some rural area yeour doin as were i like twenty yes so you are like you or not here's the reality you are
your first winded defences and height you might be our only lindertes so wentest in yourself and lonesome skills if you got money and you
going out there in your binat thousand dollar gun don't by a six hundred dollar gun and then comes panforte hundred bucks and tring with
you the copley dock you know like you you need you need a five hundred dollar gun and a hundred dollar side right until you get to a pretty
high level you know like stop wasting your money give this kills get the smiles what a thing that thing of sound awesome and i'm sure i'll
be doing something with it on having my good signs okay next question for both of you i would like to know the most influential book and
why they got many a foretaste rear maman one book as i think that idea of always searching for knowledge is more important than the actual
single book i mean i read right now read in this book on the war of electricity it was a c versus desire the youngest ric chair a
yeesterday story like a finito is almost split the nation the a the retail direct current or alternate current but what madre cart so much
more powerful cause i can take a little bit a twelve old and i can kill an elephant but it takes a hundred twenty votes to do the same
thing so you know addison who you know he put he backed the wrong thing and he was too proud to admit it um an so i learned to time one
about may be put in your belief in the wrong thing in the how you and how damaging the can be man how much damage you can do it if you are
that fixed cold stubborn you know or just set in your ways and how important it is to be to always be a fertile soil that searching for
more nutrients you know there's there's no doubt about that and i think that that's one thing that's been common out of his pocasset so
cause i revealings and i youall now tell me we this boreas in reading more right now than i did when i went to college and i was named lish
major galazi got people to send i'll get books on getting books in the mail a somebody who troopesses me ah longwood's a hat i said you
book this is too voluptates each i said mannikin my list but that's going to be such retreat of his deevy but absolutely reading all the
time ah is what a deathly happened to me i don't we know echo as been on a leading rampage bite direct result of the pot cast a sister
anybody keegark a question i there's only wan bucketed refer to all the time as the most influential book i ever read which is about face
my call david haworth and i've read it many times and i always go back to it because it's a great book about a warrant leadership and
that's why we all time but i got a stack of books derictions ever verily so i actually read i split my time between fiction on fiction and
i get a ton i love especially in the times that were right now reading like frontoparietal a love learning about the why of the thing you
know why count was times the french people over through the government why they went and they started beheading the rich class em why they
went hung or the building i thestreen not the how i garthener sick oxen gumalo victor hugo you know i like em i get a lot out of that and
then i also get a ton of wisdom you know when i went a relic to kantana cristo when that three was digging with um no who would then in the
metamorphosis as he's crawling through those tunnels and emerges then as the count the amount of wisdom that that pritheth priest gave him
about rolling governments um i look at that for argovia right now rot and its profound so um i don't limit myself while i love reading on
fiction and morning you know like i am like the book on retort now ah all based in real fact marketing science engineering am i love going
back and in no it's not brainard's not understate the anodyne some crap ah when i get it he read in romance noveauteaus for a sai split my
tongue went fiction on fiction fifty fifty there i don't and i sometimes i'll try lootenant'll me about a great fiction book that and i i
might give it a try but in my perspective you know you're talking bout the was the wife i always like to figure out leclaire bout war i
like to think about the psychology of forspent with the guise farsical from a leadership and a follow or perspective of what guys were
thinking because that to me was always the most fascinating thing about what was going down was we got to get all these guys to do this or
my boss is trying to get me to do that and how is that war couldn't he most intense scenarios so from tim kennedy get out there to leave
people next one love to hear ten thought on combatives how grappling changes in full kit with multiple people et cetera from whom hate
doesn't change a yoke the basic fundamentals of out of punch somebody remains the same you give so like the body is to me as a chaste right
doesn't matter what you put on me you can give me more you can take away less my this chase is still a killing machine right now the only
thing that changes my locality the type of damage that i can do em saoirseacht but to the it can go faster or can rive brunoro gets thirty
at miles to the gallon ripening a change out the castro put some night trower you could put in some wheels you know eventually what was
just a velorio the road to drip down the road on a fast so it's just a basic chasin expand or you detract from so this cast he this
particular one um so i don't know any head but people if a warrior score helmet a head button the shine is it what do you say to me far had
but you know that's like oh yeah where gloves that have like carbon fire recross and ucles brings the bidlack you know like no again in not
being message and as i do not curse people to ever be slappin i realized that i sexicum but if i ask you a question and you like to me now
that i want to hurt you in the first place i believe the wittily correct term is the stockingless the nightshade diplopia at this stop
mefirst coke or maybe more so really it doesn't change the skills remain the same or just adding canoe damage that i can do with the more
equipment that you give me the lute pretty simple caution i don't even have anything to add next one more cheers in emma and elsewhere and
a plan of action defenceless person just through a bunch cases in their handwork on range fifteen and a elian we define got stuck borage
fifteen unbaked and it dress he so aringay is her lot to be wearied all vowing cloth em but i've been sweating so much that when i tore my
pants off so with the long cloth it was like actual real am skin of an animal a areas like fury and skin when he get it wet hunters know
this it deteriora as did my longcloth so when i tore my pants off to fight is oberaar a maggini cause we really do fight and am so with my
loincloth so count people about the movie naked range fifteen and tim kennedy make it am i is going to challenge everybody's perspective as
to what of veterans threttin this adonai is where people look at veterans and their like their damaged goods a pistor actual physical
impairment or a just the mentality of the god through training that i haven't so that persons now afraid ah not even to mention the the
climate that i think is encouraged from the government to treat us differently um this movie is not very gingerly gonconer those topics it
will absolutely offend what i think to be about seventy per cent of the of this country i from what you told me about the movie to day i'm
going to go ahead and up that norah he pianosa what what when you are tell me about the movie today so i whitened it what his name ah my
very so matestini palasan mat best on a comical article fifteen arranged up is our company sat what's called range fifteen articles can and
ragetty clever name very very creative fury as such army saw her less and you fell a sophisticated cosmopolite weal or saw a serrone
military missee mat and nick were the massimi that man is our main character he's our hero numerous red and he's good looking man i i've
seen a couple of things that he's done he's obviously a funny guy and they put together this move they did it through indigo which is some
sort of a crowd funding a deal where you get money from people not and the theif the public a public as gives money and you raise how much
money there if feminin a few million dollars you make this movie and that we had like people from that we had lispers people that are in
community that like believed in the product byragee shoomp sponsor by um weapons made factures we had like people that make um pamaunkee
maker also and eliceret want is moodhead and a people in hollywood wanted when they saw that were like breaking the mole because hollywood
is stuck it's a cesspool of inhumanity and selfishness in greed that's what that industries to its it's it's damn mere evil when everybody
that has been suffer as been suffering by that the organization of what ally wot is saw that to bunch of that trims that didn't give it
anything and were like wirinake a movie in it's going to be most offensive move in everybody in this whole city hollywood is going to hate
it they had started helping us the like way it takes a few hundred thousand to rent a red camera will give you three prouty used the whole
time we had guise that were like two thousand dollar day type a directors a director for ography thou step up big under connote my time for
three locks here like so we can't pay you the fifty grand for a week that you normally make or the furthest for the shot and that i in
school to so there is something when you were tell me about the movie today this is what i think about what you told me there is something
about special operations community that is very secret it is something that's never been revealed to the notion it is something that is out
sateen beyond topographica highly classified information in especial operations clinically acetelyn ionantha it is any some of that i
serchio never seen come out the polognia missus dave down but no one is ever talked about this fact and that is that the special operations
community has in insieme sidesmen as insane and its reason it doesn't get released tenets in my belief it is not previously been and any
way remotely acceptable by the human by the normal people by the populace in what ye told me the sublime you told me about to day they are
going in shattering to shock and everybody from teofan most guise in the military and a look at im an he got lughaee gonna they're goin to
think it funny they're going to be laughing so hard and it just conese nomato o is goin to be seen old me up like a a classic of course
you're doing that but i think like you said i mean holly would is goin to be beside these say are they are going to be completely beside
themselves this may start a revolution i hope so it is a sort orelio and i i i i this may start a revolution with what you told me about it
to day and i know that everybody that was in his potashes gonna go seek gentoo see a thing of media and i think it's going to be phenomenal
so i'm looking forward to it when it comes out that movie is called range fifth heat and a enaenger release it's goin to be innutrition
fifteenth so that former isn't the military giton's memorial day weekend and that's going to be the washington d c and then two weeks later
as the widereaching or nine hundred theatres of that just gonna keep going growing becos p d stop using them ye pretty straight forward at
him i i get a lot like you have a big messire physique right and somebody looked at you though i come all in that big old guy the what what
roads does he use as i watch all of work i've been athlete since i was six years old he now my dad was an olympic laughed my brother is
like ten times affly that i am my sister was she to shoes as she started an athlete you in before we were um like throwdowns at me and you
sought a test me every week the military taste as all the time still for the day i like i've got touched last month i got tested like nine
times i have always been clean i will always be clean you and just for those eunion know that for those even are and i may fan you follow
of guys that won't clean a and that's just you know i've a since ben being in that and make community and in sparing a lot of guys and
fighting a lot of guys i've gone with guys and and just so everybody understands which some one goes on steroids you can feel it on
unpersonal lutely feel it they work they were they work they were they make you stronger they make leaetest er and so the fact that you've
gone in the in the cage on multiplications and for eyes that had that mass of advantage and you feet no ah also a assommant is a bomber
that that that's out there a thaself prospect tarty yet you have more of enoughness in like the next guy yet i mean so i've been up in
fesal athlete for fortune years um like the pride peak of guise dripping annibal exterites like every now like i used in fight camp unlike
they took hyperdemic needles and shoved them into their eyeballs lighter the fight i iii see now the vanderleys a like juglike he's up on
the string screamingly has even remembered like the last four days because he's been in a storied rage leading up to his fight that was
that the that is the era of mametti came from red and um my so my tire career has been that manned amabitur that like you i i fought and
lost titles um and yamaye they would have gone differently had i cheated or they weren't cheating but that's not what it's about to to me
it's oenotheras sence i was a since as of kit so a marshalistes to do with ethics and integrity and a hard work the keepers of what be the
marshal artist is in every one of these guns spits in the face of what i think the sport is supposed to personify all the beauty that
exists in moral arts umsila every time one of these guys test pastia's why yes that's a all weeth alleviate while we're on it the next
question is why not make one last us c run on a do it ye aethere you going to fight again with what are yoice or the colony i so i suppose
to deploy in mid may and in the beginning of june so i know i'm the leventina mad and now again i got a break him stuff down for some
civilian here right tim who is doing all this stuff we sit in a room with me right now who's got belinda photo shot to day whose making
movies he's going on to pointment overseas to go on down and killed back gude in a matter of months o'ertired right he's still doing it and
he doing all this other stuff and i fighting for the u have seen now that you have seen i mean you should be the absolute poster boy for
the u s c though love of god sorterthing you okay so you're going to go on to ployments yet for your nation and am and shall my wormy
management i told them that i get back on that date and from this date until this day arches we leave again i'll be a hundred per cent down
to fight anybody they say so one last you have see run on even limit it ate last there i'm ringwave six no more seven third six or fit in
the world right now to me a a fight away from a title and am and i think i can beat everybody above me and i think you can do a so let's
hope that the folks at the u s c pay attention of this i you got a guy that's a veteran that's a hero that's a hard worker that's never let
you guys down pop and positive that train in his ass off and you know what besides all that he's getting ready to deploy on dan so that you
can have the dane you sc have got when he gets back you've telleth much time do you need my brother you you tell us when you want to fight
and and who you want to fight if i was dandie i do like oh you don't what this whole this hole you have sea scenes based on ten kennedy as
i like that who at base that you have sealinata on but so mather person that's not ever served so hopefully dat white if you listen in my
avis jack give me a shout i'll lay this out for you in explained you altinati worse lie this alight yes fiercely all right importance of
recovery within your training groom ram see and his bodway as from a sore next you is it made wait rack teofilo know for for recovered to
be in pouring you have to have done the hard work to need it shall think a lot of people focus on recovery all the time ah when they
haterius lya can't do that to him on recovery i i i cry there pe your eye bath or get him aside or acupuncture you know like bitch go train
hard you like this colossus i cut off you don't like we le it's from hardwork you know and and i think will cover is as important as
training but first the training has to be there and asked to be hard enough for it to warrant needing recovery yet i was so i was say would
it when i when i was training fits out totality more boutaniers it was so obvious when they were over trained like that go from the you
know they be given me a hard time on the mat or whatever and old was suddainly ground an i go you he datolite to morrow and just relax easy
but you know some guys i did a couple of days off yourefforts lifestyle than recovering you know like when people are like the i a snob
beable to put that get the out put the volume that i need to do for workin about your life you know like we ought charinus you last night
oh you were you wantocu is that glitter so goat out de what have you eaten this week the all me show me your diet didn't you then how low
now you'll have a lock get out i don't weltseele last night oh you don't know cause what you drink go get out you know like what it were as
late i he had a drink oh last night get out doyouknow stop talking to me about her coveralls that conduce it to train you know a young talk
about how wise get it out o sleep o o oh kit he an you he jocose from otarihensera heat well food stop putting clapping your body stop
drinking he yolara he to starry talk about these guys at having like huge robertson but once supuestos to stop drinking you know for me sex
day every day get it out of sleep or my ass off i think that a man for a real athlete man a woman they have to go to bed tired i love that
feeling for it like you are exhausted you see a bed in your like five cadusian i make it a caimairam the shower to bed he that's what
you're supposed to feel like we've talked about that on her natation of my favourite feelings in the world if i get to the end of the night
and barely hanging on who dinnertime he at the call was starts talking you like baby you ayala while at a walk and hear the words that on
now you were saying that a you know so i yet that's that's great impusle e right but you can work men humans can do a lot of tapio so adapt
it so said he utilitarian altramari hans and he got people that can deadliness of pounds the and were the same species yet a people that
can like pain the one less and the people that can go and murder alleges same sees you know like it is an adaptive thing as long as you
train it properly now next question would the water the best qualities slash skills a person needs to be a great soldier slashed fighter
and are these the same i think that there are some qualities in each that compliment each other m m for example the regimented schedule of
the military does good things for somebody that wants to aspire to be a fighter because most fighters or selfish little bricks that are
super lazy and they don't understand what it takes dedication wise to little things like setting your alarm be on time to work out riding a
journalist a way you're eating em not chasing pussy all night long and that you should go to bed like those that let's discipline that's
that's what that is that's that word um an a lot of military not all guys but a lot of the military teaches discipline so that is a
characteristic that would compliment somebody that aspires to be a fighter man in fighters you know like yes obviously your learning skills
tactical skill that could be like saving um you know like you get comfortable sweating your again you to hard work and you know so some of
those things are nice but um not so there's some things that that do well i think be a good soldier can make you better fighter and some
things about being a good fighter comae you better soldier so yet he i think of for me the the biggest quality that would transfer both
back and forth soldier fighter and illgotten more on their that beat in the leadership position but to me its humility and i think what
makes a soldier a fighter a leader the most important quality they can have as you militia because the minute that you're not humble is the
minute that you stop training as hard as you can the minute you say you know what i don't need to do that extra work out to day that's a
lack you know what he because you think it a irayo this i got this in the bag it from a leadership position sainting i really dread my
guy's hard i don't need to show up earlier than my guyes they already respect me no you need to earn that respect every day and so for me
always humility is the most important characteristic of a person cause you're not so not learning what's your not he he how he debonairetee
entered it on the path to day i don't you swing that kennel bell to day i already good the embatum or you're going to get humblethwaite is
a man let me put this might for real fashion he ll be recorded too came referred back i don't want you to keep it i want to keep it we got
all kinds of tea shirt saying that come out of the pot cast a time be humble were get home bob take the rodorick de that's another good one
saved to caisteal right you know it i said ladarelle rning from external to it all the fever of his am intellectual property mosaide seed
morenouse you come of a shitfaced and thousands of tea shirt tickets sold is that on a okay last question in ethics is questioned is in
here is because a lot of people at wasnae their turn to get better trinette themselves a trying to be good we all and we got people all
ages this won't have particular says if giving a high school graduation speech what would you advise eighteen year old navigating their
first their next steps which tenatero almaden lord galbraith we didn't make a tea shirt if you are ill i am assume don't know the way that
this question gets praised and from what i storeton to night what would you tell yourself if you could tell your own eighteen year old self
what would you tell yourself do you something that you don't know if you can accomplish if i'm all climb the mountain yea i can go up to
you know mission said locations like a two thousand for mountain and impertinent climbed mate he know um mount whitney without some
training sly we've kind of challenging um be obviously kato everest differ different beasts can do it do that do you that do that thing
that you don't know if you can do stop being afraid of hard work that's the thing that's goin a really determined successfal ure one is
your desire to actually do it and in two the commitment that will take to achieve it stop bein scared go and do it that's what say my
statement an i put it right on top of that i would say that not only you want to stop the in scared and do that thing that you don't know
if you can do it not but you know what you got to do is you've got to start taking the steps now cause when you're echeneus old you life
seems like it's goin out last for ever and i will tell you right now we's not got a last for ever and not years go by like a summer's day
and the next thing you know you look up and your thirty six years old or your forty four years old and at times gone you cannot get it back
you can not get time back so those dreams that you have those gold that you have don't put them off another second on not one second get on
them and go out and make them happen starting right now get off the life you gottheiten maker suspended she can't drop in but if you could
that's well in a done i is been like an amount you got in the gale and to this awesome tanksinking all your firing preciate your your
expired to a limacina ever got a thing i thought it was interesting how a lot of the stuff actually most of the stuff that tim was talking
about with like what we were just kind of recently talking about an terrier reading stuff sevastos drinking stuff the um i've seen the hard
work stuff or whatever body was is i thought that was interesting so i i should scribe to his idea of like a preferred ngero freedom to
peaceful slavery and the only reason that the you can have that is from individual responsibility and free to have freedom at this not this
construct you actually have to take the work and do the work that associated with it and am woodenly hing right now because one of my sort
of monstrous in light there is discipline freedom and the more discipline you have the harder you work the more effort you put into it the
more freedom you're going to have and you know as you're describing this philosophy it something that we literally say on every sicinius a
chapter and they look at it leniently how everything you are saying is like lockett with like to boat he's been thing wore on utamaro pay
it we have to have a shirt one of the two only two shirts we have one to disponentem if they don't not as a one on more demittas atween
that for anger ugoma thank you there what else on it oh ye on it yeingana on a dry trader i try their tawee only and if you had one in
there or is istesse e t o u m siteoni desert like a sail like it a pretty science i think i'm sientific i am so when i'm using something
all have like measurable like tangible numbers i can do x number of raps rat or and rows like how mad calories can i burn and ten minutes
on shooter off hermeticall things being the same same day the week same pretty much diet same similar weight um it's more when i'm on
semecarpus i don't an i go to it roll there's nice were on mike to tucker out a miethes nights were i on tritagonist like it another round
the most got them now and that's one of the the later round if you really feel it as a round on any other so on it ye if you want to get em
true tick or alphabet on the mind not com to crillon on it that comes flashed jocko that's the one tempranero that's sense altinatians from
me then without quick through amazan's dotcom aye few and would be free up on the amazon you are support this side cast on god to jacopo
click through the amazon link or doctor soon and then yet do you shop in an ice you get a little to attain it goejanverwellen can't see he
is take my money if they want to do is like this ponteneuson my door my eyes one it's hard not to do amazonian it too he men he all right i
think that's all we've got to night i want question sandians and in you twenty sixteen it is it too late avreliae certain the delicate or
doctor of the two of fontinettes think it might be to a ah twenty ternotte per twenty twenty alasian was too weak i don't want like
president vice president i went to present want britannia out of a fat my two present i know after to day you might have a little
slattenmere too not gettin be none awsome a waterside thanks come at all appreciate sweet here and heverybody and and most of all thank you
for your service said this nation can ever thank you not for what you've done if you want to connect with any of us on the inter webs
echoes at euthales tim is at tim kennedy and may and i am at jaca willing in all the troopers are out there that are listening to this
thanks for listening to those you got on the front lines of the battle field over seas right now serving in our military thanks are taken
the fight to the enemy to the police long force men fire fighters at her her state side sank you all for protecting the home front and for
all other troopers out there in the world on your job cider in your office or in your manufacturing line or sitting in our cubical out
there grinding away i want to remember that the grind is how you shall enact and it's the toil that makes the man so keep grinding
keelivine to sleep later and wake up earlier were hard and play even harder and half fun while you're doing both and squeeze every minute
out of every day and make every second count and the best way to do that is to go out there get after it so until next time missus echo and
tim and jocko it
