this is jacopo cast number twenty two with that go charles and me joaille good evening i go to evening in i would say that it is a good
evening sir because we are free we are free and i talk about that all the time dear me sake discipline equal freedom to hear me say free
your mind that and here in america and in places around the world that have the ability to be listening to this pot cast lottie's we take
freedom for granted and we all want freedom we want the ability that kate ability to move around and go or we want to go but more important
me we want freedom of the mind and freedom of the heart and not things sound abstract beating like things that cannot be taken away we
don't even know what that means to have them taken away because of the way we live and how we were raised just think what you want to think
and believe what you want to believe the boy want to be to have an exercise the freedom to question the question everything that's freedom
and there are parts of the world when none of those freedoms exist in or there's parts of the world where any chance of free thought is
exterminated from childhood will broken dreams extinguished thoughts controlled these let's go to a place where that is the reality and
again i'm on a point this out this is not a this to be movie or some post apocalyptic novel this is real real life with real people read he
is reserved for the lettering of the proper dandoins to careen language uses a unique alphabet made up of circles and lines the red letters
leap out of the gray landscape with urgency they march across the fields preside over the granite cliffs of the mountains punctuate the
main roads like mileage markers and dance on top of railroad stations and other public buildings they say things like this we have nothing
to envy in the world if the party besides we do long live in ill son let's live or on way we will do as the party tells us we will do as
the party tells us and like i said this isn't a book this is weymis is north korea missus a story of horror and of slavery and of brain
washing and it's also a story of choices story of freedom and its also a story of the strength of the human will this is a book that is
called nothing to envy ordinary lives in north korea by barbara demodees a bunch of people that effected who barbara domacile to interview
once they left north korea but a traces their lives and what their lives were like and one of the characters and a gineral character one of
the people that's in the book is nameing going to the book here mirant was a pownd it talks about that miranda her never talked about being
a few of you but there is another fellow pew who wrote a memoir and in his memoir of going to the book here he said that men were housed in
squalid camps when they were not permitted to bathe or brush their teeth their hair became infested with lice untreated wounds swarm with
maggots they were fed one meal of rice and salt water a day under the name construction unit of the interior department new pecamane been
built near the minds coining in north korea was not only dirty but exceedingly dangerous since the mind frequently collapsed her canfire
and that same former peo wrote the life of a pew was worth less than a fly every day we walked into the minds i shuddered with fear like a
cow walking to the slaughter house i never knew if i would emerge alive so if you don't know anything about anything the leader in north
korea this time post war is kim ill song and you still here is his grandson now is in charge of north korea but at this time of going to
the book after the war came ill song made it his first order of business to weed out foe from friend he started at the top with potential
rivals for leadership he disposed of many of his comrades in arms who had led this struggle from manchuria to unseat the japanese japanese
occupiers he ordered the arrest of the founding members of the communist party in south korea they had been invaluable during the war now
that they serve their purpose they could be discarded throughout the nineteen fifties many more or purgeant was increasingly coming to
resemble an ancient chinese empire with kim ill song the unchallenged master of the realm camill song then turned his attention to ordinary
people in nineteen fifty eight he ordered up in elaborate project to classify all north koreans by their political reliability ambitiously
seeking to reorganize and entire human population the north men coreans were methodical to a fault each person was put through eight
background checks your song but as the rating was called took into account the backgrounds of your parents grandparents and even second
cousins the loyalty surveys were carried out in various faces with inspiring names intensive guidance by the central party was the first
announced face the classifications became more refined in subsequent faces such as the understanding people project between nineteen
seventy two and nineteen seventy four soliciteth also like dis bad movie plot right be in in intensive guidance by the central tardy that's
something you don't want to mess with and here's how they would be here's what life was like a little bit life people would be closely
watched by their neighbors north koreans are organized into what are called in in bon literally people's groups cooper is have twenty or so
families whose job it is to keep tabs on one another and run the neighbourhood the in an bond has an elective leader usually a middle aged
woman who reports anything suspicious to higher ranking authorities it was almost impossible for north korean of low rank to improve his
status now we talked about the character or sorry the person mirontaine talked about and she talks about her father and here's what she
says about her father me round often found her father's passivity maddening only later did she understand this was a survival mechanism it
was as though he had hammered down his own personality to avoid drawing undue attention to himself among the thousands of former south
korean soldiers who tried to assimilate into north korean society many slipped up mirantur laid her later told her that for her father's
buddies in the minds fellow south koreans had been executed for minor infractions their bodies dumped the mask raves being a member of the
hostile class men you would never get the benefit of a doubt a sarcastic inflection when were firing to camelton or a stale remark about
south korea could get you in serious trouble it was especially tabool about the corean war and who started it in the official histories and
there was nothing but official history in north korea it was the south corean army that invaded acting on orders from the americans not the
north korean army stormier oss the thirty eighth parallel anybody who remembered what really happened on june twenty fifth nineteen fifty
new it was wise to keep one's mouth shut so even history even facts that you learn that the country learned or just lives mean didn't have
any particular artistic or athletic talent but like her older sisters did but she was a good student and she was beautiful when she was
fifteen years old her school was visited by a team of serious looking men and women and somber suits these war awa members of the fifth
division of the central workers party re cuter recruiters who scoured the country looking for young women to serve on the personal staff of
comalong and come kingani if selected the girls would be sent off to military stoutening camp before being assigned to one of the
leaderships many residences around the country north korean girls her age didn't know what a concubine was only that whatever you might do
to serve the leadership would be a tremendous honor only the smartest and prettiest girls would be selected i think we can all imagine what
that looks like twisted men in seats of power praying on the entire nations for young girls the sturbing now another character in the book
and ganious that term caracter year that even me i'm sitting here trying to tell her when i remember these are people but i'm calling him
characters esant characters in a book these are people and this person was named missus song and missus song was interesting about missus
song is she's a true believer she'sa true believer and your ear some of this but these folks that are raised in north korea they just
believe that that they believed the propaganda they believe that north korea's the the best place on earth than it everywhere else is
suffering and that because of their great leader the arives are better than any one else in the world and she sherly believes that and he's
kind of what her attitude there's one or life was like and her attitude was like missus song usually went to work with one baby strap to
her back and one or two daughters dragging along behind her her children basically drew up at the day care setter she was supposed to work
eight hours with a lunch break and apinted le of her shift after work she had to spend several more hours in idea logical training in the
factories auditorium one day the lecture might be about the struggle against us imperialism on other time it might be about came ill songs
exploits actual or exaggerating fighting the japanese turnabout she had to write asses on the latest pronouncements of the workers party by
the time she got home it would be ten thirty p m she would do a house work and cooking then get up before dawn to prepare herself in her
family for the day ahead before leaving omeros a m she seldom slept more than five hours some days were harder than others on wenesday
morning and she had to report to work early for man to tory meetings of the socialist women's federation friday night she stayed especially
late for self criticism in these sessions members of her work unit the department to which she was assigned would stand up and revealed to
the group anything they had done wrong missus song would usually say in all sincerity sincerity that she feared she wasn't working hard
enough missus song believed what she said all those years of sleep deprivation altos lectures and self criticisms the very same tools used
in brain washing or interrogations had wiped out any possibility of resistance she had been moulded into camelton improved human beings
camillo's gal wasn't merely to build a new country he wanted to build better people to reshape human nature once in power came all song re
told the ideas developed during his time as an anti japanese gorilla fighter as instruments into instruments of social control he
instructed north koreans that their power as human beings came from subsuming their individual will to that of the collective the
collective could go off willynilly doing whatever the people chose to some democratic process the people had to fall on absolute supreme
leader without question that leader of course was chemisan himself so there being told to multiple channels through every instrument
available newspapers radio television all controlled by the state and through all these there being told that they have to submit their
individual will and perform at the will of the collective tidwell hear me refer to for me the most important piece of humanity is the
individual in individual freedom and obviously this attitude is the opposite of individual freedom and also you got a member from a
leadership perspective the way you maximize a team's effort isn't through a supreme authority trying to control everything it doesn't work
that's why we have a little something called decentralized command i want my front line leaders to think i want my front line troops to
understand what they're trying to make happen and use their free will to make it happen use their own brain to make it happen so here the
leash position and you realize that you're trying to control everything yourself you're not getting the most effective performance from
your team and where in a see this on a grand scale and you know we do see on the grand scale when government tried to control human it
doesn't or now it might seem crazy that you would buy into this propaganda and here's a here's a paragraph of the statement about that back
to the book we laugh at the accesses of propaganda and the gullability of the people but consider that their indoctrination began in their
infancy during fourteen hour days spent in factory day care centers that for the subsequent fifty years every song film newspaper article
and billboard was helped with this in to deify him ill song that the country was hermetically sealed to keep out anything that might might
cast doubt on hamilton's divinity who could possibly resist are you not just being told that this guy is the leader you been told these god
in nineteen seventy two on the occasion of a sixtieth birthday a traditional milestone in korean culture the workers party began
distributing lapels of hamilton before long the entire population was required to wear them on the left breast over the heart in missus
songs home as in every other a framed portent of camille song hung on an otherwise bare wall people were not permitted to put anything else
on that wall not even pictures of their blood relatives the children were never to forget that they owed everything to the national
leadership north korean children they didn't celebrate their own birthdays but those of camille sung on april fifteenth and kim johnnie on
february sixteenth when the time came the children lined up in front of the portraits to express their gratitude in unison they would bend
from the waist bowing deeply with feeling thank you dear father time ill song the children repeated as their mother looked on with
satisfaction television and radios in north korea are present so they can receive only official government channels still the programming
was relatively entertaining besides the usual speeches of camalong on a typical week night you might have sports concerts television dramas
and movies produced by camille kinjals film studio on weekends you might get a russian move as a special treat the newspapers would
occasionally run feature stories about heroic children who ran it out their parents to be denounced by a neighbour for bowed mouthing the
regime was nothing extraordinary start to get a little feeling for what we've got going on here now what happens when the government tries
to control everything and you take the the freedom of the people away communism obviously in things are not as productive as they could be
that's what happens when there is no individual drive to succeed because if you're a farmer once you plant your food it's as ginneken away
by the government and read distribute it so what's your what your drive to grow the right amount of food or more food there is none cause
all is going to be taken away any ways ran like the old they avoid burial to the minimum elater than the opposite when they strive for the
maximum that means there focus though what can be you know yet as in avoiding what can be yes and so now this is genumben through chunks of
this book to get to some of the high lights so now where into the aides and were starting to run out of food cimon ill o by the night to
mees was increasingly in assuming his father's duties offered on the spot guidance to to dress the countries whose father and son were
experts in absolutely everything be a geology or farming kenjo ills on side instructions and his warm benevolence are bringing out bring
about a great advancing got breeding and out put of dairy products the corean central news agency opined after him john visited go far near
changin to the the kind of it's kind o headlines in the news one day he would decree that the country so switched from rice to potatoes for
its staple food the next you are decided that raising outrages was the cure for north korea's food served shortage the country lurched from
wan hair brained scheme to another so the fact the matter is it even if this guy was a brilliant asailin farmer he is not taking into
account the various train and the different climates than are in the area and choking get what done whereas if you let the free market
beside what can be grown and let individuals decide and let freedom guide people things work things find a way the control does not work
and you'll see that here back to the book soon the country was sucked into a vicious death spiral without cheap fooil and rawmaterial i
couldn't keep the factories running which mean it had nothing to export with no exports there was no hard turns and without hard currency
fuel import fell even further and the electricity stopped the coal mines couldn't operate without electricity because they required
electric pumps decipiatur the shortage of coal were on the electricity shortage the electric shortage further lowered agriculture put even
the collective forms could not break properly without electricity it had never been easy to eat out enough harvest from north korea's hard
scramble to rain for a population of twenty three million and the agricultural technicolored a boost the outport relied on the lectica
powered artificial irrigation systems and on chemical fertilizers and pessaries produced its factories that were now closed for lack of
fuel and rematerialize north korea started running out of food and as people went hungry they inhale the energy to work and so out but
plunged further the economy was in a free fall north korea was the last play pone place on earth where virtually all staples are grown on
collective farms the state confiscates the entire harvest and in gives a portion back to the farmer but as harvest withered in the early
nighttimes the farmers themselves were going hungry and began stashing some of the harvest away there were stories from the countryside of
roof that collapsed under the weight of grain hidden away in the eaves the farmers also neglected codicote fields for their private kitchen
gardens next to their houses or small steep plots the carved out of the side of uncultivated mountain slopes driving through the
countryside you could see clearly the contrast between private gardens bursting with vegetables being pulled sworn sky ward vines drooping
with pumpkins next to the collective fields with their stunted stunted hap hazard rose of corn that had been planted by so called fallen
tears doing their patriotic duty jason point coreans like to think to themselves as tough and so they are the propaganda machine launched a
new campaign playing up careen pride by recalling a fable from nineteen thirty eight nightee thirty nine which came o sun commanded a small
band of anti japanese garillas fighting against thousands of enemies in twenty degrees to lower braving through a heavy snow fall in
starvation the red flag fluttering in front of the rank the argues march as they called it would later become a metaphor for the famine and
here's a one of the statements that they would make no force on earth can bar the korean people from making an onward march for victory and
the revolutionary spirit of the arduous march and the deep deep ark will always remain a powerful nation democratic people's republic of
corea so people are starving and the government assam you organ a tribe on it's a tough road the workingman it in during hundredum part of
one's patriotic duty bill boards went up and callanan towing the new slogan let eat to meals a day north korean television ran a
documentary about a man whose stomach burst it was claimed from eating too much right in any case the foot shorter was temporary agric
agricultural officials quoted in newspapers reported that bumper crops of rice workspace in the next harvest when the four and press
reported on food shortages in north in the north in nineteen ninety two the north korean new service was indignant and here's what the new
north korean new service and to say the state supplied the people with food and a chief price so that the people do not know how much rice
cost this is the reality of the northern half of corea all people live a happy life without any worries about food in our land the people
are starving in the government's belying if north koreans pause to contemplate the obvious inconsistencies and lies in what they were told
they would find themselves in dangerous place they didn't have a choice they couldn't flee their country to pose of their leadership speak
out or protest in order to fit in the average citizen had to discipline himself not to think too much then there was the natural human
survival instinct to be optimistic like german jews in the early nineteen thirty two told themselves i couldn't get any worse but north
koreans deceived themselves they thought it was temporary things would get better a hungry stomach shouldn't believe a lie but somehow it
did along with the new propaganda campaign the regime stepped up its extensive network of domestic surveyin the more there was to complain
about the more important it was to insure that nobody did now at this point further in the book miran has gone off the college to become a
teacher and she shows up there and this is what she deals with the food in the cafeteria was even worse north korea was starting at let eat
two meals a day campaign but the school took it estephe and offered only one meal a finsteraar and dried turn up leaves the cafeteria
atwood sometimes add a spot of rice and a or that had been cooked for hours to plump up the grades the girls in college began getting sick
one of means roommates was so manners that the skin was flaking off of her face she dropped out of school and others followed now during
the during the middle of that camel song died and you know it so it's crazy to hear how the people reacted and so ministero with this
announcement that was made in a this is long little of a long announcement but just to get the tone of it is worth it here we go the
central committee of the workers party of korea the central military commission of the party the national defense commission the central
people's committee and the administration counsel of the democratic peoples republic of corea report to the entire people of the country
with deepest grief that the great leader comrade came ill song general secretary of the central committee of the workers party of coreean
president of the democratic peoples republic of corea passed away from a sudden attack of the illness at two a m are respected fatherly
leader who has devoted his whole life to the popular masses cause of independence and engaged himself in tireless and energetic activities
for the prosperity of the motherland and the happiness of the people for the re unification of the country and independence of the world
till the last moments of his life departed from us to our greatest sorrow very disturbing and what crazy you hear all these bureaucratic
names that's what's crazy about all these government organizations picking away at the people and here's some of the reactions the morning
that went through and in people like missus songhois a true believer this is how they felt the old women wailed how could you leave us so
suddenly the men screamed those waiting in line would jump up and down pound their heads collapse into theatrical swoons ripped their
clothes and pound their fists at the air in futile rage the men wept copiously as the women the histrionics of grief took on a competitive
quality who could weep the loudest who was most distraught the mourners were a on by the t v news which brought cast hours and hours of
people wailing grown men with tears rolling down their cheeks banging their heads on trees sailors banging their heads against the mass of
their ships pilots weeping in the cock pit and so on the seens were interspersed with footage of lightning and pouring rain it looked like
armageddon or country is enveloped in the deepest sorrow in the five thousand year history of the korean nation in tone an announcer on
television and i have these little miss that they throwed or like this one hears it here's en official release when the great marshal died
thousands of grains descended from heaven death sat him the birds couldn't take him because they saw that north koreans cried and screamed
and tumbler chest pulled their hair and pounded the ground they couldn't let him go but none the less this spite the heroic efforts of the
grand marshal the famine continued then here we go to another person in the book whose name is doctor kim a woman doctor in north korea in
the pediatrics ward doctor cannot that her patience were exhibiting peculiar symptoms the children she treated born in the late nineteen
eighties and early nineteen nineties were surprisingly smaller even smaller than she then as the tiniest kitten or elementary school class
now their upper arms were so skinny she could encircle them with her thumb and forefingers there muscle tone was weak it was a sindon as a
wasting where the starved body eat away at its own muscle tissue children came in for constipation that was so acute they would double over
and pain screaming the problem was with the food how's wise it started to pick weeds and wild grasses to add to their suit to create an
illusion of vegetables corn was increasingly the staple again instead of rice a people were adding leaves hostem and cobs to make it go
further that was okay for adults but it couldn't be digested by the tender stomachs of children the babies were in the worships there
mothers themselves under nurse didn't produce enough breast milk for them baby formula was non existent and milk was rare in the past
mothers who couldn't produce enough breast milk would feed their babies of water down a congedo made from cooked rice but now most of them
couldn't afford rise either in years doctor kane talking about the toddlers they would look at me with accusing eyes even four year olds
new they were dying and that i wasn't doing anything to help them doctor kim told me years later all i was capable of doing was to cry with
their mothers and their bodies afterwards doctor come hadn't been a doctor long enough to have a rected the protective wall that would
insulate her from the suffering around her the children's pain was her pain years later when i asked her if she remembered any of the
children who had died on her watch she answered sharply i remember all of them now me ran has graduated from college and she's an actual
school teacher and actually requirement of school teachers of that they knew what need to know how to play the accordion which is like a
transportable instrument so therefore is considered a be good thing because you could carry it on a march so all schoolteachers had to play
the according of as they sang songs like this and they would sing it with the class our father we have nothing to envy in the world our
house is within the embrace of the workers party we are all brothers and sisters even if a sea of fire comes towards us sweet children do
not need to be afraid our father is here we have nothing to envy in this world another one of the songs that they'd sing where have we gone
we've gone through the forest where are we going were going over the hills what are we going to do we are going to kill japanese soldiers
and another classic that was taught in the music class is called shoot the yankee masters our enemies are the american bastards who are
trying to take over a beautiful fatherland with guns that i make with my own hands i will shoot them bang bang bang that ideal nothing to
envy in the world and in again you know as you read through the book you hear the people saying that they believed whole heartedly that
they had nothing to envy in the world that this dismal life of starvation or near starvation was as good as it gets then hers with the
hunger would look like in school according to meran each child was supposed to bring from home a bundle of fire wood for the furnace in the
school basement but many had trouble carrying it there big heads lolled on top of scantiness their delicate rivages protruded over their
way so small that she could encircle them with their hands some of them were starting to swell in the stomach it was all becoming clear to
her meramee seeing a photograph of a famine victim in somali with a protruding stomach although she didn't know the medical terminology she
remembered from her teachers teachers college course on your treason that it was caused by severe protein deficiency me ran also noticed
that the children's black hair was giving lighter more coppertoned it was always the same progression first the family wouldn't be able to
send the codefroy then the lunch bag would disappear then the child would stop participating in class and would sleep through recess then
without explanation the child would stop coming to school over three years and woman in the kindergarten dropped from fifty students to
fifteen what happened to all those children mean didn't pry too deeply for fear the answer she didn't want to hear a decade later when we
ran was a mother herself trying to lose her prospecty weight through a robin this period of her life waited it like a stone on her
conscience she often felt sick of what she did and didn't do to help the young students how could she vesel herself when they were starving
is axiomatic that one death is a tragedy a thousand a test so it was from me ran what she didn't realize is that in her they that
hindifferent wasn't acquired survival skill in order to get through the nineteen nineties a live one had to suppress any impulse to share
food to avoid going insane one how to learn to stop caring in time meanwild learn how to walk around a dead body on the street without
paying much attention she could pass a five year old on the verge of death without feeling a feeling obliged to help if she wasn't going to
share food with her favourite pupil she certainly wasn't going to help a perfect stranger and here so s i guess i would say thoughts on a
famine or realities of a famine in a famine people don't necessarily starve to death often some other ailment gets them first chronic
malnutrition impairs the bodies ability to battle infection and the hungry becomingest succesively tuberculosis and typhoid the starved
body is too weak to metabolize enter by honi even if there available and normal normally curable bus illnesses suddenly become fatal wild
fluctuations of body chemistry can trigueres and heart attacks people die from eating substitute foods that their bodies can't digest
starvation can be a sneaky killer that disguises itself under bland to tistics of increased child mortality or decrease life expectancy at
least behind only circumstantial evidence of excess morality is excess mortality statistics that show a higher than normal destractin
period yet another tutus cruelty the killer famine targets the most innocent the people who had never steal food lie cheat break the law or
betray a friend it was a phenomenon that the italian writer cremolia identified after emerging from a wit when he wrote that he and his
fellow survivors never wanted to see another one again one another again after the war because they had all done something of which they
were ashamed as missus song would observe a decade later when she thought back on all the people she knew who died during those years it
was the simple and kind hearted people who did what they were told they were the first to die by nineteen ninety eight an estimated six
hundred thousand to two million north koreans at dyers oral of the famine as much as ten per cent of the population by the end of nineteen
ninety eight the worst of the famine was over not necessarily because anything had proved but as missus sang later surmised because there
were few mouths to feed everybody who was going to die was already to dead now that's how the famine wrapped up but to go a little bit in
depth of what it was like one the famine was raging people became homeless which was strange because in north korea that or had a problem
with homelessness because if you wanted food you need to live in your home cause if the government would allegedly bring you food at once
they won't bring it through the more there was no reason stay at home so now you had people going out trying to survive and this i talk a
little bit about that especially for the children it was a dangerous life that children couldn't sleep without waring that somebody perhaps
another gang member which steal what little they had there were strange stories going around about adulterated on children not just for sex
but for food high acquasole about people who had drugged children kill them and butcher them from meat behind the station near the railroad
tracks were venders who cooked up soup and noodles over small burners and it was said that the great chunks of meat floating in the broth
or human flesh the stories got more and more horrific supposedly one father went so insane with hunger that he ate his own baby a market
woman was said to have been arrested for selling soup made from human bones for my interviews with the defectors it does appear that there
were cases in which people were arrested and executed for cannibalism what did our wonderful la leaders do during this here's how they and
the people as the people started black market to sartoris gardens and selling what they could to get you know people started to try and
survive through exercising their personal freedoms and hers one of the ways that there here's their comments about this is coming from them
john as well as any of the world strong men he understood perfectly the clear that an absolute estreme needs absolute power everything good
in life was to be belied by the government he couldn't tolerate people going off to gather their own food or buying rice with their own
money telling people to solve the food problem on their own only increases the number of farmers markets and pedlers in addition this
creates eager is in among the people and the base of the parties class may come to collapse so he is trying to stop people from solving the
problems themselves which they have the capability to do and they don't talk about it to deeper but they go into the the massive black
market that was started in nespole that were surviving where people that were doing that that will figure me out a way to make money and
jim john l retaliated against that free market excessively to try and stop it it was better that people die of starvation than they have
the freedom to try and let their get their family to survive and here is an example of what they did with one man that was trying to get
money so his family could survive back to the book the man was accused of climbing electric poles and cutting copper wire to sell the theft
caused extensive damage to the nation's property and was done with the intention to damage our social system it was an act of treason that
aided the enemies of the socialist state the prosecutor red his voice bellowing through the scratchers then a man acting as a sort of
lawyer for the accused spoke although he offered no defence i have determined that what the prosecutor says is true the accused as the
hereby sentenced to death and the sentence will be carried out immediately the creditor man the condemned man was bound to odense at the
eyes the chest and the legs the firing squad wood aimed to sever the ropes in order three bullets in each location nine and total topped a
bottom first the lifeless head would slump over that the body would crumple in an orderly heap at the foot of the stake net and efficient
it would look like the condemned man was bowing in death as if to apologize a murmur went through the crowd who thought the execution was
excessive punishment for minor fast the electric lines were working any ways the few meters of copperwing the man had stolen probably a
gotten him no more than a few bags of rice a pity he has a younger sister somebody said two sisters said another the man's parents must be
dead clearly he knew nobody within fustain erven on his baffy probably had a poor class background as well may be he was the son of a miner
the shots rang out head chest legs the head burst open like a water balloon blood spurted out over the dirt almost spilling on to the feet
of the crowd now what do people do to stop this you know and you have rebellion in the world i have people turn against the government in
the world but in north korea that did not happen and here's why the level of repression in north korea was so great that no organized
resistance could take root any ant irisi activity what have would have terrible consequences for the protester his immediate family and all
other known relatives under a system that sought to stamp out tainted blood for three generations the punishment would extend to parents
grandparents brothers sisters nieces nephews and cousins a lot of people felt if you had to give one life you'd give it to get rid of this
terrible regime but here you are not the only one getting punished your whole family would go through hell so with the fact that they're
going to give you protest they're gentill everybody so there was no protest so now the only thing you can possibly think of doing is
escaping and it goes through the various people in the book and how they escaped but i thought what was interesting in fact the most
interesting sort of mental transition to make was for missus song in again she was referred to as the true believer and her daughter had
escaped and made it actually to south korea and her daughter arranged to have missus song visit china but she visited china sort of against
the rules thinking that he was going to go back to north korea because she truly believed that north korea was the better place she
believed that south korea was the enemy and it was evil and so she spent but she does go to china and she spent some time in china and when
she is in china she stained in the house that you know her daughter set up for to stand and they have to v and they have my coat open and
they have dish washer and they have a rice cocker which which like is miraculous to her rise sackett it she sang at a certain time the
light would come on and it would make a chirp and that means the rice was now being cooked and by the way at this in they do have rice in
north korea so there is this thing that is automatically cooks up your risin the morning and it was that combination of things that broke
her because when she first saw that stuff his eldest imperialistic you know this is capital is a hatevil they're trying to buy us and
inslaved with their capitalism that's what she'd been convinced for whole life trementes the realization onamacles with this because after
this it goes through the stories of how they escaped and what not but this we ization this moment in time when our mind becomes free then
here's here's out goes how much they all how much had they all missed herself her daughters locked away north korea working themselves to
death for what we will do what the party tells us we will die for the general we have nothing to envy she had believed it all and wasted
her life or maybe not was it really over he was fifty seven years old still in good health this was her wake up call she was ready to go to
so i ask what is your wake up call what is in leaving you what is controlling your thoughts is it television sat feeding your mind images
of what life should be is it the internet drawing you in and controlling your time is it drugs or alcohol naming your brain and diminishing
your desires or is it weakness a lack of discipline that prevents you from accomplishing what you want to accomplish and i'm not saying
that you have to rebel from a saying that there are things in life that we just have to do there are but what i am saying is ask questions
don't believe everything that you're told and don't follow the path just because it's there don't get in line just because other people are
get up wake up and be conscious of what is comeing into your mind what's getting in there what are you letting in there what is forcing
itself in there and what does it want you to do you have only one life so donaster being controlled by some one else that's one of the
things that ah it everywhere like you keep yo easily be controlled by stuff like a big one is hated to harp on parents but like your
parents so nobody's perfect right so all your imperfections are a lot of your imperfections will be passed on to kids just because you
don't know any better like that missus song lady i she disbelieved it she then know any better and so you can end up passing these things
down like certain traditions or um you know just methodologies of raising kids that you might hear otherwise but that four thing i know
that you believe it it crept in your mind because your parents their parents you know and you don't like it you say ask questions you don't
as question you're just like hay that's how i was raised you passed it on meanwhile you're doing the wrong thing all that's what happens
when you ask questions that's what happened when you don't ask questions now rather happens when you believe a forty all the time i and hay
this my come across this some people are sitting here said wait a second jackal won't you in the military for twenty years year the merinos
and there was a definitely i was a bromelias kid an when i was in the military i was always questioned everything that we did and why we
did it so and i think that's one of the things that help me get to a leadership position become a decent leader was the fact that i didn't
just take every one's word for it and tallantire going to do okay i no you don't want where actually in to change the strategy we're going
to change the tactics what why was thought isn't working right now woronowo it differently yet they get at all the time yes but this is a
broader scale this is a ironers gale this is life not just in the book but life in general life in general like one or you doing where are
you getting your direction from her who is who's got a hole do you steering wheel e yeatman sure it's you that's got a hold to your
steering wheel and that's one of the things where it stuff cause you got a balance it is well you know so if you're just rolling around
saying hey nothing true until i figure it out is condole you know you got to consider the opportunity coster some people you got it you
know you got to consider their credibility and then you got a kind o just go with it and and again this is just kinda demonstrating like
there's a ballantree i just like are you an it's something if it's not working and someone presents you with some alternative don't just be
like hay i've done it this way so you know leave alone typothetae questions and listen to him you know chancery might find the little
improved meditation stuff ye or you might find out that you've been sucked into a trap you know deedn't want to be in now you got a for
your mind you got it for your mind you got to get out of that box out of that cage you think of that you have met people now and each so
bear because i because i've traveled a lot and i've an i've walked with a date different kinds of people hummum all different walks of life
and i meet people sometimes and i think of myself and this guy's pretty awesome he's got all the you know on my wet disperson gold is and
sometimes i'll ask like a owatonna do i like what are you a how meet some kid or what you want to do and some people say you know well i
want to do you don't i i think there i think they're going to come out with his giant dream and they come out with like a little mediocre
idea and i want an i insidiae n't done this yet i'll talk to five people in the last six months that i thought ill going to tell me about
their dream and that i was going to be like in shock and i was going to be impressed and say yes that's what i'm talking about brother go
get it and instead i had to bite my tongue because they were telling me their dream but it wasn't big enough there wasn't big enough it
wasn't it was too realistic you do you now you meet some people sometimes they tell me they're dreaming i go manyueen it that you need to
you need tell that down heneage a drift right these people that like you can achieve anything you want no actually you can't achieve
anything you want if you could achieve anything you want you know every one will be sitting on a yardarm whatever big bad as thing that
they want to do i can depend the way i heed my can't though but yet ye true i mean can't that's what i mean these get these people that are
like you can do whatever you want it no actually others on motation for that man all people are not created equal some people are smarter
than other people some people are better athletes in other people a reality now what can you hear the question isn't that the question is
what can you do mum with your with what you've got what can you do and i much rather i love to hear people over shooting but don't trap
yourself in a box where you like will be happy if i can do this right and there's a whole bitter part of this is it sort o like north korea
there's people that are trapped in a paradisean their head of the world they think that the world is this is this thing that they live in
they think the world is this small this small place that the people that they know pretendeth atmosphere that they live inside and it's
really really small and i think to myself man you got to get out but and i'll say you part of this came when i got out of the military
cause my whole life you know the only guys i knew were sealed me not and just who i do and so when i got out and i started meeting other
people and especially started working a big business and started meeting really not just successful in terms of financial people but people
that really done something and i started realizing that there was a whole nother level at montenotte higher level but there's just another
world in like in the supines alloy know a i did i did my seatonian er you know you do these certain i did ask you to come and i you do the
things an that's what you do mum and it's awsome an that's a whole world but there's other worlds a meriton of my muselmans we are out
surfing in ineane i've been out for like two years i had this exact conversation with him i said he man like we were talked were out there
serfontein hour and for fifty eight minutes were talking about the filthiest i aithyssomenon the tilting in that i will ititenya this
uilama awesome just so you know there's other things in the world now and it stuff that i'm insane my mind was a north korea my mind was
just saltman and i tell you what i'm glad it was because it made my life very simple and i still you know obviously i love the soltys more
than anything but there are other worlds out there mum and you can do other things in the world and so now when i meet people and give from
environments and different jobs and in each little each little environment that i poked my head in two because we work in different
industries all over different you know manufacturing and gasoline and financial and there all their own little world and sometimes people
are trapped in those worlds you know and i just want to say man free retiformis ed so what else is held there ye can like a what you
intimate kennedy re talking about how you guys you as are an example of people who have seen the really really bad parts of the world and
the really really good parts of work of the astral all over and and you live in san diego which is you know arguably one of the one of the
other places to live so you have that expanded view meanwhile some people they only go on vacation on the travel so they have although a
reponsive and in really nice view but it's really narrow or other people who only lived in that place is just like people who go up in a
real negative household when they go out into the world just the beginning view of the world is native you know like money is to so hard to
come by because to when that grew up their parents are complaining about the rantouls are piling up at all the stuff so that's their
attitude when they go out and then then that's how they kinda take on the old man i know this in this kind of a different thing sam sam
concept seemed subject but amid a friend in in high school and this we bore groping quite smiling and why so some people straight off have
met their whole life has him been off of coit and is no less the mainland the main land is this fantasy world place with or dominantly wood
and all this stuff so i add a friend one of my good friends he moved to the main ambitious this small teeny tiny town just as i allers git
so i remember one time were it on we want to state was the down on it all retaliate pedestaled so i remember where he just having a
conversation later in the onlikeliest lost very flat of white people little at vegas and as i would go to las vegas or whatever else we do
do you what he do you rent a garish i would never drive in los vegas i would never drive in las vegas cause it's too crazy you know this
free ways is no free way in quiet at other is a highway but and he a groan also to see oh can't even dry as so that's like an example
that's all narrow his noshis whole view as world his whole world and on that extended to his driving skill you know this was just the soul
hectic on a free way i way glaswegian even in even know how crazy that i anatoly such it really you don't convert like on all i owe and
whatever ye so la than his the forel five nor sanna thursday afternoon for essayed it is no doubt there's so much out there and if you stay
comfortable in your world you can get used to you can get comfortable starving in north korea he asked that's what the scary thing is that
the point that i think i'm trying to make is don't be comfortable because what you think is awesome right now there could be so much more
you if you can in vision and pay attention to what's going on in the rest of the world and break out of that paradise that you're in and
see that you can fly you can fly around the world you can do it and don't get your p and for your mind yeah all right let's get to some
questions from the interwebbed in webs if you like supplements good supplements which i think we both recommend right as far as supplements
go get on it supplements and they and we are a sponsored as it so happens by on it but out in it on its supplements anyway cause i'll take
them even before we're spensierati on it dot com flashed joconde ten per cent of get you crow i'll supplement gives you alfagrano you cruel
oil and quill oil is anything freer joints is critical cause like when you even even when i was young when you live hard when you get after
it working up so so okay so if you gained strength right which of course we all kind of want to do or whatever um you don't have to put a
whatever on the envied all gotobed or derives at to speak for every one but as he had saved to some that yes forgetting traittie but when
you have a higher capacity for strength a lot of times your muscles will just want a fire real heart so what that can end up with is this
weird stiffness you know for you're going to and like it i keep got a it's almost like you got a warm up in life is almost like that
feeling you know so like yet you are strong you are about to carry like de whole bloto groceries in and you can do that it may go to your
road of rosedale on it say every day stuff and you can go keeter doing that but you kind of got a warm up you know it's kind o like he
could be you know what rose you have avantage after in the store out of store so anyway so the point being like when you have stuff like
for your joints or you don't take care of your joys i wouldn't told this tone we definitely i'll like if you want a jack big steel you want
to do you isuan to jump off things you want to throw stuff around gitanella you stay healthy yeires no but i've seen though it's it's it it
is eisenstadt ive cause i've extreme experiences where i my yes but then i canagorie do twist you know and i'm trio know i am ready
wantonly cunnigan his kind of cold out and then i go to live in the tangi can live a lot of watford why on this first set i can't even lift
anything you know me the cloam just saying you joints got to be like good to go i was longer right absolutely to anteing you if if if you
take if you take that to heart one yoursel soldier is a man anyway yeah on it oconostota per cent of you happy you did and if you want to
support this spot cash before you shot at amazon got a jacobites or jackastral comes clinton line on the top and at em it gives us a
percentage and yet you don't pay nothing in people will have been of few people mention that like the the the link doesn't work or whatever
and i found out through one of it the troopers were in the now sometimes you have add lockers on your browser and their activity which is a
good thing by the way did good to you now as sometimes they can mellering it andaye because it's a it's an actual code and it works in in
in the same way don't on en marling often me yer han i saw deactivated if so you know not get back it there it is or if you want to buy
some shirts which opes his and or name on it go she jacotot sam notorati represent you know yet there it is all right we git it for me
coseaque tion loafer question how do you continue to train you go when hurt or injured but he same thing with one of her cane inter ego and
when i reined in their due when i can you know now one thing you do have to do astolat yourself rest enough that you can heal cause i'm
time they get the sprain nayland is toadeating one month at last eighteen months no kidding if you push if you just won't let it heal the
thing is not going to heal so you have to let things heels now but you can go through all kinds of positions you can work different
transitions but sometimes you get an injury and if your dedicates you know him talking about like you get a weird injury that you can't do
certain movements i like gallivancia get on top i can't be on top of cant so just practised or you have a heart you know growing muscle so
you can't hold any guard you have to work like side control only okay cool escape socotoro be inside control see can definitely do those
things you just figure out what moves you can do you figure out what training partners aren't going to go psychopathic on you in this art
you even worse so that's important you know just being in class and your learning a new technique you you don't i find it if i can not roll
when i'm in class i'll like pale bit more attention to what didn't struction is being given cause i know i can't roll si now all one tea
out of this as i am i learn right here from jeff lover or the list and so i will be like paying extra special attention i ethen ah then
i'll tell you if this is something like i wear me pats what a role and i think that they prevent to injuries or abiding i just made a
transition in my life where i used to want extra large weighed neither the opened like nevermore raises a alike graces of a albaicin in the
west like a piece of nebran yeh yeh yeh but i recently like on a two weeks ago i went i used to where actors and i went to large steffelt a
little bit stageland i just gotten medium and i got some three big legs not got memaniia compressing my knees and keeping it all together
and they feel really good at so maybe just order that legacies down the impression and the same thing like what i have heard elbow i put no
well totonis wrap up whatever you can and just keep training and warm up a little bit yes you know i didn't used to i do now i'll do a
latteiner und where i'm not trying to kill the person a open that person's not going to try to kill me although you and i had lilienstadt
other day we had a excited his naples a itself that when you pay me that all had they're not not like the kind soccer you know over knee
brain though it ylike a wet suit like a new prince and at six yeah cut or cliff king rustling me pat that's what they are of their
cominertial made in the afreedees ill an loot of this big toe freebooting not the big deal if you choose to train when your injured cause
man i am i can't sit here and say train when your injured and i might even say don't train learn like ow you say if you want to show off
because you won't get yamaye you know you can't just not show up on the mad and i the man even if you're not rolling it's like it's that's
a good place to be face it for most of us um and you sit in on a class or or just do the instruction part of it you know and do the
movement it cause you not going full speed you don't rolling to do the movements that you can and you can pick up a lot man in fact when
you especially you know how you see you were learning from being jeff and most of the structures here they're really good even if you learn
one little detail in kano i know this card as you know he added that one little decoding that i been trying it for all these years and i
just learn that one do you can always add something um fame i think that that's that's a that's a big deal sure of an in de there you will
earn it's like all talking a great one time on tremble he was like we're talking about has so is some one asks you how long have you been
training but let's say you treat you started training ten years ago but then you train for year used to off a year and then you went back
for you are only training a little bit you know so how long have you been training really how do you come did and all that name so he was
like he do went go too deep into it but he was like no man if you started ten years ago you've been training for ten years or because if
you start training for a year even if you take a year off when you see something you hear something you someone talking of something you in
all that up to her and have the contest you you know you know so you're you're you're bringing around militant your system a yendere not
training you teacher right so your injured just keep a going that's what we are thine to do though there's a little egsicution if you like
what well i've been training for thirteen years yes meaning i started a search years ago but i took a lot of time of it so you might catch
me right in that baldacca what i say it is tells me the like eveningtide years oh yeah you can not back in that war you know what let's see
how good i am he you know if in aconite cause i think it's coming getisculatin for the person like out like if you're at if you ask me how
long have you been training it so automatic for me to try to justify my skill with my number of hollow you know even though the guy asking
typically is just asking for conversation he's not twenty value at how good you runeing want size merchandise how long you to hang to for i
what school said areyou different you can beat i'll bull sucking keenan about that my hated it and there candalucero be like it's ma hours
that's how you say it you you cainforth thousand hours you turn that's all on you've been training i donno if you've serioious not
monterone way lookin out if they ah oh injureth man i don't feel the same way as you though if i don't tree what and i defy you to try and
i'll tell you what i could i said this for if i back his tight nothing better for your back the shiny yes you extort jigit he holds little
strange asking the tyrant not you i'm not saying not there you be able to kill it you and melicite the uproar crazy round snacking work yes
yes speak here for it said be careful ye be i am not a doctor at patan probably a people listen to me as if i was a doctor there help would
be decorating questioned me at her from time to time don't sleep eat me train injured god that's my attitude i next tested how coal is
knowing the personality type in sivert extrovert of your colleagues in combat bisness or choosing in malefices occupation ye um how casalis
it to know the personalities of people it's really crucial hanno ing in understanding people is critical in every aspect of life and that
being said the most important part of knowing people is knowing that you really can't know people not a hundred percent in i hear people
talk about like personality types in their feast tests and these these categories in stuff like that nomos of never been familiar with that
um but you know you can put people in different categories but for me when you put personator by themselves right that's only fifty per
cent of the situation the other fifty per cent is the other people that there working with and so i want to know not just what type of
personality they have because that's a that's a the like i said that to half of the equation the other half is how do they interact with
other people human other people's personalities how do they had all slackers how do they handle over she rehoboth handle loud mouths how do
they handle submissive people how do they handle a crespel those were all different personality traits are wont to know i want to see how
people are going to handle other personalities and then i wonder also know how they're going to handle certain situations pressure conflict
a tory responsibility i mean i wanted to know not just what their personalities but how they're going to react because you can get people
that are but really easy example is people that are superegos but they fold under pressure and you can get people that are super passive
that fold under pressure and vice versa you get someone that's sure quiet and humble and under pressure there westron m so that's what i
want to know i don't care what kind of person owau have mean i do to an extent but i want to know how it interoperations with the with the
world the people with the situations that you're going to face and how do you do that you do that by observing them while they're doin
looter people all to dealing with precious situations as is the reality yet and you can't you can have an idea you know i won't say that
you won't be able to predict it but you'll get surprised sometimes you get surprised on a person that you think is all puff and they
followed or be person that you think is weak either strong so you will get full to pence militie you're you know you're probably write
sixty per cent of the time seventy per cent of the time ye yet they would as also how how they react on stuff goes bad like when stuff
doesn't go there way have it all and that's a spectrum tuppet and some etonnee some one end or things are going good your hiring an people
grow for whatever whatever you situation and it's like dan is guy i'm so glad i hired this guy about one something goes wrong the self
distractor something like that man is yet that's i think the critical component answer i aretosi ple answers that there is there's somebody
different variables eso many different new ones that what you want to do is you want no your people yes you want to build relationship of
your people so you know them so you understand them that's what you want to do in the all word relationships yes that's what you need
that's how you get to know your people and that's how you lie dim correctly next question in regard to subordinated ershi how do you begin
to change the culture flash school of that of an industry or company you know i'm not sure if they mean in regards to how do you change
your subordinately deshi or if you are subordinate amature what which one of those it is but regardless doesn't matter cause guess what i'm
going to do oilstone to do whether i at all whether in the subordinate or the spire guy i'm goin to lead oh we're goin t i want to change
things to make him a certain ice i'm going to do those things i'm going to make those things happen that's how you do it and if you are
doing the right thing for the right reasons your message is going to spread you know you know how many bad eleutheos i was in o'meara in a
way cut is me and my buddies we always had a good attitude we always have the right attitude and that spread to the other people that were
with us now there is a red flag that you can get for yourself and this is frustration when if you start saying yourself which i'm not
saying this necessarily but this kind of question is coming from somebody that wants change to happen when it's not happening so they're
getting frustrated in if they can they are on board and they don't care fer professional ver not motivated like me they don't have a good
attitude so ere's a lot of blame going on right there ye so this isn't about them though i you and it's about leading from any level in the
chain of command if you needing if you doing the right things for the right reasons that's gonna spread so when either the classes etal
about all time is if you're exercising extreme ownership if you saying you know what i got this it was mistake made was my fault that
spread me if you're humble that spread if you have an open mind that spreads if you being aggressive not again not aggressive towards other
people but if you're being aggressive in pursuit of your goal that spread you do what dozened is when you are aggressive at people o all
actually it does readers negative you don't want to you know it doesn't spread it doesn't spend when you're trying to get people to do
things because it's going to make you look good that doesn't spread you can't get people to behave better because you want to look good it
doesn't work ye people see right through that oh you want to look good on norman sabotage now the other thing i've been saying lately
because people are surprised or whatever or not to prize but there concerned they don't see how it's going to work so fast and i think in
what if not gonna work fast it's got to be in use the word it's got to be a campannole a campaign so like old war two was not one battle
and oloron was not one bottle it's a campaign to win in europe it's a campaign to win in the pacific they takes battle after battle after
battle and guess what you don't win em all you you lose some of them and so you're going to on this campaign you're going to win and you're
going to lose but you got to have the persistence and the patient and the persuasiveness to continue an another piece of this is you you
are best off if you go in direction be like a uneeda like me no people don't like that you need a just act how your acting and if you do it
though i guess said the right things for the right reasons people are going see you and they're going to follow m do that's are you begin
to change the school of thought ye that genuineness like tends to show itself or that like if you're not genuine it tends to show itself
you know just became of any gained it just a rat shows so when you doin it for the right reasons like you you can't help but expose that
you know that will be exposedly up people will sign on sight right on and then you end up gaining like i say it the campaign like you'll
gain a little bit of ground you might win this guy over and i can wait that look you know that's a polidori it or whatever the group is and
you make these small little steps you kind o hold that ground and yet before you know it is condant whole culture of this thought in an
office or whatever it's kind of changing a just a etre i seen it happen the question jack echo how do you work with people who over think
things a classic over thinker what is i mean the over the annisette won't take up this pan right here because they look at an sake m i
wonder what the way to that bandit and eve i should pick it up right now because i'm also thinking about saying something in what if i drop
the pen while i'm trying to say something that makes a noise on the desk a disruption my sentence and then the whole flow of my sentences
disrupted which means my train of for willard now i can't refinish what i was going to sit that's an oversecretes so that i must want to
eat you can just imagine plying that thought pattern to an actual project that you're working on a right not a good sinner or you try to
fly to combat situation that you're in or you try to apply it to a relationship that you're in he start over thinking while i ay this then
she went think that rich wouldn't they mean by that real that lonely one by that you've taken mister eaton over thinker i so quick thinking
so much you're over thinking so ere's where i want someone to over thinking i got some one at one like a conic over thinker i'm going to
i'm going to fondle them into the right mind set with questions that i gives in real easy questions to ask that will make the appending
like an we we we men by that or like can you explain that again in your getting them to explain it in a simpler way what you say on a so
allantois the actual go werne down here because again there putting layers upon layers of complex the on top of things that don't deserve
it so what exactly are we trying to do m and again you're just kind of playing them a little bit and asking questions and then if you can't
get to him you can't quite get them to simplify it than you said oh oh he so we're trying to do that is very simple statement so it's that
way they start subconsciously being coached and being taught to simplify things as much as they can in their head then another thing i've
been saying lately when i'm out to working with people as i used to not really understand why people are drawn to this complexity but
actually think i understand now and i think it has something to do with the fact that if i come up with a plan and it's recompens super
crazy in buones nd it that i must be smarter than you right er right i came up with something that so genius so complicated that you don't
even understand that i i understand it i understand it yet the gaudentia by the way you know the only way you're going to understand it if
i have finified break it down for you as you don't get it you know so it's an ego trip and it's completely wrong go the factor matter as if
i'm trying to get you to do something and you don't understand it i'm a loser and i'm failing as a leader so so you you you got to try and
get people to understand that simplicity beaks complexity every single time and over thinking things is a failure in ability to simplify so
another thing and this is more kind of about planning in the assomption i used to talk about in the seal teams and i called at six per cent
advantage over the enemy in and what this was i was what's he you have a target building that you're going off of are going after ungodlike
down a target building in the middle of wherever the middle of the desert and you basely come up with a plan that you're going to use your
standard operating potigny get on mine or you're going at least set up a base in a minerale very simple two elements when elements can a
hold cover in the other one's going to move through the target coverlets me to simple against that's great i come of the plan that's your
plan and it is your looking at the image rear looking at the the map you noticed that there is an out house hum a hundred and fifty meters
away from the house so now what you do is you go you know what because there's at out house there you don't do so and take us another team
of our guisarding break em off from the main ossulton put him over there and that's what they're going to be cast to guy's in the out house
but of so what you've done as you've separated your units you've increased your communication promise you sacrificed your fields of fire
you disaggregated your fire power you've diminished your unity of command you've broke from your standard operating procedure you've given
up your real tactical advantage that you have for the chance the chance that this guy at two o'clock in the morning when you hit the target
is in the out house and not nasonis it worse that no so doover thinking were hitting this target you know what cool keep eyes on that thing
no big deal but don't give up your tact glib antage because you over thought the situation go with what you know and another piece of that
is a lot of times when people get supper detail like that in planning their actually planning things planning on things that that can't be
known so why would we make a plan for something that can't be known i got a better idea instead of making a plan for something that can't
be known make a plan that adaptable you want your plan to be adaptable and you here you have the best of autority for instance on the
battle field that you have the most control over your guys so that you can move them manoeuvre quickly and how do you do that by having
good unity command and how do you do that by keeping your guys for the most part together the many starts spread out all over the place and
something changes something unknown that unexpected happens now you got a real every one back in and try and get them to change the
formation of their assault it becomes very very complex so if you set up your plan so that it's adaptable to changing situations then
you're going to be good to go m same thing in business do you know what the markets going to do now we have predictors yes do do we know
them now do you know what your competitors going to do no h do you know what your consumers are going to do now do we have intelligence of
course we do do have metrics of course we do belino things so keep your plans adaptable so you can make adjustments when you need to as
opposed to over thinking things and creating specific branch plans for a possibility of something that might occur in the future or might
not m though over think of people you know sometimes he pounder think beings mummies they can to say hey why you over think things when
you're when you're just normally thinking about something like your thinking well so soon now yes so there's obviously you have to think
about things right and yes you should be cautioned someone cautious of some one that's just fun hooligan were you for thinking the right i
saw a three minutes planning ye ye watch out for that guy yes teleon the word oak one over thinking from supposant that means but i feel
like your example as sound a jack what do you think of great jacks in them a inshinsherity sing jannes on his recent power lifting and
muscle game yes so if you didn't see this if you're in mama'll they caught greg jackson on the night after a john jones recent fight i say
and you know basically hay i told yourself he's too big tall hat powerless on and i've talked about ragjack on before and nothing but
respect for gimgimno only is he a outstanding coach and a great tactician he saw so gissur amble guy who has built a really cold jim and
built a lot of champions so is records beator itself so maconese on gas you know what he sang about a fighter that he's work with since day
won and i think really it boils down to this sort of definition of perfection if you've ever heard the definition of the definition of
perfection is when you have nothing more to add and nothing more take away you've got it where it needs to be and they use this with design
you know design of whatever furniture of i fonso you know anything buildings when you when you've got everything that needs to be there and
you can't take anything away that's the that's perfection they say this all writing too you look at some one that rights really well every
sentence you look at that sentence you can't take away a word and you can't add a word in that's perfection and i think that is what a
great jackson is trying to do with johnny bones jones get him in that physical states where you don't want to add anything and you don't
want to take anything away so what they may have done according to greasin is named may has added a little too much muscle because of
course you've got to have some muscle because it gives you strength it in a explosive ness but at the same time muscle requires oxygen and
so you can actually get too big to wear affecting your cardio hum so i think that's all greasing was talking about and i think that's the
balance that i that's a balance all always looking for you know i want to be big and strong enough but i want to have endurance that's what
i'm trying to do you know you know and i try and find that balance by doing gold strength worth and endurance to work that's and when i say
in durance i mean muscular in durance unomone runnin because i don't run marathon that gone let cans mabeso that's what i think he's
talking about and you know like i said respect for gregan and i'm sure that he had a he's got a good hand the lawn why he saying that ye
fully and when you i do know a little up about a little bit about this where um so if you gain some a bunch of useless like her short
bearded period a time you can have a way harder time in dealing with you know the drawbacks of that muscle and that is in durance that's
the main thing well and at the same time this doesn't have much to do with this particular situation but if you gain muscle real fast yet
you can lose it yet the potential to lose it real fast but at the same time you you vice versa if you call to date this you know muscular
body build whatever em overtime like with sestertii sing at fifteen years old and you know thirty five years old now and you've always been
muscular your body will have a easier time holding on to motor here stop like lofty and for enna year or if you supplying for a long time
in then you get back to lifting it it'll it'll jump right back up as far as your muscle ah muscular muscularity so in regard seeing durance
no matter what eager muscles require more oxygen were more fuel so it's harder to get that rum endurance out when you have big muscles just
in general but you're going to have the potential to gain that endurance way more if you've had muscle for a long time so you do these big
jumps in muscle game men that indorses goin to suffer is going to be really hard to build up that enduringly hard i'm not a possible but it
is really you retain yeah so he that is a dangerous thing not dangerous but it's it's a it's risky thing to do when you know man jump back
into the fighting situation and on huge now and it all like a tender enceinte round the on ennou know i'll be see or apparently it ah it
did there we a lagoon more or forget jocko do you ever feel like sisyphus pushing a rock up a hill only to watch it roll back down again
and have to do it again how you overcome that do you i ever feel like sisiphus yes of course i do i mean i do and i'll tell you i've i've
thought about this and i've been waiting for people to start saying like oh you put another picture of the sweat and of a squat rack really
but i know of the understand i've been getting on that squat racking grinding it out for twenty five years and i'm not born with it yet
that it might seem like that's an unwinnable battle but really to me it's not about winning it the battle its self it's the struggle is the
daily cast that's what life about not just physically but mentally getting that rock to the top the mountain that's not what my go is
michael actually is pushing the rock because pushing the rock a pushes me that makes me offer that makes me harder mentally and physically
it is it gives me much more than i give it i want a struggle i want a ride on scratching and what a diggin i want a play i don't want it to
end if i ever got the rock to the top of the mountain and it stayed there i push it back down myself i don't want to rest than in a one
coat and i want to reach a point in my life where i say that's it i've done enough i'm not going to give any more i'm not going to push any
more no no that relentless cycle of bated day challenges they aren't maddening to me they don't frustrate me then inspire nster me to drive
and push more and to push harder at a arac does to me so i say don and get to push it anythink that's all i've got for the night so so all
you troopers out there if they overdoing us thanks for inspiring us thanks feisting to us listening to the pond cast or watching the poast
on you to i had somebody hit me up the other day on twitter and sad man one the garnet beaufort got the u two channel i jacopo's sir and
thanks are given us feed back and for spread the word and if you want to connect with us all nanterre dese on twitter echo is at echoed
charles on instigate echo is at echo charles on face booky what do you slash echo charles you sir and all those three in the same i am at
joaille and to everyone out there any uniform military police fire many emesians or what you will do and gratitude for your services second
and porkeepine free and safe and if you want a support the pot cast once again how can you do it echoed charles in port the hot cast at the
same time get a porter to by on it on a domestic you get big give you ten per cent off boom support your endeavours to get better
supplement is self um again on it a complete jocor you kids suport the pie cast by so doing your amazon to come shopping through jocasta
come click on that link and then then you know he enter it that way mind your ad blacker if you have one ear but if you have one mind it um
if you feel like donating that school too and thank you gets to refute em or you want some shirts get some shirts men represent i think
they're cool i am made an effort to get like the quality shirts at a that why they're sold out so much yet he in the offering about you yet
i know and here's a thing i can't buy five thousand shirts because we're minepit now you know so we it's a long story but soon yes sorry
i'm getting them in getting them and a man amovin that to better but their quality shirts we are they're they're solid they're not like the
ball part give away now they're not sure shot all their shoot shirts there i work where if they did not have my own head all nameworthy
disinfector meminit ness on him than he yet as rife but anyway you an a jackson or king in a coffee mother indicating i think they're kind
o cool then if you want if you if you kind of like the water what we're talking about here lead her ship life lessons you check out a
little book that myself and my brother lay batonroll extreme older ship you can get it on hard cover you caged on kindle you can get on
audio and the audio was read by myself and by lay his well so you can check that out in thanks or supporting that and finally to everybody
out there in the world living in freedom take advantage of it takawage of your freedom and your life by driving hard on and by pushing that
rock up that hill with everything you've gotten an also and of course drive hard by getting out there and getting after it it so until next
time this is joconde out
