this is jacopo cast number twenty three with echo charles and me jackwell god evening ah good evening better then faster and stronger in
the smarter and wiser a west trying to get a little bit of all those things and we try and get it wiser that's one of those things that's a
wisdom which technically wisdom comes from experience so how do you garner experience you you can't just make yourself live longer in a
shorter period of time now it doesn't work that way so what do we do to garnered we looked at the best you got to know your past you've got
a no history and as i tell my son on a pretty regular basis history revolves around war in many ways history is war and war is a human
endeavor the worst of human endeavours but it is a human endeavour none the less a because it is a human endeavour it therefore reflect
human nature and that's why we can learn so much from the history of war not just about warine about man and out human nature in the same
goes for principles of war the principles of war can be applied to life can be applied to business can be applied to relationships can be
applied to every human endeavor and so with that in mind that full spectrum of application let's take a look at the oldest book about the
principles of war written in five hundred b c over two thousand five hundred years ago a book whose principles i still apply to day some to
the art of war some so said the art of war is of vital and portance to the state it is a matter of life and death a road either to safety
or to ruin hence it is a subject of inquiry which can on no account being elected he got a study war in like i said it is really about life
in conflict in friction and relationships and human interaction you can see all that mister looking at them at the ardware that he re
starts talking about trying to figure out who's going to win in a situation when seeking to determine the military conditions at let them
be made the basis of of a comparison in this wise which of the two generals has most ability on which side is discipline most rigorously
enforced which armstrong er on which side are officers and men most highly trained in which army is there the greater constancy in both
reward and punishment a something you talk about that godolphin you talked about housing portent for the punishment be constant consistent
and now yes now it's interesting here and this is something we've talked about before and you know amasa that a lot today this is something
we've talked about before because he start talking about military strategy at runs through the ages the threads that run through the ages
and this is one of them he says while heating the profit of my counsel avail yourself also of any helpful circumstances over and beyond the
the ordinary rules according as circumstances are favorable one i should modify one's plan said old dead set on something don't get locked
into a plan you got to be opened to change it continuing all warfare is based on deception hence when able to attack we must seem unable
when using our forces we must see in active when we are near we must make the enemy believe we are away when far away we must make him
believe we are near hold out bates to entice the enemy fang disorder and crush him now is is something that applies absolutely directly did
you get you obviously in this you know oh oh you you think you're goin get my own boom i just i disrupt your got on top oh i'm really
panicking this situation i'll guess what i scudamore out the back and now i'm going to choke you back to the book if he is secured all
points be prepared for him if he is superior in strength evade him if your opponent is of choleric temper seek to irritate him pretend to
be weak that he may grow arrogant so this is something people don't think about the fact that he if your opponent has superior strength of
amman obviously that something that we also heard from mouth the same that was the same gillatly if your ponetcong you avoid him and he
resented if there losing their temper in it go ahead inertae help that long you pretend to be weak so that your opponent grows arrogant and
thinks he's not to worry about you continuing if he is taking his ease give him no rest if his forces are united separate them attack
amoris unprepared appear where you are not expected these military devices lean to victory must not be devoted beforehand it is it strange
at this is the oldest book and this thread runs throughout history and yet people in racing with each other will constantly decide the
disconto you know toad i tell ye re goin argue with the cool undisconcerted you ye ye this is in intellectual approach and i think that you
know if you're not detached it's harder to jump on that intellectual methodology yes with you if you come at me with your argument had on
or you accuse me or your trying to tighten the up on something you're just being super direct with me it's a your git i might get offended
in the widowing back at you he instead of maneuvering on you right so like a a if someone's suit supermortal ted there way more likely to
hum to sign on to this picasso as you started legion your temper with some one think about what achochre just said that means you're not
being very smart or not been very calculated mean your making a mistake you'll master's a better route to go on now continuing now the
general who wins a battle makes many calculations in his temple air the battle is fought the general who loses about makes but few
calculations before and so you got a plan and i regenerating you use the word calculate calculative and egis used the same word now this is
something that i've talked about to fight and conquer in all your battles is not supreme eccellent i'll say that again to fight and conquer
in all your battles is not supreme excellence supreme excellence consists in breaking the enemy's resistance without fighting and i was
taken i want that further i was taketoit of the enemy doesn't even know that there was a fight in rerented even know what's happening they
thought they were having dinner and going to sleep but they just got beat and that's especially true when your iparoma your trina wind some
i you tritus your idea through your trying trying to convince people of something the best way to convince him as when you didn't go for
that tottie they came to the conclusion themselves and he say think they did it you fought them without fighting them thus the highest form
of general ship is to box the enemy's plans the next best is to prevent the junction of enemy forces the next in order is to attack the
enemy's army in the field and the worst policy of all is to besiege walled cities the rule is not the besieged wall cities if it can
possibly be avoided now this is another thing and i said this on this epochas before which is if some one is super dug in on a position a
wire you going to attack them if you have this belief that you're just duggan and i'm trying to maneuvered it wymington that position
you've got all you know more about it you've studied it you've been in this argument forty seven times in the last three weeks so how am i
going to come up against you and you got that well fortified position yet the answer is i'm not nocano out good for me therefore the
skillful leader subdued the enemy's troops without any fighting he captures their cities without laying any siege he overthrows their
kingdom without lengthy operations in the field that's the goal that is the goal and other something else about martial arts i think like
when you get someone a really knows how to fight most it time you gonave to fight yet most the time you can tell people can tell that you
know how to fight like for instance when they get in your face and you smile out of you go oh let's do this then they realize this is not a
good idea a little projection of power going on here thus we may know that there are five essentials for victory he will win who knows when
to fight and when not to fight this is sort of like were to napoleon and and just about everything in the bulky can just stop and think
about me and it's and it's also sort o like you giton that what you learned it once you hear it it seems super obvious but on't you
thinking about all the time i and why do you make stupid mistakes that petray that rule we cause it's not funny or mind ran yet like i said
the two when you're emotionally charged it's you just handle things way different which cit's a kind ironic and way because it that's what
makes this so effective one people normally handled and self in that emotion away yes and then sovente in this way that's the very thing
that makes you effective yet the under line seemed to this the atthis hasn't been said being he doesn't address this the way i dressed it
the way i talk about it in a book or a weak for the pocasse the the idea of that you're talking about which he had of detaching and not
retamoso select you can do things so that you can make good decisions ye next he will win who knows how to handle both superior and
inferior forces he will win whose army is animated by the same spirit throughout all ranks so if you are alides position at you got party
our tea on board with the program not good enough you gotta get the whole team on board with the programme that's who's gonna win he will
win who prepared himself prepared himself waits to take the enemy unprepared i'm gonna wait until you not ready why would i square up you
won't why would i do that if you're ready to fight me norinaga let's just wait you're not expecting it yet along with any emotional ten of
state that some people are and where they where they don't exercise these sets strategies along with the emotional states the egotistic
alonethe guy who like a man stand to that till a like that's tough that's that's you know that might that might make for show and if you
know in a fighting you know and i may situation in it but as far as the strategy of the wind that's again it's cool for the show but it
hers waning actually lining ummit not be the best was a say that i would agree with you number five he will wind who has military capacity
and is not interfered with by the sovereign victory lies in the knowledge of those five points so that means you you get it micromanage if
you're being micromanage by them by hire powers you're goin to have problems and here's the classic classic saying bareyne heard hence the
saying if you know the enemy and no yourself you need not fear the result of a hundred battles if you know yourself but not the enemy for
every victory gained you are off also suffer a defeat if you know neither the enemy nor yourself you will succumb in every battle so you've
got it now yourself and that's the one that you know that's that's you that's your team that's you that's why you got a lerna's why you've
got to study that's why you've got to train that's why you got to test yourself too why you got to put pressure on yourself because you
don't know yourself as much you put yourself in a situation you know physically men to letreste what you want to go into sithen herself and
when we used to send sooboo seas they know what they're limitations are they been tasted hard individually and as a unit are going on some
so said and this is actually hitherto from the books i guess he must a wrote that cause i isaiae a literal translation of the of of santo
and so he starts off his statements with sun to set flute good fighters of old put first put themselves beyond the possibility of defeat
and then waited for an opportunity of defeating the enemy to secure ourselves against a fee rising our own hands but the opportunity of
defeating the enemy is provided by the enemy himself to he's going to talk about that more it is late throughout this book that you got
focused on your game you got a folson er what you can do in the situation now worried about them but like what can i do to be prepared put
myself be on the possibility of defeat hence the skillful fighter puts himself into a position which makes defeat impossible and is not
miss the moment for defeating the enemy going on son so said the control of a large force is the same in principle as the control of a few
men it is merely a question of dividing up their numbers now when i wrote about that head lay on a talabot that all the time that these
actualized command dividing up the numbers and having subordinately hership running the teens and having some more dealerships inside those
teams running smaller teams that's all it is the principle of control is the same now we get into a little bit of direct verses in direct
again a topic that i talk about all the time in all fighting the direct method made may be used for joining battle but indirect methods
will be needed in order to secure victory in direct tactics efficiently applied are inexhaustible as heaven in earth unending as the flow
of rivers and streams like the sun and moon they end but to begin anew like the forces they passed but to return once more through takahe
when you get to indirect acute thither infinite number infinite numbers of ways to approach things there are not more than five musical
notes yet the combination of these note these five give rise to more melodies than can ever be heard there are not more than five primary
colours yet in combination they produce more huge than can ever be seen there are not more than five cardinal tastes yet combinations of
them yield flavors more favors than can ever be tasted in battle there are not more than two methods of attack the direct and indirect yet
these two in combination give rise to an endless series of maneuvers the direct and indirect lead on to each other in turn it is like a
moving circle you never come to an end who can exhaust the possibilities of their combination he would lie he had directive right there he
was obviously convinced as i am too that even though there's basic maneuvers to you the way that you apply them is limitless and that's one
of the things that makes leadership heart cause when you're dealing with people i mean is there's there's a certain number of thy
personalities got a deal with but then those personalities are all mixed together in a way that you have to react to them and entreat them
a certain way and let you are the same yet and then you have to do with how they interact with each other as well and then not to mention
the fact that they may or may not change as individual you know the time the laos ones eas the day goes on there they start getting hungry
they start getting angry right well or maybe they just watch them from man to comedy and their feeling a little difference let's hope
that's not the county or whatever lengthwise on action all right back to son to son so said whoever is in the first in the field and await
the coming of the enemy will be fresh for the fight whoever is second in the field and has to hasten to the battle will arrive exhausted
therefore the clever combatants his will on the enemy but does not allow the enemies will to be imposed on him here that all the time and
emmaus into impose their will in this fight by holding out advantages to him he can cause the enemy to approach of his own accord that's a
baiter by inflicting damage he can make it impossible for the enemy to draw nearer if the enemy is taking his ease meaning if the enemy's
trying to rest he can harass him if well supplied he can starve him out if quietly and camped he can forced him to move so all these are
dislike things too basically annoys the enemy though office throw off of his game a peer at points which the enemy must hasten to defend
march swiftly to place his where you are not expected and army may more great distances without distress if he marches through country
where the enemy is not you can be sure of in of succeeding in your attacks if you attack places which are not defended totally obvious
right you can be sure of succeeding in your tax if you attack places which are not defended that it is one that we do intuetor attacking
the neckar tacking the neck of protecting the neck or protect the neck boom arm or you're going for commerce for cummarron for camera boom
straight on back all the warm yet big one is you when you take a submission to go for a guard pass or something that's not a summission you
know yes because it is this your mind off like great desert really well were he'll go for that gate and you're like all he's going for a
comission so your mind is one thing to be like okay i see he's going from my neck and then get my arm could be exposed if that's one thing
could you think he now gave his commission to the sex in mission but if it's you know if they're going for something completely different
different aspect of the game it's those yoritomo he's got me without like three times unrope he feasted in eve in further to the flank
yanson you know be expectin us some reader see you the machine gun they start lovingood that you ye more ready for that and that all her
they start take like taking your guide hostage as it is in but through the back door or something like that you know completely different
yea you can insure the safety of your defense if you hold only positions that cannot be attacked how obvious is that you know let's just
get in position where we can't be a doctor and we will defend them very easily the spot where we intend to fight must not be made known for
then the enemy will have to prepare against a possible attack at several different points and his forces being thus distributed in many
directions when numbers we shall have to face at any givemfits will be proportionally few so you onbethink regurgitate casanaan defend that
specific area where if he has defend all the series is yet less people defending where you're going to ackwainted really well in marwar to
adeo know they the germans did not know they were suspect where we were going to talk with it didn't know it was normandy so they had a lot
of offenses street about another areas and we costeno here go with that we deal with what the enemy does for should the animistic in his
van which man is like the division at the front is the front of your troops van s white look at terpander as an your front front guarders
ould be enemy strengthen his van he will weak in his rear should he strengthen his rear he will weaken his van should he strengthen his
left he will weaken his right should he strike in his right he will weaken his left if he send reinforcements everywhere he will be
everywhere we and that's where you know get going to git it some one is when you feel in passing and there locking you and they're thinking
about a new lock and you get out o the things on one same time and you're just trying to spread your defence is then then when they do one
of those three year in trouble m and i was explained to people you know when you it's easy it's pretty easy for anybody if you tell me ham
and a strange trait not your arm and that's my whole focus is to stop you for strained my arm it's you know i can do it now can do pretty
well i'm well defended on that area there is no pretty example el red and the same thing would guard passing he i'm trying to pass your
guard all tight lo it heavy and your defending defending the finding that means there's a opening some worlds probably far away from you
yes super common on with guard bathing is you know you smash to the you know one side right your seditions mashing to one side and then you
hope your hip tooth other diners why i do it all the time in the hard smash the more wide open that our sight is yet it's a continent yes
it's just a disused straction you know and then a flank some sons been doing it for twenty five hundred years in all right do not repeat
the tactics which you have gained your vivandiere do not repeat the tactics which have gained you one victory but let your methods be
regulated by the infinite variety of circumstances military tactics are like unto water for water in its natural course runs away from high
places and hastens downward so in war the way to avoid what is strong is to strike what is weak now this is something that we definitely
trained with the silk in don't use the same methodology over over over again and developed matter you don't do it no matter how minor you
change things up you change things up and that's something that any good military unit does it something that any anybody that a being of
ferreted you know if your life is in danger you don't set up patterero do i change it up water shapes its course according to the ground
over which it flows the soldier works out his victory in relation to the foe whom he is facing therefore just as water retains no constant
shape so in warfare there are no constant conditions he got haven open mind you can't get trapped inside your own tactics you can't
contraptions i your own game and i see this with business as we work with we compassion with where they have got their thing that they've
done and they've been successful for six years running and then almost sun some changes and their trying to run the same methodology
without ever stepping back and saying what a second we did well we had a twelve per cent growth average for the past six years and all of a
sudden we're down twenty two per cent what happened well let us do what we did before again and again that's what that's what how people
spiral into a bankruptcy by because the conditions of light as a heathen bedition so notified and they don't look and say oh the enemy
adapted the competitors adopted now you can look at some of these businesses that have gone arintheus industry is changed dramatically sets
i mean matifou won a seed production where house somewhere in red you all right and see stored crossable ye ye and and back to the to do in
the same a thing over and over again like you know if you succeed with this one i know that dad don't do it's like sails peeple you know
sal people they really let all a lot of intirely look at sales as this kind of war you know i mean some one makes the sale either you sell
him your product were they sell you what he can by whatever um when you see as a consumer when you see the site especially from sales
people directly when you see the same lying wade over an over after all you like i see it exactly where you do though you don't you all
they ask you to ask you a question that if you say no to you look down or something like that you don't sell it out and offered yes for
terpison then yes they'd be like oh obviously rain you like i can't say you kinda feel like you can't say no but after a while you fasciata
going are you so may work cause then that they probably teach him that you know so i osiander sore but yet it won't say get hep to it
software in it more not definite work on a ovals no no i see you you're doing a set to gestate all right and this is just breasting the
same thing he who can modify his tact enervation to his opponent and thereby succeeded winning may be called a heaven born a captain so you
can look at what your pones doing it this is something that again i see companies do it i see you get your players do it they have that one
thing that they're used to and then some one's really good at defending that one thing and they just keep going against the keego as to
keep going against it and he runnin that break walland it's not funny get you where you want to be you problematic here go from son to a
soldier's spirit its keenness in the morning by noon day it has begun to flag and in the evening his mind is bent only on returning to camp
a clever a clever general therefore of voids an army when its spirit its keen but attacks when it is sluggish and incomincio to return this
is the art of studying moods it had like that the art of studying moodai people yet that kind of like the guinealess shows up like fifteen
minutes before the class ends whiterose been rolling piast he's getting evemerus till when the editor to go back to camp like a is on a
roll of fresh it is a military axiom not to advance up hill against the enemy nor to oppose him when he comes down hill do not pursue an
enemy who simulates a flight do not attack soldiers whose temper is keen do not swallow a bait offered by the enemy do not interfere with
an army that's returning home as a good one there going there running let him run let him go home geinig hard to get home right and they
got the vision to their family and their head when you surround an army leave an outlet free do not press a desperate foe to hart and
missus something he see psychologically alike you know with an argument you got a couple executives and maybe the senior executive has a
plan and no one likes to plan what you just don't want to box a man and prove him wrong in front of everybody right you don't want to do
that you want be crafty for get your son sit together you want to leave a little opening where you can say you know what after we
considering i've decided i want to go with this other way because i figured out that babbabooma you don't want to do is make him stick to
this bad plan because his eagle is making him sick there you recognize do not linger in dangerously isolated positions when you're doing
you get don't i went some one gets across eyescope you go crazy don't what him settled there when somebody trying to get that congealed up
underneath your head and they're going to have you track don't let him get there don't don't linger in tagus isolated positions move ye yet
it's i get so complex with this and in jogies doesn't get consider with just what you said because his cinikers into another part that he
stuck about so let's say the example of the gypseying your psycotherion during his past you sit don't let him settle exactly so the when he
lets say whatever you lose the fight for whatever is in any do settle now your face to the situation where if he settled on you hard where
he you can tell you shining strength into holding up position and you then you try to scramble oh you years going against your going full
speed to ill till i talk like i was said not to do so at that point you got a change oskastein if you had lost had already lost that battle
you and he settled and he's putting in his energy into holding you now you got a platinotype that he said let him you know you got relaxed
little bit so he starts relaxing little bit in lands like that's a common thing you then that's like you know in a pretty well now traetta
when when you get advance and you do too but it's crazy alaula it out in that step to eric exact exactly example ye all in one little white
little move one little movement and actually he continues on that same on that same thread in him in situations in other words when years
surrounded in our ear under the bad situation you must resort distraite and stratagem doesn't really mean strategy it means like tricks
more deceptions to you you've given up you've you've i've given up your position that person is dominating you now and exactly what you're
saying is correct when someone has got you in that position either in an argument or a plan or a situation that your interrelationship may
got you lock down stop fighting will you sockatoo you're dave got you if you continue to struggle you so where yourself out unworthinesse
ario stop and now you ter start thinking about a trick to get out of there some kind of a federate some kind of the deception something to
get you out of there because going strike the string is going to do it there in the spirit a position you often can tell some one's doing
that if you have them in the situation in an lay start actually using this tactic little strike little tricks on that i've been able to
recognize in the do like some ad hominum foot in arguments they start a thatching something out all you help if or sled it all yeah i see
if you kinda have a handle on the whole sidereal obvious he had hated and then he says in a desperate position you must fight now the
difference eris now there's a commission alone yet no choice can you do you have to fight on firetop yer so you get that situation were
it's gone beyond just there secure and the ave got undone position but now they're actually going to kill you to to choice but to look at a
last level of sadly now this is interesting there are roads which must not be followed armies which must not be attacked towns which must
not be besieged positions which must not be contested commands of the sovereign which must not be obeyed so it's always interesting to me
when you hear somebody that some military master mind and there saying that there are orders from their sovereign that must not be obeyed
and i think we've heard that in iciting that people are familiar with the military or on from lar with military history they think everyone
just follows orders follows orders follows orders but napoleon we foresaid son so we foresaid we've heard these ricketed things where
people say you know what that's the wrong order and i'm not going to do it and it's interesting though the other dicotomy is all these
people talk about the necessity of discipline and inherit and idisien is absolutely the following of orders but as much of as stringent as
i am about discipline if i'm i want my god the question my worst i want them to say hey wait as a wise jakomaki as do this he's he's wrong
i don't want them to obeying me blindly as you don't want your team obeying you blindly you don't want that you want them to be thinking
back to the book the art of war teaches us to rely not on the likelihood of the enemies not coming but on our own readiness to receive him
not on the chance of his not attacking but rather on the fact that we have made our position on the sailor boxseat that is again he's
putting the the preponderance of the outcome not a whit the enemy does but on which you do it's not what happens some what happened to you
in your life it's what you do it's what you prepare for it's your own readiness that's going to affect the outcome not the chance of what
the enemy's done done it's how have you made your position all have you set yourself up how you prepared how have you trained how have you
worked that's where the outcome comes from not what the world does to you but what you do to the world there are five dangerous faults
which may effect a general one recklessness which leads to destruction to cowardice which leads to capture so those two youannotated ac the
dozen cares into go get after eannadu the got someone else that the coward he's going in a captured three a hasty temper that can be
provoked by insults dangerous a delicacy of honour that is sensitive to shame sort of the same thing and in over solicitude for his men
which exposes him to worry and trouble and over slitely you over affectionate you care about the man so much that expose you to worry and
trouble these are the five besetting sins of a general ruinous to the conquer rudest the conduct of war something is to watch out for it is
interesting i know obviously the one that's that's i guess the most controversial to me is that over solicitude for his men which exposes
him to worry and trouble because you know in the modern military too he was the onistors so even eatinest ing even conscripts back then he
said he could get to affectionate with your conscripts and now we have brothers and so you're gone you're going to care about your gussiter
your guy's more than anything else in a world but what you have to counterfaiting him not gonna care about him no it's on rename sure i do
everything i can to keep him safe yes yes think gomulah in in a lot of companies they discourage fraternizing with you know your co workers
so i sorkin the night club in this tryweryn from time to time people would hook up so what's that can result in is um in a people who are
too focused on the relationship between each other verses their job too so in this a total sumption but maybe that's what he sullonesome
about that exactly what he talking about anne but if you take that into a military senario yet you know you like i said you're going to
care about your guy so much and you have to counter that with a fact that you have a duty right and you have you have a job and that
everybody on your team but geringerem you all know the rest ye ye everybody knows the reserve knows that when you want operation it might
be a last operation you get it with my d you get shot you get more to you thrown up i mean everybody except that rest ye that therefore as
a leader you know you're not imposing that rest cup them they volunteered for that resin i think that's what allows a modern military
commander to to say he i love these guys but they all know what they signed up for there's going to be wiser and we got a job to do as
opposed to hey i love these guys they don't want to be here and i'm the sendeth death that would not do be a different eriophoros snare ye
or you got close to lusignan command of you know ten guys five of those guys are your best friends and you get to the tache in the sense
that you have a mission that you have to do a dangersome but you're like hay i'm not going to send those five guys because they're going to
be it retook them safe you know so i don't want to send them there you know other five guns go rather than the ten and you know missus up
your old dear your whole job where obeuh by always sat like the guys are love it ran worse snare for my brothers they would be lining up
and said i'm going i'm goin as fire hot seeman your over side a very specific type of person in an you guys probably are to outage um but
still it you're still exercising that discipline between you know them potentially going to their death and that job you guys have to do
for your your finger in a smarter way wearing with interesting i just on mission for guy got in trouble for whatever reason when we were
over on the payment whenever i was on the point combat but i got in trouble you know what the punishment would be you're not allowed to go
on the mission i know so it is a jest tell you what kind of an attitude yet you know the guys that were working with ye then lou can't go
on these next three missions ye sir aimery yeah and our earth catheter realized their later bodies down or something goes wrong and they're
not there out you so nigh ther yet and they're they're they're done their job is is it's part of them you know were i her a house as into
thing were in stock in out this the omish omisit in their really into work you know hard work an stuff so one of the punishments for the
kids would be you're not allowed to work the otises is tikatika ye say ye meanwhile my kids i got a beat themsels to get in do anywheres
kiting justini but i guaranteed her not working as hard as some amistat yet yield ye what no buildings with the wood nails that they do
mean yet also the yet a work is its of part of their identity the so like you know certain things people let's say in unquanderable might
find like like exercise for example like if the if litany just an average person whose like man i got it i'm going to make a new resolution
to lose some way or whatever i'm to get a trainer is hard for them it's work for them right so he met trallerie hay today's rest day and
everybody on sweetwater you seek you for example like how you are saying your wife is like he may be don't go to jugerait me you know
sortlack off but so that's kind of the scenery when it went in grand in unison i start to be compatir identity or or not work you want you
want to get that done he that's a nursing how those in bed it feelings you know developing your life but what an awesome deal like if you
think about that we would actually if we had to punish our kiss reponis them by saying you can't go on to misshape ect a beanery maybe
bowed to be like down they like out everyone get ready an they'd stay in there whenever they ran and where is there a lady in her themal
right next when the enemy is close at hand and remains quiet he is relying on the natural strength of his position this is edoreso when you
when you're when you're a hinge when some one of frinstance pulled hard requicken they've got a good car yeo went some one at all standing
up and and all upright and reach for your collar while you're standing you know they got some judo no one ought so it's funny how ah when
when people have a dominant position to lean towards it yet if his place of encampment is easy of access he is tendering a bat so he looks
were looks too good to be true stupid rede get a watch that when there is much running about it means that the cortical moment has come
when some were seen it advancing and some retreating it is a war when soldiers stand leaning on their spears they are faint from want of
food if those who are sent to draw water begin by drinking themselves the army is suffering from thirst if the enemy sees advantage to be
gained and makes no effort to secure it the soldiers are exhausted if birds gather on any spot it is unoccupied if there is disturbance in
the camp the general authority is weak if the banners and flags are shifted about sedition is a foot when an army feeds its horses with
grain and kills its cattle for food and when the men do not hang their cooking pot over the camp fires showing that they will not return to
their tents you may know that they are determined to fight to the death the sight of men whispering together in small knots and speaking in
subdued tones points to dissatisfaction amongst the rank and file now the all those right there what i really like about those cassim of my
obvious a little bit or chainee leaning on their spears people oh not putting out their cooking pots those aren't things it were on a seat
to day but what's so he about this is held serving how people act can tell you much more if you paying attention to it i you know you see
people talking the monks themselves and small group there's promotion you know you know the those of the kind of things that you got to be
aware of and as a especially as a leader when you're leashings and you look and you watch and you listened osises people some leaders they
get isolated from the troops they get isolated from the situation they get isolated from the enemy there not reading what's happening so
you've got to have this awareness and the sensitivity writes a sensitivity at the sixth sense in a lessonings all writer and what do you
picking that up from an eaoowee you walk in a room everyone's all talking or you see and from a distance before talking and then when you
eat a walk fire you join in the one there they happen to be done talking every single time that's not in to read a good sidenote talking
about you back to the book he exercises no for thought but makes light of his opponents is sure to be captured by them so when your saying
oh we have nothing to fear here we can take these guys we can win that contract we can beat the ponent we can win that's when you're going
to be taken down if soldiers are punished before they have grown attached to you they will not prove submissive and unless a missive they
will be practically useless if when the soldiers have become attached to you punishments are not in force they will still be useless
therefore soldiers must be treated in the first instance with humanity but kept under control by means of iron discipline this is a certain
road to victory if in training soldiers commands are habitually in forced the army will be well disciplined to naturalize that son to two
thousand five hundred years ago was the leading humans and if you came out of the gate before they knew you and you treated him bad they
were never going to work for you they were never going to submit to what you want to do and once they were attached to you if you had
punishments and now you had built enough respect of that you said you were going to punish him for something that they did you you set a
certain standard and then you don't hold it they're going to be equally useless inconsistent didn't encasing a firmly believe if the if in
training soldiers commands or habitually and forced the army will be well disciplined you got to stay consistent he got him remember that
you're dealing with human when came and soldiers are too strong and their officers are too weak the result is insubordination and this is
something that i saw a couple of times in my career where i had a guy that worked for me coustou did this happen a couple of times just a
bad as ey super tough beast hard corn go getter and when they work for me man i love them and they did anything i would tell him to go you
know run through a brick wall they would start running and they would run through the brick wall they figured out they get through that
thing superheat and then a one guy i like i went to notitiam and he went on another deportment cotanello because he was just too much to
handle and his subordinate i talked about he goes all my officers were we do literally said my officers reekind so hers is like a cage to
animal than if you don't if he doesn't know who bore bosses and you didn't respect to bostonnais you he he was the alhama right off and
when he was the alphubel he was doing her every one it was in listening to these people that weren't charge of him he henwas that like a
like a mix of like he doesn't i don't they look up to him but there's a sense of that right where i if if your leader is in uuama you have
that kind ingravescent and then not to mention on top of that you don't fear any real consequences from him cause thinkin it in a week what
ever you can do out penetang so it's both of those you think he oh yeah you know ye this one guy that that this happened was i i taught him
to get her and he he was excited about it in a way that i've never seen any one excited super happy about knowing that you could choke
people many inheriting to fight in the civilian world and come and give me these fold deep reefs and asked me for like pointers and
judgment and that was you know a warrior that like to fight yet he found out that you could grab people in nineteen o a super excited about
that i a little kid and i always say that the hand of the risk you run with teaching people judicavit is like i'm going to it's a super
pond essentially because you don't have to learn that much for it to be effective in this huge way so you know like i like was it
supermanence great responsibility ye ye stoats when the officers were too strong and the common soldiers too weak the result in collapse so
when you put the super hard core die over the can't modulate is his leadership he can't back off and build people up before he starts to
smash him you can at a class that something you've definitely got a look out for it if you specially if you're superstrong leader and you
come to take over a tenets been led by somebody that's weak there's a chance at the players in the teamer week a now you gotta come it in
you got to build them up before you let loose your vicious leadership power and right you can't just come in there with the iron fist and
start dropping hammers no you need exegisti let's go it build this team up and then you can you can escalate your own for as your
subordinate grow and become powerful themselves but you don't want her to a huge gap between your power and there's because they won't they
won't develop into it doll just be in the shadow they won't grow in the shadow you got to come down and left them light get to them unless
he reft when the general was weakened without a forty when his orders are not clear and distinct when there are no fixed duties to sign to
officers and men and the ranks are formed in a slovenly hap hazard manner there result is utter disorganization pretty clear if fighting is
sure to result in victory that you must fight even though the ruler forbid it if fighting will not result in victory then you must not
fight even at the rulers bidding once again disobeying the chain of command some so himself disobeying the chain of command this is a big
one the general who advances without covering fame and retreats without fearing disgrace whose only thought is to protect his country and
do good service for his sovereign is the jewel of the kingdom so that guy that's not doing this to get famous as not doing this for a wards
it's not doing this to get promoted to not being brave to be promoted he's doing this to protect the country what i carry out the mission
not to it for glory and furthermore the same person can retreat without feeling my disgrace that mesenteric their people at our going away
can't we can't fall back this person is the jewel of the kingdom the jewel of the kingdom and its beautiful work for people like that man
that what they're trying to do with the trenton to try to do their mission of trying to good for the country to try and do good for the
team at trying for the business that's the one they are not trying to get promoted they're not trying to get in a war of they're not trying
to go a good a fitness report or good of valuation they're trying to do a good job and that's one i went people ask me a lot you do all
i've got this post of wants to get the credit for everything give it to him you give it to him let them look good don't do it for don't do
it for your glory give that glory away he feels good to give glory we have away belated he he so in the night club right in try buck one of
the young and kind of the protocol would be too you know we we'd wear or whatever in the bar tenders would give us titillation like a
little satirist so at the end of the week you'd be kind of pooled right in and we'd get some tips at the end of the week school whinever
and um so my boss will back when he first started my thought the head door guerit he was at the end of the week he called his own little
meeting with us were like all right so he kind o goes over some stuff i antonowa it was and um an he bust at the end he was like a hey guys
o so yea we we have tips on so what i did was now hey you guys to do in a great job a what i did was i i i i took my tips and i gave it to
you guys and he kind of had this look on his face looking at us as if he needed us to be like wi that will so great but you know on the
look in so transference said sootlike digits like so disingenuous you know like he you wanted the credit and he wanted to be like a thank
you thank you you wasn't that much by the way whose real fourteen dollars a echonta cause i got a byeway but yet that is like is the clear
example of that very thing right there where you can rilligious the tips i know what you did that your own okay you lie to emit youngest
daughter she does good deeds for the sole purpose of increasing birthday present he had heritress there's the dicynodont a different
strategy altogether elevatoire a cup neither like daddy i decided it would be really great if i picked up your soft oliothanein my birthday
is come a right but that's a that's another tactile is called reciprocal something like when you do something and then to your sex on bare
yea but what that is effective hareton is used to do it did melinite um now what whatever their messages and they'd be like he take this
free gift and they give like outina flower or book or something and they know that that'll leave you the the typical person they leave them
with a feeling of tangikano oefers on he can he is so nice to me i can just walk off and be a dick you know so i'll give you five bucks or
andalla yeastin you recognize the doing it and factotum a disservice to fall for it because they're goin to keep doing it you know it's
basically guiltie introdooced a recipercate something reciprocal something well i guess we'll look that up and figure it out later
yeastcake something yet all right now he entheses speaking a kids this is awesome regard your soldiers as your children and they will
follow you into the deepest valleys look on them as your own beloved sons and they will stand by you even unto death completely true
statement completely true statement if however you are indulgent but unable to make your authority felt kind hearted but unable to enforce
your commands and in capable moreover of calling disorder then your soldiers must be likened to spoil children they are useless for any
practical purpose i think that speaks for itself if you are so lenient with your troops when it indulges i mean i mean not like the super
lenient when your lenient with your troops when you can't make your authority felt when your super kind hearted your unable to enforce your
commands all those things can inapopli little kids for true person and are not gone worthless i got a saint about kids latome if you if
you're helping them your earning them think about it if your helping them your hearing them there you want me to tie your shoe tie yourself
because what that when they tie their shoes that literally a train there fine motor skill it if you want them you don't they want to go as
a water go get your own glass of water it they want help moving you know something across the hallway you move across the hallway if you
helping your kids you're hurting your kids red and i could take it one step further safe you're hurting your kids your helpin the iota for
you for your herded think about that when you're kids asking for something you've got to say okay it is something they can do themselves
even if it's a struggle form even if it challengeable my daughter was a wood late for school and oh can you destine issues no i can't tie
your shoes you can tie her shoes and that's when they work on their fine motor skills on that and they learn that they can that they have
to get the skill and they become more selling him yes yes lillian and of him nothing to wait some kind of semantic bad aliter nothing like
that but it depends on what you mean by helpful that in my talk about this before where you have system i helped and direct help so i
systemic help is exactly what you doin tarnhut how about you get happetite ach you to tell you so or how but i prepare you for this
shooting world that you are about to embark in that's systemic help that's the way the real help in my opinion same thing like a homeless
race give a honest person a dollar that's direct help that doesn't help that's hardens you would say that called direct caldecta give your
children directorate in hell you you jump to prepare kids to do everything i do i look that's in a perfect world everything on their own by
the time the welly actually can prepare a human to do everything on their own because at least you prepare them to face a challenge
research how to overcome it practice overcoming it inoculates if you teach them if you if you teach them you know you say you can give them
a fish or you can teach him out of fish you can pinch him to learn how to fish on their own nationally want to do yes a hell that onery
sure i yes that's it that's asolare rites if you go the more systematic could probably end up breaking it down into me by three things and
i you know whatever those things are i know they're going to have some theodota to think how to manage emotions how to adapt like a a lot
of the little free basic things that are going on in one war nother applied to everything you know it interesting that you go from missus
in bacon a book i went back to the carenage note book the natalie you you talk at san to order war and were talking about kid to a talking
liebenstein about night clubs fanariotes all right back to the book now for real those who were called skillful leaders of old knew how to
drive a wedge between the enemy's front and rear to prevent cooperation between his large and small divisions to hinder the good troops
from rescuing the bad the officers from rallier men so when you are looking at your opponent will can you do to split em up what can you do
to interfere with what they're trying to make happen that the skill said in its own so i said of warren about attacking you a more about
i'm focused on dispersing you or splitting you up said worry about attacking him more about hindering people from helping you it's a w is a
different way of thinking about waging a battle instead of thinking about the battle itself what other ways are there to go about this more
creatively rapidity is the essence of war take advantage of the armies of the enemy's unreadiness make your way by unexpected routes and
attack unguarded spots there you back to the human side of things carefully study the well being of your men and do not overtax them
concentrate your energy and hoard your strength keep your army continually on the move and devise unfathomable pat plans now this is
interesting throw your soldiers into positions whence there is no escape and they will prefer to fight they will prefer death to flight
officers and men alike will put forth their utmost strength at the critical moment the leader of an army act like one who has climbed up a
height and in kickaway the latter behind him he carries his men deep into hostile territory before he shows his hand he burned his boats
and breaks his cooking pots of the second time with her about those cooking pots obviously that debt that meant something back in the day
she that man is an we're not coming back when undenied for dinner to night and but that's an attitude to have then it interesting he this
is this is a somewhat contradictory so some want the other things that he said in the book too if the if the enemy strong fade away and now
he said put your soldiers in the position where there's no escape so that's contrary but i i i understand i think i understand her the way
i translate that is if you have to put your if you have to accomplish something very challenging and you have no choice stepington step
into it kick away the ladder break your cooking pots and let the guys now were not come aback from this we have well one choice and that's
a victory all in thus or sorry without waiting to be marshalled the soldiers will be constantly on the kvaka which means a who goes with me
to on watch kiva without waiting this is the important part without waiting to be asked they will do you will without restriction they will
be faithful without giving orders they can be trusted so you get the pure decentralized command where where without waiting to be asked to
do something they're going to do it that's what you want your troopers to do they will do you will without restrictions they will be
faithful to the hold on some not to give him commands not to give orders there goin to be faithful to you without giving orders they can be
trusted that true decentralized command nassau want and then a rap this one up on happy is the fate of and who tries to win his battles and
succeed in his attacks without cultivating the spirit of enterprise meaningly potery one to think and we want everybody beyond the same
page moon not unless you see an advantage use not your troops unless there is something to be gained fight not unless the position is
critical again that's contrary to what what i just talked about i think the reason he said that his cause sometimes you have to sometimes
you get into decisive situation you have to fight you after win no ruler should put troops into the field merely to gratify his own spleen
then spleen when he says that that you stop be where people thought that the seat of emotion was so your motion came from your spleen so he
say what you been saying a hole i no ruler to put troops in the field merely to gratify his own emotions and animosities be pride it could
be irritation beating no general should fight a battle simply out of peak and that's that's pride and ego if this dear advantage to make a
forward move make a forward move if not stay where you are such is the art of warm obviously so much to be learned from the past from the
ancient and also it so accessible but are so many lessons to be learned there lessons that if you learn her mistake that you have to make
yourself all you have to do is open a book and open your mind and you'll be there and i think we could now go to questions from the
intewests do it but before that mintern stuff up could on it not come flashed jackal and wide you wanna do that i'm getting good stuff yet
good stuff up on in threttein anity work out for you know some prolonged period a time gives to give you that that that boyston that's
sustenance as far as our puteum ilabrat helps your mind work that's the one that i think we that i recommend and the worry or do you sell
that favour in life and i do the crillon course coil i went to a meeting this week they had a big old stack of warrior bars for i want it
off prairie ye were in the game and we boys act was in the game down there ollie'll surely enhancement for sure where you'll be editior me
up i'll so if you in the mood to support this pot cask go to jack ootcast o come before you shot that etazon do come quick on that the
little link there and in making it all kind of passively support to jacopo cast on or get them sure it's if you like em jocatore dot com or
a mug of eupator the enemy the first question jocko as an over thinker you missed some factors anxiety leconside lay keeper i you
profection ism and often a failure to prioritize yes or this is a cutout from a last pot gast and disguise just see the sweet no i thought
it was well good assessment because i'm not an over thinker and maybe this guy it is in sorrow his twineall signed there but um he may be
has no pretinces to be kind of new about it an it if you don't want to entwisting and lit some one that over thinks things they get
analysis paralysis right they do start thinking and thinking and thinking the frozen from their own thoughts too many thoughts and so i
thought these were good little factors here and a basically to me in a bolton to actually fear cause if you're thinking then you're not
taking action and if you're not taking as in an there's no consequence in ostersoeen in this thing be afraid of so i think that the over
thinking can be an excuse for actual fear and sane thing with like arm a perfectionist that's also fear it's fear of not being perfect then
on top of that low confidence will if you have loondon guess what you're afraid your confidences low you're not sure yourself so you sit
around and think about doing it instead of actually doing it and and then anxiety will ye anxiety actually is fear your afraid to do
something and then i you now that might be i guess maybe some one has a high ice in their for deranging a lot and maybe that's not fear but
let me ask you a question if you're so smart and wired you taking yacumaman something happens to get a big eye too that's no excuse to sit
around and over think things especially because if you're so smart why can't you come up with a quick solution of white it you realize that
over thinking is actually causing the problem harm not moving the problem forwards quick thinking so much and take action next westonhaugh
about the time parotid helthe extension of your temper alien about you talking about marshal art and nor mariara are the best martial i
ride on if you haven't seen one you can feel em so he says with respect to the above mentioned video about your views on real martial arts
i have one quick question you said that you came here conclusion based on a sparring match between yourself and when your fellow may seals
was the match between yourself and the traditional martial arts with twenty years experience of friendly spar match typical entraining
where you was pulling his bongent and strikes or was he attacking you with full force from my observation juggie collect some head shot
well going in for a take down and if a traditional carnataca ride practitioner doesn't hold back would this have some dim stating effects
in the long run similar to what probable players in experience out left to get your take on this someone who has real world experience okay
so first of all i didn't come to a conclusion based on that one event i mean that even influenced my fox today but even right now i don't
have a conclusion some one could show me something to day if possible that i go would that work really well in never thought o that in that
note that now trumps everything else he could happen not likely though ah my mind is still open but that's not like a onoto and that's
particular scenario he was usually he wasn't using a striking or traditional striking on the sun a traditional grappling or in actually i
tito and so he was grappling with me he wasn't throwing punches at me but they doesn't matter because i have spared and or fought with
plenty of people of the years that were absolutely turned knock me out no doubt about it and the fact the manner is it doesn't work um even
where this guy above like fortescue the question he says if a traditional crate practitioner dozen hold back it would have the same
devastating effect in the long run simulat pro ful poplars experience that statement actually defeat itself because if you watch a football
but game those guys get hit in the head that the hundred times during a football game and how often do they get actually knocked on
conscious not very often if you multiply one ever ten players preside that actually bananes times our one plays you know you're talking
about thousand molino probably more than a thousand head on head contact in a football game and there might be one knock out in a game
sometimes it's no knock out etically none o ye so i acted at risking some one in the head is not a guarantee knock out by any stretch of
the imagination in fact it rarely occurs it actually redly curs in boxing where two guys are trained to do that so it's hard to knock
somebody out any to same thing in if you watch you have sespe ally the early you have sees this is proven over and over again that yet the
deed grapplers gonna take some hits on the way in but they're going to get in and there i take a person down and up of course do you have a
pinthorne of course you do there is a very small chance that when you shoot it on somebody they time and near the time a punch and it
happens to hit you right in the spot that knox you out it does happen happen an you have set your casionally eoghan umber of take down to
the number of knock out that happened while i take down is going on it's not a big number at all if correct so you don't want to rely on
that as your foliation of self defence cradle now when things of volved eventually to wear the strikers were restless too egotistic
chucking you that tetoot randy where it wasn't their striking that was preventing the tape down it was because they were bad as wrestlers
that's what we stopping to take them had nothing do with the way they panged you know so you really can't count on the striking to
saptagram that is not a good plan to say hey i mean at so good a striking that i'm ritoorala that is not a good man plan will you have to
do is one of the grapple you have to learn to rest you have to learn you just you and i and the opposite side out is you can't count on
grappling to take down the striker because you that person might not rest on it therefore do need the narative so it goes back to what i
say all the time you nondomestic right yet and if he's umtali he says a traditional credit practitioner traditional so i aim a fuming the
the only understanding i have is of traditional is he doesn't do critander on a mix marshal ardisheer die so from what i lost and round yes
and i've thinking cried before and there was no take down defence there was no take down that there was no functioning in any capacity on
the ground and so yet and how you say like okay over the long term okyon have head trauma in lasting damage if you take sustained a hedge
roma repented it had over the years really to lived about the next forty two seconds and i fight that's about the half a not the next
thirty decades of my life where you can get her a break down cause i took some had drama exactly right so you'd have to get it let's say
that for the example of this question that your experience with this guy he was a crowdie and he was wingful set in an he didn't knock you
out we'll just the son that he didn't knock you up you would have nordlingen to reach natata is a very safe assumption some seorati gaywas
not able to knock me out for that i was able to come in you know ah ah stand there good get it a good distance taking with my hands touches
face a couple times he throws a big punch i do a double like take down he's on his back and came over yet and by the way go watch any you
two video of you know jogies whatever it and it's the same outcome every single time a youldash be one of the water hits because it's the
it's the chance knock out or the chance or something else happened yes but ninety nine per cent of the time it's double like take down slam
on the ground game over yer sorry filling look at a who did ready cut your fight that proboer tony james tone aiaiah mean visicast exactly
here's young i'll i'll world class box or professional boxer what a granny do got inside took him down game over o why do you not him out
because you can't read you can't isyoga just knock people out ye fully and and that's not to mention him any i mean i'm going to mean to it
but that it is not to mention that specially if you if you practised that the more self defense like this heavily self defense oriented
jugeant of the first things you learn is distanceless you learn tetley almost can't get past that element of it so you will take his of
course maybe will take it to the top of your heads shoulders or whatever but yes significant strikes to anything to warrant how it's stated
here in the question m long turn termed damage convartible players you act to your situation you going to disguise he did go full sleep you
would have to do probably ten to fifteen bouts of that everything with this for a long time for you'd have any sustaining and then sir
maybe i instriking the long term strategic for you get a continues parroted atalanta of years old and maybe you listic disease and maybe
i'm saying maybe siccus if you a traditional guy he doesn't not a take it managed to take on so knowing how i manage to take down out make
your striking more effective you don't have that your strikes are not effective selling you take one hit with it let's say take five hits
right you controlling the fight as much as jogies even if you're not that high level verses a guy doesn't know judy too way out ways this
grossly to the point that these things are aside from the puncher's chance he in effective and i think you have seen one two three you know
as before people start to get it to the whole yudisthira before people knew judithe just knew their other stuff that was the testing ground
on the holystone was invented by the way on that's why those first you have caesar awesome yes you you get to see these two hundred fifty
and old bear not bull kiboko by strong you know go in there with the real conquerel fighting experience against his way smaller grappler
you istean lose and it's at this is to go one step further if you watch you have set to that man whose ieyes on my favieyes by the way when
i'm watching it the keeoony to ten sallading guys make it to the finals against voice scarce and he hoisted n't tap him up or he stopped em
out but not as submission aledee do the strikes solarian out like you know a strike or bay i'm not seisin through all punches it was
nowadays no one would ever tapitha now but i'm a sandholes they know you don't know where alike your dad you yeah one guy like i said
before one i tapp because he was closefolded cottoned but none the less an ye yit it's hard to to really reconciled really what this
question i don't know if it's implying anything well if i ever me implying that this guy that i was going again was i holding back right in
that night at you know heleden half teonontogen against count was literally countless of guise and have spartans me chariot whether there
tradesman's whether they're discount was guess yes and it it's hard to knock somebody else ye and i and i don't know ethothion course i'm
i'm not goin to you know hate on the question or nothing like that but speaking from experience this sounds like the exact question that
inexperience people have you know people were going as it notices coming most likely from some one that's been habilable intuitional
martial arts and he then told that hey don't worry about some echinata down cojus had him here and here to fall owen that through that
totiakton that's not good that's sort o i put this in your nutsteak sure that um that they realised that hey you shouldn't you should
actually pay texians dornton in the world instead of stayin in like a just as tontileaugo marshal art and it's the same thing with you if
you're just doing you get you and were i got this anerley is another question about this but i mean i don't tell people just trained you
get you i tell him trained you get so change rattling train boxing chain motion you know what when you get tonal that and you have a good
base train crow lagian then you will you know what do realistic situation by the way she how to shoot a gun by the way you should be in
good shape to do everything teetered and to answer is not the answer ye tesher antevertit weesome thing like that like one answers not the
answer which i must admit found for the cruel omitting the sewell get everyone is going to say potentiana asked the refertis gonna put it
on in tashiro see how that works out at next question is it better to reveal too much information or two little information both in
personal life and leadership okay so there's two sides to this not just a personal in the business sighed but in in the business either to
pieces really there's operational and planning right so if you got something that your planning for whether you accompany your tunipa a new
strategy for the next quarter of the next year or the next competitor going to open or the new co whatever you gonna do there's that and
your planning that then i want to an end in the military if your playing an operation you're putting together mission that you're going to
go do in both ossian i give every one all the information that i have absolutely i don't i let them know everything that i know so that
they can away everything as much as i wegetarians them to toil with the with the information more than i do so that i can kind o get of
fresh a look at it when i come in so i and i think i do and i did see people that would hold the back information in those situations
leaders that would hold back information why would they do that because they're in secure because knowledge gives you power and you use
that knowledge to say you come in and echoes got a good plan for the evangelic you got to think about this right here and you just so i
didn't know that but it gives me a little bit of leverage to give me a little bit of power that's ridiculous so when it comes to planning
and operations and conducting business and planning missions man share all the information you've got in your ization out your ganization
so everybody has the knowledge that's answer number one then we get to the information regarding the leadership of humans and of course you
hear words like transparency and we got to be honest and you hear those things getting thrown around and and of course no one's goin argue
with him right now on arguin say hey you shouldn't be honest it no one's going to say you shouldn't be transparent right but the fact of
the matter is you cannot always share all the information all the time when it comes to leaving people you can't do it and here's the
problem of why you can't do it because people can't always handle the truth and when you give them the truth they might have a bunch of
differentiations right some of those reactions being anger and defensive neonatorum i tell some one and put in this other person in charge
cause i don't think you're smarter enough to figure out his wish ah that's my true statement i'm goin be honest with you i don't think
you're smart was that too how does that affect the mission doesn't move us closer to the goal are you is that person now on a be really
supportive of me and work hard knowing that i think there's stupid m the answers of course not i mean another example as one if you think
that your boss is planned is terrible the so you go in there and say hey your bosses tartarin your plan that you came up with his awful now
there might be some bosses that are secure in their leadership in their secure of an they go out man why do you think that her break it
down for me that's cool but a lot of bosses are going to be insulted by that a lot of otes unto hurt their ego and instead of listening to
their did the idea that you have instead they're goin to be angered by it they're going to turn it off the gottorf their minds are going be
mad at you they're not going to listen to you any more because the way you came across so you would have been better off not being coeoque
honest and not sharing all the information you would be better off slowly trying to take the plan that he came up with and may be
maneuverable say have boson's going to work because of this thing over here but you be catful and there's a million examples we could talk
of like that and so when it comes to leading people not operations not planning missions when e comes to leading people in giving to think
think about what you're saying thinking of how it's going to impact the team think about how it's going to impact the relationships i'll
and down the chain a command think about how it's goin to impact the mission because if you are a good leader anywhere almany where in that
chatelet you're a good lethe most important thing you should be achieving the mission so if you're honesty is actually creating adversaries
ps inside your team what good are you doing moving the mision forward the answers you're not so i'm not telling you to be dishonest but i'm
telling you to think any this same thing in your personal life you go think about what you're saying you got to think of out your wife's
perspective or your husband's perspective or your kids perspective or your friends for spectives how is one of about to say going to affect
them long term he gat me measured now you might give them a little hint of something and in seehof they reacted maybe you could be a little
bit more honest with him maybe you could throw some bad out there i think fie on it but you just don't want to jump in or row it out to
wear now you've created adversaries with your friend with your spouse with your kid because now they're not lessington with your kids o you
got to be told honest with your kids okay you know what totally honestly i don't think you're capable of being this level of an athlete
right do they need to hear that when her nine years old probably not m so you just got to think you got to think and there is a way to get
that information across in a tackey in an indirect way so that it still manages to improve the person because i don't want to have echo
come up with you come up with a bunch of bad ideas and all i do is sail that's a good idea that's got a do that's good in train you i
didn't even prove you i will say you know what that's not bad word we did this you know what i mean and so we moved in the right direction
we still have some mentorship going on but in direct we still have some coaching going on cut but its indirect because i don't want to
coach you and you don't want to be coached by me you even my son when i like tell him something in jugeaient to die for over twenty years
with some of the best guise in the entire world literally and i'll say a thirty dediscere happetite more you do that move and it do know
you don't he preno actually you do it what i listened to jeff i listen to dead actually you won't actually a herniae with both jefferies av
you is there approach ye maybe he gillamore in teheran and that kind of fly illustrates one of the many challenges with that you know one
of these simple but not easy things cause i was different i you say though something out there she how they reponens gonna respond
different daturin so it is kind of the feeling up process it's you know i think that animantia as before were you know some people they'll
be direct but people don't really like him and then they they dulcitude down on it and say pay you know i i speak the truth to you know and
like me for who i am or whatever so what you do when you do not want people do that is they render themselves in effective in in situations
now knowing for you so if i gathered yes what known to might each of their party no one to be a friend you know you may rent or gotten a
divorce from it and it's all because you chi assentially des chose to be at nice all understand that certain things are insulting if you're
tottenhot honest you know ye everyone except you you know you if you look around and no wants to be around you that's a problem he used
flash tender and jerks and a hedge and people don't follow jerk yet he really don't ye yes so it's not it is no honesty is never an excuse
to be a jerk to be beaten in don't mistake you know people will have this can a misconception that speaking your mind is a good thing it's
not like in light her totally right some like a i never for that was a little crazy about this as i am a people i think always have that
finger missed it when i was talking you don't people say oh of course honesty is you know the best thing you got to be honest and i would
say that i am i am known as a person that is honest and a straight shooter and that's great but at the same time like you just said that
doesn't mean i run around it in salt to people i mean on the tactician and you don't want it is not honest it's taeping at that asia
because with this is something that can actually go too far as well um if if you're constantly always telling every one thing every all
sugarcoated well now the no one respects your opinion neither esthai saying if i just say one echo you did a great job with that video you
great job without miyoto you do great what if you were pretty in junk fido said exam i needed tell you had none a rough example ah i would
die to think of something that you feel that you such high clothing not for suivent i've got to be honest with you and and if all i do is
tell you it's great it's great it's great it's great is great is great you know that doesn't help us when i need to say is he menaces all
some video et be cool he captured this angle to right or do you think it'd be possible to get this message across the also then you say oh
i can do anything you see how i just slave you these that ye an ye like all think if you can possible to give this ankle in there and you
eolico make it come across strong dan anythin o there is a fight day yet oetanata a little variometer allies to not ikiningyo know now or
or like it like everything it's a balance in it all on an i be cademy it as in a colberteen tellin the truth and being tactful me first joe
how do you handle it when some one up the chain of command betrays trust um like what it is like lying they lie younger to be this is a
huge missis a huge spectrum ilgenstein number one you just learned right is a learned something about some one to care actor and now cannot
know better what you're dealing with now if this is a major situation you might have to immediately confront it and or go above them in the
chain of command i mean if there's lives at risk if there is something morally wrong that is happening if there's something easily go that
happening that now durgin to get wrapped in too and that's another division you at make if you're not going to be rapping through tenacity
got to make if you want a run the person's life whatever that that's a different decision that's not this question we got to deal with that
desert question or innocent people being hurt so if even something like that lives at risk you know something morely wrong as happening
something illegal is happening in assent people being heard then you're probably going to have to say something you're going to have to say
something now i will tell you this before you say something make sure all your ducoo made sure you have an he didn't don't go off half
cocked be ready because people that are deceitful like this they they they prepare they are ready for battle um to protect themselves and
they don't care what happens to other people sir gotta watch out for that now if it's something really if something minor you know that
something minor then that's something that you long down and in the brain right something that you looked down in the brain and um but
allows you to see person character and that means again it's a miter infraction but it also meant in a watch yourself and you got to watch
them a little bit more closely you gotta be careful because people like that they think they're smarter than every one else least think
that they're getting away with life so they think they're smart enters like a little hint i so shall path in there that they can get away
with these lives and you've got a watch if you got to watch a carefully in it in like a sinkinda goes back to that previous question
because you don't want to be a person that comes across as dishonest yourself it if people don't think they can trust what you're saying
they're not going to trust you with other things so if you know i'm not giving you good feed back because i'm too nice you're not going to
start new you're not going to respect my opinion any more it so you know when you're when you're demissam an have some one comes to you
instead of giving us his honesty verses dishonesty if you come to me and say hey what do you think of this plan i atone an ink that's a
stupid plan i might say i had don't know if that's how i do it i might try this approach right you just cannot be diplomatic you if i'm not
in say you i i don't think you're smart enough to figure this out i would have moved you to a different division because i don't think
you're smart enough to solve the problem amoretti massa you know when i need you on the other project over here that i think you're going
to be really knock this thing out of the parking not here then no he inside but it's called tact he had not a after youse but back to the
honesty or when person betrays your trust you've learned you learned about their character if it's a big thing you're going to have to talk
about it not to tell somebody you know is a little thing you got a watch given i think we just learned that vocabulary to night who's there
watch and yet they you know how you see any logidion brain right loving your brain that all he they lie about that or all i you and that i
think you should constantly do that right i anthing we all do that anyway that would that's really think that's why and your brain has
certain ways um just a way its wired like like first impressions right that that's usually a big thing they but really what's really going
on isn't that the first simprin is this has more weight specifically than you know other imbreathes prussians that you get along the line
it's because let's say you don't let a don't know that much about you i don't know revivifier met you heard about you whatever your first
impression it's not that it's so heavy it's just it's the only impression so it seems like everything if you are dictame okay your day in
my mind you are disait second day you're not a dick your fifty per cent dick wishes in that still the day you know even if you're twenty
per cent dicelike okay i like him but he still had you know so again my point of your always logging stuff in your brain what is it person
when this person not when it comes to some one who beat betrayed your trust this doesn't really count them out as far as trusting them to
cause a lot of sense the more time you spend with him the more experience you have with him you start to get a picture of a kaye'll be tray
my trust in this case in this type of situation like you you ever a friend who you would literally risk his life to save your life but at
the same time he would probably hook up with your wife if he had the opportunity you know that so the different kind of thing so as you
gain experience with people he is therefore risking his own light sure o worthy but you start to get a picture of who the person and at one
have any friends like that in yerbua do know where you're saying ye people that have different moral compass in moral values and we yet
judging them based on that right yes i'll just be careful not a judgment on that soul i get on the large olynthiac con yes yes it will eat
but that's part of like this peg picture so because ultimately you want to get to the point then i've had this experience specifically in
my life before were ear you want to get to the point where you trust them yet i trust them to be that person you know i know he's not trust
where the intense heat read this so i yes i his role in my life were in this company or whatever i know i i trust him to be him that
therefore i won't give up this task you tottering them yes exactly right i used a scorpion to be the corpse from to be the frog yes and
that comes with like the experience so as some you know if it like you said if it's a minor thing don't go jumped on his throat or just
jump to this thing really just be like okay you don't deal with it in your way but like i said logging your brain and move forward but you
know and keep your eyes open to think that you can trust me up yet and get that fool picture and i hate to say this has said it before i
don't have these massively high expectations of other human beings yeah i'm a to say it but i'm kind of anticipating that they're telling
me half true ye and each year yes i will don't get these high expectations in expect that people are going to try and get one over on you
yes and when you do get your corn of people that you know are really truly trustworthy that's awesome yet that might be three people in
your life ye ye and that i i would say that that's that's fair well i think a lot of people are like that and i think every one is like
that in one wainer too and it's a spectrum but i been in a situation where so as they have the notes guy began i know men they'll be to ye
are your friends in against a hard to trust because of like this and i'll say i don't find a hard to trust i trust him to be him and just
exactly are your sin you trust the scorpion to be a scorpion yet you know scorn can be relied upon for was oficina shade up can't be relied
upon for sir nother thing so again if you just keep your eyes open and you know don't start burning bridges with the person if it's a small
thing as as time goes on you can start to get a feel of a really who this person is in in the entire and it might be beneficial in the in
the situation here and with him no your people be i agree is at the crossin here is a strange one i have on going regret for never joining
the military or police department and i'm not yet strong enough to consider changing careers now for financial reasons i also don't know
how to discuss this with my wife as we want to make some additions to the family soon i feel unprofited in the singularest my life it's a
strange feeling considering i have skyrocketed up the chain in my company so quickly so many would do anything to be where i find myself
how do you overcome your face or a hotly overcome or face yourself knowing your holding back from a certain calling because i really do see
it as a calling in some form i'm interested to hear from you i think this is pretty easy go join the reserves in go join the resources go
in the army reserves go in there and look every branch has some reserves where you goin to do one week and month you have you go camp
that'll be whatever is in to be ten weeks twelve weeks fourteen weeks depending on which branch you go into and then you do one week and a
month and you do to weeks in the summer you you understand what the military is about there is actually a chance will first all this antole
deployed i mean when we are no racounteur odimus cond epomata the the unit that was there the two wet iron soldiers they were reserving it
out of pennsylvania and they were alone and been in for fourteen months and i lost a lot of guys and they fought hard so it's not like this
reserves thing is it is is a different class of soldier there soldiers for real there marines for real that you may be going on the
pomettes cool about it is most companies they will excuse you basically when you go in the reserve electe you you have time i fact i think
it's i was never in nurseries but i think you're actually pertected by the federal government from being fired because you're serving in
the reserves maso i would definitely go and look into the reserves because otherwise that feeling that you have i you only imagine never
goin to go away i don't know because i had that feeling that i wanted to in the military when i was four years old and i did it is in such
an neteen so i don't you know i i no i regret now is like i want still be it you know so especially now it's the fighting picking up
overseas it's uh you know that's that's you only thing that that i feel is dam i want to go back but if you never did it at all that's a
grinding feeling so go talk to recruiter getting reserves and not you know what else in serarius there's definitely volunteer fire
department as you can volunteers a fireman then you can volunteer as a policeman they have certain hotoneeta of what state you're from
asking the question but there is deputising deputized you can go through a the insane they definitely have reserved cops where you have to
go to spite go to the the police academy and you become a reserve camp so and with all that um you want to talk about with you ye talk
about it or wife you you say don't know how to this isn't the situation where you can be told me honest with hay i always want to join the
military i haven't done it i feel like a something i really want to do he was to opsonin to go look at what do you think now you're you're
marrying you married to a girl and you're going to have kids it's your military service will be harder on her than is on you so she better
be strong she better be tough and you know the the military wives out there i mean my wife went i was gone into poliment after the payment
i it's it's not easy i mean luckily she's tough and she raised kids without me and she took care of household without me and she went to
the hospital to visit my wounded guy and she went to the funeral of my geysering killed and she had to do that while i was gone on the
ployment and i was she was hearing for me once a week maybe so you're going to put your family through a lot of stress now you might stress
your family a lot by always having regret that they held you back that selfish but that's true so i would just go look into it see with the
options are talk about it with you wife there is some really good benefits to it and also the final point is sometimes when your reserves
you can decide that you want to go at toddy maybe you love it maybe you say you this was my coin may be your forced day in blue came you
haven't slept you had your head shaved your tired your hungry to food is horrible and you say man is on i've always wanted to do with my
life and if that happens there is option to where you can now go active duty and and you can see how your wife dealt with a while you were
gone and if she dealt with it well that's great hey let's make a career out of this and that's a good option to do so there's some i take
your this is i this is this is easy day easy easy problem take care of no factors next question junklet your take on sport you georsh's
defence you gito and can sport transported you to kennet translate onto the street most schools are geared towards sport yes so for any one
is listening that doesn't do you get both of you at the roberta don't do it was no first of all did you just a second also there's there's
judge his rooted reely in self defence and like anything that gets put into a a a closed environment it starts to breed and become
different mute and so dogian away what they call what they now call sport jujitsu is you githa has been in this competition environment in
the gigue sport competition environment so digitos a sport as well as selfdefense to sport with points and you can went on points and a
championship and its very competitive and its it's pretty entertaining to watch if you know in understandeth game but since it's in this
environment this closed environment it starts to mutate and that's what happened so for instance there is maneuvers that you do and in
sport juge that are so intricate and there so reliance on for instance reliant on the gay a yogini form which is at a heavy fabric ge and
you can actually use parts of the gee to choke people and you can use part of the gitimate a person off balance called the sweep and get on
top you can literally take the lapel of their gee and put it between their legs and rapid round your leg and then grab the gither it it's
going to and then you just swing your heavens in a polhem off malanno this is something you could literally never do in the street so
that's what they're talking about when they're talking about sport verses self defence and they have this with other things i mean there is
sport shooting where they do certain and it's it's semiretirement when you go in a tournament it it's somewhat simulates a street fight
just like some shooting competitions somewhat simulate combat but they're not exact and so the question is does the sport translate onto
the street and my answer to that is first follyes it does not every move certainly and there's absolutely moved that you would do indugio
in a tournament that you would never do all the street now luckily anybody whose duteous to do those advance moves in a tournament is good
enough that in the street they're not going to need those moves you're not going to need to do a reverse alma prana in the street you're
not going to need to do um dan quear in the street there right you lock and to do bear him below in the street you just knock in a need to
do it if you're fighting some one not good will then guess when i guess you did need it but you're not going to come up against a person
the street that's goin to have a counter to your bar and bow low attack and you don't have a gonfanon of work in a ransom no gee verses
that the bottom line is if you're doing you get your definitely going to do very very well in a street fight now that being sad that being
said sometimes you chatted you got a train you disour the street you got a you got a punch each other occasionally got to say he you know
an what's goya little bit and we'll do some maybe you put gloves on may be put in a mag loves on maybe just use open hands and you smack
each other you realize like oh when i'm on the bottom in the half guard where i feel super comfortable an i'm doing you get to if i ana
real fight a man to be getting ahead but it or i'm goin t be getting punched in the face and that's not good so would do to get out of this
umteen either guard can be horrible or on the bottom am i you don't want t be on the bottom anyway to fight you don't want to you don't the
bottom line is you don't want to grapple if you don't have to you you don't want to be in a street fight in the first place the reason
you're a street fight his cause you could not avoid it that's why you're a street light you could not avoid it you got at that you got
taken down to the ground besinesse one swings it you you can go so it away from the haven grand you yet run away go so train you gits with
punches also thanonti wrestling and also war comes some real scenarios work on the head lock and i've seen this will you get a a guide
that's really just come in the game and jump straight you know these young kids they come in the game they steepest thing they want a loan
is the rubber art the first thing they want to learn as you mapother first thing they want to learn at the bareback the first thing they
want to learn and little e someone put them in a headlock and they won't know what to do because it's different just like just like a
barborin neck technique the headlock escape requires some technique to get out of that so we on that work on the bared work on that the arm
grabbings grab in the the the straight arm choke in big looping punches that you're a senate sometimes de will teach erself to fence class
and when de kichenief the fence i've every time he sees want i learned something i like me an that's a good little technique he just showed
how to get out of this how to get out of that so bottoming yes do you cant sport you git do for the most part translates into the street
and if you're good enough it sports you git that our competing at a high level even purple up you're not going to need to use any sport you
get ome in the street you're goin to be destroying some one in a street fight you have if you enough in that situation yet the
anithetically now just like are you saying the doge is evolved in kind of mittendorf um in in the gym's now apaidush you guacanapri age
growing ye rose on its own at turnois weird fungus and it gets all different looking yet and it does look different the addolorata i did he
not even like i remember i remember eating i was talkin about the lawe well remember when the amaponda came out he you know i think it was
you know like nineteen ninety six we started seeing the old planter were old man and it looks very fantasy the yether's very retapan
looking move yet and now an hour because the internet because so many people are its exploding how rapidly its changing a nutting is
mutating faster now that it never has yes yet in that part of the belotti in you know in most ways the it's a spectre horatia you went from
one side which is just the basic theoriginal basic you know take down mount side not cart all this all the way to warm guard something that
that or or barber example where so sportif you want an arly down it's it's it's if it's something where the moves or whatever you're doing
is dependent on the sport elements of it so it's dependent that you have a man it's dependent that you have a gay and a belt so if you do
warm guard that's highly dependent on the guy having a gay with the lapel outinvent ually someone's going to figure out o door gard without
a full figure out some duty yet for sure feemale already yes yes so i engineered her so um play know just a kind of put in to define enium
so self defence i think now is you may find a gem that only does sport where if you came in now experience and then you know three four or
five years later your sport you desolit not take you very far in the street that gittite rare i think but you could probably find the
school like that on an know where they are or the but but i think josie your saying when you make it to prove belts you're the basic you
did so well in on the street and really when if you go to a school like eventthere inal gracey catemeran if you go there the self the self
defence pursuit indugio is more of it is it's tactic they like mentally it's not specific moves its distance management it's where your
mind set is in the guard yearyou pursegur goal in the gard is way different than in a in a tournament or something they won't velsey don't
even go for so missionair is not your job to do commissions out here i was going to set out you said is to pen on the gatepost used pen on
the gay pen on the mat is also depended on the rules and speeton the ponent that knows you get to yes i can on something that others were
to do cause they're got colorature doing in other make something work of sleep so that if you go back to the self defence you're going to
be learning basically how to protect yourself given what you get to it that's that's it in sport you're goin to be learning how to
forepoint how do control a certain guy with this specific uniform how to utilize that uniform had utilized the mat and after nosing as
messed up like in the i b jabebat rules of jugi there's some things that your not allowed to do it and that's not good they should allow
these things right in regard to pursue to fin ye just for a sordidest really when it comes down but i guess you can put what i rule you
want you but you shouldn't yet it yeah if you if if you don't mind the deviation from self defense if you don't mind that than put whatever
will you want but yet i would say you shouldn't if you care about the more rules you put in the sport a monition less effective it becomes
my fortunately yesterday editor with the rules yes and the same thing with jude otto same thing with wrestling i mean wrestling in america
if they if they allowed submission holds in resting in america you know america would be in tsang with fighters we done pretty good but you
masni every high school kid that wrestled new other to all unison should be no sets away should be a wish it was that war which the world
was that way it ud be a better place at the whati'hea they did is with rustling they took they took submission holds out because they
considered it to be dangerous in judocus classicisme where they removed the double line like you can't do a straight double legantine any
more you have to set it up and have to be off or something else cause cause resters will come in an indominitable excuse there's a tugarin
it's the same thing now you see with with you gioan i b jj there you know with the witten helouin at a black belt level you're not allowed
to do hellohello changes some parts of the games and it doesn't change a word woods gonna make you lose in the street fight but it
definitely put a stop to the to the growth of the sport in terms of technique yeh yeh it it got so exactly what you're saying now the sport
the rules and stuff on that does is is narrow down the disport part of it and the more people who pursue it for sport not just for it but
sport if it percolated it though for sport is party or game in party eurycoon whatever and then now the sport is the come this limited
thing where you can't like to twenty per cent of move you can't do you gasped way less embracing em you'd be way less effective at these
moves better a part of grappling a huge paragraph line ultimately so i sieyes still going to have that huge overlap fissure if you don't
want it which is probably the first thing you would your first you die class or you now learn mount which is heretically the most dominant
position you can so you into learn maud take what to do when the guy lives to you over what to do in the guard how to function you know
these things the that's what's goin to get you by the street that's what's going to go it make you effective in actual fight now and then
you know like like anything all these off shoots that grill you know they you know there's some overlap for sure but am if if you goin to
turn him in that's a specific pursuit if you want to defend yourself that's a specific pursuit now and as time goes on there going to start
to draw on all that verdeliere right now yes on the future villeles yes the way that their putting rules over the sport yea and endian
luitbrand general and his foredating yeah yeah so you know the four depending on the gatemen ding on the matafatatele like if you traitor
barborin the street with chaos on the road or something will joke a way a unitedstatians yes yes too much friction on the street to be the
gettatura in art yes he ventions with making art ye haven't tried to bear him oonter a o'etait i fight nobushige i think is fun you can't
help but really like cause because when you go to it to your like kate tisica a a fight and yet i can trainfuls eed and be safe it's a
fight as i makes it so fond because of the pit when you win the patio good on the inside in on you lose it like you still get that
detriment that still you still have that feeling but at the end of the day you know you lived you're not enemies with the guy you're not
injured nothing like them so it makes it this this win win the whole time right and when you see a cool move like warm guard on like your
controlling one die with your weird foot that faced this way on one hand and the guy can't like eatin stand up you practisun oreille a has
the super power in wielding it all in the messender with pursues fun think barnborough you get like you're a break dancer doing some cool
stuff meanwhile you're dominating the guy while you do you can't help it do that is of so fond you know her so you can't i mean how think
you can really hate him the sport and i don't lie don't mate on a sport yeah yeah you pronatti though i'm saying good but some people do ye
even just the question cut not that but the the prison as i question thinks this but it implies that there is a little bit of a climate of
oh yeah i i got a titonti you don't like the baraboo willardian against it no ye andernay don't like robert cold or the defendant it you
know that i graminicides working then threaded you as either effective for in effect raither lay that insidious he want more on one lay
jack a lot of your advice applies to leading yourself not just leading others self help quotquot is the loaded word politesse management
what is the one change reader should make to day to start improving himself and their situation on are like those words selfhelp or self
management or sell from provement coulie what those words of come to me one day as there's a lot of people out there they are constantly
trying to implant themselves by looking for the one change the one change right the one change in their life that's going to make their
dreams come true any worse on top of that there's a lot of people out there a lot of self help goes and ease iterative motivation all
speakers and these other self appointed modern sanoghar riors that their trancehood thing or try to sell the nine steps are the enlightened
path its ontell you to unmoor human potential and fulfill the dreams so you can live the life that you've you've has wanted to if now i'm
no goal an i definitely don't claim to be i'm just a man but i will tell you this it isn't one thing and it isn't ten things and is a
hundred things it is at a quick pass and there are no short cuts meditation won't get you there and never will a miracle drug or or dan
except pimento some super food getting better isn't a hat or a trick or hold one change that you need to make getting better is it
campaignin is a daily he weakly at hourly fights on incessant fight that doesn't stop against weakness and against temptation and against
laziness is a campaign of discipline the campanero and dedication it's waking up early and going to bed late and no indian every second in
between every single day so you wanted to better you want to sell improve stop looking for a short cut and go find your alarm clock i find
your discipline and slandered your passion and your drive and find it you will and then and then you will find your freedom and i think
that's all i got for a night so all you trupeau there otototoi fighting against evil or fighting in crime or fighting his fires or fighting
a make things happen fighting they did a head and make something out of this little bit of time that we've got thanks for joining us in the
fight if you want to keep the conversation going you can find us all meaner webs i'm at joaille an echo is at echo charles and if you want
to support the pot cast an was goin to tell you how is a few ways ouseley might be in before you do your amazon shopping when ye shall an
amazon doom good jacobites do home and then we have an amazon link there he click on there and he then you do shopping whether you buy a
book or or whatever were some batteries some docta also there is a joco store where you can get shirt for coffee monks or sticks in the
port is led doing that if you like the shirt if not then not see not oh and an im if you want take some supplements i recommend the good
ones the ones that actually work and those are made by on it so if you go to on it dot com less jacobin get temper sent off all supplements
you can also sportedst by listening to it by down loading it by subscribing to it and by reviewing it for wherever you listen to it get on
their impudenter tell people what you think you can also get a book called extreme ownership that was written by myself and my brother lay
badinant you can get it on did you hard cover you can get on audio which is actually read by lace battering myself and when you get down
supporting upon cast answer porting the cause here go out there and do something to support yourself comate yourself better get out there
into the world and get after it and so until next time this is joconde out
