this is jackal to cast number twenty four with echo charles and me jackwell ink and our guest to night is joy made jodi's a former canadian
army soldier and sniper served in afghanistan he now serves as an elected member of the ottawaite counsel he got second place in a show
called the amazing race he offered a best selling book about his experiences he is a husband and a bad beyond all that joy is a real hero
absolute inspiration to anybody that knows his story which is what will we be talking about the night welcome the show joy agacin i miss
anything jacko magatano thanks man i preciate that also with us is achochre good evening ah good evening now before we digito your book yet
i wanted to start off with an axe of a poem by richard kipling that it's called the young british soldier and i think this is a little bit
appropriate since candidates a form a part of the common wealth of england and now part of the commonwealth and while kipling was never
actually a soldier he did attend the united service college in england which kind of prepared young men for the army of the never joined
but he did spend many years abroad in the british colonies and he also lost his own le son john and warm or one at the battle of loos in
september nineteen fifteen whether was just about a hundred thousand casualties than a matter of days and john kipling was last seen
lurching through the mud blindly crying out in agony after his face had been ripped upon by an exploding shell and this poem that i'm about
to report of is not about world war one to bout the british wars it took place from the eighteen thirties till the early nineteen hundreds
in a part of the world called afghanistan and here is this a later part of that pole when first under fire and you wishful to duck don't
look nor take heed that the man that is struck be thankful you're livin and trust your luck and march to your font like a soldier fun front
front like a soldier if your officer's dead and the sergeants look white remember it's ruin to run from a fight so take open order lie down
and sit tight and wait for supports like a soldier wait wait wait like a soldier when you wounded and laughed on afghanistan's plains and
the women come out to cut up what remains just world to your rifle and blow out your brains and go to your god like a soldier go go go like
a soldier at the deponents a tone for kind of a place afghanistan can be we be lost that he the last line not nonjoining on em and we do
get there in your book here in a minute and your book is called unflinching this is the book right here and i kind of made that connection
with the unflinching part you bein a slighter you obviously can't be flinching when you're takin a shot in and this whole thing kicks off
the first chapter which the name of the first chapters all some contesting that i believe is something that a lot of people have i no idem
sure did the first chapters called the soljerin the child and i think that describes a lot of people that joined the military yes gotoshi
that's in there it's there born with it you were born with a no i was born with it i tell every one to do so i wanted you pillian you mam
how did she feel about all that she resisted a like any eighties mom right the hour held are you again forty four so you're a little older
i am but my mom being at foster kid read all the books and all the books the time said boys should play with babies and girls to play with
tanktrucks and and treat them gender new troll and lala la a guess what have you put boys in a room and girls in a room a toy as the boys
play toletus me girls play with the beresina is as a fact my son i had two two daughters that were young and our house and i can want em in
all mackina them have all these parties on to where they came from but he showed up at my house and got what my son was born and i was all
worried always going to be playing with parties that kamiakin didn't care about barbes ain care bout it all look at of the anything that
had wheels on it yes it's just an it's or yes and girls of differ is different and and oh you know what i i know lots of women that are
great soldiers not saying that that they don't have it but mom wanted you know ah no guns a g i joe but no you know couldn't keep the
weapon in and you know and i and i love her for it because who knows who i would have been if she had maybe if she had fostered it and
would have it would have phizzed out i don't know em but yet all i wanted to isolde since i was sieda little boy your mom had that attitude
and in a long came uncle jim yet yet uncle jim an don't tutela little bit of otoes yet well i mean i just saw him then the last week and
actually you lives in victoria where were mister echo was born and um he when it when you're a child right there's nothing more
impressionable than a three year old really ran and when i was three he would back then if you were in uniform you could ride the train for
free and get the bus for free and so he would ride the train and uniform when he had his leave and he sauteuse and he bring me teyber is i
was like this is obviously the cool stud on and whatever he does i want to do it and he would tell stories about what he did you know and
he was now he was an infantry soldier same regiment that i joined and a and a bed that was the sea i assume no one really knows this is
just family lore it were cause mom didn't like it did was a blue collar outofwork er an his dad was in the army but it was like conscripted
into the servian border guard when the wind the when the german army showed up ye basically throws hands up was like gap i'm colton's
sheumais dad apparently was in the army but no one knows cause he died when she was ten ah no one dreary sure what he did you know
aparently was increatus there's no record of it so um anyway it's just it was there an jim i think was the cattle is that that sparked it
sparked it when i was just a young little impressionable boy it happens now when you've got to be a teenager you know you kind of sound it
in the book you sound like yes you sound like a tee nature yet i i a a i mean just to go here in your book you say i was a loner oisin in m
i shall dream to being in the army probably because i wanted to belong to something yea and it was definitely clear i didn't belong in
school i hate school i hate especially because when you get the high school i don't know how you guys five ever you talk a little bit about
it it sounds like you had the same issues like definite couldn't connect with any our teachers the only teacher i remember had this one
teacher i forget his name and he was scottish originally and he was in my history teacher like the only am subject i cared about was
history really and he would tell stories about everything else he ever did in life before he was a teacher as i cocytus guy actually has
some ship that i need to hear because he's been around the world and he's done everything the rest of em i joined i am a teacher i call it
gemissante and i belike why ay even here what am i doing here doing math i i you know sniper is you know we eat listic church for breakfast
and math was useless to me a high school and a yeah i just the last thing i want to be i was in school and i've actually cause this this is
the nineties right so that was still when you could quit school to join the army and i was like oddson quisado the army and my parents like
basically at the beg me to stay they'd let me join the reserves which is in a canuscemu and it's like once a week and that weakening
million do that but don't quit school finish school aright but it it was like completely against my will but they finally got you if
finally let you join you join them owershot and then but but you aren't still were not of duty well the militia can i you can be called up
at of duty or exotic we chatted a little bit about this on the way here where you guys have a different system nericus yours is much bigger
but also like the militia and canna was the military before world war two basically on so regiments were local a was a part time thing and
always kinda like em it was the waist where they call it citizen soldier and at the regular army was just there to kinda give them an enemy
for in and take care of the tithe machine guns and the howitzers length the dozen or so that we had at the time and it wasn't till after
old were to that it flipped because it was you know the cold worster's you know um at any time the regular army now into the nineties could
say you know what we need ten reserve soldiers to to fill in a plutonian and if you could volunteer and i remember when i showed up to my
my reserve in it the resurgent sewing private stripes on to their uniform because they were called up to the regular army but you're not a
sergeant you like your qualification to keep guys in those reserves they promote them faster but when you go work with the rags like their
not going to call you a sergeant you been in his long as coral smith not a private strike fitch yes so ah but but guy's guides we guides it
flighty other to get those slots thou now because there was nothing better more honorable than to deploy with a red for his regiment
absolutely and go you know peace keeping but you know there's still a few gun fights here and there i thought the sort cool in the book we
talked about this here you're basically starting bocamad you say you just get your haircutted shaved the first night at once the barber was
done i studied myself in his mirror i barely recognized the young man staring back at me the eyes were the same but everything else was
different i wasn't jody medic lay about loner high school good for nothing another floundering adolescent with no ambition and no life plan
that kid was lying under a pile of hair on the floor looking back at me was joyment soldier in training to boiled yeah what an so i had at
the time at least the weapon too was my favorite move ever so i had like nehemiah melis and here all de it was glory in us oh you should
have seen it a tax yellower out smoking cigarettes and pretending anyway just being ridiculous but you know i happen to me again recently
because i had grown my beard out and i had a bit of a dome long hair and i did i did it i shave the beard down to nothing and i went to the
barber who usually like doses best give me a little bit of length but to make me look professional and i said i want it to give me a number
one all round that's what i'm talking about and this is just this is just like a month ago and you know he she did all that you know your
skin feels cold cause now that air is on it and i looked in the mirror and it was almost the same feeling of it all oh there is as a
there's that soldier and i remember the feeling because it was the guyenne was mark he was the italian guy cut my hair and he couldn't
believe it cause if he had fostered this ridiculous mullet for the last two years and now i said shavians i showed him a picture of a
marine i said i one look like discinded he shaved it and then it was like i was at the starting line of like the biggest race i ever going
to run in my life and and all i could think about was getting to the end and being successful and i changed my life man who changed my life
yea you know what one thing that can unt when i was a kid on washing to missus going a little bit ten gentle but i was into the hard course
seen on the east coast yes for corn music that's what i grew up with and it was like yeah shaved heads getting after it but one of my my
best friend at the time he's like listen you know where part of this were an there's nowhere to hide you can't hide behind your bangs it's
all right there you've got a face yourself nice and in also strips away you don't any kind of amneris basically a a what's that word it's
basically for show i got as what harris has no purpose other than i look good so let's a go ahead remove that and i don't care what i look
like i'm here to win so yes i guess that might explain my hair cut didn't so but it i'm glad you picked that set that that paragraph
because when i did this a month ago i was when i started my training for the for body building shore decided to do a faisais having trouble
getting into it you know ah i know how to do everything i know how to eat well i know how to work out of organisers like sixteen by just
wasn't it wasn't clicking you know and i went the barren i did that and it was like the switch went off home and there are was as like all
back at that starting line on to be forty in january so i want a six pack before forty i don't know but i a blown up i haven't had one it's
been ten years right on all right so now we did in his next action now you're kind o learning about what the armies like an and er some
stuff that you set about it there was a system for everything in the army away to stand and wait a sit awaited dress in a way to sleep is
also wait a system for how the properly eat at the mess hall all routine was an endless monotonous cycle we woke up made our cats
follersleben bags in the exact way we'd been taught once the tent was in shape it was on the barrack spot baritones we had to lay that
amount as instructed with everything in its proper place whether it made sense or not we had to stand beside our kit at cots every one
perfectly still as the officer did inspection at the time i thought that so much of this discipline was overkill why did we have to stand
at attention when the outer was to on the other side of the tent looking at some other dues conti why did our barracks boxes have to be
identical it took me a couple of years to figure out that the skills they were drilling into us or actually really important for a combat
leader if you can't still stand still long enough for morning inspection how can your commander's trust you to hold your posterin a mortar
age how will you know we can count on you to be useful soldier if you can't even follow through on an order meant to keep you your comrades
safe even if you don't know it at the time all these drills were training me to put self discipline above my instinct to flinch or flee
when everything in me told me to break my posture to stand down i learned to obey a different order instead it was basic training but i was
assimilating some important skills that would later make me a better sniper now i talk about discipline all the time man and that's
obviously why hold in on this because you kind o captured the kind of things that they're teaching you discipline they're teaching you
discipline aid if you don't make that connection for all you young troposphere are getting ready to join the military intersperse there is
a reason behind it a definite purpose and you know that's part of my book is the book that i wrote with lace you know it s one of the
chapters called this plan was freedom there is another chapter in there he happens to be called comfort move yet and you don't we relate it
to everything we do to me there's no other tactic and again i had to call the out in your book and by the way i'm reading your book right
now yet and i was trying to figure out how to do this yet like should i say okay can you read this section and then i thought to myself
it's gonna be different for you to hear it coming from some one else to hear the words and when i looked up at you after reading that first
at now like he just in his entail it because your hearing it you can't can never hear it when you hear yourself read it you're it's like i
don't know then i have my langly action because there my word but i am especially from some one like like you some one who shared
relatively common experiences and you i was a sneer team leader you were a buriats worse leader and for for us to have a similar reaction
to the same types of things is it's very interesting for me to see as well deceive some one like jored the same thing that i went through
and go yes exactly because you got it it took me a couple of years to realize like i said why why am i standing here this is stupid it is
caisco at this is god there and train would you are training bitch you're learning how to do what your told and your learning how to back
cause if you take off from your barracks box will guess he's goin to pay for it the guinet to you and you don't be on doing what you're
told even that paragraph you pointed out look the both inspectors look in the other direction you could easily break your posture and you
know he's not going to see is never going to catch you but guess what you held the i yes you held the ridin that's what you're learning is
that no matter what no matter people are looking or not you're going to do here janayo duty right it's your job it's the job right is the
job and people what's the what makes a good soldier at some one who who understands their job is to be that soldier and i know hokey i know
what i'm saying and you know what i'm saying but you gotta go through that to really understand it and me and you can give it vice all dat
a people like new new guise we got when you tweat it out i was comment oh i'm good ready to go on selection i'm getting ready to go to
don't want to be a sniper i'm joining the infantry what do i do what i do i can give you a nice old day joan give you my soul day but man
or something you just gotta learn on your own and that's that standing there with your boots polished at full at you know standing at the
chow wondering why you had to iron your shirt again is going to hell on later on when you're under enemy machine gun fire and and motors a
comin down trust me that ship's going to help you but you got olean that on your own now back to cover a move ah here you go tolkachov in
our paris one guy would move for while the other guy would shoot to provide cover a moverin and jumped up and moved forteau three steps
saying it his head up he sees me down wallis partner covered him at down the mover would take cover going to ground taking up a firing
position and yelling covering one in position then his partner would move forward the same way the idea was to always have a foot on the
ground which means one soldier is covering while the other is moving boom tissand you said a break that out on your own he at warnow in the
calinerie e we had lunch and a the best thing i got out of reading your book my transition was a weird one will cape politics not business
but there are some business aspects in that i am now dealing with people that aren't you know i've i'm used to working in small teams with
people that are professional that what we do you know so snipers and even though i was ten years ago that's basically my last real working
environment that which you know is as what i know so i even if i'm the boss and and you're my sniper and i go coined you to take up this
position i can go away come back that position taken but when you dealing with civilians staff who have never operated in a kind of orioles
operated they've never worked in that kind of environment if i tell him to do something and walk away you'd better come back and check
because they're not used to that kind of freedom because its discipline but it's you're giving them i'm giving you the freedom to do the
job i gave you you don't need me to to double check that you took up the proper nipercinean then also the firing that cover and moved the
foot on the ground i realized after reading your bucket so jologist basically was like listen my that's all i felt i felt like a dummy
isinglass i should have implemented this in the office my people were operating in silos because i had my my umauea sports commissioner for
the city so i had a sports one of my assistants was on sports one of my assistants was on pothe policy one of my assistants was on um
coccons ituen ye work and that's where you deal with the the the voters who call it but none of them were talking to each other and i was
only talking to them sporadically so i said okay guys from starting to day i didn't tell them why though i i wasn't like onori was going to
say and i go jago gave me an idea i got hay guys i got an idea from now on he see you're gonna see see him and he you're gonna see see him
back whenever you send an email and then i'm going to see see you and you're going to see see me within that week our productivity you like
a hundred per cent improvement because now instead of it every one was just aware what what the others were doing and i and their things
that iodine but now i got a learned to apply them and my civilian life because i'm not working with highly trained snipers anywhere in
working with people that are good at their jobs but not necessarily the way that i expect them to be and i you know there's there's so much
we were talking about a right for we pressed record about why is your the last pot cast as the art of war and an taisais kinda like a d you
know coleraine old time it's a doe at nita's a dusting but there's so much you can take from that book and up the new reason why fortune
five hundred so's keep it in their desk because it you can apply a lot of what sun so said three thousand years ago to write now and just
your daily life to your interactions with your kids interactions with your your boss are your subordinates or or or your supply or or or
you know your your colleagues it's all right there it's just you got to translate it all it's not a difficult ground it's you know it's a
position you have to take on an anise so ye lambie i it's a trip to me this whole life this whole thickets ah me human nature yet that that
thread of human nature rompiro twenty five hundred years ago at sonsie through war through life through business through the relationship
that you now have with your kids ye it's everywhere kino you said you were a militia you actually went back to school and you went to boot
camp yes he get back to go missus very tip the coll before alicia training i'd been so bored at school and found everything tedious and
pointless but after eight weeks of soldiers training school seemed like a breeze i started arriving on time and paying attention to lessen
in the military you can direct your career according to your aptitudes and interest so i decided to do the same escalated it taking class
as i hated i picked ones i knew i would enjoy my grades and proved the cause i was doing more of one i wanted to do for the first time i
had disappointed and self direction and stead of all that energy being repressed or coming out in the wrong way i had focused i went from
being alone or keeping to myself to becoming more outgoing and popular at school that discipline goes a long way if it really goes alone i
went to college after i've been in the seal teams for eight years no sorry ten years so when i was at college i was like oh bring it bring
it on i see a study every little thing you say and am going to know it better than you but i found i was a better student oh aidegong
through boot came down about a a and basic training and just like learning became easier yet oh yeah yeah even if i didn't want to know
what they were talking about yet and that's something that the army in poses on you is they teach you something then fer the first time
you'll you cause in civilian world on your kid they go you gotta learn this and you don't study an next thing you know you don't really
know it and then you take the test and you fail in your life i'm not smart in i'm no and you are like no you will learn as methinketh you
learn it and you say oh that's how i learned i accept to apply myself in study and now i'm going to get in a year which is awesome so then
now you still won't active in the military you were to get your factory work on ye well as i was i was as active as i had to be a cause
it's you know to part time right right and then you know there was a girl the beautiful russian girl friend and no th'lad got me a great
paying job but i'll allatoona's that's good and in finding you were like okay i'm ready to meyoo work in that factory situation for so long
he said i'm goin to go as body year and i was making money that like it was like twenty five bucks an hour the i was nineteen was it ninety
six i think and i i have it i'm sorry dad if you are if you hear this cause he got me the job at it was the his parent company cause he s
in union he was in he we had the canadian out of work right down here with it's the united outworks and a youth it just it just it was so
crushing for me feringhi against died i can do it there are guise that it worked their threats and they put the same rivitin over and over
and over again for eight hours a day and their masters at it and they love it and they punched their card and they go home and they do
their thing wasn't for jody and know so you get back you now you go for active duty yet come yet up you become a soldier by profession
right so i i i do what we call a a transfer to the regular force and he and then on top of that usually you're supposed to go through
training again depending on your level of experience because i was only a both three years so i should have gone through what what back
what's called battle school and that's that's the regular armies battle school to to become an infantry soldier for whatever reason the
decision was made that i wouldn't okay so you don't go back in and but you are back activity and now you think that jodi was all supercurio
but you weren't orwell it was is a rough transition jaconine on yet that came after yale don't you act live they right well ye i'm a full
time pride older i was a corp in the reserves right busted back down to private show up there's a lot of pollaticks go on on a right now
and that this time because the regular armies being told that has to take reserves where as before it was like if you need them you can
take them now it even if you don't need them do you're going to take thirty per cent so you have a battalion of infantry gussle's say on
our serfish is usually a at this time it was about seven hundred cut thirty per cent off of active duty rigodon gies and now there put
aside and thirty per cent reserves show up to take their spot ouch ye so that in this is man dated by our headquarters and so the politics
of the nenias connect relates were on this rate a the reg forgues are all luck you and the horse you came in on and and that horse is mom
and anybody else associated with that horse i show up they thought because i was they thought i was a reserate aria has a reserve battalion
so it they thought i was a reserve orseroad then when they found out i was a direct entry which means i go directly from the reserves into
the red force of without going through the ararat le school long though they just gave you that cab etchowe have it i did base training in
the reserves three years ago onderstood ha and i got man it was rough rind it was a rough but if it and he got rough for you got trouble
yeh yeh so unaided you by the way to say no you wrote this in the book that's been published so anna acting like this did appeal and would
recite you got a rest it i did get a rest it i don't trust any one who hasn't at least been handcuffed ye askepot right ah i made a mistake
so we were now all i the preamble to this was that i did evangely get sent to the archiable from and that's where i i did get arrested
another one of the trainees and i ah well the whole platoon went out of course being young men we somehow found ourselves at at a
gentleman's nightclub and ah we were enjoying our evening and one of the guys who decided he want to get some cocaine and i was held at
twenty i never been seen the stuff except for a mimic ah and i'm like what's the point where order having fine i'm already got few drinks
kotsor ah sitting with us why wily and he was adamant so i guess in his civilian life this is something he got got into and in my mind i
was just like occashuns goin to lag leave on his own and go somewhere where i inikities it's always like but were part of town i guess what
it was the word part of town so like okay in goethe ah i don't i don't eat any but but i'll be there in case the trimurti turns out you was
buying it from another cover cop cause still like who else you on to buy an off race and then went after they busts so were like walking
back to the clown like cave finally ray i get back and start hanging with the girls again sir guitly drank on we get tackled by guy's
bigger than you and i and and like thee so there the undercharges and how i pity do and he created they look at rideau werenae adyou go on
smoke crack and i'm like what what i look at the gun like what's he talkin about you like why might they might not have had any coax i
might have bought and i'm like oh my gosh just licet now that's the reality of my life oh i can't there's no going back there's no changing
it and it was it was at the time i described it as the worst year of my life but maybe it was the best the the subsequent year because it
hope a lot about myself a year and that's the main reason why i kind of want that at ye wanted to you to talk about that because number one
like you said it's a mistake that you made that you do i that that fine you before worrier you're just like okay this is my reality now
there's no e can't go backwards you're coughed an and yet you had you transition from it and in the book here are you kind of talk about
that transitus they're going to send you back to me for with it me for me for it was the battle school in there on a send you to the battle
school for another crack at it your third craft my second crack at battle school but my third infantry arcuation yeh so here is what you
did in by the way you were tethertown the whole fine men of other codaitoo out they might let you because just so roos the cops even took
your side men you know they said have this got in having a thing to do with it but it didn't matter the military will sometime else you is
no citroon yes o the the the lone the police took parent was like joe clearly had nothing to do with it but yet guilty by slitrig and so
they go back and forth find you get orders okay we're going to let you stay in and now you say this i had two choices i could be pissed off
forever and feel hard done by or i could go back to mather with a new attitude and make the best of it i could keep my head high and get
off the bus with the shiniest boots the best pressed uniform the best laid out kit and the best attitude and being the best shape of
anybody there and that's what you did to he did so nobody not out there the flitting is pocassett hid a little bump in the road that's what
you do you show up with the best attitude the best shape with your head helping you get after it extreme eldership you got on it the is no
hiding from it there's no explaining your way out of it there's no sight no sideways whenever you're going to make your that guy i was that
guy oh there's that guy he so now fast fortna little bit o you depose now you're now you're legit part of the radiently and you to pay to
costoomes at the time was a real world mission i'm sure you will fire it up i know i would have been fined out an go to cooaigean fired up
to go to costobarus the only game in town i still remember when i see it when our commanding officer said he get we got we gathered up in
the parade hall and he said one or sirs going to cost of an oni still remember i was stepney know i have it easy at your hand or your
battery hand went to a fish and i had to stop myself from doing it this bompierre goin to be come james band chacora rambelous going to be
a glorious so you go to kosmon an you don't want it were kind of joking about it but it was a legitimist the time and was there was stuff
that was happening there i liked his little section here you got your talking about the russians because you're stationed near some rushing
folks said you set this we like to think were toughest canadians but it turned out this russian unit where were were rushing airborne wood
come from the fighting and chessmen we've gone into some pretty delagoa dock about chester these guys took things to a whole new level they
were hard coarse soldiers we would complain when our showers weren't giving us warm water then we'd look over to the russian camp and see
soldiers outside and mightest twenty five degrees washing themselves with snow or out in the shirt cutting firewood these guys were
sleeping and would war two arpents while we were sweating inside our heated barracks and every morning they be outside in the ball freezing
cold running doing in ups and bench pressing dig truck tires he sedulity yes and we didn't know there is some there was some stuff going on
at the patina airport at that time that's why they were there do you remember you remember this situation at all for he fusinato did it
bombing thing right bomb the serbians at a coastable and then it was like okay so i nattalist on for his cave for the close of a stabilizer
whatever it was cumas gonna move in and you know every one was going to get a sack to british russian currish canadian french bababa right
as were like loading up on her vehicles that brigade or didn't know how many bigger ways of russians just basically showed up in the middle
of the night at the pristine airport which was also military or port and they set up a perimeter around this lake mountain bunker and there
which just recently i read an article about it and never like gait he guides it been however as been twenty years i this is what was in
there oh shut it was fullest stuff that shouldn't have been there so at that that's why everybody is like what are they doing here and why
do they only want to be there because they were like that where you ate help guys out we're just going to be right here in this area don't
ever come in here or will or rocillio be right here where teartap no big deal we want we want to be part of the party exercise but they
were there to guard this tis like bunker and there is like a lot of it was like i guess there is some new clear biological weapons in there
and and some mags that should never have been in that part of europe apparently and in the middle of the night you'd hear plain taking off
and nobody knew what they were ah but they know another really of substantial events happen and costoom you get home from that mister when
you get to portugo to slip or training which is you know outstanding and and i fight you did a great job here of pontou what a sniperscope
ple have little ideas in their heads about one a sniper as and here is jodson of what a sniper is a true sniper is someone who's willing to
do pretty much anything to accomplish the mission the sniper has a particular mind set and shooting is actually one of the easier parts in
the roll i seen men at the rifle range who are amazing marchmen but who would be terrible snipers because they don't have the patience
teachability to deny their own needs and to put the mission first a true sniper will make himself uncomfortable just to make the shot that
is something so true the guesting that the that what a sniper is someone that shoots really well i estate least that the easiest thing i
continued i if i need you to be a saver that the easiest thing i can get you to do it you know the movies shooter but there buddy mark
walberg there i i have not seen it it's based on a book about a vietnam arrisons but anyway he he takes his like guy who just teams up with
him for the movie and he makes him the shootinest had a shoot cause that's the easy per all that other stuff i i talk about there that's
the part on looking for that's what i'm looking for in a sniper you an shoot all day i could put you on the range and you can you bulls
eyes from nine hundred meters all day long as you got your gaitered longs i get you ten minute break as long as i let you get up and go
pepeeta av i only you do any of that stuff then what all is its sunny out on less too bad at sunny out is oesterand yet don't get up retort
might come up but what if there's ants crawling a can bite in your eyes the eyes is problematic i would it be i would i would allow you to
describe the answer eyes but but your target my come up will you scratching on not that i wouldn't get up if i was you he told the smiters
is definitely you talk about in the book talk about stalking and at the open that no one i haven't seen that movie but no one really
understands the difficulty of the challenging and the self discipline it's an exercise in stealth self displine to crawl you know one meter
every ten minutes it's hard to get to his position where you can see your target take the shop because you have to yet cause you have to
have the patient too and the mind set too like i i don't know if it made it into the book i can't i know you should know your own book but
am i remember i was as lepardo with a guy and we were on it was an east neighbor thing it was just like a a field i like a like a field
craft thing so we were learning how to just talk just as soldiers and we were we were side by side but he was literally on an elevation
maybe four inches higher than me i have remember i was looking at him and i was like a that's not a good spot to be i see free but walker
came over god i i was i was in direct line of sight but i was just that four inches lower you got a lake have the patience to look at the
ground and go on i'm going to go this way even though it's out of your way because you can't be within sight of of the spotters are of the
enemy and that guy went on to become our te he he joined or tear one unit he's a he's a jatka but i remember that that time at so sallie
was a dummy or thing and and and we might learn a value as he pried the less than but but that's the mind set on looking for from day one
from a guy that i'm going to put through sniperscope cause we don't we don't have a lot of numbers in canada you know like i was telling
you at any given time there might be a hundred and fifty maybe a hundred an eighty snipers active at any time in the in the forces and that
might in that you know if you add in our tear on tear two guys or may be theirs two hundred so i don't have time to it to go looking for
the best guise you know you have to come you basically got a come up come to us and ah and so i'm looking for the patience i'm looking for
the guisona that extra five minutes and look at the ground he whose knocking when i teacaddy go go at talking who's going to sit there for
another five ten minutes lose that time but study the root on his map you know cause it's easy to start run and then you go all man she a
should know em going to no time spent on the map is time saved on the ground right and you so you hear looking for that guy and i and
there's a just it's a it's a it's probably the same with seals you just you don't it's hard to describe but you know it when you see it so
you get down with smart school you spent some more time and then said temper eleven happens came on and the opportunity comes up for you to
go on the point but now you are been through a perch you worse i er put the opportunity there is no opportunity for sniper to play what
they need is a driver red with the driver's lash a security yearwhich is which is i mean it's definitely a dangerous job is definitely a
monotonous joviano is not a glorious job by any stretch but an in also rough about the nodier's you have a lot less control over your own
fate i mean your basically in a defense of situation when you're driving in a convoy your in defence situation that's all the restorer you
all of garanhir yet your target you've been trained to be the hunter and now you get an offer to go on the pointment to be the hunt in
these as a dry and of course because you're a warrior you say oh you need a driver you don't need to siberut i'm gonna go to afghanistan i
bring it on yet i was it it was stay home or be a driver portygees were genty free simple in so now you were the well with it keep you
driving all this o it's true what you guys got to the comparable nothing i this is just like a little land rover i vehicle had slight not
even like it's it's it's almost a class of its own is varied don't no it's like a little um done buggy looking thing and had like a for
syene and in billerica ly by a valse wagon an we they were roughly the same like look as it original willis p or but that's where the
semites similarities and and you get to have ganistan and your your drive were where are you were you all that was too attour driving
people around the city yet from base to wherever they got to go to the airport to our men base which was a m was it even that campian or
i've sorry i forget the main camp we had in afghanistan but as between the king and queen's palace gate and ah yah they'd go there or
because it was an officers and leason officers mostly that we worked with fright at so be like gallies and what the turkish guys believes
on what the germans goes on with this afghan or or who had dinner or somewhere or you'd said round away yet i am yet yet basically and we
be as body guards when he was there and stuff and i like we set there as a threat m you you obviously we prepared for anything of course
but you know the wasn't a super high threat ran however there is always a threat and i'm going to the booker the opens jets were not
designed to withstand to the tack this fact became a starkly apparent when three three artigues were driving ileana a land mine two of them
sergeant robert short and corporal robe bearing finger died immediately and the driver to jstor a friend of mine survived though he was
injured after the incident ted was brought to the hospital at camp were ouse i mean another one of the guide from the regiment went to see
him this was the first time i'd seen one of our guides hit by a land mine in fact it was the first time i'd seen a casualty at all to day
was pretty banged up a couple of teeth were broken any may have had a broken draw yet last orations all over there's always a particular
older in the hospitals around people who have suffered cromatic injuries are remember smelling that over like blood or maybe just what i
thought blood smelled like the jaws on a stretcher with big wheels we used this kind of stretcher before in training to me it was a kind of
prop the thing we used for simulations but this was not a simulation this was the real thing to gay was still in shock it had taken a few
hours for him to be extracted from the scene of the explosion shortly amberanne or gone he said yea man we replied we are in need a smoke
man and he a smoke tea said the doctors and nurses wouldn't allow it but its sons they were out of the vicinity we lit a cigarette for
teacher give a couple of drags ah that's way better thanks we stayed in chatter with t j bottom inconsequential things trying to keep a
fellow royal in a good state of mind for me personally i was learning from what was happening facing the reality that when things go wrong
you have to get that smell in your nostrils and look those sights right me eye sadly a few years later the jantannin his own life i was a
pall bearer at his funeral and as i carried his coffin i wondered if he carried a gilt for being the lone survivor then that incident so
really to be that's like your welcome the war yea and when you talked about getting that smell in your nostrils and look in those sits
right in the eyes that's a picket at port and think for people to remember yea you don't when sins are bad some people wanted tony that
it's acting they want to hold their noses and shield their eyes from it wrong answer breathe it in em and argissa breathed in yet to that
you have and are line of work that's the norm and i'll tell you aventurine with worked with a bunch of different companies and bunch of
different industries they run into these situations to you know where their companies can fail or their there supreme there the things go
wrong and no you don't want lives are not at stake and i say this old time but lively hose and if you're the sea you over company you're to
have to now lay off with five hundred people a thousand people three people he now that personage to ford the mortgage or pay for their
kids or get food on the table that is serious business you're ruining some one's life if you want to shield your eyes at that moment that
you darn ohod your nose sir not to smell at your wrong man and obviously this to here for the j this is you know were talking about the
psychological wounds that the age at which for him were worse than his physical as he i remember when time after i got hit um because he he
he actually came back with us and and o six on the tour i was wounded on and he stayed in the talk the whole time but am i remember we were
back and i you know i was hit and were at his house or have a little bit of a party and he he was crying because he couldn't believe that
he cause he got you know he was wounded and he got him on sestine for for his injuries and was still at but he was still active duty and
stuff and and and i when i wounded we had a new veterans system come in where i discoli a lump some payment and and he was crying about you
know how ow is it that he can get this money but i only get this money and joy would happen to you is so much worse than what have it in me
and i was why you worried about i'm i'm kenim alive where you robinson drinks but he was so tore up and sighed about what happened to me
versed what happened to him or what happened to shorty and baron finger and ah he he just carried that and i've spent and you hear about
that survivor's guilt ing and you don't realize how real it is till you see it and even after i got wounded when i came home i felt like
ship because my boys are still back there and then when they went back and two thousand ten cause our unit rotated back into theatre it
killed me i was dying and side that's my thither my guise you know they are over there without me and i'm i'm letting them down because i
was i told him i was going back with him i said don't worry guides a'll get better i go back and i had to like really come to grips with
that and you know he jaccoud you know we we lose too many guys is that to that stuff but i have old i don't know i never had those thoughts
i never thought of of ending my own life ever but um i've known enough guys that have done it that clearly it becomes an option to some
people and i am at the point with it because it it just happened a a maybe a month ago with an with a giri worked within the green braes
and ah i i just don't think we can save em all i don't know if we had a year got i'd mean i think i tuxedonians or are too textile and and
i want really at my wife a lanes's never seen me cry and i cried that night for johnny and and it was because we we thought we had him he
was living at one of the guys house that was on the the team that we when we were with you know he had a girl friend things were looking
good and ah you know i've i've i've had to come to the conclusion in my own mind that we're not getting we're not going to save melanthus
is a sight effect of the gig of the life we chose that some of our comrades are going to go back direction and if you if i was to dwell on
it the way he j did than i i would become like ted and i can afford to do that or used the word do well and that oh that's a word that i
uses as well i used the word dwell and i and i and i always say that you got a face these thing yes you got to understand these things
you've got to actually embraced the things you've got a bring a man but you can't do well an that's right and i think that's the key it is
to his honestly to do what you want you said this to breathe it in to look it in the eye do you with it but don't dwell on it go stay there
that's right move on excepted as a consequence of the actions you've chosen and move on to the next step otherwise you'll be that guy
talking about that high school football pass at us that you caught and at edie's an analogy that fill heretics we talked about this in your
car there's some guys i was a sniper i was a navy seal i was a paratrooper i was a machine gunner whatever it is i was a giblock belt you
whatever it is and that's where they're stuck that's where their dwelling there in purgatory and that whatever ring of hell you want to
call it stock in that moment and you got a move on you can't dwell because that's where you get you're going to die when you dwell in real
simply what you got to do and she got it just take a step got take that step before you got it you got a look got a look at it the eyes
then you got to walk away and you got to walk forward and moved forward and make some me go in another direction go forward ye don't go
backwards go forward an andante other part is except that maybe you can't change things for you can't change what's happened in the past
you cannot do that it it happen you ape the and oh you're not going a change it so what are you going to do are you going to let it drag
you down are you going to dwelt for ever don't don't do that man i know i know it gets a hold to you i know it the tough on the can but do
you with it except that you can't change it except that you are here for a reason the two something you have the opportunity that may be
your buddy's didn't get they didn't get never mind maybe you have not turiano buddy's did not get you think they would want you the have
you kill yourself no they want you to live and that's what you need to do ye honor them year by living a awesome life every day make the
change be the difference you know you can't change the world but you could change you could change somebody else's day you could be the
positive influence in your little tiny sphere your my my influence in the world yours echoes it's not the world by it makes some one else
happy yeoubas between a good day and a bad day for someone you know when i when i decided thousandaires this olpis part of that part of my
decision what's it ignotis on to be an admiral or araceli just and i said you know what cause i had a prior unless it all sir that was just
made our lives of some because he was such a great guy and i said to myself you know what i might not change the world but i'm going to
have a cool seal paton one day and those guys are going to whose guard going to be fired up and were going to kick as just my little old
yes that little thing and no matter where you are you got that little world may be like you said maybe it's one of the person maybe it's
just yourself but you make on tardy a world a little bit better yes you you you wake up in the morning i firmly believe you decide how that
day's goin to go absolutely whether you know i missed the i missed my flight to come down i should have been here yesterday i missed my
flight i own that i had a bad morning and i was i think i was even on the phone with you and i said yadesha my fault do you find you
giggled at me and you said yet i own it whatever is and then i ah my my it wi my one assistant called me and i said you know what i've done
bein pissed off you know cause i can't i'm not going to let this one thing ruin the rest of my days in the rest of my weekend how's that
helping you move forward all that help in the rest o your day how's that help you get here right now does helena does it mean that doesn't
mean be a robot there no don't deal with it possessing don't don't get me on i was really mad yestermorn i ah and at nathalie wait for down
here and i had all kinds of goetaland i'm lay up i'm all the things to be laid for it yet that's right a dilate you want to girlie jocko
think you're a shot it you know you're pluggin camp make a timing but you know evening would be okay i'm here were still doing the pod cast
its beautiful weather i got to see my kids i got to pick him up from school the cause i i didn't think i was going to i got to in now i got
to see some friends walked the dogs a day and i and i i but i made that decision myself though i sitting on my on the end of the bed i did
not my prosthetic legs on yet and i said okay you did you your pistol now you're done and i got up and i carried on with the day because an
okay it's easy to say what easy for us to say take that step don't dwell move on but i firmly believe if you decide you can change your
circumstance and that's a decision you have to make in your own mind i firmly believe it and i might not feel like a to day but try again
to morrow there and intrigante next day and you know what calm me before you before you make any decisions just just please call me first
call or if your if you have jocoser call him because the world is definitely better with you here than without you no doubt about it and i
i hate to keep hammer and this nail but but it's just a theme that i'm tight you know tired of it of here a buddy of mine another sniper
had a heart attack am not long after the thitik himself his great duty is a legend in the canadian neighbor world and he was diabetic and
he smoked a thousand cigarettes a day and drank a billion bears a week and an they said to heart attack was so fast he probably was cathay
found him in bed he was crawling into bed and policeman was dead before he has had even at the pillow that's how mass of a heart attack was
when i heard it was a heart attack i was actually happy because i because when i heard i went i just went i sent shooting with him using a
great mood to hike all her no tent os heart attack and went all in god that's that's that's the point of it with this with that subject
horns enywhar was movin man table puppy dogs and rainbows okay we're not there yet no one lingered different you know miss my flight good i
can bring my kids to the whole all all these good the gaunt nature so i would like to go rainbows for were not there yet all right brother
hit me so now you you're coming back from afghanistan and you know you've got your girl friend and what not and i weel my first tour in
afghanistan and if a few weeks later and i headed back home i was still haunted my allthing i had witnessed in coboea played over over in
my head whether it was small children begging for money a mother holding a dead baby in the streets for my buddy peachblow up from a
roadside bombing my girlfriend expected me to return as the same guy who had left six months earlier when i was a different man now a
different joy everything around me looked different too mayben hadn't changed much but i felt like i was on an alien planet my girl friend
had re decorated the house moving some of the furniture round and repaying the bedroom and i sounded upset me life had gone on without me
and that fact was hard to take people around he kept saying what's wrong with you jody you've changed and that would make me even more
upset not because they were wrong but because i thought i was the kind of soldier who could just walk it off but few soldiers can it takes
time after toward duty for a soldier to readjust to civilian life and i wish i'd known that earlier i was expected to continue life to side
lived it before my tour when i couldn't not right away i couldn't step back into my normal routine as if i hadn't witnessed anything on
mesa i couldn't just hop in the car and go to the grocery shopping like everything was a fine it's interesting that you kind of felt like
you were weak of cause you were not the exact same before you went on the pointment a feline a pussy even though you know you shouldn't
feel like a pussy red i feel like a pussy editit it's the most fresh rating at the time it was one of most frustrating things because you
want to be that guy for for for your for your woman of course i'm still that awesome alpha male that you fell in love with and i could can
whatever doesn't you know doesn't blink at anything a except that water bolliver there was that polegate what do you mean godrie oh right
ad is sartre sorry it's not a rod into wollum and and a e i i with a alakesa i wish i'd had that had advice that you know we prepared for
the fact because when i went to cost of old ike hiveries i've had the people ask me well you didn't have that reaction he came out and
costoomes all my ship was in storage i didn't have a girl friend i had a girl that i was dating she picked me up an when we got home but
like it now like we were getting it ingaged or anything and you know i didn't have any real belongings in a i i you know i i still lived at
the unit this was a house i had bought a you know my girl friend had moved in you know she was talking about kids and marriage and we had
dog we had a dog and i came home and i was like what happened to my house and was going on and like isonna i told my dad when i went to
costoom you know in the book i take but my dad one of the three times i've seen him cry in my life was when i deployed the cost of open
first time and and i said a man to worry about it six months ay what's six months right it's like six hair cuts its six six mortgage
payments is nothing doorundi i come home and i couldn't even think that way myself and ah you know and i know i'm i don't know if you felt
like that at your first appointment um but this one was different because i guess there i had a life to come home to besides besides the
unit i've always been very compartmentized in the way i think right sometimes probably to a detriment to um my family a little bit and but
i've always been very carmelite work come home i'll not annotator any more so just stop thinking about that stuff and it's it's it's
usually pretty positive but the problem is is that when you get to you realize your compartmentising your family out of the picture kind of
which i would have attended do so yet and i mean that probably part of one a thing that but even even when you are real young guy like like
along have you as married i've been married for a long gilian and i'm always been like that i i i honestly it's wrong i think but the
you'll came is was always the biggest priority my life and you don't people will be like oh family first that was not true for me and
luckily my wife understood that and she didn't hold it against me right she knew that some day she noselings wagon to ask for ever and all
you guys in the military i i'll tell you what you're the military does not last for ever well the big green machine rolls on yea and
without without you exactly and and and the people that are there when you when you fall off those of one you got a worry about when you're
still on top and so that's why i think i just was able to compare my noise what you know away right and i would basically be almost a skiff
nick of this is a guy that works and is the guy that i don't he's dad or one over and be i just had a billy good split and i think it was
beneficial to me probably was probably is yea yea hanani guess i assumed i was that guy too because that's i you know i approached most
things i way but maybe just have an that little home of my own for that one to her and then also you know losing a couple of bodies for the
first time may be i don't know i don't know what the thing latonian wreck anything like my career was fine like it was just why i mean i
lost a fiancee out of it yes yes and that's what happens next so she announced this back to the book here she announced that she was
leaving i was shocked because i didn't want to break things off i just wanted to postpone the wedding but for her this was all too much a
relationship was over while i was certain this was the right time to get why i wasn't certain as is the right time to get married i was
certain about one thing i wanted to go back to afghanistan in this time as a sniper in that something that yet i mean that something that
tortorelli the feeling of just want to go back aminta'a one i want to go back right now the of course like my people a what's it like you
you ask me what i like to be in politics i go i rather be killing ice the a frankly and i you know i'm not ashamed to say it i was good at
it and and and i love the people that are out there doing it for us you know even though i'm not one of the many more you don't have what
we we kind o skipped over but nine eleven happened during my sniperscope we don't just have a rotation of going on a canter very small
military and furnish recourse holy shit like you you've got you got there now they run i cotoner to a year or something maybe be older with
not even every year and now the water now i think it is but back then mine was the first one in three years that had happened twenty five
unless tried out three of us passed so it's not like as you get on it and it's okay just got a pass so but nine eleven happened on like day
five or six or something and you know it it as the towers fell we watched it fall on t v like the interrupted a class we thought it was a
concession right the god come to somebody to slew plainlie real trade one word and were the middle of you do enterances you know right you
don't interrupt a training session were like a man thinks and the duty sargent runs off and we think it drunk in assessing and then he come
bag and and then so we go down to watch at the duty station and as the as the towers are falling in here in like the starting bell right on
her in like the horn at the start of super bowl and unlike oh it's on cause i was considering retire because of the lack of a so you did
get your i hate the cold a dream but he got ejaculates all yes and this time as i be going to a sniper he admires all some your back in
afghanistan and there some heavy fighting going on now on there's some litigating and and the canadians are actually leading operations
which is the first time a quite some time i think since corea yet will this this what what we want roderic is the first time we let
operations that were non peacekeeping ever sicaria gaate and this fight we will we walked into was the first offensive and nat's history
ever think about it right athos never been on the offense of except for enough ganistan kind of weird but ortolani treaty organization but
anyway this one was called operation but do so this canadian led at datario was going to be different from anything we done so far it was a
bit of a wake up call so was the fact of my body jeff rolls had been killed and friendly fire in an accident that happened in august
clearly we were entering a high risk situation that didn't deter me any way in any way if anything it made my resolve stronger i trained
for this and i was ready the good feeling what oh what was the frontier was at aircraft to was a shooting all this land was and fortunately
it was his body in the vehicle the reciting next to each other and oh i guess he got in with his rightful not paying attention to the
muzzle and it went off and shot jeff through the face killed him it that no one really knows exactly what happened but that's basically
pretty much what everyone figures happened muzzle this appoint never point your weapon it something you do not want to destroy ye and keep
your finger off the trigger keep your weapon on safe all right now as you got or getting ready to go into this operation that do sir a one
are you orders that comes out is if anybody gets for during this mission were going to stop right away and take care of it we are going to
make sure the cases are dealt with and then reassess the situation be before moving forward to as during the ah the company mandersons
right at your kind of thinking with the for those that don't know which is a sure people that are the military when you're going on on that
tack you're your ideas to maintain the momentum of the attack and you you take houses along the way will your attacking you keep attacking
an don't stop you know you're gonna take casualties you're goin to do keep er goin t get it things are going to show you down you don't
show down you try and keep pushing forward you keep pushing forward they've obsedit on this podcast before i'll dressin will mitigate rest
sir you get aggressive you moved from the tartar you get the targeteers then you can deal with them the guys that are down yet am not that
you're gonna ignorement drop off a manicure in there to handle us to wish but you're not going to stop i mean literally you know stop no
you can't stop the whole bottle grub you can't spit as you know the i don't know of the order was delivered the way it was intended but
that's how it that's basically what was that's to paraphrase what was set there and that's why you know a couple of us were just kind o
like ye and which really what's really a to your point of you're not sure if that's what was meant what's really important is that the main
thing you want to get across to your troop was going you're going on to a soul if you want to the main point be getreide that's the main
point that you want to get across that not he the main point you gonta away from this is if we take ously stop us now we're going to get a
grassators through the target oregonese the target and nothing is going to stop us from doing that don't care one happens that's what you
want to have going into a railing that that that's my that was always my impression i've never been a company commander to but you've
received plinty of orders as sir all right now we're starting on the assault the assault is going down in here we go up ahead the first
vehicles were closing in on the white school house the zettled cleared away for the leap button comprising of four la alas and i gagin to
take position next the school house it was at this point that the talandier to make their presence known by firing an anti tank recoilless
rifle round at the softest vehicle of this leap batoon the g wagon the round went right through the front when shield causing immediate
casualties next or old sol opened up all at once every can and every coaction machine gun was firing taliban were coming out of the weeds
all round us out of tunnels windows moleholes they had their head in the they had to help their powder to the last second and then it was
game on they had the defenders advantage and they used it the call went out on the radio of one of our vehicles was hit and we had
casualties as this was happening one of the eleves that was stuck next to the school house went nose first into a ditch and with stock i
was trying to listen all the radio in something the troops who were sticking out of the top hatches of our ale velly touched a light there
they let go burst from their sea seven's fall breaker ned from a rifle mounted draymoor at that moment our killery began raining down and
air support arorai bonds on the tartalan i felt helpless during all this chaos because the plan for us as snipers was to get involved only
one objective rugby had been achieved at that point we would get up on the schools roof and provide cover for the bound to the next
objective but in this situation bury cash those reera slipperettes bury castanier stuck inside the lad right at the time when our shooting
skills were needed up top needed most of top i was working the radio doing my best to keep everyone in the vehicle and formed of what was
happening up ahead okay we've got three wounded in action than on kiloton i said relaying a message that there were three wounded soldiers
and one who was killed in the dagonet had been hit every soldier had a zauber which would be used as an identifier in case you were wounded
or killed in the field standard operating proceedure was it that if some one died at combat you never revealed their name during the battle
at this point we didn't know which soldier had been killed in that attack on the gain and no one seemed to know this afternune either
finally the major got on the radio i need to know now who the fuck just got killed the radio crackled and a voice came on it was an off to
rick nolan sir reckon was the soldier i had had a brief argument with the day before i've always felt bad that our last conversation was a
little strained rick was a good man and a great soldier sitting in the front seat that g wagon he had no chance surviving a direct rocked
it i looked at bury and cash we were all stunned into silence no matter how much do you prepare for that moment when a soldier you know
become the casualty there's nothing that compares to the actual feeling on top of that it was jarring for all of us because we just in
expect a soldier with his level experience and status to be the first one taken out on the mission that section right there reminded me we
were i had guided out mum they were clearing the sector of a mode and big gun fight broke out and am i don't know three or four hundred
meters away maybe five hundred meters away whatever it was i can just hear gun fire may him radios i got through rooots up and i heard the
the element commander on the radio and he said he were of the castle vacuation we got one killed on one wounded and they were with i don't
know probably twenty iraq a soldiers and five or sixty old but you don't know who is right and some waiting i yet want to say anything on
the radio and i'm waiting and i and a finely i just said is it i ran her american is like the longest pause of every my life and he comes
at back and he says both iraqi in it was like a no futherance but ah to be a race soldiers but you know i was relieved very relieved at
that point that you talk about that too and here how somebody gets her or some of its wonder or somebody gets killed and you you know it's
wanting your guise that you feel guilty when you hear the name in its not honeer wanted your what are your bed better friends or whatever
that's a one of those strange and freindily things about war and you guys were i mean this was like a ship and which out of the gate ye it
he got a remember this is the tug first time canada's been on the offensive since career and doesn't matter how much you train ah the first
few minutes are going to be sloppy until you get your ship together well i i shouldn't have even said shipsmith i should have said this is
combat fait because i mean it's gone o you going to there inter your setting up your position your moving into position the enemy hadn't
really revealed himself as you said in a book they held their powder and well we we wondered if they were there at all because the day
before we watched as they all drove out of the area fighting age guys just throw avay in trucks trucks full they left some guys behind they
actually you know they average a taliban go the only not the docket at your real i mean you should do but the point is he's prignorant you
but they whoever they left behind were guise that knew what he would now what they were new or their doing and and i give them credit for
that lake you know they're not soldiers as we consider it but there are they're tough guys and you guys you cyprianus in you have your body
or it on ye well this is naither of the fool what's the three rules of special operate always look cool always now here you are and if you
don't know where you are make sure you look cool right so where in ball cabs and not having body armed you a cool but also in our minds and
we trained we have enough ship to to him in a way a body armor to it and a helmet you know we're going to be in a position we shouldn't if
we're being engaged we talked up but i tell you we i i don't know if you're readin but there's a there's a few moments few minutes later on
my aretino all now wattrelot goin to read it when i had sibou it up and i was actually i was actually knocking to bring it up in it then i
circled the bringing up you know it because there's somebody out there that's in the field right now that's going on some operation and
they're thinking you know what i brooder off if i didn't prementioned i'm goin to tell you bring your body or my yeh bring your body armor
into one the operation that for a bunch of reasons i decided that i didn't need body or ray and of course ended up in a bad serio eh andy
only thing i'm thinking as i have a as i have a gun pointed at my chest is you re an idiot i and you don't have body or moon we had em we
had the strike plate oh forever echestratus we found out after if we'd ever been struck in that play in the small from the plate would a
kill us because it designed to be in sight the body arretee cavalrista cavalera around it around the round the surance out it's not that
wrap is there more just for a sthetics i don't know but anyway so it's like an onahan to be inside the issued bestowin order for to work a
pocket in your in your chesterians other crazy fingerin for gusta her overseas right now even if you think you're going to be for in a way
from a fire fight if you get hit with it you want your body or more one that i don't resent unopened i always wore my body armour to be
acle deifier this but then oh but even the night i was hit i did have bodoeri don't know i was just a weird thing for me but but i you know
the the the romans are not there the greek so the romans they called it you know the first time you see combat you know seeing the elephant
so you know we yet so let's go back to rick so rick is worn officer so you guys a may be a patoff roughly is like a company he was the
company couterments so he's not sergeant major but he is like the next endow' going to guess he had about eighteen twenty years he would he
had been arecanut of it you know i trained under him a mean toward under him you know it's like when you when you imagine caswall's your
imagining private smith and coral jones and you know whoever but our first guy killed as a guy trained his whole life for war he's the
first guy done in all they there's no ah there's no less status there's no lie senorita and combat no it doesn't care austrain every day
for a hundred years or if you've trained one day ever at that bullet is if this guy your name on his gonemon to say go but don't even have
names on them yes there going to her who they're going to it yet and that's why combats so that's one of the things about combat that makes
it so so damn awful is like you said you can train his hard as you can train you can make no mistakes you can be the perfect warrior hum
all the perfect mission and you can still get one up you can sit in shop miss nothing you can do about it i mean i hate to say there's
nothing you can do about it you're getting an you're goin to be trading lad with other people and that bolland you and and even if they are
or if they are dirt farmers with with thirty year old anosin it's functioning in a threat and you know i've had a chat with gus about why
was why was that vehicle even on the objective when you had these perfectly good armor vehicles that he's are up armoured gestes these
vitiates its there their due the german one right we'd only trained to this point rain and nan in training that vehicle went to the
objective so why wouldn't it in a wenteline some one puts a recoilless rifle round through it and you go might be best to leave that one
behind and maybe just get another laugh for the for this company quartermaster which after that they did but you know some lessons have be
learned but to the mad him continues you end up helping said collect a casualty you and now you're sitting there you're at them when we
recall a case collecting point use that term my called it one called out on now if you use that in her sheep so i q so you're at the sea
because the collection point eight year you go one of the most important things in the field of battle is taken care of your dead in fact
the creator the royals is never leave a royal behind on the field you want to get the body out of sight as quickly as possible it's the
moralizing for a soldier to witness a dead comrade during battle especially when it's some one of rickstar i went erthe back of an la v
rabaul of body bags and got to work with some of her other dies we picked up rick and sifting into a bag one of the other fallen officers
was frank mellish for a second i had a been a hope because he was on a stretcher which meant he might have only been wounded but once i saw
soldiers approach in check his dog bags i knew who was gone a casualty of the round that took out the settle mere the sad test without
frank malahin rick noted been friends for their whole careers and now they were lying on the ground together next i helped put pride at
william cushy into a bag i'll never forget looking directly into a still open eyes and saying sorry bro allait his body bag now that's
obviously enough to crush some people mentally in a motion at that point but soldiers don't have time and they have to do their jobs i mean
what as you went through that a motion and then you turn round and you go go what's next and how that work the tide if i had spent more
than that when second san sorry brow what am i missing i was doing i i couldn't get my snipers into a position to be useful being snipers
so we were being useful in other ways and once that problem was dealt with because you could you could see the guide like you know we were
trying to re organize ourselves you you're in the re word face right you know the guiser going the long way around the vehicle because it
they were lined up next level and so mean mean a couple of guys are like cat we got a fix us we fixed it and people eyeful i feel people
relax and then might my man consider was that still are objective and we got to get to it so what's next and that's when i went looking for
like a hinon sure who's in charge at this point or because we had taken so much of our leadership had been hurt the company sarajero to of
the warrants ah you know it and we had what that settle mire got hit em in on it it it wounded a bunch of guys and you know we had afghans
with us we had some americans with us umwhile the national guard i think her national guard a mentors for the afghans or with her and am my
biggest disappointment from that day and i know i'm going to catch so i might catch them ship from some guys that were there we didn't take
her objective to this day you know what twenty sixteen you know it is ten years later almost as september at le ten years and to this day i
like meineke er we didn't take a erbette ye a part of that you know and and and for one thing when i when i you know i was reading that in
a man obvious is just emotional moment and i know that you decide to catch from the emotion i use that term all the time if you got a just
detach from it and you got to be conscious of that so what folks that are listening better thinking how do you do that that's how you do it
you cannot you've got when you feel the emotion starting to over ride your logic and our ability to do your duty that's what after you've
fay and got into tacheos an i got a dum my job now i in that moment like i actually don't remember like i didn't really have any feelings
offingen more feeling now out of it listening to you read it the cause that starting with especially when t j got got her you know that's
are works face to like in all her werenae it ye people tip in doors opening clothes ing that's the normal sound in vie of this work space
we had burning the hickles we had dead dead soldiers we had wounded soldee fifteen wounded by this point ah we had airsuit raining in we
had artillery support ratinga we had enemy mortars coming down and the you know that's the northe dey don't like when you sign up to be a
navy seal they don't hide the fact that you might get a gun fights it's like the first thing you read it's a big bold black letters you're
gonna you could get killed it's not in the small print at the bottom of the contract you know cause be of section for it's right there
that's the signed up for so it's not abnormal for these things to be happening which you have to do is except that they happened and carry
on with the job and in that moment i remember i said sorry broke because i was it was all i was an i was actually probably felt more like
haman's out of the game cause it's going to get exciting from year you know i i was a fallen soldier in combat to me is especially a
volunteer we weren't drafted the net when makeing the navy man i i thought with my parents to get in the army the a i i i would have i
would have fist i would have fought ten of my best friends to get that job as that's nigher team leader and there is no worse i want to be
and a soldier falling in combat doing the job he chose and in a pit not of our choosing don't ever feel sorry for me because i went
afghanistan believe me i want to be there and for an ofall i get a lot of ship by some people but that it's one of the greatest things a
soldier can do is the fall for it with his friends doing the job that that he chose for she chose and ah it's i i get in shittim because i
think like this well for i think the reason that is is because it's so hard for people that don't know what that brotherhood is life they
don't know what it's like to want it do that they don't stand that that's that's the soldier in the child that's the way you wanted to in
your whole life that's a way i wanted to my whole life so to for these things to happen as is this like feeling bad for the mama fighter
cause they got punched in the face you ironhill up for it it you signed up for it and those guys held the there there to fight and the
military you're theroigne an and a by product of fighting in this situation can be in dry can't be death and like i said it's what we all
signed up for and you know go and fact to the situation here one of the things that the talk about the fact that you guys didn't secure
your jacket and one of the reasons that you didn't secure your objective the next day is because you and nother frindly fire incident and
this is awful and and you don't the book that not that i wrote with late starts off l with with with a from the fire narrate in and i wish
i could explain to civilians it's really hard for people understand how these things happen i nearly talked about it what to times in this
book here's another one ah a tens come in you're your beer basely like half awake try to get trying to get a little bit o sleep ye and all
was sudden you know you hear the gun fire you hear things happening all of a sudden you renitent first go and cash your your your tomatas
he's like you're not going to believe this but i think he just stray or own guise straight as when you fire machine gun cannon ob a man at
first from an aircraft and sure enough thirty soldiers more than thirty soldiers were injured man and one was killed and by the way the one
that was killed was private martin graham who was a olympic spread or for canada nineteen ninety two barcelona yes i mean it a nightmare it
was a nightmare it was it was such a ingot mad at cash at first because i was like cause i i heard it and you know that breath that let it
it's actually a nice feeling and till that happens and that when sounded weird cause i got is half awake and we and and i you know they
were doing straying runs across because we are on each on each side of the argand oberver so that you know there's a bit a distance and
that one i i i was real close that's kind of weird and i'm trying to just you know we your wake up and cash as a they hit the hit us i go
but the way talking at why we and i looked down from our sniper position to where the vehicles were and that's what exactly what it
happened in on my mind i know what an eight ten strike as i'm like all my god you killed on my friends and then through the dust and so
right away in like okay well if in the enemy idoi would do do you know sound the bugles boys were attacking they didn't do that i i my
theory as they had already left for after the gun fight that he before her and so we reiterate all our focus to the front to keep an eye on
the enemy and i and i can't help but look down we had a a g t f a sniper team directly to our left and and they left there as potters and
place in the rest of them ran down with their medical kits and ah and when they were walking away when eventually the the the tea you know
for guy's walk away with a body bag and like oh okay that's it and in the inlet radio ahineev's i gaitend ten wounded a kettle okay
seventeen it to twenty one and then i think we avedit four thirty five or so and the entire leadership of the company's wiped out so ah in
an within dry and ah and that's it that company is now combatance the arwich is ever that in the modern day you don't etter often combat in
effective me that they can no longer perform their duties you know he's don't er that is not of the just didn't have an bodies left like
this is a evenor's that were still functioning and you know we went afghanistan in two thousand two with the o was an anaconda i believe we
sent to a battalion of of canadian soldiers with a nature accadian caper said the new record beating carl's half cock at its stood since
vietnam and am but part of that mission was we lost four guys to an american of sixteen and then this happened and people give give a lot
of ship to the american air force or or aircraft mistakes happened we almost got lit up by her own guys at the beginning of the assault you
know we didn't talk about it but i had to radiation remind them a guys were coming in from your flank you've looked through thermal i'd
look through fermitage like us look anything like bad guys looking in through thermodont know how it happened to you but tis get so and up
and they're so raised to kill something you just do unto be you any in in remonter war incidents were calm these ingaged other home these
right cause he enemies no lovers let anything like a humeure distinctive world in alforisio you're the military and but that's to your
point that's the level of confusion and may him and chaos that happens and will and just the mentality of guise when there stared in alto
sudden this seule flash and a key don't what boom oh i she something were engaged everything looks like an every a shovel in some as
handles i can act so i don't lay any blame on the american pilot that did this he was doing the job he was there to do and and and some one
told him to do something and they keep hued off the wrong puffe smoke and an as what happened you know it was just a literally it was one
of those it was one of those each little action led to it read in old from mark lighting the the garbage fire to to him coming over the
mountain the ennison is its eyes a in the gobaun of small mistakes that compound and igarites a bunch o dis citification al actions ye
macaon in two a tragic situation but i when you consider what a strafing run from an eight ten conoor as to only have one killed is amazing
is incredible and and and only you know of those thirty something will it i might not have the right number but if i understand correctly
maybe it does another had to retire dutter injuries maybe troyes so you guys continue doing sniper operations you guys continue going on
miconopa ourself he support all theirs was a really solid missions and now you're out on another operation your patrolling through village
and again it's your your team that you've been with the whole time your following cash your boy cash and am going to go to the book here
once he was about ten meters ahead i turned and took my first step forward my right foot touched the ground and a mass of orange fire ball
sword across my face i didn't hear a sound for a few seconds i felt witless as if i was suspended in fit in space the next thing i knew i
was on the ground my ears nose and mouth tasted like mud and that's when the pain hit a pain so intense that it completely overwhelmed my
body and my side once i started punching the ground and screaming oh my god oh my god whose the only time in my life of ever uttered
anything religious the blast was so powerful that it knocked cash down and i saw him in the dirt up ahead of me for a few seconds i
couldn't see barrier cord they had probably done what good snipers are supposed to do upon hearing the explosion ran for cover and prepare
for an ambush a few seconds later once they realized what had happened they came running back towards me so there it is did you know we did
you know his nityananda an archidiaconal somebody in there for those either don't know ye don't know big booms are going off i i didn't
hear it a right like i said i thought you you're not going to hear the one that gets you for in my cases real i but my hearing was fine
there's no ringing there was no and i read and colonel lamb help me out he rode on camollia way so it i know your name i just not forget
her right now ah and he talked about that in his other book on combat do the little audible aught that the body will shut it off and rose
spots sack and i am but any way i i knew i done something something bad it happened once i you know what is my weapon was gone you know i
my night vision is gone right and the pain was so bad and you know it technically wasn't i d though under the technical definition right as
it was a man any personal and mine on top of a mourner bon technically we you and i know that's nightbat it's really too conventional
munitions put together and it did exactly what it was supposed to do you know um it just a it's one of those is one of those things that of
war where there's no rhyme reason a tone who's going to get wider when or where cousin everyone else in your patrol is walked over i was
last guy i'm er the first time a first time i was over to shot i was in elves and in going over a bridge in bagdad and i'll get missus don
back to what you were talking about like when you don't really know what's combats like yes and i've looked up ahead of me at the home the
ahadee and i see like some one throwing sick around it the window and i got all i sedition we do even have any silicon smoking right and
how are they spoliatus and enter and it imohamosine tes right now and then i whither smoke room way why art he think sparking when they had
told though the ground over there and lies their sparks oh okay news was for getting shot or under effective fire and ah it's one of those
things but my point is that you don't always know what what's happening and you know that in the urban environed didn't know her shots were
coming for you get ye like round to be going overhead you could not tell where they are coming from you you know if they're hitting
something you can go to get a general idea but you are no ways now a happening and all right said now a going back to the book here my
mates were all around me now the next hour was the longest of my life i was in absolute ages agony and trying hard to stay positif i was
also trying hard not to think about the possibility of bleeding out with each passing minute i was growing weaker and weaker every time i
close my eyes it was harder to open them again i knew that if i lost consciousness it was over mary and god were standing over me do you
think i'm going to make it i asked gore of course you can i make it never give up row you know that and you guys had n't been to teach
replete none of us so for those you don't know there's something called teach rifle sea tactical combat casualty care it's a very short
course and lay may be weak two days maybe three days because all they call the teach you is how to keep somebody alive when this stuff
happens that's what the goal is and it doesn't take a simper and unknowne take some some concepts number one stopped the bleeding and but
not your guys have been to it but they still save to life i mean between barry gordin and i know and like we're all experienced operate red
and we still have enough first a training you know the first thing they did is slapped that turn agates on the gong at the at the arteries
and my thighs and um and then they did their best from there and we're capers were not median we don't bring as awesome as medics are
they're kind of a in the way when you're on a sneaky nekuessi you know that was what we that's how we castigations if they were tekineekers
really see if we're really seedtime ones going to have bad day i nisson was a middle sneaky and and and oh we were in a spot where there
was no lie in not getting a vehicle in there ah you know and the closest medic was a most twelve fifteen hundred meters away on foot at
night throw an afghan village hours took him an hour to race patron just then on the south there that they discover paeniteat forward as
heavistone i love those gulnaar's why i do i have to say i love those guys i every one in any one of them that listens i love those guys
one hundred per cent i do inything for him so they get you at a dugout yet day they put the phone in your hand before you go on to surgery
rank so were back in candahar at the hospital and some one hand me to phone and a foliage how you went like i was a lot of drugs but it one
thing about getting wounded is get to a lot of good drugs ah here's what don't you dad yet they got me dad the tower man but not a live
going into surgery i'm going to get through this don't worry i kinda want a compliment you right now because you always hear of an
adrastaransalanes all my buddies anyway i know he got wounded and like adorabat i was the okay he and at the same time in the called your
dad like dad of rodin a goat of a surgery don't worry about the you know ah that's that's all he actually what funny is a mimosas on my
guy's got killed in remote and i'll be they worn going sustained combat every single day fire fights i mean he went winchester on his on
his heavy machine gun so many times that i don't even know like one time i i was in to visit him in their camp thousand the other sadly
doinest being uncomplete ly at i am oh yes sorry winchester medrano so i went to sea i went to his camp three early into planet may be
three or four weeks in foot went over their camp to see all things were going and some one like oochak out the video that might keep it and
i go kay cool and mighty shows this video and it's like a fire fight happening yes and he's film and he's put into bruttian a camera up
above the the wall and then he turned it back on himself and he had he says to the day of the portadown that they were feeding and was in
all the malapert hematocrit and self he goes it's the moon a anse i'm looking at him laughing and then you know me being mister
professional and i go have man and he's a new guy right and i you know jocko you know and salaamat are you doing filming when there's a
fire ficton i lined get you gone up i i want to see the skin and he's like he sorry sir but i was winchester and i got i man fomorians got
it out be the history meteorum guanjuato opinion to go in chester for a first seal if he's anything like a like arachides pretty tough to
do oh yes so it's not like mike wasn't carrying a ton around you like i said my potatoes story was that you know this was happening on a
you know fairly regular basis definitely fire fight was going winchester all the time but he does not glad i do say like well times and he
was in m you know almost daily fire fine right i remember that for furthiest number so the first twenty four operations that that element
went on in a row they got to a firefight in the city yes and then they had one when they didn't and then they went right back to again so
they were it a lot of fire gun and in a lot of danger and um when we got home when i got home and i and i got to know his family a little
bit you know his his family was saying that when he'd call they'd be like what are you doing over there and he'd say oh what it were just
training some my rackesie yes where dust on base is no no don't worry on anything i put his fine typical combats soldier like fine stories
to the family typical bad as yet so that reminds me if you are to worry about it i said is cut blow out yes i am then ere we go i woke up
with a doctor looming over me took a few moments for the anesthetic to wear off and for me to remember where i was and what was going on in
it came back to me in a rush the mission of a land mind the pain the surgery with certain standing by my bed put it to me bluntly i had to
cut off both your feet bo i believe earlier we re talking about irreversible situations it and are you were with that real for you at that
time or will you basically hay i'm happy i'm alive latigo a soul body that got blown up yet and ah and actually did get boracho and am
anyways one of my buddies was talking to him then he is like broman moreally sorry about you know you you as you alas like he was wrong i'm
really sorry about your leg you know and he goes fulmi legs i'm happy to be alive and i got to be honest i didn't think that i am
soldiering is done on your feet and immediately went into defensive mode i am half my brain said you tell that fucking guide to go back get
that one of the feet and put it back and the other half is saying he's a pro he knows what he's doing if he too could we knew one was gone
the on the scene that was the one that did need the device the land might exactly what i supposed to do it took plumitas the mortar bomb
shredded my other foot and on the seine i remember as i was getting put on to the stretcher and getting put on to the ambulance it was
finally able to get to us because they literally plowed a road to me with a combat bulldozer and had the ambulance behind it am the medic
with from recipit said hayman you left foot we got it back into place so it looks like it might be okay so ah but you right foot's gone as
i okay whatever again at this point i'm like so out of it so he woke up and he says you know i take both feet ah ummanned my mind i'm i'm
thinking like we how my good a how manhood this job okay and then so that i go into death you know of depending on whose man you will you
reading or which doctor rode it through certain my number of steps to a grieving and they say losing a part of body part is like losing a
family members something so amden with two deaths in the family and in the first step is always denial and you know and i like also
thousand savin you know how awesome you know guiding anejo s i had my like blown off or going to be like robe on or be like astral boy be
flying around and shied i'll have like robe cop legs or something school it do that the seven right everything's digital um and i kind of
whether it was the drugs and or of the endurin from going through all that and but for that first until i was out of candahar that was my
attitude in a right up to the boys all came in a docemo because we went from so i think i spent another day and candahar ly flew me to bag
room and then i flew to wait and in from coat on to germany habit ballanche wankerassa every every stop that we picked up wounded american
a serviceman and anundee one of the canadian but so i just you know that's how i felt right and an enianes i was in germany i am i was just
trying to deal with every day by day you know oh i just was you know they put me in a room with another guy who had been hit in a adscrive
on a una so love you were doing lavirotte are a morning colotarion hasn't macheson eleviation it that but yet the holes later and reverend
you guys in the army here at their call strikers now except a asafoetida cures has like remote a fifty cows or something they're all made
in a london ontario canada byway um ah so ye ha was just tryin to deal with each day as as i can't could now i i've never there's no you
can't there's no training for this right and in casually simulation it stops once your declared dead or of actuated right so now i'm in a
stage where i'm like okay i'm in a room with another cat indeed am in a american arborial and hsina's text and every time i looked down
there's no toasting it was just so in like okay well scotia with his just deal with it deal with it steal with it and i was in that mode at
fur for weeks well i will i'm wait eight i think i was waiting for a point where some one was going to give me my diagnosis he now or my
the conclusion or like a prescription like alathea is what you're going to do now that he was not just with your legs but with your life
yes that's what's going to happen you're going to do this you're going to follow these steps and at the end you'll be de point back
afghanistan would is how is going to my mind you know i don't know what you are next but i was convinced i will macaenas like if that's it
whatever you know the navy or the army wants to know something they send you on course so you know i was in snaehatten you as the river
course she go on tatankaota corlear wise so so as your saying this that's actually the next portion yet that i was gittagoin as who you go
exactly where you were just about to get in from that point on i made it my mission to learn to walk again i treated rehab like a military
course when the military wants a soldier to learn something they send him on a course so as he approached i took with my reapte mission
mind said right there but at the same time an now we start going into the fact that it was obvious that the military system the military
system just couldn't quite cope with my needs sure i was offered help in all sorts of things from reattaining the home but no one truly
understood the needs that are particular to a returning soldier and neither did i do you didn't even know i mean it how do you you know
that but that's what it how can you know there's no course otatsehte's no course there's no training you know and and or military medical
system was like like the we have lots of medic we have doctors for things like springing danson you hurt your back on a rock march whatever
whatever lots of guys and girls to do that no you know our physiotherapist erebus but they've been dealing with tennessee and springing for
forty years and this no detriment ye then and i order fault it's um they just that's the military that they were in and you can pare that
in the book you talk about when you went to the centre for interrupted in santanoni ask and now you have the american system which is been
unfortunately do you and with thousands and tousands and tousands and of wounded soldiers for at that point i guess you got a envie years
okay four or five alwas will seven yea i geierstein right after the the i i don't know whoever whatever the guy's first went in after the
tower dropped and this so they had experienced and they have gination i mean this is america and we do have a lot of money and they put a
lot of money into it and and at the same time you had some canadian folks i will like it we don't need that kind of stuff you don't think
those kind of us for rearing where i well again unyoko we have i'm trying to think of a correlation here but anyway we had these
physiotherapist it's a trade in the military your your military physiotherapist and your job is to re have guys like me an i'm tellin you
you you can't do it or your ye i'm telling you that your failing and this is why so your reaction is going to be winged my job and i don't
so i don't at the time i was furious and retrospect they didn't know any better and that's why i started advocating so hard i would i i got
cause i got home and i said there's what we outdo there's not that many guys like me coming home i mean ye there's a lot more than there
were last year because rackler the centre for the intrepid walter read and i believe there's one here the naval medical valetted ical
centerboard and there is bethesdas ah wife heard a three moisant no walter read in the inner those are the big us yet to those are the ones
where most of the thermotic and drees have been going from from the from from ugus so i said let's start sending a pair of physiotherapist
down with like for every physiotherapist we send down or for every two casually recent let's send down when a orficers and in six months
that physiotherapist will get more experience dealing with more injuries at with more patience and they could ever hope for on base
petawawa where to brigade is because we're talking the difference between a couple of dozen soldiers getting hurt playing rugby or whatever
or reciting verses on actually a alipore of guys get the er getting smashed and adstrictae in now whatever was happening you know i was
standing there in the guy who ran and tony at the totantora the time was he was an greenberry visiters so i rolling was one and then the
other or how it worked but so he's belied visiters and i remember this marine walked in to the to the room and he had both legs gone above
the knee so haszontalan of lad procedis i he was blinded by cause he had been burned and when iterantis guy he's in full uniform he likes
screams the guise names i gowns and he tackles up and they start wrestling and olie ah i want that because the hospital i was in and again
no offence the hospital i got great medical care for the standard rithre capability there to aideth under a hot at that time and it it's
not like it was bad but it wasn't what would have been best for me me being a soldier so like cause i'm in a hospital where it's ane and
hip replacements and amputations from diabetes so as a lot of older people um i was probably one of the youngest people in the hospital at
thirty i was definitely in the best shape in all like i remembered my the first physiotherapy session she hands me a four pound being bag
waitership on it says oh i strapped that around you legon try and do like you know maybe maybe fifteen or twenty legras if you think you
can and i'm like a huwarith squarehead on like four pounds is to a enough and should a hole you we don't want to start too hard nice sweet
lady rapers i loved her the best she can he watchin since she's doing what she knows i strapped the thing to my stone and i started doing
legras and she comes back in ten minutes later she's like so how many did you get done and like a aideomai to two hundred and fifty lishe's
like oh oh and i'm like you like i'm ominous it was just meat and bones smashed like i don't have any other injuries here but there it
anatolia the lead fair pictis tackling and wrestling with a blind legless marine and i'm like that's what i need i have to be around
soldiers and people who know how i think and i can't help again and i'm not trying to criticize or or or be overly a detrimental to the
results of what came but imaginitive treatment what i o people would say o joy did find you did great you're the poster boy and manini been
in santonio you know where curimatas ter you think not well the level of expectation where i was was very very low so they didn't like so
if i'd been in sanatoria they were like a onywie be walking right march you will do this and you were as where i was because that's how
they do it that's life'll see where you're ad you know in the anadale was no there is no one for me to mentor under or be you know as i do
only one to be compared to our tibiotarsal the sky over here he is grappling with another duty enough he's blind as miss in a leg yes and
are you ready to get it on yes you know another guide came in i think he was a marine too and he was wearing a dislike a te shirt the and
the same dies like hay were your issue pet kit temerin ordentlich is the green break irebu yet let us trottoires it's a mixed for inanities
arefor side navy marine at whoever is there there was that there is a navy i believe she was navy eel due had her arms blown on when she
was recently in that ringstave on i think it's the same girl i've only met one girl who had both her armed one up by by an eely anitus i
imagine servantem he expected you to be of soldier regardless of what happened to you you're going to maintain that person asoman ones i
have cause i could feel myself slipping at the other place because there's no expectations you know and you can only sell mote and having
never had my legs gone off before i could only be self motivate to a point for so long and and and be the guide be my own delsartean and be
my own and inspector and there there's a reason and i said is all time there is a reason why the best athletes in the world in half coaches
yet neitha's the fact is anterson as god and like show you the way ye and you can and furthermore you can only push yourself so hard i know
for a fact you can only push yourself to andre and seven per cent a coach going to get you to honedale ten per cent again push you a little
bit hardrat no mercy and for that's what you need at what everybody yet you know and so i but again i try to give credit receded do and and
give you know you know people were worried when i wrote the book there are people i heard that were worried and i'm not i don't want to
shitan and i don't want it to seem like i'm blaming any one fraying i put myself there i'm the one that wanted to be in that spot to step
on that land line my only expectation was that others would have put the preparation into their mission as i put in the mine and i do feel
that there were some at a very high levels that may be didn't take things as seriously as they should have or realized that the
consequences of what was coming and take best practices from places like walter reed and antonia because when i said send me to san antonio
and send a canadian physeter is with me in her she's going to learn and the three or six months on their more than she will in twenty years
at any canadian base it was oh what we appreciate that medic but you know where we were working on a canadian solution i was like well
that's going to be awesome once you figure out whatever the fuca is what about me grinestone we have a facility willing to take us to it
they sent pete's down there no because here's ere's the backroom stuff the politics junia would the civilians think if we were sending our
soldiers to a different countries medical centres men we got hospitals rad here now again what we were getting at the hospital was not bad
care now you know what i'm saying eginetan the distinct arakay okay it was it was the best care to the capability and the knowledge and
understanding that they had not only of their job but of the people that they were working with yet in other words you got it if you got a
seventy two year old diabetic that has an amputation before pound weight is good and that you can try transfer that over to codini who just
got off the battle for old three weeks ago yes he's a different animal ellinger lection too right till like what they but their train and
what they're really good at carrying for you come in in this like this is it really typical that we will have to deal with your onathan our
whole system what to get exact emption and utodu even things like i remember the first couple of nurses that came into my room there are
like all hey honey we apsecides renoncule you armorel will losing your foot is very typical yarlett they didn't i am like oh i i stood on a
land mine afghanistan we even have sold you have ganistan rather and i was like oh so hence hence this part of the book ironically one of
the biggest emotional problems i had to deal with was the anger i felt towards a medical system that did not seem to be able to respond to
propriety to my need now you inanition way because you couldn't exercise and you do give a little shout out right here to the dairy
cleanable is delicious what you're depressed all is so good so good once in its the lip foahteen butter cutaneously annan and animate one
right after this jack old man is to find it here quetineau so in conjunction with the terpsion i also started taking an anti depress and to
start to help control my mood and then there was the other kind of pain the physical kind i was still using pain killers to dull the pain
that was there each and every day i knew that relief so badly but in the end that to cause me tremendous suffering and i turned in to
something i never thought i would be but addict we've definitely or seen this happen with our wounded veterans and here you go in no time i
was taking more of the drug and i was supposed to in order to relieve my psychological and physical pain the diction worse one and i
started crushing the pills into a powder and snorting it to get a better high those pills gave me relief from my stress and mental pain if
only for a little while but as soon as they were off my demons would return i worried about my future if i was an a soldier who was i and
he vorted that a bunch of times that feeling of i mean in everything you been in your life from when you were a kid that was what was
inside o you in a ueret on that and become that soldier servant combat get after it on the battle for you my whole idle life i became a man
and the military adjoined as a seventeen year old hundred and seventy four pound six foot four skinny weekly and grew into the indhan that
you see and in that question you when i was reading that when you know had a body at a retired the other day you don't he tony five years
and i decide to him i said i was it cleaned out your locker because i don't know what it's like for you guys but in the selim you have a
locker that your whole career is physically represented and the lockers are tis there there there walking lockers there awesome allow they
have leave ye and a elias a big drying commerical cages because it's just made with a changeling and at our basic like each guy had
everbody has their own their own icebag as this office ritratto cruise boxes in there and it's your whole career is physically represented
of everything you've ever been issued anything that you picked up along the way trinketer thing is in your drawing agenden you retire you
go you clean out your cage is empty you sweep out the floor you loaded into your van you drive home and that's it it's over an and i so i
said to my body to the said no how was it ah that was it cleaned out your joint cane cause i that for being i wasn't even worried about
retiring to think about resigning got to go through this curtesey i'll maloom back clean up my cage and i like all this is over and for me
i spent eighteen one twenty years out here on the west coast and all within like a stone's throw of the different buildings i mean all
within these certain number of buildings i since i was a kid yet and the question so when i was reading that you wrote this that's what i
was thinking about it what my buddy was thinking if i'm not a soldier if i'm not a seal than what amianthus question to answer for a lot of
guys it's brutal and it comes back to a were tagore dwelling rediit was really hard for me because i didn't choose to leave ain't i always
imagine i'd be you wounded i don't know why i like you know visionist is very important and in my opinion in our line of work and so i
always try to you know in vision of god being good in okay but it was like the cool scarecrows than she or like some shrapnel in the rib
cage i can show off a barbecue you know i talk about when i like edyoucated got to tell a bineneter but no you don't like it it's that or
as a body back you don't think about them between even our system right or medical system i handiron watch a body bag lots bandages but the
m between part say kind o dropped the ball you and years ago or were one probably world war two you wouldn't made it they wouldn't have to
deal with you now because you would o blood out they didn't know teacher pulse they wouldn't got to abacinare been you would have died that
elder is to double yet olamon yet it had a boats they just didn't have that back then vietnam a gongalo better terms of the casaba
situation could help a opposite a fashion that's why you got a lot more but figure not what you're going to be nectanebo to it you held on
through it you try to hang on to it does he decide on now what i'm going to tell asolando got done with me to the half marathon as but
after that half marathon you are just you beat up yes from that and and you decided that well here's what you put in the book i tell people
that jody the soldier was wounded in january of two thousand seven but i took him about two years to die to let this soul jer he knew a go
and i'm going to continue of course this wasn't an easy to casion for me and i was filled with rage and anger and again i started using oxy
cotton as a relief from the pain of loss it became my problem yet again but i deluded myself into believing i had it under my control you
talk about this thing where you're reading reader digest article and an there's an oxigon attic and there a aneta about how he shooting it
up and you said to yourself you aren't thinking oh that's that's horrible i can't leave you're looking well i didn't know i relate and that
is what hitch you yes and i think that is what hit you realizing that's when you realize you weren't control right if he at got of me that
women's it the story what he was a doctor i believe right in getting himself in the bath or when his young daughter walked in and i had now
had a young daughter and i could just innouie and i enimy mind it wasn't a imaginate my daughter caught me gonja i went oh i can inject an
i remember and i even went through a second war remembered how great it was to get the intervenes drugs in the hospital and then the next
second was all this is not good this is not good and then when i ended up buying him i am a fine percussit is like oxcart lake from a guy
that i knew the another guying and it was they were iximayans basically a drug deal remember that thing they got me arrested now twenty
years ago and went okay this is this is it this end iewell that's an awesome amenaide it to you on accasion unfortunately they don't take
ownership of that fat don't save themselves you know what i am addicted and this thing is controlling me the aneas things i just what you
said and i got this under control i can stop the affiant to i just don't want inedit i'm in pain there he'd go i i had to take it and i
would ask the doctors i would say how do we get in legate off this and this was still in no o savin o eight nine i think it was twenty
eleven before i finished for god of them they still had in canada anyway hadn't realized what octette was a capable of and and so the dog's
ads like three days of withdrawal that fine don't worry about it those withdrawals were worse than being wounded those three days here is
your coat those three days were absolute horror quitting oxyton was harder and more painful than getting blown up in afghanistan now
because because it was three days whereas the i was in it the worst jacchi cannot tell you what the pain was like cause it was so bad and i
was the pain from going from which draws no the pain from getting one ocean from gaganang but the withdrawals lasted three days of that
kind of pain because your body and your mind or trentino we still in pain men you sampan should take him you should take him but once you
now it's funny though the three days it's almost like you hit a switch and suddenly the pain seared sap the hollow feeling in your chest
thereto fell back in it the the ants stop crawling on your skin case that's arigin through all that i was grinding the stumps of my legs
and the coach to give it some kind of other sensation other than i described it as like it was like a dog he ever watch a dog to on a bone
when he's got between his paws and he just going a town like i i i with us with his teeth that's what it felt like on the unsoiled was like
a i had like an animal just going on my lace and then when day feower it the third or second two and a half first three days later i
realized in like oh most of that kind a premanture yo there's joy before he quit oxcoose jediah before he quit was still trying his best
and doing well and if he talked anybody was the guy a lot of people looked up to but you know things really started to turn around after i
quit you know i really started to become capable of a lot in my a my mind i i think there's a big difference but man that shit just my body
he is a he's a para trooper and ah he had to get some surgery on his knee you know partierres bang up their deeds and and the dogger gave
him a codino three or something like that and he literally took it and threw it in the garbage he's like i saw it at the joy she is like i
don't even i don't want anything room that's my advice kids out there i do not take it if you don't if you can get your teeth enough do not
take that ship a state clean do you best i i i wouldn't trust me around it now if you had one i might take it i don't do good it is just
take some more is alpha brain like all raisgill get on it instead and said i getting ye addicted again get off it by getting on the auso
now you get through it you're not addicted to originator in now he what do my good with my life yet any you go what did i actually want and
what was possible and could i really put my military past behind me and pursue something else that would make me feel fulfilled by it was
time to stop asking questions it was time to find some answers and here your kind of referred back and as the last chapter um it's called
on my own two feet i gladstone a sense of humor after all those canakin yourselves men taking life we to serious so a lot of professional
athletes will tell you to miss to things when they retire if the competition on the field and the comradery with the female heads in the
lock room it's the exact same thing for soldiers after we leave the arm forces when i see soldiers on parade i still get chills down my
spine because i loved it so much disleaved know that that's completely normal for all you guys that got out for one ever reason totally
normal joyful it i feel it we all feel that so then you went an did the mazinan yet we had the hoegt second place when your brother hacon
plays and it was the first season a cause the american amazing race was the most popular show in canada so let's make a canadian one may i
can i i can an livin in more than the american verdienen you ended up you in this city counselor thing yet and that's where you're at now
untermann you know when when part that we on talked about and i'm going to do a little bit of a going to score you bunions here at home so
i i said they had to plough road to me the auto to rescue me right they literally ploughed a road with a combat bolder and rip behind it
was what we call a a bison ambulance and it's an eight wheeled almost built in the same factory as the lay in ontario kind of an anti
london ontario canada by a unionized workers and h and n the commander of that vehicle was mastercarpenter gilmore of the canoes medical
corps who is now my wife retired sergeant a anagnorto the canon force until court am and we have two beautiful daughters a left savarence
of four and i we we met we managed to connect i was wounded nary we connected and september tiberis of the say of to the seven my girl
friend that i had had when i got wounded at last no fault of hers i don't blame her one one bit you know to get thrown into a situation
where you have to care for a wounded soldier that a guy who before was like a rock yet now and that's not what he signed up for him for it
and enchanted recently broken up with with with her partner as well and when we found each other though the fact that she was up hot irish
blonde was just really a tone so a scatterbrain and ah she took one he you know jackall metics they like or momentico and calling i can
combat guides were a little lad sat saying if you're going to be tough or early dumb he got me to inanimation be tyanean that's a nate we
need the comin there the medic to be like hey hey hey jack why are you limping what come here come here dummy come here no not all and not
in front of the other troops mom stop it thought and and so that their job so she saw me she took one look at me she like you terrible i
was surviving on vector serial and drive through sandwidges cause i was by myself all the boys were still deployed or on course and i was
living in my own private house on base it moved on to base i had the little puppy a charley who wasn't inaasava dog by any stretch but he's
the only reason i got it a bed in the morning so i own i still my buddy still that is at the house redonda and she so she went into medical
really she went on now what you should come by my house bring your dog he can play it my dog and and you less his hang up and when we got
when when we saw each other though it be was comradery she was one of the last people see me on the battle field she carried my stretcher
to the help to that to the evadore and you know if you talked to her the fact that i was you know ah a bearded hot guy was just a bonus to
her too and you know eventually i let her kiss me gaskarl i'm sure ye now she liked to as she gonnas me to do tell jocatore when once said
i i kissed you but when we we got pregnant a little quick galesburgh day september do the math so but you know we realized we talked about
it when we talk about the survivors guilt you don't you didn't survive you know your friends live for your friends i didn't survive and she
didn't like her vehicle hit land mines and she was ambushes and all you know near near death on a battle field is a bullet going in
informata near death yeah you laugh about it after but that's so she was in all that too and so she's pregnant and and i should have died
and who knows what could happen to her and who were heated deny with happening you know so i i have had to throw that out there that you
know i have three beautiful blondes in my life with blue eyed blondes that you know i keep me in check and cause i the the feelings i had
in the book they're not all in the past in now i woke up yet yesterday when i missed the flight man it it was more that i was disappointing
you fright and here me out right because i was just like outside in a city counsellor and an analogic eyes look up to me and this and that
and all you know my god these kids and in a land and he and i i i still can't make up fucking flight you know i haven't even met the gay
yet in a more disappointing in the night when through me and that's all because i stepped on that stupid land line but i wouldn't even be
here by his step in their land line i wouldn't have had these i would have these kids if i hadn't sepentining after my second fiancee
walked out of the house and my you know like all i stuck my joke i like all good soldiers i have three expences and a dozen extrafine
sacrificed to the queen cause we still swear legions the queen because it's real that like ye said the teams come first and and ah i had
said well on the retired about forty four or twenty five years in so why don't i just start kids and all had then and i'm sure my life
would be fine if i hadn't stepped on the landing but would it be as fulfilling what i be as as as de as broad or what i be as complete i'm
sure i'd be a kick as peck off sniper somewhere doing something but i could no matlike if if i had a a wish to not step on the mind but i
wouldn't get to keep the kids i'd sup on that mind ten times at a tent and am so i had to you know i throw her in there and give credit to
land a for what she did for me and also my friends and family right this nobody does it no one's a rock you know so i i decided to say all
ye now and i actually a i have a question about your wife and a thousand you opportunities some in your thunder not at all can not at all
ah i'm glad you i'm glad you put that out there and also i didn't want to do a fonder from your book right and is one of the things that i
was going to tell people i mean obviously i think people as good bye this amiably i there's this is a a big book which i've taken some
actors out of is and there's so much more in it when you read it and you get the whole the whole package one of which is you explain in
these relationships with your wife with your kids how that happened which is just a i mean for all prashil purposes lest just call it what
it is that's a miracle yet here's out closes out people often ask me if i regret my time and afghanistan because it costs me my two feet
and completely changed my life if you live your life with regret then you never moved forward those six months in afghanistan before the
explosion were some of the best times of my life i can honestly say as i look back on my life in the military i wouldn't have changed a
thing if i hadn't stepped on that land mind i would never have connected with a lanai would never have had two beautiful daughters my mind
and body were pushed to the limit after my accident and ironically i came out on the other side of better more complete person maybe life
would be easier now if i had lost a part of both legs but it certainly wouldn't have been any more complete when i i when i am in public to
day advocating for veterans righteously going about my daily life people sometimes approached me i say thank you for your service those
five words mean more to me than anything else he now i'd like to say something july from me and on behalf of every american in nadian brit
ostralians and arrest the free world thank you for your service and your inspiration to all of us to overcome obstacles and to make a
difference in the world thank you you man you got a tear my renown do it you're on you to no doubt no doubt thank you juggonath nk you too
for your service don't think me an i think that's going to be enough for to night so if you haven't got this feeling yet they listen to the
pot cast a don't you goin to want to go out to get this book it's called on fencing the making of a kindeslied by a man right here joe met
a it's it's what you want to read about let's right and you can get it anywhere books about you could get on amazon i let come on dad for
my american cousins use amazon through a what is it the jacopone's want go through joculator i like your recommendation sir go to the
jocatore click on the amazon link so jack gets a little piece of ah of the pie the paper back is out so save a few bucks and a benano to ah
to have you guys read my book if you are you're on social medium the web i do the labor whether joe minicoy m i t i c on twitter in tagama
chat and face book snapped cheri have no ideas no cackled everybody uses in yes you'll leave middinia people use it remotion ince it with
ill not going to judge ocanahonun i'm yeaned jone minion instruman face book twitter and for all you fourteen year old out there you get
him on snap chap in before ten year old if you hear this that's true aeronaut though so's not talisman like a real fright yeah yeah it i
think it originated as that kind horstile me send you this isn't this kind of cool under cover and it goes away in convinced it is laodice
yeou know where sadisenhausen and what not and then some one found a legit waited network or some assorted now i most only so he had a rock
is on the snap cat right on red on an honour sir i am i am the chances of my being your tonight are are are very limited we have twere to
think literally one of my fans and what if your fans basically had had locked i ought twitter and made us talk to each other and a and i
became a fan when you are on the roguish and pot casting in it we talked a little bit of lunch it it really helped me swantow some rough
times and you know i want to thank you for let me come down here this beautiful city in and do this for me and am you know thank you for i
didn't your book and be in who you are and an echo thanks for ferelith and make this half then and you know i got a potassium starting the
jordaens and there may or may not be an episode up in the next couple of days but if people want to look for me there as well i'd be on or
to try it entertain them as closely as you do in a aninial the other pot casts i love you and you know i just do this to try me me you know
i don't know who the new joy manages i call him i'm calling myself jodi three point overight now and and ah and this life is a trip you
know i call myself a student of the human condition and i am always learning i'm always learning and i and i love to meet new people and am
yetits all i want to say right now man i appreciate this a lot give no idea for we appreciate everything that you've gone as a barty said
heverybody all out at that lesson i think we're goin actually good ten you this all and we're going to go to acute on the next pot cast a
wild just roll that out afterwards but for right now and for the evening i think that's about all we've got so everyone at out there that
listened to this that no that a person can go to some dat ain climb right back out of those depths get out there and get after it until
next time this is echo and joe and jocko out
