this is jack alpacas number twenty five with echo charles and me joaille and once again we have this evening joe manikin if you didn't
listen to the last pot cast this is our first double guest he's been on the pot cast twice we went so long on the first potassa we had to
break it up to two podcast but jonadab ben through not a stuff had a lot of stuff to talk about canadian army soldier sniper served in
afghanistan member the city confluentia has been on t v he wrote this book right here boom it's called unflinching the making of a canadian
sniper and he was wounded enogat loss double amputee the knees and i we talked about that on the first pocassett four if you haven't
listened out one listen out on first so you get the context what we're about to go into to night but welcomed the show once again joy
ossian thank you preciate it a cuchares good evening good evening so or this one sense we already talked for a long time on the first one
didn't feel like an tannin but this time we got some we did get him questions from the interweb and it was now do you strictly pull from
twitter or you get mantineae i get face book and to years do graham but katie problem within stramacon copy in paste from instrumental in
to the document that i travel with and odour going i so twitters the one that twitters the easiest want facebo find too but i primarily
used twitter to get the question from all the troopers out there that an i keeps the questions short yes you have a hundred and forty
characters aye and we know i have got now so i have something called the the quest pocas question bank right which i've caught captured to
every question that any one's i erased me there in there and i just every time i you know you got a chance of coming up in the lottery
every time i says i go through it and i go through all fromagin ing and just look for questions at her putant maybe the pertinent not in
pocket about that night may be pertinent to something that's going on right in the world but i just pick him and salahat a question that
people have or i'll see repetitive question people a bunch of different people ask me the same thing and then that becomes one of the
questions but that's kind of how we've been doing it right so do you do you find you get on cause you you we i don't want to get to hasha
too much but i your pod cast went from non existent to number one and about like six days something crestlets the coleroon podcast right
did you did started your own it number one and like now like you get too much correspondence like how do you keep up like i've noticed you
are your like you must make twitter a daily pass all i have to be out and i obione with you i don't know how long i'm going to be able to
keep it up for ye because so you're approaching critical man i'm approaching cricklade where i'm going to have to be knocking to be able to
cause right now i read every sail probably always read of all men was a just gets crazy but i i i at least read them and i'll try and
respond if it's something quick if it's not something i can respond to immediately i'll just put it in the question bank and would you ever
consider getting some one to do it for you no like not answer but like take it all in record it like you don't have to check yourself maybe
i guess that seems like something differs would tell me to do it which is with us martyred pack is staniford buck an hour i go and maybe
that's a smart thing to do the fall my fine wit that is i i wouldn't if i was wanted to talk to me and i was one of the troop result there
i'd want i'd rather have take the chances of not hearing anything back from me but no that the guy that actually read this thing was me oh
i run a hundred per cent with you i that people tell me that hand my stuff over and i'm like a ah cause at me you know there is one reason
why i interact with jacintito it's cause i know it's jocolate feeling most people would at i know i would have it as so you angustin follow
on to it or when i realized oh that's not the that's not him or her oh okay so never mind ye for me it's like if you are no leadership
position and you lead you send someone else to these your bidding that's to me is not good then i wouldn't like that if i was a follower a
ah well it yet it the whole point of social media and the other thing is very i get a lot of you good feed back from people and also give
as i owe you inspire me and you say you inspire me too and there's people at r out there grinding it out in their worlds in their lives and
i think men don't world is full with a bunch of peanuts of lazy slackers out on you too you get all those you could all the twitter the
jocko troopers made getting after it all of them or at shorter not getting on there and say he i i don't feel like i'm goin to get after it
today i think i'm going to know toylike it's four oh seven and i'm in the game and i go am i got to keep my game and chatillon i love them
when i see like elsie you you because you always put the picture of your watch when you wake up yes i do and then i'll see like a retreat
with like you know somebody else's watch and there's like a thousand watches you with like your picture and there's right next to it and
i'm like oh it's six a m where i am only that i love you man but ah i get another for a just meetings i got excited school frank i don't
see i doobt it's iflo same cause it's like it's it's a duty now ye we've put ourselves in a position where others turned us so now we go to
turn to them and if we don't show up oh who we let down i'm not sit that i'm letting me down to the onset you're going to let down all what
are you elitty five thousand two or followers and on folly like arty forborne to ye a that forty thousand people that are waiting for your
for a year you know that that's good but it keeps you keeps you on keep your shirt rakees you on the days i i say i got days or ill look on
my prosthetic legs in like the last thing i wanted to use but those sums on to day and then i'll think about it everybody else it is my
position and says and i get it because i get the same in rate all he an thanks for being new yard i'm thinking about them well they are
going to get up so will i you know and i love my fur like when i following guys like you though helps me go i believe he is in people say i
get a lot done look at this sky and then onlooker look at that kid o man i've bendest my game up yeoman people indeed from the bunch of
regular people at regular lives yet are doing what they can to get ahead yet and dig in and then i don't that happen and and that does fire
me off you know these for me up to see people feels good ting better yea and and wanting to eat sansome one to day this is a woman came in
to the gent to my jim yet and she said they called me down on a theshe to see you i came down in it a woman whose daughter is fired up for
the pot cast fired up for the book they actually they actually named it ever cross the gym it's called cross fit over watch i'm like yes he
can give me tingle ah yes so they had no way to they're very now of obviously because of you know over watches we talk about then in the
book and so ah here's this woman she rose like the honest with you she was kind of deer and up a little bit like that fired up how humbling
is it when somebody feels it that around you it's it's motivating to me said it is to die they are you can have that if you like you in my
case me the joy minute guy who just wanted to be a soldier and somebody is that like she fired up to meet me as the shaking right deny i
gotta i gotta keep i got to keep my game up ye and it's weird too and and we actually talked about this on the poast once is like don't put
me on a pedestal as if i'm something great to him not an i'm not i'm a i'm waking lit off than do stupid things you know i mean don't put
me on a pedestal but put yourself on a pedestal you don't put yourself on a pet as still and rise up yourself and worry about me a spring
board off my back and go to a higher level at her i want to happen that's what i want i don't want people put me in a pension them to stand
on my shoulders and go higher and further than anything i could ever do that's what i like did it did it take you this is a personal
question on my end that i take you a while to see like when somebody would say you inspire me and and thank you for being who you are did
you accept that at first or did you have to tell them like donna a done it like you just said i i'm nothing special but how long did take
it before you would accept that compliment for that without dismissing it i literally went right the first person that that all that can be
i said no man you inspire me you know because you're i guess what i had great life i get a great life and i'm stoke writer but looey you're
saying i inspire you look at you aspire me her a single man with two or three jobs dining after it and by getting after i mean waiting
tables or working in the asinaduti and then doing some baby sitting at night yet and held to with homework and making lunches and and an
right o so joe's really really no actually you are ye your fired up ii i just i ask because it took me a while because i i i had a real
hard time with people looking at me lay that and i actually would i would be like dismissive of it at first i'd be like not what you do and
what do you talk about it i'm just i'm nobody special like don't don't don't say that and i realized i was being a bit of a dick byamee
dismissing their feelings or for for the situation and and then it was intelletti i realized though and that that's when i realized i went
oh this is this is real these people actually do feel this and i who am i did that this miss their feelings you know i turn a charted
trying to use a be stronger and realized like you know like this is real like people are looking up to me an i got to live up to that rule
i i'll tell you another thing that i tell people when they say something like that to me i tell him we there's many people that have done
away more than me in sacrifice way more than me one hundred per cent and the fact that you think that about me the only reason you think
that about me is because you know me you know who i am cause i stepped out of the darkness and an into the public view i but otherwise
there is a bunch of a punchers that there never going to know their name their never going to be able to say hey you inspire me so there
told that my direction and i tell him look you don't i don't expire you you get inspired by what i stand for and what i represent isn't
thousands and thousands of service men see you as soldiers yes marines yes all of ye em that's what that's what you're saying and and so on
behalf of all them i get it cause you know what those soldiers those marines though seals those guys in special operations they inspire me
to and so i think there's that kind of the too given take yea agony not i had to ask you because i went through such a with with delays and
everything i was just trying to accept not having legs never mind that i do woman come up to me and say ah i had like i had several acts
but this this was like maybe the first i think it she said i lost a hundred pounds because you you know and i'm like first of all you don't
even look like you way a hundred pounds and am like a what what did i do i'm just being me and i annotate one that really in my mind like
at that moment i went okahra got i got a revalue what's going on here you i'm i can't just dismiss this as i'm just joimer clearly clearly
or something going on well i think your story of particular strikes are real cord with people because you had to overcome some crazy
adversity and by the way you adversity while challenging as you know well there's guys with much more challenging adverse than on that ten
fold a hundred fold and so you don't for me it's a joke for you you at least get a sense but you would be both known we've seen guys and we
no guys than have had it like i said infinitely worse than you can imagine but on the matinale and so those guys that get up with their
issues and press on and drive on look to them for inspiration alsough past me look right past joy look at those guys who were doing what
they're doing and and that to me is is where inspiration comes from and sicanians around you everywhere i really is if you open your eyes
through it and you look at what other human beings do it's it's amazing e it's amazing i love i love it i love human humans are such were
such a species that study you know like so anyway i i i know we wanted to get to the interweb but i want to have that discussion with you
before we move on because ah it was just important to me to hear that the discussion yeah has been had roger and i think it's yahi think
it's a i think it's also i think it's also a hand the aleksei i see why people are coming up in telling you that and i agree with them
actually but thanks but all right make me blush we do get to suncourses from me to edna can now getting are here we gilka mental exercise
is to learn to control an pull and breathing in really stressful situations or when very nervous what do you do mental exercises so we
touched on this very briefly in the last episode which was on the book and where i talk a little bit about snippeting un visualization is
probably your biggest tool and an end what in my experience train trained the shitan of it train train train and when you think you've
trained enough keep training but when you're not training think about it think about it the more you think about it become in tune with
yourself can get a little spiny little earthy just sit there because you know you do when you're iberi fuisset there you have a lot of time
yourself i can't really talk cause you got a job to do and when you go do as you just got a a i don't my hurt me to go up here but i do my
best to make sure it doesn't overwhelm my motor functions and you can control it pretty meant the pretty easily if you prepare yourself for
that moment but it's all about preparation training and visualization um even like even making the shot you know like tim candy was odorata
may toory firing i consider dry firing that vistas your dry firing for for your for controlling yourself for your brain for your brain
exactly and dry fire you branlike that an end am it only comes from experience now i guess there's probably some exceptions the rule out
there that are just born to be cold blooded killers that second they get behind a barrel but but for me it was its visualization and just
preparing to except the feelings that were coming and also over riding them coachey could still be happening but you can still control
yourself with the right kind of preparation and it's also a perishable skill funning i realized i don't not that answered the question but
i like to that i dated and i think for me one thing that i that i know i do and it is an i guess it's it may be considered effectue but
it's like the technique creates the solution let me explain the sea one of the things that i do in stressful situations there is something
that i always try and do and that is no matter what's going on i try and remain calm in my voice so when father going crazy i tried get on
the radio and say an when he do more people over here not eisenhammer that oh if you're gonna talk in a calm controlled voice then you
can't be breathing hard you can't be excited you can't get angry you can't get frustrate it you have to lock all that up and get on the
control before you open your lips right and start saying something and so i am always very focused on i am going to sound calm cool and
collected when i opened my mouth that way and when in induing that the only way to make that happen is to do everything we just talked
about and troll your breathing control your pals control your emotions get all those things under control and then say all right we need
two more guys down here immediately now and everybody goes oh okay let's make this happen and for coming from you especially you're the in
our kin your case you are the boss so if you're an if you're come cool collected that translates to your troopers it absit onmeanin wood
for us is well when we are doing over watch you know six o six three movement our left we have well i'm a lot no no no no you have right
think about what happens would you do that all imagine my line on his second you laugh or a left right i'm freaking out and they wouldn't
let it all be would be lost but you're that colour that voice is wore over snipers or over watch where he with the the troops feel better
when they know a kayser do now rochecotte can we're going to be a day or a theodolite on the radio and talked the same way do you know no
okayannie four hundred meters north you know fire for effect roger that you only he got a hategood point in every thought that now i think
arline by its train that only you know you get the turbulence and that way karbou that turbinated put you see and i rather actually if you
hear solely the guide that landed all meaner ones like that yet the yereafter re i think they they have to teach him that telitha's where
people are so apprehensive as when they're in the planetara is a like yellow will be in the river and the guy is like to say gain will be
in the hudson drout and ike the plan it's like real time you're watched the video and is just like ye yet were in the river renteria what
he had a fight to join his eye as in order to to his voice he's got a control his breathing he's got a control his temper as got a control
as emotions and so that's what i do in those situations and i'll tell ya what if i hadn't if i do if i'm not the situation where i need to
talk i'll just talk to myself booky you know just say that in my head an all right what is the next book man you're going i know it
spending a lot of time on the first question that's it that's what saved my life oh staying if i had gone in to shock do i'd be dead right
and i say it in the book i say i did my best to go into the zone is so i know on bleeding it and i know this i know that but in my mind it
was let the system do its job arisbe fine joy it's o k and i just i just kept saying talk of myself you know visualizing what a case so
thou choppers of the command on ali just visualized each step and my my but the whole point to it was i couldn't have my pulse you know
jackie otherwise or gloves lost more blood lot and then your end what happens right lad get sucked in your care when you go into shock and
and that sucks it out your brains subsidiary where where you were genii needed to stay conscious so anyway long long answer for one
question but this this is also something you know you got to learn practice keep practicing it you'll figure it if you had always and we
talk about the ochanorie on the pocket and oculate yourself to the tressels situations and right hatatea grassmen that's the guy's name yes
so dressed a noculation yet a knockulist to the stress so that when you you get you to it yet the more stressful iomen training going
through training man lay they put all kinds of stresses that you an so that you learned to deal with it and if you want to learn how to
datstir to practice controlling all those things after lanmain to go level seven then bootha you all like you need you to the mind state to
control you breathing like no it's a practical thing it's a real thing is not a yoasting it is a practical real thing of hey get calmed
down an take a deep breath get yourself under control now it's time to talk and give clear concise orders that a calm an irmak that shut or
crack one off if you're in this night resonabat gay all right next question what does gilitin of the soldier first principle in the
canadian arm forces is experts such as his being lost due to this having they're talking about the um university ality of service which
means a every one must be able to deploy so i didn't realize what it meant until i lost my feet and in step in my mind in no this was
something else woke i can't deploy any more but i go to the sniper school and teach the next generation neighbors sure but not going to get
promoted and this and that now you know like a i was supposed to get hooted the sergeant like what he would we talked with her so
university alias service says if you are not the ploy able you're not employable and you can't be promoted and i can't get any courses in
the sad newing well because of it we lose a lot of corporate knowledge right so i was like i said i was a what we call a master sniper
advanced sniper and it doesn't mean i get access to the um canadian temple of sniper sniper down to see the secret thirteenth curler
anything it is means on aloud to do the paper work and hand out qualifications and stuff like that out is a very difficult qualification to
achieve and he spent a lot of money getting me there and that value is completely raised with my injury so soldier first is if you are not
deplorable yet then you're going to your hundidale ana so under that system you get how her many years to recover from what it you're
endures at that point if you're not recovering or going to recover they will then begin the process to release you from the adorative are
convinced that its required because of the size of our military where my take is i believe that the opposite because of the size of our
military you want guys like me doing the training the guys with the experience the guys who want to be there to train the guys and utanka
deploy for as long as possible now i'm not saying put me in a spot and leave me there for fifteen years to become a dinosaur but allow me
to pass on the knowledge i have an end and remain useful ran but but they i say you can first the for the limited number of years and then
they offer these things that they call extensions in that renagate get promoted so forget about a better pension you not going to do this
you not going to do that m and the dicotomy as the word that i i i never used the use that word as much i used it as one of the few people
use it but not nearly as much as since i certitudo parcum the dicotomy of it is that we are version of the pentagon a'goin to get a lot of
trouble for saying this but as a whole lot of people whose physical fitness probably keeps him from being able to do anything and they're
not being they are not getting their only intruded no and it's one of those like open secrets you know what i'm saying and ah and i'm sorry
if people get mad at me for that and stuff but i'm willing to run half marathons and and and do cross fit without legs and stuff with that
and you still don't want to promote me or keep me while i'm going to point out a few issues with your system and i i don't blame the
military right i guess military assist em like we said the big green machine roll on with her without ye at some point you got a worry
about you and that at some point i just started wearing about more about me than about the about mamie big mommy military and but then i
you know when i look back over my shoulder every now and then i go tell me that guy of there's the point she'll me what shall me his
medmenham full of skinny do i and so anyway it's some i believe it i'm sure some one somewhere thinks it a good idea but i think the
militate canadian forces should re examine what it actually means because his very black and white toothed there's no room for em a welcome
will hear that exam real cook is amelia we used to have em where no rush joy we used to have a thing we called acting lacking so you are
acting as sergeant lacking qualification and it would be a way to like promote is that maybe can't quite get you know me they have an
injury or something and um and they got rid of it as we went back in a combat basically of see had all these guys getting smashed and calm
bad now getting told like a yah we can't make an exception till you can't get from up so i was one of them i was on the cusp of being
promoted sergeant decided to come home and do what we call it's called a small arms course and makes you an expert in all smaller in the
infantry and how to train with them to train troopers and then you get promoted sergeant and when you learn some sergeant leadership stuff
as well but am i was number one in my regiment to go do it and when i got after i got wounded their lake he as or even i'm like well can i
just be acting lacking to my pension is better lilial yet we don't do that any more yet that i can see why men rolling a combat guisarde
ing smashed all the time so why would you want to promote him and let you know lithate administrative side of the military could be very ah
heartless sometimes ye i remember been as i can antonio telling this to some medical colonel than she was like a she's like i promoted a
goes in a clothe other day we don't we don't give a shit down over no if you if we think it deservit you get your promotion because we know
it makes things better for you when you get out so should i be bitter about not getting promoted no i'm i'm i'm over it but i'm better you
don't get from orow you want to lay up apples yes thank you but you know at the same time there's a lot of amazing people in the lot of a
difficult spots and of leadership and you know you you got a pick a bottles too you bring so nyway oh i'll tell you now as you pointed out
that's really good what you said about the guys get from that in a combines all so i can't speak to the old military i can say this you
will pay we did up we do outstanding job with take the guys at get wounded and as a matter of fact one of my guys who was one road ran job
who is awesome big holes then he got coppice got blinded and he was like a disdain and he tell me how i stand in no want to come back to
iraq but before he found out his botherwithit want to come back but um then like when we came home from the pointment everything and you
he's he's buying and he says ye want to stay in the teams and i talked i was oh i was friends with the admiral as in charge all the fields
and i said he sir i know this might sound crazy but you know right joe but he wants to stay in the teams and just keep being a tea guy and
he's like will find a job for him right we held awesome was it is awesome but was he going to get promoted he would have girlette would a
put found a job for him and in it he actually ended up saying in a what kind of became to the same conclusion that you made me which is
like an a one i i can't do that i the actual job of bein a see you now he had tons of lesson she could have passed all are passed on which
would have been awesome ah but he he made it decision he you know what i'm remove on okay and so we got out so what would happen not
there's he i estate in as i would hope to know that was one admiral who was a great guy who had a great attitude and supporting it
supporting that his that's one thing that that admiral always said to me this is averted for for about thirteen months i was the eight to
the the ableege all the seals out standing guy but one of the things that he would say during meetings and ginteal these politicians that
your talking about all these administrative people that you're talking about all the big puranas that you're talking about and he would see
what asking they go through their big presentation i will going to cut this with a do that with a by this but not come by that and he say
how does this affect the pontoons oh like cascade would forget that the whole reason you are there the arason any that infrastructure thing
is there is how is it support the pothouse the seals how it helped them machinegunners how's out the sniper out there the radiomen the
guise that are actually doing the job that we act and i say this to businesses on dogs where i work with businesses and i see that there
are infrastructures getting supper big in their starting to impose plans and and restrictions and i say he remember what your here for your
hitotsu that's on the manufacturing for this guy that after telling her this this woman that's working with the patience or whatever
business it is because it's very easy to be in a leadership position and forget about what the ground troops are doing no doubt and that's
a horrible thing that's a horrible thing in this thing that you're talking about soldier first which sound to be like soldier last because
they don't want to take care of the soldiers as they wanted to that because there is no body better to prepare soldiers for combat in so
that have been in combat ye if i want to learn sniperdown wonder from in canada judy mine you know i want to learn for some one that you
like you if i were long out of patronage for some of my you i don't want to learn it from a guy that fear etically understands it my that's
not the same thing at the real deal yes it it's it's a policy again they defended they think it's necessary what do you do be green machine
just keeps on all right this is a similar question to one we already had but i'm going to do to gain how did you silence distraction no
matter how important to achieve your number one priority monon or when i was still a sniper i actually had a much easier time of this um
i'm i'm i may eat in a lot of ways and a whatever i want to focus on eighty e doesn't mean that you can't focus on savages means like when
the teacher tells you focus on something you're busy doing other stuff and so right side the deficit to sword or its sad haddent give a
shit what you trenholme but that rate there that's what i want to look at so i am i had a way of jest i would like if i had to watch a
cross road i watched that cross road was my whole world and it would matter what was now done does me i was a situation where but i would
watch that cross road like my my life depend on our somebody's life depended on it which it winyates i did and am if i have an wouldhave i
found actually and this is one of the reasons why i i'm starting to meditate again i am seeing a fairest again um i'm listening to jacopo's
reading extreme ownership in nonaindieres of his that i resign my civilian posed military post wounded post addiction am ways world i've
i've lost a little bit of my ability to to to to push at the imputation i have a hard icteridae a month at them at the minimum and i'm the
taginae abolie a book you know that i showed you had the thirty three laws of war and i in my etucation i've been reading that for three
months and i may be half done i have a real hard time now am achieving that that zone of zero distraction i'm trying to get it back because
it really i get a lot done in i have i have my my politics i have the book i do keynotes beeches ah my have my kids an i have all my
hobbies you know i'm i'm trying to support veterans support charities that support veterans and ah i still get a lot done but i could get
so much more done if i could turn off some things in my mind sometimes i don't know what what's happened or what if this is what an attic
brain is like now or if it's just a always seeking something i get bored easily that's part of the eddas had that but when i found
something and latched on to it i used to be like just i was one hundred per cent focused until i became in now i guy's much of that as i
could and then i would on to the next thing and am ye i i i got to be honest i i've visualization to going back to the first question is
one way that you can do it and i've started meditating to get my mind back into that state i used to do a lot of yoga and i used to do a
lot of mindfulness a tough training i don't know what people could now it's called mine fulness training back there i think it was just
called reflection or something i call it gioell when i'm done the body building show and november i i will start you gunsight actually be
starting to go to tomorrow as my forest don't hurt me there to every one i know who started it to hurt something that's why i holding off
but an i would i will definitely come let you araged all me but my point is that i've lost it and i'm probably the last i to give you
advice right now on how to walk out the world because i have to put on headphones and crank music to get through work out right now and and
i know this i didn't know im detrimentalism aware of it and i'm trying to correct it and ah and i bugs shied at it they really does and
these he feel like less of a person so let me tell you about a transition that i went through yes at first small before the war i then
notary seve to college so i had to go to college and i as i said early or as i have said before i was superflus when i went to college i've
been in the elkins for ten years i was a goetherian hard charger of the oh you on a to read this book boom i would sit down and just force
myself to read it and then go back to the sultan and i like it when i went to college i literally read every single thing that i was
assigned and nobody does that in college nobody does that i read every single page of every single thing i was assigned to in college at so
ridiculous as almost a waste of time to most embarrassed echoes definitely thinks it to waste time but but it was because i just could just
go the walk my brain round and get it done at and get back to the teams and in a team all certain the teams you now out of administrative
pray were to do it that you ations and after actions of formalities and i would do the same thing i just going a walk down load and my
polibino it and boom my go through it and just get it done i would just feel betfus so that each thing lazarous lower folk that would put
done god you tain't give you other god report don okay okay so i go to a race first time no by deal i go to a race second time do you know
say so much tougher to point it's guys are getting wollygogs or getting killed and i come home and i get put into a run in the training and
with running the training all of a sudden others administrate requirements and there was a ministrations overseas as well and you know what
we did locked them down and got em done i get home and i remembered the first time i got a do i think it's a valuations which in the
military in the navy any ways doing a valuation is a real pain it's well bigamist astrain of ferrivale eliseos all the true at this place i
was at huge running rigout a hundred guys and every one of them is like a little mining town paper something that has to be perfect
rarities on's notaire of foreverness led out and i used to have no problem just to hamerton things out sergeant that to pulintang down an
end you know i start to not like a this is stupid this doesn't matter i don't know why i do this i do have to have kitasato do say in the
same things that i would always brag on people for saying like this is to bid on now your men are stupid you don't want to fill up the
report and take care of your guise you don't know a good right a good round later career as it isn't worth your imanuensis okay you don't
so i i i heard myself saying this and what i had what waltenstein under tone of all this was that this stuff dozen matter combat is one
matter and andy get back from that situation where man your bodies are kid killed you're getting willed your friends get wounded this is a
paper a dozen matter then you said yourself i don't care about this and at some point any didn't took me lay two or three months i did what
i had to do to get by but as i sit there and looked at myself and i said you know what the combat doesn't matter any more you're not in it
you're not in it right round this is now what matters your your mind was still there my mind was still there thinking that that was all
that matters and like i said although last pot gasp actually its in the past and it doesn't matter any more so you know what you have to do
you have to be a man and you have to do your job now and this is what matters now and that's to be made a big transition for me and it's
you know i am even follow this until until you were talking about because i remember what it was like to to go from when i went to college
and when i was before i depotemint now just be so lazarous besorus burnouts and then it when i got back and it was not there and it was all
because i thought all the stuff doesn't matter this doesn't matter to the doesn't matter what matters you testicle overseas right now
that's what matters and i have to say you know an no that stuff doesn't matter right now and you know i dansowich a training and i said
what matters is doing this gittings train to go overseas and i became obsessed with that in slightly siccatif about getting guys ready for
combat i mean i was preparing them for what they were carrying all going to for what they are voting to in you know you could ensure they
would many a soul that went through the training that i was over all in charge of and would attest to the fact that i was probably they
borderline sycophantic at that point but i think that i want remy training landed but i want to sako running my combatants i thought what
go ahead okay you are discussing i think that telling yourself and recognizing to yourself why are you trying to do this thing cause you're
trying to do something because it does matter right it and have to matter in some way even if it's just but fianetta work to get your
license from the dean be all that doesn't matter i actually know the dogmaster you're goin to get rested if you go pollnow like not it does
matter these little things the little stupid meaningless tasks in life they actually do matter see no to do yet light em up and you
freakish it that's what you do that's what you do you wind up these stupid meaningless things and you crushed them and you use them as in
exercising discipline be come an exercise it is a ousting doesn't matter guess what i am going to crush it now bring it to me where's my
dear before watch me fill this out that's what i'm going to do so may be i turn like some little meaningless things into a personal
competition of disappoint but me how how can not dissentire you making that happen though it is an omen toloso for it for instance since we
started the pot cast a i have to read you know basically a buckle weak and thin at one side readed i've got to go back into it sadelack
report and and go back through an i say and how is this on a float together what part so i'm spending a lot of time on that right now and
i've been able to do it every time so far and could um so i make my lives lost you might have gone to be consistent and that's me that's
what really bummin me like when i when i your book isn't i mean it's thick but i should have been able to read this and two or three solid
days of reads i told you how successful i was yes not very and bugs that he shot at it and it's a it's a it's not enough ah it's a pal it's
a a you don't what then i think of this in the failure on my part i act i think that this is the same thing will you talk about all the
last pot gasp and i think echoes said what you say all you know what i'm not going to finish this book right now it's i i don't really want
to it's sort of like what you say oh i'm knocking and not want to though that's what i'm saying you say but i don't want to do it right now
i can push it off a little bit you except that you sent that answer you accept that answer the soldier joyaut accept that answer would not
do you self talk not really not really a not a guy that is you know i'm going to do this omaha i just do it am i just go and do whatever
that thing is i think could you you kind of have become that so it's more of like a man put pence that habitual for you to just do it in a
member how and it was i think it's kind o funny why where i used this example like how you said you will use it as the exercise of
disipline so i i said the six ample one time where i was in line at the grocery store and i had em of teleceiver who retreated as
outarathan i'll stand in line and there's maybe three four people in front of me so i'm like a goin to be a while for me to get up there
this beast giving younited you're going to hold the beer i robottom ber this story a seat right but it wasn't that okay and the reason i
decide the whole to be with us on because that benefited me right then it it was an exercise in mental of a hears the great okay we're get
were way off the question but physical task sure no problem you know cause it's it's victoria's real ian feel it but to sit down and and
and read the report on the sewer charges that are going to become an in on the tax report for the city next year was on was going on on
twittered at it all ay i have the thing thing though real except my unwondering in my brain has it replaced the areca whistal media yea and
i i had to quit drinking because a camel way off thing but the the hard cover came out last september and a hard cover of your ravines
alemaigne save for idomene by simon and soester unhandle amazon through jocatore that calm quick the link to him as i am but ye kaeside
said i already said it so anyway the hard cover canooering i what your rank every day from the date came in that the sieur hundred and
fifty people at the event ah a cabin newman my body whose whose he's a well known new anchor and canada doesn't interview with me on the
stage we get standing away shane go always celebrate me the president the company my editor we have good nutong t that a day if i was t
have one drink i was having a tent and that went from september to the new year we was yet fat and i could get no sleep an end cause i'm to
over and i'm not going to the gym and and i went on i hang on what's going on because this is it because i have my job as politician i'm
daddy you know a friend you know i'm i'm i'm i'm advocate and then you know the the book is it's a job here you know so a book a job full
time job i need nine days a week in thirty six hours a day to do it and so i had the men make that's one of the reasons why i decided to
the body building thinks i'm like way can't drink and will be right to november because i need that so i'm trying to figure if my brain is
looking for a new habit because i was diagnosed before as like aunt addictive if that's even a real thing but i had a doctor tell one is
like your pretty much and antedicti personality like you won't get a dicto the stuff and narrow was a dictator cattevo though it's a
physical thing more than a mental thing but i still wouldn't trust me with a pill right now there anyway i thought it we know way of track
but i just again and i don't know what your therapists to go to tell you a matelote would tell you do these little things or things that
you i know you know how to do them is gone your whole career in the military you are watching a cross road and i know that my sound
exciting to people that are out there that a thinking how crazy that must be no there's times work don't rock at watching a cross road and
it was nothing to it on for forays and he was watching that cross road and so you have that in you if you just gotta tell yourself that you
know what this stuff now this is what matters and how you etiuses that this is what matters if because this is how it can next to this
tricipitem you can't say that this matters because of one it is right in front of me just like when you're lookin at the cross roads you're
not thinking oh this cross was is important because the cross roads isn't portant no the canbales on its import is cause you are supporting
keeping guys alive what is going to help a mission which is going to help the the overall strategy you win commanders and ten of commanders
and ten for ole in one commander now you are at hand and also what your long turn mission and that's what i can you just said yourself like
a picked body building cause it there you just gave yourself a mission i so what's your administrative mission you know echoes made some
big advances lately because he started freaking reading books night and you wasn't doing that before but he he got the long ter mission of
pecuniam going alone as much as i possibly can so you got along ter mission with your constituents i to be the best city councilman and
represents a witan you question your life boom that's kind of the courtesy hoes off that i would say is like if anybody ever asked me a
question like when i was going to college i if it asked me any question about in the reading i'm going to know it that's just the bazar p a
what's that oh sad thing to be like gonner so we be you have four kids you train every day you get up at four in the morning i got them for
morning tasmanian and we are in sorry to let on you guys on that man like an i know you wanted to the questions but when that guy when that
like to the other first question was easy es like all just talk away at us too and in that one was like wall if i was to try an answer
right now i'd be long i'd be liar i can't i have i have my moments still don't i mean i'll have moments for i'm like the passage done and
i'll fire through his peach or all all right a report or whatever it is and then not and i lose it and it lay off a fit goat's actually rue
a reinforcing what i just said so when you have a near surmisin that you know what the outcome as you know it result as you know if the
unstatesman snedeker hey you that a speech and two days okay now it's in one day you can sit down and constant and get it down which were
you miss the connection now is the connection between these and neal task are that don't mean anything and how can i put them to a long
term strategical and one of his long terms shouted goes you can put in the place if nothing else is hunger discipline my mind to do these
menial tasks like a soldier and that's pretty cool oh yes sir i ainanan you joe but i'll ever ask that question ah thank you for asking it
although i went off and talked about me for the most economic echoes going to take a illfurth on on an i not attention it's what you said
or you said that's what a soldier does so that's like a little exercise and and i did this beside this in a couple of times or like one was
how i could drink it was i figured out and you can do this with your diesel i figured out that basically if through all this the stuff that
i read that your wanting to eat junk food or drink or whatever it is your brain stricken you was it built to it evolver ain environment
that that environment doesn't work is it around ivor yes yes so now we are in environment of the abundance has do though from anyway came
the conclusion that it's your brain falling for a chuck your physiology of your rain falling for trick makes you want the stuff how he says
how jockeys that's not what a soldier would do i had it in my mind i'm not going to fall for that trick i'm not a sucker that's nice you
know doing this is what suckers do i'm not a sucker he is just like self talking to yourself she so it essentially shamed myself out of
drinking yes i do like this doing them basically the invernung you know i just remember like i am the guide i will in cochois smoking and a
day because i couldn't run up the hill next to our camp i said wall obviously these things are good any more and i literally just i just i
even had a pack in my pocket for like a week in just looking out oh yeah okay throw those i want that guy back i'm in search i think it's
been ten years as i was wood i think i'm going to find him again probably on the stage for this bobalition something but yer i just i just
couldn't answer that question without talking both that because i don't i wouldn't have been truthful at this point in my life and that's
what's cools may be that question right there it was something at a asittin you face that man you might have had it the back your mind but
oregonian i can answer that i was a isom not there right now i'm not but i'm going to get back there we will quit my moments you stand by
people stand by soldiers come in back online rebooted three point oh all right next question that this is all just read it how you prepared
mentally what kind of discipline you had routine in an out o battle how i prepared mentally rushes in and out of battle yet well kind of
discipline you had and routine in and out a bottle um on an a fall back on men oleron i think is probably your your your begas cause a
physical one is easy okay i come back so battle doesn't mean you know you're in gunfights all the time you don't like like we say the first
and in still wore patron right you know which is estatic patrol so you know you got to make sure your gear as good you got to make you are
your batteries change or you go like a jolly as the checkless checkless check to a checkless as a leader and actually makes it easier i
found because now i have a reason to check their stuff and check that there routine so my routine states all right cause other it other
guys i to worry about em so rest is a big one i iced out to order my gusto to ground because they were so because it's only three of us and
i used to my berryessa ly i'd be like bury you need to be useful i need you to sleep so my routine was like make sure enough rest makes
socus you know that the saying mission before man sure except when the man has the mission so i need my man to be good you and i am going
to say if you abuse your man too much you won't accomplish the therein you know steal the sacrifice the body well let's wait let's think
about that because the body what is what these to get this thing to all there's only three of us and the anarchy know of your sniper you
hear you might be alone you might be with one or two other guys i can't afford to have a guy run head at first the redowa to get through it
because i need him to be useful after you know if you have a platoon sure you sacrifice smith you run through the door they okay i twenty
nine more guys i can go through the door m so my routine was always like you know me sir rings talked up keep an eye o in all law do the
chitto the mental checklist and then visualize visit like out of battle i would try to you know i'd be on my i remember i'd lay on my bunk
and i'd have my aid always ended with my right foot cross over my left foot and my amy on my arms up here in my chest and i'd have my head
back and i would be going okay so gay we go down in on it of contact left and i would try to like you know visualize these things you know
because as the team leader i had the radio and i was security because my boys when they're in position you know my spatter is potting my
shooters shooting so like there twelve's i'm now everything everything the rest of the clock for them and for myself so i was constantly
rehearsing mentally what wit what could happen in calling an unpractised a a call for fire practicing in it calling in an air strike and
practicing a nine liner in practicing a austin what he guys you guys you at orandain life for nine nine line is a casualty evac or
confervae nine line yet am no no but grit i grew branniton only yet so my first and even with all the visualization my first actual grit in
a battle was fitted by the badamier is posed to be six three a three hundred by that tree you know all you know of a far forfanta your own
time or something of the calm cool collected voice but you know the guy was like forty meters away tastirams nipper was actually looking
over him wave like amity now i look at that stuff and i was like fucking i just shot on myself but ah but my point is that even with all
that practice and visualization in training you know that was my first attempt em so i was always just trying to make sure that my routine
off off the battle field was putting my mind back but in a controlled setting on you know and and all anandena like i said make sure o ka
how much sleep did you get kigogo good and that's the routine that you know they got to get the guise to relax especially like for me i had
to i decide to make sure because i only mean to other guys i couldn't afford to lose one of them whether it was to exhaustion or mount the
titian or he inorganised ankles or whatever you know so i just i just did my best i keep keep that checkless going and and visual and i
would encourage them to do the same i be like hey what do you think about over there all you know whatever i rely he you want you think
about it you know remember when you made lifford make make an i shot and you miss or whatever like try and visualize trying think of it
what you did you know was looses it goin to point the trigger you know and and im and then you know just think about that they about out
happen and encourage that you know i'm i'm a big fan of um of meditation and yoga and all that stuff like if any ateethin and our sight of
the world we've lost a lot of that stuff and i know we try to get it back and got people that do it our tree hugging you know a spaniard
weirdos or whatever but yoga and meditation and stuff like that's all warrior culture from the past i you know like samaritan you know
ain't warrior monks a fast that and pray that this just meditation and and they looked inside themselves a lot too trying you know samarov
was pretty tough came pussy for meditated make sure i'm there so i could watch and and i and i firmly believe that that type of stuff keeps
you functional for when you hit the battlefield you know that self you know as drosilla to sell for flection self inoculation as well so
that was my routine it was just a constant rotation of thoughts and then but the actions were always to prepare the buonatti situation for
what was coming she makes ye o kate one of one thing that i set actually a pro like a really practical thing that i did that i that is i
had ah this is again this is just sartorial freshflushing i had to contrite suffercate supping one cat such one caught the other cot was
all my dear and it was just laid out gone body armour you know everything was right there and when i when i got dressed to go out of that
thing was empty and so never forgot anything when i came back everything went right back on the kanfot same spot everything squared away so
those that to me was that i i figured that out really quickly okay just going to i don't want every want forget anything here's a monte on
the put everything that i need right here so that i had it i didn't think of it around my unitati would sit there right foot over the left
all around me because we had a caught we had a cot we didn't we couldn't afford to clenarvon i had we all had two by fours around us
because we were in like a a fob we built ourselves and each nail had it so i had my thing my chest rage my rightful ah my animal peaches
and i you know like as an all around and but that was what i would when i would go through my stuff that's what i mean then i would hang it
up open up the pouch cartings are close it next pouch make yer top up my mags all that stuff and i would make sure i'd make get the gusto
the same thing i do you're ready to go out in operation all your nails rumpty amendue got everything yet but the biggest thing with
rootlike people call a routine and they think there's magic to it right there's not it's it's just making sure you do the same thing over
and over and over again you know as as as magical as mavises in sneers want to be like it's not really that is not that mystical i guess em
it's a itus a lot a repetition in all the routine is that you repeat same actions because that macsmith what makes you good at him yet all
to alastair driving over here or some point how we used to try and do everything yet would you had fire at her light is only alters
together five or six homes lined up for an operation at all be lined up ready to go and then every one would like get get the word to be
like lodema and then you just see everyone would just get in this one omegon be cos i then we start to vehicles at the same time there's no
reason that do that nobody there is i i owe the ravelston type thers no there is no um difine reason why you do that but are delas you know
okay starting up and three two one start on in any here all the face serfontein is just like all ooelite things would the old as little
discipline would lend themselves to the ten being at isopods ignition switches might as well have been the switch and each guy's mind the
knows the as that vehicle is starting every one's brain is going to into combat mode in worthier at the same time saint craves confront the
word go where not a love it when you told me that that was a lie yes have you the most that ashington you nevigation ave he seals load up
and they have begeistern the same time i'd run i be like i'm not parkinson he was a iasataweiat with my guy's when i was a tactitian you'd
be position face as godson out and i stand out there to some odinite just like old school high but it is you know it was on and a bit and
he loved you for it boyne those guys put the the those guys are in every time you roll out the street to remote there was a den chance
gunlow up there was a jedediah was almost dardavan but in a viage blown it eases a real issue for you guys a and and i was thinking about
this to day the ideas there was we had to statistical the most heavily it grow in all of iraq was round michigan called from one end of the
one and a remodeler in and there was idesleigh ridiculous and weight any ideas while we were there which i was thinking about that to day
cause i was thinking about my youantee and dies and i never told them like hay we never had an i d think you never told him up so you
credit them with that i credit for them with part of it ye part of the printing that they gave part of the now there was some close calls a
lace petunias in the book when they houdini's worth watching the front door the couldn't quite keep an eye on it but they would they get a
really good inspection of it when they came back out to like something looks different they were at her there's a hundred twenty one meter
more it that wouldn't take it out automotive guys a there was a time where we win over we went over and i dwell a the point man navigator
in the vehicles was like a i think there's something suspectus picious actually got out of the vehicle to look at it through like unfeeling
back what do you think about that decision making process you know maybe that wasn't a good one anyway so we decided ali don't think it is
we drove over it as it half an hour later the i d a clearance team found that triple stack on twenty so that everybody novel bed um if
sleepiness he is were mastered though number of skies that were killed in windy by ideas among witherers a whole there was a vehicle
graveyard you know vehicles that had been blown up in a dragoman with i mean it was it was massive i mean i want to say fifty to a hundred
vehicles are you piled up any cluing merab's which are the mind resistant vehicles those things are their borrowing what kind of bomb you
got to put together to do that we owe got real lucky and another sound weird my rotation they had conventional minds so any perse and any
tank and there was the occasional aid but is usually as by ah and ah and in the city as means as suicide vehicle so am arare imental
sergeran his driver were killed by a suicide vehicle born dan i stepped on a land mine if i'd sat on an it i would have vaporites rotation
that caeterae us there are sister batalion that's when we the theist intelligent says guys from a rack thirteen up and ah we went from
losing a tire may be having one guy get killed through a penetration in the hall or whatever to ah we had a whole laugh go up and seven out
of the ten guys in it were killed and it was like like a thithther quickly at escalated and as suddenly it was an issue for our for our
guess well i almost every vehicle we had hit a land mine on my tour and as the only time i was ever really scared over there when i was
walkin or and a helicopter or even out on a four wheeler no problem when i had to drive on the roads and a vehicle that's when i was like
my that pucker factor was the highest for me ever idasan like the hat the guys i would go out every day and deal with that shineless foxman
like my hat always came off to those gardarike talbot and nerve racking job yeere hotel with the with the hodgia don't know here her locker
i i everybody who does that jobs as it's a total bullship move bilities you imagine though that your gig well i we had invented yet you
guys with us and see hussleton diarrha till like the toes a guy's were like big picotin with us the grain or within caltrough the basic
training the basic seal training but he go through everything else we and our eyes are like supporters the wall wants our guy or guy were
like other seals you know rightly they were that good yes yes and but yes um it's not it's amazing but in the guys at a with us than with
us and so they're not quite in the primary job for us but it's not their primary job rare whereas the guys at your thoughtless that did
route clear and so anybody's listening his potash now if you did rout clearance in iraq or afghanistan ain't you jocando say thank you
cause you saved us so many times through jovopolis all die my godson down those roads old time and you found all those balms it saved saved
our lives and and so many lives kept the supplies rolling at even get a local popular safe and now how much credit and glory those guys get
none not a lot nonadhesion there would be the the big vehicle like a buffalo you know buffcoat amrapali at ladder begin into it so they'd
be guessin there that would disable a pompom inside that a big robotic arm and they would do that but behind them were by a contingent of
marines in home these and i say will you as oh you were to support what all giton dodonaic ossaroo like oh you did you need to put coal to
get home besoin it but there's going to be big bombs brown of yahweh record yes no factor will do love i love marines in court asked any
questions from the interim questionaire cenote us avowed can you tell us about your wife the medic that helped save you then you kinotah
about this a little bit on the first poage so on aleta's tell you about her so atlanta is um so i say her dad was in the army and he he
sees her milan he emigrated to canada joined the military and i he was an airborne commando and incana back in the day like that was pretty
much you know that was our one of our most fierce it's any commanded the jump school which is like howitt's that's pretty bad as he did the
american ranger course and sixty eight a a a vietnam rangers were running a riot a shell out a wolf they are young i had a isagoras fresh
combat experience rangers were run in the shell and you know they weren't playing around yeah he got a kick in the spine with a steel to
boot ye and a flower then rosine and ah but it also i always say she was drafted and the deletery at birth and a cause she grew up on bases
all over the world germany umanuh america in stuff for her did ended up being in a like embassy security and stuff em keep became a medic
at high school amating he joined in seventeen as well shall a little bit older than me um and then ah she has more sights for saving
civilians and she does receiving soldiers she happens upon she's like one of those ah angels i guess that just one a woman so here's into
woman had a heart attack behind the wheel drove into a ditch a land was rated her drove stopped her car jumped in the car pulled her out
dead a lantaro her back to life right there at silao no equipment and in may that just kill skill into termination wed and kept her alive
until the paramedic showed up and took over scatteration for that am you she helped save my life and an analogon my friends and ah ah when
time we were driving and we came upon a scene and tea were my track and aloes still a baby the similar being set and so i looked up and i
and i see it i think she hemitheoi don't know what he was doing i see you scatter a cars care parts everywhere and one lone capstaning in
the middle of it like a school and not because he scared or thing he just has the only guy and he's the first on the scene and i look at
them like okay something bad happen er and and i see one vehicle in the middle of it all and i went a lana they need you and she went on i
say see that van i they need you she jumped out jumped head first through the his van was crushed and she went in there and there was a
four year old little three year old little girl that had been hit with the car was taboed she stabilized the little girl spying a kept her
alive until the firemen showed up ah they extracted cheese was a command of the sea and eight they were like they can they guess i was
doing my best to help the capatain and and stuffy this and ah and deal with some of the other like minor injuries and the fireman like the
first got it put his head any like i i kind o heard like whoo is this and then i'll hear linelike i need this and i need like she burkett
all these orders he dekyns they run on their getting all this stuff and they get the board and they put the little the girl at the the the
girl in an up passing way unfortunately but um zerezo that's that's my wife facino know she a retired from the military last year and is
going through a sprained for saying this but she's going through with a lot of soldiers go through the transition oh you mean the thing
we've been talking about for the alighted all last focuses she's just having a tough time for ring out who whose lanteglos if she's not a
soldier and she's a amazing mom i should that amazing wife and am should i made in person it's just in her mind she needs to find the new
her and ah you know and anodyne her the best i can but you know i can only do so much and at some point she'll figure it out she is she's
coming round pretty good right now i think she's she starting to like volunteer a little bit here and like get out and do some stuff and
you know i'm pretty you'm just proud of her you know for the most part yea you know that's one of the things that makes the transition so
ard um is that you know before i talking about like combatants and then beyond that you're doing this thing you on for your wife like he's
in charge of saving people's lives and saving soldiers lives and that's going to help mister teaching mission i mean what want is going
abruptly that for her and the answer alantoin up is replaced that i but you know what you don't need to replace it yonnet replace it a
whole stock replace that thing that's a beautiful beautiful experience to have had in your life but don't let it turn into a black hole
right like like the black of the mass of a black hole is some insane number just like the mass and the end power of this combat experience
is the same thing as this super powerful experience but don't let it suck all the other purring away don't let it do that don't let it do
that so what's the what's what else what matters now we know what mattered in the past ran the what matters now that's the question and
there so many things i mean you got two daughters you got your damastor of and i am dumb o you don't tell yasha is it what is it one of
those things that matters in what's the next mission she's goin to find maybe seauen a aramatic maybe she got you know coals may be showing
up being in arnest may be shelled up having her own pot cast may be shained up being a painter out on now but what mattered in the past he
is awesome but let's we now what matters now yet i grabbed it that baby listened listened to jocondo to that same aunt let that thing are a
lad as then growl at that thing seed of of the past and bring something new something bigger something that happening something that
happening now but that's my wife he is awesome mesonero of recast on your face i i don't have any decorations for saving people elodie know
ah nina and i think about what i what i saw i saw a lot eddercation but honestly it was mostly the enemy you know that i caused my like as
easy to step over him like ye as look like me to talk like me does dress like me i even know that it now i didn't no nothing about that guy
step over him curio she rolls up but let's just take my case she knows me i'm joy i'm a body we watched a family guidage her i used to you
know where her existendi used to wear were buddies you know like get all these things and and she would whenever she would roll up to his
see and it was the clean up the mess he animate of us and she knew most wirtin army to an our or erring apprecate for us is like thirty two
hundred guys maybe maybe it be twenty five hundred but in two thousand six so she knew most of the guys that she put in the body bags or
like in my case she says after they load me on the helicopter and it flew away she was just sad because she knew that what i was going home
to use it my injury right she was like to knew more about your future than you did exactly she do what a nightmare you were about to go
through he knew that what i was and who i was and what i was now going to be like half to become and accept and she says that she said that
in an er she'd never said that to me i read it in her view she gave one sin she said yeah i just i i was just devastated for him because of
what he was going to go home to the big tough strong proud guise had to go home without feet she so like oh and i guess he said something
like you know it if nobody else looks after i guess i got a god damn she did next question props you alone ye your anebas kind of a next
question which i appeared these two together because this one way soho do you deal with being away from family in love one oh i'm a i'm
eyed i always have been i think this might be round might be a little bit like you oh give her like i just i don't really miss people yes
is that makes sense yes you know what i'm saying matey i know i can see it or you i i i it don't miss people cause i know on an asesen my
do love my daughters love my daughter and i'll walk in the house and their better than puppies right they jump on me and i get daddies year
old still does it i get kisses i get hugs i get where were you ever gone so long but like to day i was spoken of them i don't miss him i
know that they're out there like but in a ununctioned when i do get home i'm real having to be home yemiore saying to me on the phone like
you just want to get home but when i'm away from home you're in the game yes i was specially for this i guess because i'm here to promote
the book and am here to hang out with you guys so like i'm looking forward and its leg with my dad was crying in the parking lot before i
went to my first mission ever to me it was like what the big deal dutilleux months and and you know my best my best bodies you know the the
guys that i was a happy didn't die in combat i've talked to them every three six months you know i just talked to the leader that green
brakeman i worked so much with it just the other day after two years of not acalan you know coupees on race book in this it's weird for me
yet i am very similar i don't i don't feel the need to continually update people or talk to people and by besealed to guy went through
hilderman with this three potentially mona was in training solidity one and he was my roommate that entire time so eight years or so we
were and we we did everything together drank together hung out getherer thing we did and i got in i got moved to virginia beach for two
years didn't taction one single time i letteratura nothing came back so moietie eye out a awathy anna burger with us you don't have many
was just like nothing to rate up pickert up and that's how i always feel you um and i kind o do that with my family at least in aleim a sum
in that this person is a guy that's um thinking about being on the point without his family and so yet and and again when i talked about
earlier on in a compartment alive and say i don't tell you this is i didn't want to talk to my wife and kids every day at all when i was on
the ployment i didn't let you could do it there if you were if you were on base you could do it i mean for those either don't know overseas
most places overseas right now you got internet you got satellite phone you can call home you can i did not want it to that with my wife
and with my family when was your first to playmen caught two thousand cretinism that is your first one ever oh no no no i my first upon was
in ninety two nine ye mine was a coast of a ninety nine you called home one you had one fine it was seven seconds delay and you got fifteen
minutes a week maybe his four second lay i just know or like a sack there is no such thing as the email email a ninety nine first of all i
didn't even have an eagan solders one guy on base who was the geeka he would go back to the main camp where they had the interent web and
you had to give me your email and the pass word and he would down load your messages and do as he wrong come back with it and print it off
on the clerk's computer for you i wonder if our type of thinking about it is a is a real bond up from the fact that we disinherit the first
time and then bit between ninety nine two thousand six antithesis iosefo my pocket for every everywhere i went i could ha called home all
day every day but i didn't because i was led well first of all to treat and second him all i know at work on a job for do and i can't be
worrying about i want em i was on the phone and a shot went over my head i that i got to go to italian i think god am your guy crisco and
it is bucketson on the phone and then the gun fight starts yea and his wife listened to the gun fight cause he forgot to hang up the foney
kidding me furder family through that but i think maybe your or situation is that we came from the generation where that just wasn't an
option anyway so i would love to talk to some of the newer guys yeah about this about the subject ummidius ship board upon its as a sea on
sintoo on ships and the first one i went on the wenever so it was old school you'd get malibran mail at that was the nor an over thirty
days are thirty five days to be like male call it when a ball excited but um ye think it that definitely condition you to not be addicted
to having that and don't think your help in the home from either to call every day and say missus much i can't wait i don't know if that
hellhound either i did you actually is a little bit papolotte whole frias talking to one of the wives the other day of some far gustare
deployed don't get mad at me ladies but i'm do little lot of ladies that are deployed done soundest i was talking to a wife of a guy on an
she says i haven't heard from so and so for for like four days i want him like mespillion off like you know he does for a living given
exactly what he does for living off can take a while he's like so gabit usually he gets back to me on like obviously he's on a long abut
there condition now do always her back from you and you know what you talked about this inner book which is life's going to go on yet and i
think that that's something too that oil help you know if you like for this guy that's going to be gone for a long time and housing in to
deal with it except the fact that life on to go on and speak that things are can change the things we get remodeled this genivine rugs in
the house caseine or furniture the trade might break and shall go get any line exactly and there's nothing you can do me you and just be
cool with it yet if you don't like the color she picked say thanks for getting the new frame thanks for taking care of that i use i was
busy doing protecting freedom and democracy a world all right next one what are you worked out slashed training masshouse make it up as a
walking into the nockett now because i am body building and i'm going like i'm doing now like to her in from echo here a second ease that
big time body filler abody built now no okay so i've worked out since you know i was sixteen with weights rap but i always so my first
mission afghanistan because i was a driver slashed body guard and remembered animal stack a supplement hat which was basically stanitsas so
we would order we order to ship on an animal tack and because we had a lot of down time we watched em you know like twenty four the series
on dvid and we worked out i came home like bench benching like whatever four plates a side is dead left in life sashed we looked looked
alone what did you way to forty years something cressett and and then i tried to get behind my seferal because i was not operating as a
sniper right i was like a oh god i'll kay keen i two big tried tried rocking through my rucksack on and tried to go up a hill how i go oh
yes so i decline back down i realized like o bein a meat head is not conducive to being a sniper um so i always try to tailor my body
around being a sniper especially after that and am but now ah i asad's going to be forty in january it's going to be ten year anniversary
getting blown up in january and i want to quit drinking i needed a new goal to move towards so i said i'm going to get in the body building
and if you know in batboy building i don't want to look like feel heat i want to look like a arnold when he was in in a seventies sixty bit
when they still look human or you picked a realistic al yes some ann something where i might not need supplementation from another country
um and other is any wrong with it whatever man or to me my my view on that stuff is if it gets you to where you want to be in your not
hurtin anybody who cares right dear body do whatever you want with it am so but but for body building you look good some doing the physique
class which means were bored shorts and you don't necessarily have a routine but they tell you how to pose like they like it we want to see
our abune her blue whatever whatever so you kind o just stand to certain way and and i take direction well right i'll be on the predecease
so you look good but are really good for much and you're in that condition so i want the picture of me with a six pack i'll be forty i'll
have a glass of water at all go away ah and then i'll celebrate the tenor anniversary of getting blown up and all least all know that i've
got like somewhat of the cut type of audie used to have back okay all that being said my training now is being directed by my buddy nick
and i do whatever he told me and right now it's chest and arms one day back and shoulders another day and legs another day and you squat no
o how do you william was my favour exercise of course am for there's got to be somewhat modified i do hack squat okanagon know the machine
yet so i recently discovered it like in the last six weeks i i discovered this machine accounter i was doing like press and a curls i can't
really do extensions cause the cause the stumps are different length and where the pad rests across my shins a touch too much tork on my
stumps or out of so but then i found this hack squat thing and it's it's made all the difference so i ave you know slap as much weight on
it as i can stand and and i just squat cause almost like a squat norcaster supported so my wife's land is noticed a firmer as very god
lingered you know and so any way my my my routine is just that and you know the food is i'm a big baby when it comes to food um i've never
eat my vegetables and i don't care what next says or what my mom used to say i'm not going to eat him that's what my food eat um you know
i'm a meat potatoes guy pretty much ah and that's bout it i the worst um hetero food like fear factor would you robins old so i would be
the worst contesting i'll be such a low i might be able to pull it off cause i read some pretty gross things cause i had to ribute i just
don't like a lot of food i'm the same he and i don't care what any one tells oh come on you just got to try it i'm not i'm not trying it
yet i just smell it i i you on to throw up genius look at it it's my somehow't want my mouth how was that okay how will you just get me the
stake without nessis your sauces on it like i asked for and the plain potato i want next to it and i'll foomer and some pepper on that bad
boy who that sounds like a good anita's what food tastes like and that's what i love you know lanate funem because my favorite ice creams
the noah like my life is exciting enough i don't need no strawberry sprinkle bubble gum i scream spring my themilla and be a brownness i
don't know i i i do go the antechapel share came but oh the really smithareen about on what so you just literally her like sakontala you
are you when you go to the body building and orenda upon jeff fat yet so i'm dropping the fat i would hear you got one up by diet that's
diet and to what you goin to do and it was do you know what next on to put you on for a primer that we start that next week you think he's
going to go like no cars all fat he's he's a proponent of the old school body building where you never want to be in contois really but
he's a body builder and i too want to get him to read look at the physique stuff because you know if you read arnold's new update a modern
book on body building mercied body building which he rewrote the nineties they still went by the whole fuel the muscle with the carving ran
but they looked amazing so the lake might have been on to something because they got i think about her on with juice well arnold most was
guys they know in the seventies they weren't no use execoote wrong those guys were absolutely juicing a hundred per cent in the seventeenth
a seventies absolutely and it was not late today not like to day but arnold was absolutely to one hundred per cent on steroids as were all
those guys back in the day and they weren't illegally yet but they all put in the book says he didn't related' really know what they were
like the effect they knew they helped oh they didn't have it down to his arsenec was twenty seven in jars or whatever that have it didn't
have to sign it but they were taken they were absolutely a hundred per cent all the sauce rang um and it wasn't a legal at the time they
are that yet as at a so that might be where that idea comes from of hay they won't honey thing they were absolutely and on on to
asiatically nick a they did it look pretty idea with you you said that earlier they like all you know it to be natural like scores of
aggrieve is i may still look human is my point that more human than they do now my eve to gif you watch generation iron yea i mean what i
was now artisans ye and that's great it good for them amazing but i i can't i need to lose weight to be on prestati like i can't be putting
on that one you know so next thing is um cato's bad because you risked losing muscle mass and that can counter to the whole body building
thing so and this ional period you do risk that it if you're not in ketosis there's a train a very from person of her son some people they
go through the slit over etarita and and you know the risk it you know they don't let don't lose out but some guy that takes weeks and at
you a most loyal i i'm not that big yet at all but i can be were still we got to november and ah i long as it's you know is a potero ten
heavy with the normal cars rice and potato sleep potatoes stuff like that like little bit of all i boil and consonous go lots of fat pretty
good among proceed no carbide in a yet thou sir enitebis my thing this is after the body building yes that's how i eat anyway oh i eat i do
love me some posiana ann and i will crush a pizza flageolets or thing friday night we get a pizza we rent a move on i tones in order get
the occasional pizza it's understood and tatood eum but occasional yes but my my general rule for myself is that it's it's i so usually a
high protein like low carb diet and if and i liked to eat like if i'm not eating it i like to be taking it like a shake or something like
every three or four hours or i have you tried to intermit in fasting yes to a not bet up it's okay i don't mind it i like it caspar as
convenience goes hasn't got me that i'm not even to day ye i'm in a lot more and i i don't i did a i did a forty eight hour fast a little
while o just out of random this a like one day i worked all day or traveled or something i didn't eat in other next morning i worked out
right away and then i had a phone call and then i did something in else i think it's been twenty four hours in looking throat forty eight
on this thing and i went forty eight it was no maxentius the east at a year and take i have junior in every water just water in a quarter
and you know what i did squat wrote you just do to day you ordahs no factor yea i did um i'll do i did a forty eight hour but i had coffee
for do you feel all right to as fine i shall find i like i had a little bit of tightness for a bit o but then whatever i like in the
stomach yet tell you once you read the forgotten highlander or in sebot runs out on lessee at her just going months without food or if he
get the people up in north korea eating ah what is it rot and salt water soup that's your meal god oh it we found some weed out there do
you ever have the dicotomy your mind of if i was a cave man i'd be fine but then you realize it's twenty sixteen and why you depriving
yourself of something or why an't you taking full advantage of the of the technology of able to you whether it's protein shake or or or
supplements like on it if ye like an interne agree with you while those points but a lot of people think that the benefit of two thousand
sixteen are but twinky know how olifant i was back of tatoshes or whatever and that i oncely kids of from school esterday and i was sitting
in the office waiting from the to come down and then there is the young fellow sitting over there by the next the principal's office eating
his lunch i soon cause he can't be trusted around other kids in lunch or some i don't know what what the deal is and he pulled a tine i vas
lunch i most fell over who can their kid a twinky at lunch he it's naseeb christmas eve when we mean when we when i was in a ambroise oh
you're thirsty years ago oh you're still thirsty years another case how your hungry potato chips like my mom would read the ingredients one
stuff and be like all the way to my sugar in this shall be a god hoopus from my birthday my parents oh i was idly right in chris's in corn
flakes rest the time in you man the oisoux charms i mean we just ate it and it wasn't like my parents said oh this might be bad that was
just what pat bought an when i was a kid now my mom was on top of that stuff and i have that to like in this sugar in like a loaf of bread
now yeh i give my daughters of a to sic sanine that's like well grahams a sugar if they aveling i'm like why is our sugar in the bread and
and like all be i'm not i'm liking eighty twenty guy whatever that you know the eighty preflight ossetin i pretty good twenty percent this
time i'm getting after some crape right i'm a lot like that all and most the time it's because i comether day was i was unseated finmore in
and it was it wasn't the pressera hot dogs that we are all so fond of it was but i was legionry and i knew it i was getting back elinour in
san diego thou is going to be able to get a work out in the train so i had for the don't have like a milk shake and a double me same
winsome kind where were some random on in the airport all the airport a yeah gog and yes he was good milk airport miltiades and will do
chassediane i thought you make do make that kind of stuff at home though to try and trick yourself mixed consolin on so to trick myself in
a thinking i'm having a treat right i got i get my blunted i'll put cocoanut milk in a sugar free cause you got actually search with that
one can't just oh anyway so i put my conuil in ah i throw in a couple of scoops of protein i throw in a couple of cooperage in sugar free
peanutter which you got a search out again did you know they take the patrol out a piano butter now sang what do they do that they sell it
off and then they put the vegetable oil in a so now you got to search out real pined butter thanks thanks world anyway so i put in a couple
of scoops of the real peanutter that i got the bulk barn and um and i cut a scopolamin but ah want and then i i it right and then i spent
it up and it's kind of like a shake a emilia said and rosbif it's as gien alcudia of his fressenden and just get makes me feel like a
having a treat and so i like all that my tiger to a satisfied for learning i think i've sentry my tree is my treat an are you to myself is
a dark charlie and by darting five per cent it's it's almost bitter yet and i difierent into coconut oil the hon it cocoanut oil i did it
right in there and stop that and and that is my yes stelites good try to so good and the other thing about if you eat if you and i we'll
like broke out some here's bars here milk jocolate you think one bite you want another by imediately eeyou want another by innately don't
but you do and you do it eh eye you take you take a couple of squares of eighty five per cent chocolate and it's like it's satisfies it and
it doesn't make you go all that was good and in it takes the it gives you the satisfaction it takes longer that's a that's a edison is well
do i i not ideas in your mouth along anastasia ittle in bitter tide the dark trunk a hole atole and mister coon onliata little bit o show
by not heard this on your podcast but i don't know is why on gogol by the way that i love on it but using on it before he's called on it
but i there coenobite heat yes it's the virgin coconut oil the am really high quality look open at oil which is what i do and actually it's
good to in supporting on it i actually do support the potatoes i whoever asked about nutrition it's um ah you don't want a thing i will
that was me that asked about your turn was not now the question is about wore it out we can a deal then fell on terekay well jocko am the
other thing my guts scott destroyed by the anybody i i recover and it took me figuring it out on my own like white was a constantly having
like um diary why was a constantly not like just a upsettin that i started rachat causes it do i might be as a bubble oh no i was on six
months worth of it a man were ardeche old everything in your antonina had staff infection like i want a year when you read like four staff
infections in my stumps in a row and it just like just hand you know it's hammers cause i was getting sick and and like some like what's
wrong and he really all okay so now every morning i like i keep a bottle commotion the fridge every morning i just shake it up take a swig
i've a probitate take with that swig and that's made a huge difference and and i'm always seeking out different ways to keep the the the
gut flora happy you know of that apple cider vinegar an apposite fingerend come butenrot those three additions of made a huge difference in
my in my system i my immune system alone and that i like i just started jack and mass of amounts of vitamin destiny body um and then i i
kept a real close eye on like so as a kid like you don't when we are eating lunch i did want unions or mushrooms as cause as a kid i didn't
like them and i found it later as an idle one actually slightly allergic to them so whatever your body tells you pay real close attention
you all because nothing will screw with your gains or your work a routine more that feeling like ship right and and so if you eat something
and you feel like shot after you know pientio to that because that can take a lot of energy away from your work out and just from your day
you know like ye go rolling to work with a headache because you ate something that your actually allergic to like back and really messiter
so i pay superlatio one of the reason why i'm such a basic eater it's cause i've learned that that's how i feel best and i function best
when i have minimum so like minimum like additions to like you know when you you go to the yet breakfast right nothing better than bacon
eggs in the morning until they bring your home fries in their covered with paprika montreal spice ship all over them and a light why would
you do that to my potatoes potatoes are delicious a little bit of bread a butter and an salt all they come like that could i have some
without it oh ye okay you don't like keep it potatoes um because i've learned that if i have that go in my system i'll spend a good half
hour on the camp and that's time i don't can't afford you know so if any one is like you know when you're a big party or routine is is the
fact that you have to have the energy and like not feel like ship and you are when you go into the gym to so that it lit but by the way
just so erybody knows the province there's there's bacteria in your stomach that's supposed to be there that's good for you yes and that's
what jonydab that's why he turned kimonas the pro vinic pain because it keeps those things alive and what is referred to really er that the
when you take antibiotics it actually kills all that bacteria and in that mature stomach inot be and let why they came out with them the
ogre a few years ago the go whatever it was called to ye and i don't aesthet yoga it they started selling it because it over plenish her
your good flora the whatever whenever ye um all right but you wor in a absolution more question do you ever have galloped this is if so how
do you handle them ah i talked about the doubted answering that second question um if you don't have any doubt i'm going to be real suspect
of you as a person so do we all have doubts at a folks sort bragodoccio as debts he'll never admit it right but doubts or part of being
human and if you're not doubting yourself you're not challenging yourself either idly mistiest i think so i try to approach my doubts had
on unflinching you know that i have doubt this third time i got sent in the battle school yeah big time but put on the best uniform put on
you know get in the best shape polishes the highest standard be prepared to get shot on and and and pulled oyrway through and smile while
you are eating that ship soilage you know like the doughtier heard the like hieralto some one and they taglat they want they really want to
be doing case i have i've a buddy mind he's a cop but he really wants to sell teachers and is like a lion now i'm just waiting i'm what
there's gintlemen as time he even made a tashiro me and he's probably gone listen to this and he knows who he is and broiled you this the
time he set out in a sign a contract for twelve months and i can like you know why don't a six months tops and you know it if that ain't
like why what's the matter like widest est non thing you're going to this is it this where you are are is like why and i'm like cause
you're not putting the afrikey cop you're not teacher seller and eat el you see is doubting himself to to take that leap you know that i
have a doubt when i put my name in for the election hell yet is i've never been a politician i was a gun fighter i was a cipher but the
ideal with doubt by dealing with the situation but i makes you because i want to know that i can a get through this through it and if i
fail i fail that's a man i feel all the time i failed a reading your book i failed making to the airport time yesterday but and i have
doubt all the time but i also have enough confidence in myself that i am willing to try almost anything and i don't know if that's really
the question that was asked but the answer is the same because fear is the thing that holds you back from most anything in your life that
was i nervous when i put my hand up to volunteer to go on siegers hella was but where did i want to be i want to be up on sneerers um t was
i nervous the first time i was in charge of his neighbor team going into combat aha but guess what there is no world so i want to be um
doubt is your doubt is your mind telling you you know to think about the things you need to think about anyway right like the doubt is
there for a reason it's the self preservation mechanism and you need to use that doubt to put the thoughts your mind to visualize the
successful outcome like we talk about earlier visualisation you know i i picture failure all the time and then i picture houlade with it
you doubt don't to me is just a question to ponder and then move on you know so that's that's how i do it i'm going to say for me i agree
that doubt is really how i know that a pushes into a zone that i'm not used to but like the enemy i respect my doubts i'm not afraid of
them but i respect them going a watch i got a listen to him i'm going to understand my doubts but on not on to be afraid of them and i am
going to destroy them it tilsworth that's bout all we got for to night echochee how can everybody disaster on up and support this pot cash
she boheme dese ways as we're talkin about earlier a few want to do some amazonian clicked for a bonald unclenching sure unflinging and
what what we do in this is no exception is with all the books that we talk about we list them on cockatoo we have enlisted what kind of
what they're about and what episode there from so like death is the lincoln there elicon it bloomy can buy for might it or pay for factory
there is for analytical est pictures every taking it with ye i know it's i was checking out your picture you and you have that little fun
metepec you had that thing paganisation know that weren't the military that was on a guy's were different random patches and some of them
are you don't proud historical patches of their ouian some of them in if you get this if you if you order the hard cover looks like that
you can't see it but on the soft cover you can see joe's got the little in everybody in the military nose at this is the wit fun meter path
and the fun metres back the may in a having all kinds of fun here if i i that's all so lithe are a paper back hard cover i like hard cover
me that's what i do good but yet do not the bull i'll lift it on obviously oh then get through amazon and an if he goes like the shirt
disciplinaque and the one with ousanon it she went to the way thanks for him get one of those do you want support and then of course do
your shopping it on it in the event of you wanting supplements that actually work because you got a watch up for suppinabiles and stuff a
lot of supplement not regulated they can put anything they want in him and so on to you so get on it supplements my opinion jack canada
calm slashed jactando get in present off get your shoon tech i think so evening on what you're doing if you do in high intense to the
sustained exercise comte alberni you in the pink better and crellin still hold up with passages to do they still have the shoe tick and men
yes yes they do my love that one there i find that one good for an when you travel you were in dantean before you i forget what it was
called but orageuse he was on rogeri like years ago before they started on it and he had these two supplements it as it arbery used to like
the party we take out from that state of whatever you want in the that's what he how he would put it in the adansonia rope roll on i
believe it it was meant to like roll on to the ramdayal take owen your hanover and i started i ordered it and cause went when i was very
sluggish and all that from the sub for my addiction and just you know the whole muneas looking for anything on that that's why i started
using yet that they have one called new mood and felice oh i love new moon in all loving over yea yea a man they have so out a good stuff
all kinds of stuff i know remanet on that shock but or jack or on it dot coms lashed oclemero sent off too and if you want to hit up if you
want to get you on to keep her in anything from from jody you get him on twiner face book integram snapped chat he's all up in the game at
jody menaced an i t i and the joy minorcas will start being posted on i tunes if not to day then very short that's right to day being what
we saturday the schools up wondering to be listening less you don't know what people are milestones right you can just tell him listen
check out the jody minute put jonemi podcast lie till one be talkin about all kinds of cool stuff on there that's joni echo is at echo
charles and i am a jackal willing on all those things to joy got a closing words once again i just thank everybody you know this is a real
honor for me to share the same space as a somewhat as an incredible as you a jocund echo meeting you been a pleasure i guess it's ah my
continued to seek again eye i have a thing i called i seek knowledge in i'm seeking the knowledge to continue to grow as a human and learn
kecie to learn who i am and its experiences like this i make it that make it happen make it possible in just thanks man to is this is not
this been ospill again banks a coming on yourself and as i said before most importantly thank you for your service the world is a better
place for what you did in the army and for what you have done and are doing with your life it's an inspiration that everybody that here is
it and nose it and everybody else at out there listen all those troopers i tell you go to the same thing go follow the example set by jody
medic and so many other brave veterans and brave people in the world that face their demons whatever those demons are they face them and
overcome them and make the world a better place by making themselves better people so go out there make yourself better look that demon in
the eye and get after it and till next time this is echo and jodi and jacko out
