this is jacopo cast number twenty six with actors and me joaille oh for a voice like thunder and a tongue to drown the throat of war when
the senses are shaken and the soul is driven to madness okonsa when the souls of the oppressed fight in the troubled air that rages who can
stand when the war wound of fury comes from the throne of god when the frowns of his countenance drive the nations together who can stand
when in classes broad wings over the battle and sails rejoicing in the flood of death when souls are torn to everlasting fire and fiends of
hell rejoice upon the slain oh who can stand good evening ah good evening the rather is a little axe of a poem by kind william blake and i
paints war and a something so powerful so evil something superhuman in the full poem is really a statement against borne as it goes on and
it's not that much longer but it blames war on the politicians and on the king's and on the nobles and a plain war on the religious leaders
but he asked that question over and over again who can stand and i can actually answer that question absent on constans i seen people break
but i have seen many brave men and women on the battle field stand stand against fear and death and stand against its evil stand as sin
claps his broad wings over the battle and sails rejoicing in the flood of death and that's william blakes or his word is right in that in
the late seventeen hundreds and early eighteen hundred he had no idea how bad war would get and i'm not saying war is worse in terms of
individual horror but in terms of scale be can't be denied i mean would warm one in world war two the scale of horror it would be
incomprehensible to a man from blake time he is couldn't understand it so it's go did you six nineteen forty four as the demon spread his
wings over the beaches of normandy and man stood against his evil the english couentrie to drop the ramp a couple of hundred feet from the
shore when the sergeant ordered take us all the way in just then machine guns opened up and bullets tore through the wooden sides of the
landing craft wounding four or five men men be began screaming hope in the dam doors just as the ram went down there was a pause in the
incoming fire we excided vast diving into the water and holding on sergeant shown was lying next to me he was shot through the wrist i
crawled over to him and gave him first aid we just let the tide wash over the lower poor of our bodies using our finger nails to pull
forward danby inch to keep from drowning i looked back in our salt craft and both english sailors were dead they were heroes and paid the
price for getting us in they risked their safety to get us closer to shore private thomas mc carter was the first fate caldy in our sector
his cries to me for help still haunt me waited down possibly wounded he frantically struggled in the water as he cried my name but i
couldn't get to him he was drilled into us that we must push forward to the objective and tell at the medic take care of the wounded we
were subjected to grazing fire from chris casting fire from machine guns i believe at the time that it would be better for me to push
forward since tom was quite far away these machine guns kept firing until he got to the sea wall tom was my friend and i should have tried
to save them i took individual riflemen using grenades satchel charges and bayonets to neutralize the almost impregnable concrete bunkers i
didn't see any rangers until later in my opinion the air force and navy made it possible for us to hang on until we enforcements and more
equipment arrived they also kept the germans from mounting on lord counter attack but you know it boils down to the bloody foot soldier and
his rifle to hold on to the real estate not right there was private first class randolph a gemman company d hundred and sixteen infantry
twenty seven years old deep a twenty seven years old on d day a mortar gunner now we're going to hear from private first class george a coe
company d hundred and sixteen infantry six hundred yards from the shore be english coin lost his nerve and slowed the engine this improved
the germans opportunity hid on boat captain shilling was looking through the vision slit looked back at the sailor and said you're not
going to drop that ramper technical sergeant stout was standing next to the captain suddenly unadept millimeter hit the ramp directly
blowing captain shilling blackward killing him instantly part of the rampantin his left eye knocking it out with john seco vic common and
you gene adrian we finally made it to the sea wall how i'll never know it was the worst fire i was ever subjected to in all of my combat
now we've got private first class robert l sails company b hundred sixteen ten pantry joined the virginia national guard and a fifteen
about one hundred yards from the shore the english carson said he couldn't get us any closer as the ramp lower enemy machine gun to opened
up firing directly into our boat like all great leaders captains at was the first off the boat and the first one to get hit stassart dick
right was second and also hit falling into the water a medic was third and i didn't see what happened to him i was forced i caught my heel
in the ramp and fell sideways out of the path of that gory two undoubtedly saving my life all of the men that followed were either killed
by germans or drowned no one for my craft was ever found alive the captain screamed i met i tried to get to him but he was lost in the surf
men were all round me in the water bleeding from wounds and screaming for help i knew the boat was a target so i got away from his fast as
i could one of the first things i did was shed my s s r three hundred radio and my assault jacket that radio was heavy and i suppose is
still at the bottom of the channel mordantly shells were landing all round and one had so close that it knocked me groggy luckily a long
floated by with an unexploded taller mind still attached i grabbed hold of it until my head cleared a bit i remain behind that log pushing
in an frontem using it as a shield as i reached dry until i reached dry land the first person i saw on the beach that i recognized was dick
right he hollered over to me that he was badly hit i watched him trying to raise his arms but a sniper spotted him and shot him through the
head his face fell into the sand never to move again i didn't try to go to him because i knew he was dead while pine down all that beach i
watched in coming landing craft being shot at one of them carried the battalion searchin captain robert b were a man i knew from my home
town of madison heights were gina the doctor had flaming red hair i watched him as he disembarked the landing craft and that machine gun
opened up cutting him down when i will never forget weissenstein fly off his head and showing all that red hair i crawled on my belly using
the dead and wounded as a shield some time later i saw max mith from shepherdstown west virginia and some other pepompa men taking shelter
behind a sea wall some of them were badly wounded i bended smith's eye that was lying out of his face i kept crawling back to the water's
edge dragging men out if they were still living i didn't bother if they were dead i pulled quite a few to safety one of the medics helped
to give first aid and comfort to the wounded a first enemy soldier i saw was a prisoner interrogators had is had him on his knees and his
hands were locked behind his head he didn't look so tough to me but those guys up on the cliffs were plenty tough you can't imagine how
help as it was to be lying on that beach and those machine guns and snipers shooting anything that moved at this point we were not surely
invasion would succeed our company was shot up so badly that there was no organization or communication from other sectors to tell us how
they were doing if all the landings ones were as helpless as we were the invasion was in jeopardy we felt helpless and the lone we had many
acts of heroism from become men with many of them unreported lieutenant william b williams single handedly with handgrenade and a rifle
charge and subdued a pill box sergeant william pierce and odell page survived the landing better than we did and were able to take a few
men up to those rocks and cliffs and fighted out with the germans it was touching go for quite some time in our sector not until saint lo
fell in july that we know for sure that the invasion was a success de day was indeed the longest day but there were many many long days
after that day after bloody day it was jumping over those hedgerows and men getting killed we lost him very good man every single day saint
low was about twenty five miles from the beach and it was liberated on july eteth when saint lo fell we felt confident that we were in
france to stay surviving the war was another story so those were some excerpts right there from a book by john roberts slaughter the book
is called omaha beach and beyond the long march of sergeant bob slaughter and was exerted i just read they weren't bob father they were
various other people at work with him that he went back in the interview this is another guy born in tennessee grew up and roanoke virginia
enlisted in the army reserves at age fifteen it as he's given an introot book here this is what he says i remember bodies within my spent
passes to london man i played cards with a couple of days before the landing who signed their hardigras on my eyes an hour de day missive
who shook hands with me on the javelins deck young man young man as i was all killed during the largest air land and sea battle ever fought
many more were maimed and never seen again how could i forget this epic of vent even if i fail to recall the proper names and faces memoirs
are not history but history is some one's recorded memory most of us remember noble and heroic deeds but conveniently forget or fail to
record the less than noble i am no different many times i did and saw things that are best forgotten or left on written war brings out the
best and the worst in most of us the nazis were accused of killing raping pillaging and burning a few nor side were also guilty of these
crimes soldiers on both sides and luted for souvenirs as did i and yet cruel treatment of the enemy was an unusual occurrence i myself am
proud to say that i won't save an enemy soldiers life this book will attempt to show that ordinary men and women can do extraordinary feat
if they believe the cause is great many g g eyes had said that they were merely fighting for each other true but i maintain another factor
plate in more important role and it can be some up with one word pride regardless of their motives i saw very few cowards in the hundred
and sixteenth infantry regiment may god bless the many many more heroes yea this is one of those books where i'm don't have a lot to add in
some of these situations now bob slaughters his nickname slaughter and when he got to england they actually took him in a bunch of other
soldiers and they formed a into a new unit all the twenty ninth rangers and they trained these guise all drag they did all kinds of stuff
for eleven months getting ready for the invasion these these twenty ninth rangers the marching and mountain climbing in a crazy obstacle
course they trained in unarmed combat they did log bet old weather training in just growing training and at the end of all that horse
training for a number of reasons they actually disbanded this group and they sent them all back with their regular units so they get a
group of guys that got trained super hard you know like what we would consider a modern so a special operation selection course they went
through that but then when they got done with his training and they were getting ready for the actual invasion they took him dispersed them
amongst the regular troops and the guide that rand this training for the twenty ninth rangers was a gandemar mill holland funny sent a
letter to his daughter and this is woody rode in a this is after these guys got to bandon he said every boy should be made to play football
and box and participate in all kinds of athletic and above all the american should be taught disciplined and decent living then he should
be given a year of the toughest kind of military training not the kind that we know but the kind i gave my rangers god i wish i had those
boys now we would tear the german stringy i hear of the i hear of those boys now and then and avolare almost all gone now they have done
unbelievable things in our spoken of almost in a tone of reverence by officers and men alike who have fought with them they were men train
and train are and learn about discipline be parents out there ditchou kids training sports decent living that's a you make men now fast
forwarding pushey went back to the regular army units and the totterin him prepared for the invasion planned bob slaughters assigned
company hundred and sixteen ten fature twenty ninth infantry division and on fast forward in right now straight to de day straight his
perception of de day and on it was like for him you know this is all that training that these guys have been through in an none of em had
been to combat before so this is it there are first operation he is dayday and this is what it's like back to the book about a hundred and
fifty yards from the shore despite the warning from some one behind me to keep your head down i cautiously peeped up i could see that craft
that the craft about twenty five yards to a right and a couple of hundred yards ahead were targeted by small arms fiery tree ecraser
bullets skipped off skipped and bounced off the ramp and sides as they zeroed in before the ramps fell i said that any one close enough to
hear above the bed bum men we are going to catch hell be ready then it began to happen and me are tillery and more shell sing great poms of
water spouting skyward as they exploded in more in the water near missus rain does with sea water i suddenly became very worried about what
jerry would do to us how in the hell that those sons of bitches survived what we fought with carpet barming and unshelling of the beach at
slattin sands we trained with wide explosions but these were far more frightening this time they were shooting to kill every one of us the
craft slowed as we scraped the supper sand bar which kept us from a dry landing even wanted to get the hell off that rocking boat but the
cocked trouble dropping the steel ramp when it finally slammed and splashed down the front of the boat began to buck like a wild stallion
raising six or seven feet turning slightly sat sideways and then slamming down again the first man went to exit off about mid ramp the
craft surged forward and crushed the foot poor fellow to death so i jumped off and moved away from the crazy erratic land and craft luckily
i didn't see anyone else get hit by the ramp i was now struggling in water up to my arm pits luckily for me at six foot five most of the
time my head was above water later as i crossed the beach my height would be a detriment making me a larger target meanwhile as i tried to
get to shore shorter men grabbed my clothing to keep their heads above water suddenly as fear replace the sickness i was no longer cold
most of all i feared i would drown after being shot snipers hiding in the bluffs hit quite a few men but most of the damage came from rapid
firing automatic weapons in every war and gun powder was invented soldiers of experience that dreaded feeling of being under live enemy
fire for the first time it was demoralizing to hear good men stream as bullets ripped into soft flesh and others scream as the fierce
flooding tide dragged a nonwinner i remember helping private earnest macanas who was struggling to get closer in he still had one of the
precious boxes of thirty calbassia amo i remember him shouting to me slaughter are we going to get through all this i didn't know how to
answer him so i didn't say anything to tell the truth i thought we were all going to die a body with its life preferred as erving flated
floated by the face had turned already turned a dark purple at first i thought it was private richard gomastha had a dark complexion but i
later found out that goes it survived a day the fellow i saw was just one of thousands who died there is no way to be sure if i had known
him many of our company were hit in the water and drowned good swimmers are not i came ashore surrounded by the screams of men who had been
hit and were drowning under their ponderous loads all around me dead men floated in the water along with live men who acted as if they were
dead the germans couldn't tell which was with the flooding tide washed every one in lying at the edge of the high water mark i watched a gi
trying to cross the beach he had a hard time running i believe he was from the craft to our right an enemy gutter cut him down and he
staggered and fell to the sand i can still hear the screaming a well marked medical corman moved quickly to help him he was also shot i'll
never forget seeing that medic lying next to that dying soldier both screaming for help within minutes as i watched both men fell silent
and mercifully died i saw men valet at the sickening sights and others catchy openly in one shame idly all of us had to find it within
ourselves to get across that sandy no man's land this is where the army strict discipline and rigorous training took over individual pride
at a lot to do with it too what an unbelievable first combat experience for these guys and in which they think about that that image of
ernother a couple of hundred meters off shore may be two or three hundred meters off shore in your looking two hundred meters ahead of you
and you're starting see tracers impact on this boat that you know your next you know your next there's no turning back there's the dizzy
only then you can do there's nothing to stop it did you he saw saving private ran in a set levies so oh i mean to me than they did a good
job in capturing nationaler ones like it's like real tanical slowly start to here the pond the way it kind of bills and builds and how he
otites man it's like the most fisette time is one of the most real feeling of movies you know india other than they did an outstanding job
and they did not stand in job of that opening scene is just so crazy like to hear the real account right and then kind o compare it and you
know when you watch the movie like taing that's crazy that's cause you're kind in involved in the movie but when you think more n you like
darkness this really happened this is what really happened yet and and also the ominously the actors do a good job of portraying what's
going on in their minds and but does it what was going on a visit at was thinking you know he them stephen tilburg put those guise through
these harsh condition rise during that you know so they'd kind o a little hollywood boot care her but even while they were filming it you
know the kind of help capture oh i mean obviously it's done you can't compare it to the real delay nor obanjo it added yet and the first
time i saw that seni was ah i was enacted i i was i was definitely impacted in the and i i remember em i wasn't with my guys in remote they
were on and off there on a really ah pelacios situation and they were in a in a branly fighting vehicle and as they were going on to target
they they were here round it the outside of the rabbis they were yet as the ramp was about to go down and actually i think i i can't
remember this a hundred per cent but i'm pretty sure that the the young officer in that vehicle i remember him tell me i remember tell me
about he was like dam but he said he was screaming don't put the ram down that just leave it up don't whoreson at and their very couldn't
hear him so they put the ramorny ways it atindao not yeah so back to the book after i fired my montaigne to clean it i slipped out of my
assault jacket and spread my raincoat only discover bullet holes in my pack and coat suddenly overwhelmed with fear i became weak in the
knees my hand shook as i tried to wipe sand for my weapon i had to catch my breath and compose myself by mid morning we had worked out
worked our way to the base of the hill men from other units began to gather the regimental commander colonel charles de w cannon appeared
from down beach with his right arm in a sling and clutched clutching a colt forty five semiautomatic pistol in his bony left hand can om
didn't look like a soldier but he serves hell was one he was tall and thin ware wire rimmed glasses and had a pencil thin mustache yelled
for the officers and non coms to help him get the men across the beach and up the hill get these men the how of this god dam beach go kill
some god game crowds in a near by a pill box a young lieutenant colonel taking refuge from the enemy mortal rage yelled out to canon
colonel you'd better take cover you're going to get killed colonel cannon screamed his reply get your ass out of there and out me get these
men off this beach the officer did what can i or good so now we got somebody leading the serious leader edin the book slaughter put the
memorandum from cannon that can erotometer idea so i'm going to read that tonnie may nineteen forty four memorandum to the members of set
one sixteen reinforced to be read by commanders to all personal prior to embarkation on the long awaited day is near and prior to
embarkation i want to wish each of you the best of luck in your forthcoming adventure there is one certain way to get the enemy out of
action and that is to kill him waris not child's play and requires hatred for the enemy at this time we don't have it i hope you get it
when you see your friends wounded and killed two learned to take care of yourself from the start remember the honestest intelligent fighter
and will not have mercy on you don't have it on him he will try to out with you beyond the alert free fighting a war is the same as any
athletic event only war is for keeps it is you or the enemy team work is the essence of success we have the tools the best in the world and
is up to you to see that they are used properly for remember when you run into the enemy contain him with the minimum the stop him then
move around him and strike him in the flank or the rear in all your contact with him be roofless always drive hard the hun doesn't like
yankee driving guts showing that you have plenty if you close with him use your bayonet shone you can take it and this it out don't be
caught napping don't let your yankee curiosity get you blown up by a booby trap or a mine five take care of your arms and equipment
conserve your ammunition make every shot count keep your weapons cleaned and oiled their proper functioning at the right time may mean your
life every soldier must realize the importance of supply discipline and see that he himself does his part in conserving supplies more than
one battle has been lost because munitions and other supplies were not available six do not you eat your a and d rations prior to de day
deep less one day you won't get any more until deep less to seven the navy and air will give us plenty of support general montgomery was
very optimistic in his talk to ye officers yesterday at this deat this time no one knows how much resistance we will meet on de day we may
be able to walk in without trouble we may have to fight for your life to meet the worst and make up your minds now that you're going
forward regardless and it is a one way ticket we are not giving any ground at any time and we are not leaving until the job is done to each
one of you happy landings and come off those craft fight like hell can lay it out definitely lays it out i think those guys i think those
guys couldn't have couldn't heard any better information keep clean keep disappointed be ready flank the enemy always hear that frankline
you sir now these guys are in kanovan holding position they they've kind o secured some petunia beach in a little bit of a high ground and
now going back to the book we began to think about the fending against the expected counter fact that we were told would take place in less
than twenty four hours the bulstrode fences we took turns making special trips back to the still dangerous beach in order to find more
automatic weapons ammo and supplies when it was my turn to go down i was horrified at what i saw the d briesen beach was of disaster the
incoming flooding tide brought with it the bodies of hundreds of our proud regiment scores of our men with blood stained shirt rolled in
the surf among helmets of salt jackets gas masks and in one rifles at the edge of the water i saw burning landing craft that had been
trying to deposit a sherman take down a ramp the tank was also burning in abandoned from our perspective the battle looked hopeless you
know that something that i the he said that a couple of times he didn't think they were going to win you don't despite what can ometer not
going to give up any ground will get what i don't know if we're going to be the whole disgruntlement all die here and yet all these men
pressed on here's a little here's a little look at the german attitude right here i saw a regimental intelligence officer armed with a
carbine interrogating a german prisoner the prison was on his knees with his hands behind his head he was rather small and frail looking i
was surprised to see he was not wearing the usual square shaped a battle helmet instead he wore a gray build cap the lieutenant asked the
prisoner among other things where the mine fields were the soldier answered only you revecce the geneva convention requirement of name rank
and serial number we've been instructed not to take prisoners for the first two or three days so i expected the officer to eventually shoot
the prisoner again the interrogator screamed where are the damned mine fields again he received the same reply name rank and serial number
the lieutenant corbin barked but the bullet was aimed at the ground between the prisoner's knees the arrogant german looked straight at the
officer and said with a smart neater not here he pointed between his knees here he pointed to his head this told me something about her
adversary so you had i mean you you won't we we we know that people will fight to the death we know that they get brainwashing won you look
at any instructions like a young kid probably raised from the young very young age as a note as a loyal note just like the japanese that
fault the death that's what we have here in many cases back to the book combat deaths are ugly and sickening a bullet or piece of red hot
shrapnel tears flash gristle and bone into grosmond a few hours in the sun causes a body to swell grotesquely and turned dark purple the
stenches unbearable such deaths were tragic insult to all those handsome young gees just beginning their lives who would not fulfil their
dreams many of those killed were like me barely penates when they enlisted just starting to grow to maturity in the army both comrades and
i spent many happy weakens and furlos together soaking up culture and drinking bitters shared living quarters ready others mail and more
significantly shared the misery of training in the most extreme of elements the hundred and sixteenth infantry lost from eight hundred to
one thousand men on d day and de company lost at least seventy two of the dead to one them were from my home town of roanoke five of nine
of her officers were killed coudiat walter shilling lieutenant william gardner ten at merlin's be tenanting an lawit and the tenant alden
ashley there were twelve non coms killed including these roanokes sergeant james open shame staff sergeant james l right sergeant rustled
jack ingram and sergeant george d johnson corporal jack sims add to the list of the dead twenty three privates and another thirty two did
many of them severely and yet our nightmare just begun brute absolutely brutal and i i wanted to ratoffs names of all those people from the
home town you would we see a soldier or marine or sailor get killed now theseus to a town see out of impact of town imagine to wonty from
one little home town they moved past the initial de day that now they start to head to saint low and this is where you heard about before
if you know anything about history notour about this part of the war this is when they get to head drew country and their fighting from
head rode had deleted rose you know these dane ship i just don't not structures there head is but their completely difficult to get through
heaveth ough im a drive through with tanker and they hold up and every one of these hedgerows becomes like a many battle then their
brutalities back to the book the sight of another terrible death that occurred at this time haunts my dreams to this day my squadron i were
digging a machine gun emplacement behind a scrubby head drive we'd just finished fixing the camp of foes when i happened to see a junior
officer with field glasses scanning the front i could tell he was a new r arrived for placement his uniform and equipment were relatively
new and unworn the sharp report of an eighty eight millimeter fired from some somewhere near by and sent me diving at the same time the
high explosive missile hit the lieutenant upper thurso the second squad and i were splattered with gore as the spotter was blown backward
minus his head number two gunner private first class saw arguri vomited and i nearly did to the dreaded german sniper was almost as highly
respected as the eighty eight sharper shooters gave no warning taking careful aim with a sniperscope mausers the receiving end would hear
the sharp crack and instantaneous wind of the bullet if you heard the report of the bullet leaving the muzzle it wasn't for you german
snipers nearly always aimed for the head if it was visible and in range most infantry men never removed their helmets except when they
shaved and i confess that i slept in mind the antmires easily pass through the helmet through the head and at the other side with enough
energy left to do more damage i saw men get a hit byten the eyes or just above the years which killed them instantly if the bullet missed
the helmet the entry he hole was usually neat and showed only a small trickle of blood ponatur the steel jacket bullet hit the helmet or
the skull the bullet flatened causing the wound to shatter the other side of the head away the sarracen more fire he jumped for cover and
then back to the book i climbed back on the path shaken but on skates within minutes i had another surprise as i approached an opening on
the right side of the head draw i heard some one moaning crawling carefully through the opening i came face to face with a young german
paratrooper who had been hit by a large chunk of shrapnel yet a very serious upper five wound and his left trouser leg was bloody and torn
this is my first and counter with the enemy up close the german paratroopers a fierce and fanatical warrior easily distinguishable by his
round helmet and baggy smock my first reaction was to put him out of his misery and keep going i believe he knew what i was thinking he
begged tearfully comrade bite comensi please he was impressive looking young soldier about nineteen years old my age he was as filthy as i
was with long brown stringy hair and always thought most german soldiers had short blonder the adage build about five feet tenentia about a
hundred eighty pounds and a handsome face i suspended the promise i had made it the beach about not taking any prison prisoners i thought
this that was then and this is now i just couldn't shoot a wounded human being at point blank range i made sure he didn't have a weapon
hidden on him then i tied his belt around his upper five which stopped the blood from gush i gently swabbed at dirrum his wound and applied
soopler his wine turned to a forced grin he was in pain so i gave him a shot a more fiend and a drink of water from my canteen then i let
him have one of my lucky strikes cigarettes and lit it for him as i left he smiled weakly and said in gutter o broken english danca god
bless good luck that changed my thinking about taking prisoners i still hated the enemy but i couldn't kill one a close a range especially
if his hands were up i sent one of our medics to finish what i have started i hope the german would recover and that is war was over that's
compassionate human being right there he doesn't intend in a way put in the prospective but more shedlike shed light on potentially that
the overall attitude where your fighting a war and the enemy is more this entity of an enemy you know it's not like humane kicked disguised
i mean i'm sure it's like the something out personal yeh yeh in you as in the military we still do this there goin to de human eye the
enemy as much as they can to make it easier for you to kill them yes that's why you call him a crowd that's why you call em dink at's why
you call whatever the slang you don't which would now be all be considered racial terms or or politically incorrect terms there is a reason
that trying to be human eyes these other people the tribe humanize the enemy so that you can more easily kill them and when you come face
to face with them all to a sudden they become human ain't that crazy though like the this whole railing holt is probably the crazy thing
imaginable for this guy he comes face to face with the guy that that you know can i in between the bullet so to speak of and he's face to
face with this person and then really what the whole we experience was reduced to and that moment was his one person healthier person you
know and then even an impacted both of them obviously you know where the guy was like hegoes almost like came and were in this war i dig
almost like a football game or something like a man i dig it met a wataire teams a good luck he told him good luck in a war so an it's me
that that whole human factor on when you're exposed to it even with the enemy tangaloa be strong o ye definitely definitely can be any
would in world war one me there is time we beissel famous there was times where they got out of the trenches and played soccer on christmas
day against each other or a and the next day go back to slaughterous feel in in this weird way that must feel so good you know to be like
like you don't like your gun that like when you're a kid or even of the adult when you get in a like an argument with some one real bad may
be your friend or or or not whatever you get a real bad argument with him and on anolidae to or we got an o whatever it's real bad and at
the end you guys make up and you go to lake back friends again it's almost like maitsaca good feeling they be because of the contrast or i
don't know maybe because no but it's like it has a aveline that kind of feeling when you're in this crazy war you're like i hate this
somuch hatred and jorgesens is there's plenty of guys in here plenty of german accounts drive there without a second but one jettha dan
moment and may be of that guy would a looked a little bit different and were active little bit different untightened more quick like faster
or something on nitetis down just for that second and and kerioth right now what happened later the next people that came to the medic
might have gone over and said wait you sent me over it to work on the german eh becod happen to you just now i know now for it he started
getting crushed with some artillery back to the book jerry pounded the hundred and sixteenth all day and two nights with black buster
hundred fifty five millimeter and andron five millimeter artillery near missus causing concussion to make our ears ring and her head ache
the pounding round of salvator salvo earth shag shaking our chillery were relentless and frightening during them a bargain i share a long
shallow slit runs with one of my first decuman replacements private louis cast from chevy chase maryland we nicknamed him junior early one
because of his boy er looks and demeanour junior was from an affluent family and had volunteered into the army upon graduation from high
school he didn't look like the type that could last very long in bodletonbrae our slitten was covered with wooden sheathing and topped with
a roof of piled dirt like thousands of other infantry soldiers subjected to such heavy bombardment junior an i were a paneful sight fine
yellow dust sifted through the cracks and the roof and stuck to our sweaty skin and eyes if the dust of the ten black we would have looked
like very tired coal miners the yellow dust turned a mud around our swollen bloodshot eyes when nature called we had to answer in the
safety horsleach lying down all the training and experience in the world could not have prepared us for this kind of harassment those box
are box car sized shells sounded like they were fit flopping and over and in screeching straight for our hole this went on hour after hour
all day and through the night many good soldiers cracked and who could blame them the long bout of duty had been taking their toll he was
extremely rare for the infante to go on the stage for very long many twenty nine ers were wounded to three or four times fighting through
the hedge rows of normandy all of us were praying for the million dollar wound which missed biloos bone and nerves but would give us a long
stay in an english hospital sleeping under clean white sheets and at least in fantasy in the care of a beautiful nurse meanwhile battle
fatigue and self inflicted wounds had become serious problems at least once nearly all combat soldiers if they are honest consider shooting
themselves in order to get out of the hell of battle self inflicted wounds however are considered disgraceful and if proven a court martial
offense nevertheless many respectable chia and wounded in action were in reality self inflicted or friendly fire accidents so we absom a
mass of stress stress that driving men to shoot themselves yet another mention of the million dollar monteselice the the ticket out in any
saying at least once nearly all combat soldiers if they are honest consider shooting themselves in order to get out of the hell abate back
to the book land minds and boredoms were also common ways to be wounded or killed hearing the news of who got hit was always hard and every
day new faces replaced seasoned infantry men it was easy to distinguish a new arrival from a veteran the old timer could be eighteen or
nineteen years old but if he had survived a week on the fun he was considered old and we all looked yet on a dye of caracas we all lost
weight or ribs shoulder blades and adams apples stuck out and are filthy ragged uniforms hung like worn out drapes her eyes were blood red
and sunken and we had bleeding sores on our exposed skin ordinary ordinarily lest be tell tale signs that a man needs a month's rest but we
all knew there would be no rest until saint low was taken knowing that there was no immediate end in sight drove some fellows over the edge
a few good soldiers who couldn't take the pounding day after day committed through aside this was the case of stanley course each a
nineteen year old private born and raised in chicago he was a top athletic little soldier he made the debate landings in it fought well
from the hedge rose but every one has a breaking point his squad reported that stand who had seen many of his close friends killed or
severely wounded had begun to act strangely strangely he cried often especially during incoming artillery braes and sometimes his crying
reached the point of hysteria instead of the usual disciplinary action for similar behavior he was sent back to the kitchen area for a
break from the action many of us thought that a few days rest a couple of hotels and a warm bath might rehabilitate him but he was in more
pain than any of us had realized why couldn't we see that he had reached his limit private course heat found a cook springfield oath three
rifle removed his shoes so he could pull the trigger and blew the top of his head off one of the cook heard the shot and ran to his tent
stand the course yekadat enough of the constant fear the filthy grime that ear shattering explosions the future smells the excruciating
pain and the maiming and death of his close friends stand course each died on july second the record book shows he was killed a non battle
casualty in my book private course died an american hero sir we got a now that this demon that would deal in with now has been around for a
long time and to know that's a class a situation where is death stand course teff is reported as a non battle casualty which we as no one
labeled in the suicide which means how many people do that happen to and it was never captured it wasn't reported answer now we never dealt
with it in if you don't deal with things you don't capture the lessons learn if you don't recognize these things how can a fix them as bob
slaughter pointed out it was almost impossible for one of these guys to go dafter dafter day and not get wounded and he ended up getting
wonted got shrapnel fragen his back gets pulled off the battle field luckily then sent to an english hospital then here's got says about
that it is one thing to visit a war time army hospital but something quite different and much worse to be a patient in one vol makers would
consider armed conflicts more carefully before rattling the peveril saber if they were forced to visit an amputee abdominal burn or plastic
surgery ward year that law makers before you send a boys off to war uneeda spend some time in a hospital with wounded vats and make damn
sure decision that you're making back to the book i recovered in a war dedicated to abdominal wound abdominal wound patience a bullet or a
piece of metal trappon turin the stomach can cause a lifetime of embarrassment and misery the aftermath of a god is either deaf or eternal
marriage to a calosomes the stanchion was predictable it was tough to share quarters with seriously wounded patients at night the moaning
and groaning and sometimes screaming made it hard to sleep many of the men there died i remember one particularly sad boss swarthy tony
from brooklyn was the third floor clown the ship nurses fell in love with him because he kept the ward laughing with his teasing and
practical jokes one night is cherished laughter came to an awful end on a saturday night with a skeleton crew on duty tony began to be
complain of a sharp pain to the gut a farnese was paged and after several tries she arrived by that time tony was screaming as to orderly
quickly wheeled him in emergency room two hours later tony was dead of gen green poisoning facial district facial disfigurement was
terrible and more devastating to the patient in any other kind of wound a few men had lost arms or legs either partly completely and as a
result some of them became so called basket cases even so and it sad to say some severely maimed men were actually happy about their
condition because they were going home their combat days were over so the war ends and actually bobster does go back he recovers from his
wounds she goes back he's there for the allied victory and that's a another distant attic story of how that all happens and then he was out
of the out of the army then this is what that feels like back to the book on july thirteenth nineteen forty five i was suddenly separated
from the service discharged at fort meade maryland with a few dollars in my pocket and the cake uniform on my back i was suffering mental
as well as physical wounds but there was no one to counsel me i was a civilian again but i was not comfortable socializing with other
civilians i was twenty years old with an eleventh grade education and no skills other than soldiering i was left alone to find my way home
to row no creina there was no treatment for post thematic stress in rome it was simply called battle fatigue those of us who had returned
from the war were left to tug it out the years rolled by our hair gray and thinned waistlines grew and many of our company associates
developed health problems our generation smoke cigarettes and drink hard liquor many varman who had a high halfway around the world became
sedentary we like to exercise we travelled to the beach and went to swimming pool thinking that sunshine was good for the skin many were
disabled by wounds drank and smoked too much and died prematurely the war still took its toll long after it was over rarely did any one
talk about the war the mede or silent or children uninterested and we ourselves sought to forget i got married raised two sons and went to
work for a mid size newspaper and amid sized community i found time to acquire a modicum of education coach little leap base ball and was
grateful to live a normal american life to many of my army bodies failed to reach their twenty fifth birthday and many of those who did
were never the same after what they had been through they just couldn't adjust to the real world many of them fell prey to alcohol loose
women radical religion or isolation anything to help them get through each day month and year seven of our de company men committed suicide
compared to those and thousands more i have been blessed in some ways writing this book a process the estate in me almost fifteen years has
been the last leg of the journey i realised that i speak for many who never had the chance to speak for themselves and i have done my best
to pay them tribute my hope is that this memoir in however small a way will perpetuate their memory and stand as a witness to their
sacrifices its sadness and worries me that so much of the world including america itself refuses to learn the hard lessons of the past now
that i am in my eighties i am well aware that the long march that begin so many years ago is about to come to a halt i rowed to say that my
generation help save the world from tyranny prevent the extension of an entire group of people and preserve the democratic freedoms of our
wonderful american way of life i wouldn't change a thing except to wish that my dear army bodies could be here too and john robert bob
slaughter died on may twenty ninth two thousand twelve and william blake the poet you ask who can stand and i will tell you it is men like
bob slaughter that stand and it's men like him that encourage me then tell me in no uncertain terms that we are capable of more we can do
more we can be more we can stand not much to say after that one a o no sir not much to say yet i can inobviously i can't help ridicule you
know then and a lot of these ah you don't all go through these books its men its crazy how much it puts into perspective you know we
everyone knows about well wore two everyone know on need'st people we know about where we're do we know about the wars but that we don't
really know about the war you know we no bout to to detail that we do know about individuates which really is that that's what makes the
horse yes and we don't know anything about that and which are resting i this book was recommended to me from from twitter one of the true
result there and so we have banterers right and everybody knows baderoon everybody but most people more people no banderets cause it was a
book made was a big age be movie and it was it was awesome um this book is less well known but what you have to know is that there's
thousands and thousands of stories that we don't know and we will never know and some of them will try to know but there's so many stories
that we will never know i that moment in combat when this guy tried to save that guy and they both did something completely heroine both
died an we never will know now so we have to cherish what we can find out what we can learn but there just so much there and so much
sacrifice that was made and as i always say water we do me right now to honor that sacrifice more that's that we need to do more agree in
with that to make a let's make the hard transition once again run your e the rough transition to the tebron questions is speaking of inter
et inter webs on it not come last jocko is where you can get ten per cent off of the spectacular supplements namely rill in trumet a what
about how fabroni not furtherer that you must have been on alpagatas you an i just do yourself that favor and get some of those war were
you or what else so if yer in the moiapur this podcast before you shapton amazon click on the amazonian on josaphat a home or jocatore come
sometimes you pull have been saying ah there's a problem with the link like you know it not working whatever um she some browsers have ad
dockered ad lockers activated on it got it so to sable to adlocare that page and you can do it and i'm still working on the canada one out
don't know if we can even do the canadian and he cable iwami through this the jackal store or jackpots calm and before you do your amazon
shopping and get sport that way or get a shirt or coffee monk or a bumper sticker from jocatore dot com and we we weren't keeping it a
secret or nothing but we do have a new shirt out o we do now the darkness to briar elesa well i know that too i know that this part cast
can get a little bit dark from time to time yet cause you know how like your your reason am one of your regional things was you know you go
through life and certain people all they see is is the good things so they get kind o descends the tied to like the rhethal little good
things in life you know so when you when you and that's really everything anyway where in a when you there's no tall people if every one's
the same size so you kind of got to know both you know they are both short and all now i've said it many guns in a i think i thatirical i
think i originally set it on the temperish it on said he said something along one of like hay joco i've struggled with depression how close
would you get to the darkness re reight good o talkin about some dark things and i said well to him if you really want to know the light
and you got another darkness right so in a god made a t shirt about the darkness it just does not land here the thing i can add another
dimension to it it's it's all black it's black up black see see kit you know to eldara you can kind of see a shaitan new shirt new shirt up
if you want that one um yes baron is less get to some potion i only interweb first question jocko what is your relationship to surfing
could you sure on active duty and what is surfing do for you o ay so my relationship with serving number one i was lucky to have a guy that
when i was a kid up in maine that said he montecito surf this cow was a life guard he was a battening sir for in he said in a tahoser and i
was tell you old kid idiotizing cold water and i should yet awesome then till he gave me not sir for an put me out there and told me on a
surf on i was ten years old but i definitely to you surfing up a man is a little bit different because it's dark and it's cold and you got
to do littleton you want to enjoy the benefits of it you got to know the darkness of a assaying about the tistarstar ye kaiou didn't have
to deal with that is so so that's how i got it surfing and serving you a lot of people will tell you when you when you do it it's it's
somewhat addictive because it's a very a very you don't kind of paradoxical thinks it's very relaxing at the same time it's very kind of
exciting addresses the word you get a little a jouneau you get a little eloout too so it's a very fun thing to do good for you to good for
your brain it's good for the soul or mind when i was on activity you're an action is eltham ye you can serve and i definitely serve
sometimes more more i was more focused on serving than others when i really went b j j crazy i wasn't doing anything else with any free
time other than digitus that's but yeah there's guys theseus in the siem's that that actually manipulate their career around surfing get
station and going trips to great serposin and all that now some cadem pretty amazing surfers in the selenite militaris will but i mean i
only know about guys until the theresine ivanta whose whose dad was buzzy train of famous old pioneer sir for in hawaii in ivan trenwith's
a picture when i first got the seal teams it was a picture of ivan tread dropping in a lucian wave that would be a bay the famous will be a
bay so there's some great servers to definitely a little sub culture inside the teams and and you could definitely you can definitely sure
a lot then coming you your living in san diego or virgin you beach i mean fernie be has waves sometimes sandie go has wattaloo the times in
what is it do for me well one thing is it gets get you outside to get me outside and get you out into nature and what i like about nature
nature what i like about nature is nature makes you feel small that's what nature to me that's what's good about nature that's what that's
why nature puts things in perspective because nature makes you feel small mayor realize you know what lot it ocean i nothing looked the
giant wilderness a man i'm nothing so just keep you in check and keep keep you in perspective as one of the etsectly one of things that the
pity only thing i don't like about you yet to his party much the most part and its inside it's a inside the gym on the map and so you know
you can do it outside but if it's hard to aviditas et super hot ye it's just not it's just a thousand times more efficient in conveyance
it's not well outside and aveling natascott do sometimes and out my old house i had but like a full outdoor dugiria which was cool and had
a shade structure of roscoe's good but you have to have something to that extent before he's not like you can just do you just outside and
give it you can do it it's but its novel and wungoolay do it in grass you get the grass it is ye for some reason i don't know what it is
when you do you do do gratiolet even that's kind of knot you kahili this is more when you're younger n you know when you first learned you
gito yemmen do you give your everaert and everything i when you're a blue bella and i heroner initiate feelin and your so i think i think
with other people um you do some people obviously not by the ocean but you don't anything outside running hiking biking swimming ye do
leeve in plain out or sports i soccer and shoot basketball outside this whatever do get outside just get outside get out the air feel it
and all one more thing about gegenseitig there's a little connection hers a little connection between gegenseitig i don't know what it is
and i do you know what it is well boteler well for you know you got like even cellelager whose you know more dissident time twelve time
champion of the world an surfing he does jogi you got guys like joe totototo j t if yo don't know go too is he is a just a legendary long
board surfer and actually from san diego so we kick it with j t from time to time and actually see him on a regular basis at that the long
porterites cause both in his kitten my kids or in the law all the long boards but joe jolted whose whose literally one of the most themany
people considering to be the best long porture for of all time one day of all time yet you even know he is againe who he baltie i didn't
know that at a you have believe it i am an i'm not goin to make that declaration cause than a million people will say not this galathee as
many there are many people in the world who considered jolter to be the best long vocero all time i met i met altitude injuistice come in
and you there are the canons i harrowing these good edgehill cool he was like a brown belt at the time and run and he's really good at you
just to hiokatoo joe and i see him during the day or like malagene come to dead rolliadae the new a cold go to der has this kind of guy who
smaller than me were they and he's better than me cool cooler one day you know who told me go to kew was a bad along border he kaketaka he
isaotta or again he probationers for the earth yet and and and not as he so aleta surfing he's gittin to aries so jours won and then you
get didn't once you go to one you go brazilian and this narines all kinds of serving going on it because it's a culture down there you know
for me my first instructor for you son to you he's a hezabad aster for holy lore ha idden ah even kid pulled grow he's as ye did so so
there's definitely an end when you just meet guy surfing there's like a decent chance that they traded the guitsand would so you said you
know what the connection i tell of some connections yes would you me your one i forget so educate okay so at me it's the one of these
things were kind of on the surface it feels like you against his big wash of a challenge right to do but really it's not it's not like this
challenge that you take on it the more of a challenge that you kind of just ride when you enter you yourself so in and on top of it that
could be any fact to be montecimino whatever but this is judson surfing is it always changes it's not different images same in one way or
other seem but every single experience is different there and it's not something you can just take control of you know it's not one of
those things you it's you have to you have to write the way you and inserting its literally injudicious you got to go with it you can't
fight it this like you can't fight away if you got a and its amandebeli yeas of course he had a take that end but those are just little
small physical araricus other sports to found on em do ye but yet it's it's you i mean if it's kind of a spiritual ears high thing to say
it's you against yourself but that's really what it is it's like you have to improve yourself you don't it's not about conquering this you
know maybe psychologically it is but it's no living yourself at an it and its constantly changing but get philosophical it's true when i
like it definite and my last common on that was both of em both surfing and juice and to your betempted my breast many my brain a and they
they give me a nice clean slate to the do other things with the that light for the acadaeum from civet a said an there ye but bradish red
body boarding men buy sir under a total spender oh and by the way ah it's we may not by me so i i've not i'm correct yucas you're my friend
but i don't want to be a corrector that's no correct recorrected for the gustis has like into be witty ages raised his pronunciation he
lent me in a mooring wainamoinen why narayani you be accurate too much ye become the guy that people are tolerating loudon to be the
guttery that people were tolerating you dont want to be that guy the mattmark you want them to think you are or you disprove your puricelli
year permission a a a ah next question he started you giaths weak and love it i'm a firmer boxer and was thrilled that they let me spar on
my first day his sparring on the first day too soon in your opinion i was repeatedly told to tone it down by the higher belt i thought i
was doing in it down is jogeshwar like a dance or a street tussle and i supposed to relax and let these green and blue bolts destroy me i'm
confused irene's a such a great question no good you see this all the time and i and and i know from the from the po castor from twenty
that there so many people that are starting gigito yes because the pot cast an that's definitely why one to answer this one because his
alery body feels what a start you'll and you're always genait this seen your bells or the more experience people telling me you got relaxed
by the way he's rolling with green belt that means he's willing with people tended age of sixteen years old yet you know actually had a
little discussion if heard that there's some academies that give out green bell as an intermediate belt but tween a white and doater is
adults touch i have never heard of it regias told that the other day so that might under situation here yet i did and by the oldest on
record as saying i disagree with it yes and you don't have a green belt asinaduti you should any white belt and then blew about it that's
the way i was that's the way it should remain yet if i ran instructed that's how i would do but to me he and do you dig and he's doing to
get to and yet i mean beleefe he's an adult's doing seguitare tly long enough to get a green belt i say i go no he is not in me yet right
right but all youngling in the event of the grenetat he is mentioned being an adult or kaethe way i say as they go to it old the soaperino
let now the reason that people are telling you to relax they're trying to be helpful begins you're going to lean more if you relax and you
actually concentrate on the technique that you've been told mate couple technique that you've learned triumph i'm not saying don't fight it
because you you ah you don't know what else do so you just use your horrible instincts to try and just muscle out o stuff and you get beat
anyway and that's why it's you're just beating you had against the wall so they're trying to get you to a lax and use the technique that
you earn and pay attention to what the other person's doing it thinkable there positioning their body and what they're doing in the how
that's working seanachas asking an say hey when you were holding me here i couldn't move my arnhold ing that seeadler if all your time to
do is muscle out of it you're not thinking about what's happening and that that's not a good sign that yes i i think it's like as relax you
know when you hear relaxes a way out enough you even remember when you're a white belt but when they say relax more accurately put they
should say not they should say but they are saying try to relacion everyone knows the guys not going to relaciori with a guy doesn't know
anything of course guiding mount which is like you must have pouncefort ble to be in of course i no be crenepo sedge out of there he
doesn't know the move so he can't be like you know i aven't relax into all the moving now you know to move he is is first day whatever so i
dutillet try to relax and i think you'd that's a good point where don't be going so hard in spades hard then nothing is going through your
mind as far as what was vision is in it i on me you know i remember he not my first first day but early on where side control barely been
realized the difference between a side control and i in no half guard situation and that's one of the things that as time went on i wish i
would a known you know like ay this is sight control and if you would have been more aware in less fighting right you said always he sot my
leg trap that's what feels different athalia's the game you gotta get a switch or game to this side controlling it yelland what's telling
some one i am i supposed to let these green impleverit you no but you got a member you can't look at it like a fight it's not fight it's
not a fight you know it is don't let them destroy you let them educate you in that's when you're on with a higher belt especially when you
don't know him a very much at all there edgicate you now you should be trying to pay tention and let's just take this off the mass and in
the life because when you get into a situation on unknown situation what are you going to do are you going to fight a strong with gainst
when someone has more knowledge than you about some topic or you in a fight against them no just be quiet and listen and learn when you are
in nunerous you've never done before are you going to try and compete and win in this thing you never done before you gonna try and learn
to be educated my recommendation is to learn to be educate your not going to win lest it a miracle but most situations don't allow for
miracles so when you're in life rolla tryant learn when you're on the mat relaxed trianglar rendering tried to relax got a dried loiter and
wouldn't i maybe there's just me but when i think of the whole spectrum when i first started verses to you right now enough of course i
have it off get up but when i kinda reflect on that whole learning process i like the fact that i couldn't really relax at the beginning
because i could eat sartarelli all i see how i learned that right there only see how i see the difference now in the time ere i did it
really know how to relax verses even like the time where i thought i knew how to relax but after you know a ten minutes you ought dying
verses you know now where you can go ten twenty hard you know in fine takes where you can reluctantly to be cleonte is scenarios where you
can relax i i like ylike that the beginning you can't relax joliette beginning you didn't know certainly i yeath moenander you d agraire
with deemeth de mustered he was a fired up because you been on the trip answer he's a elerson we rolled and and he he got the mountain
possess and i just was down there relaxing speaking of relax i was down the relaxing and end on the lacing but just doing a little bit of
um ah off balancing of him so he can't really relax on her for contenant took me a few minutes like about five but i got out of the mouth
and up that to no position got back to go so it's you're right relaxing is actually a technique in judicial if ye so in in a big part of it
um not the whole thing but a big part of it is just being conscious of it you know may be unsparing too much of something of course with
everything is going to come with rapson come in experience and still like that but ye and by the way dan would tell you and i would tend to
agree with him not only reacting i attache pasing is orthoceratites you don't deem will get some position on me and i will spas to get out
of it now not encouraging the person that wrote this question to us on working on her as lacandon for working on that hill later say that
right now start with your relaxed technical right next question in regards the pod cast number twenty thirty and the art of war many of the
rules seemed very simplistic and blacken way take this one for example when the enemy occupies high ground do not confront him if he
attacks down hill do not oppose him where does that leave us with battles like normandy where troops had to get up those cliffs what about
the idea of concurring the goal on golden go lanigan it is the six day war there many other examples i could give it's obviously not ideal
to do such things as fighting a well intrenched enemy up hill but jeeling with less than ideal situations is a part of war we should all be
so lucky as to only be able to choose battles that fit the art of war but from my experience it's often not an obione in real life and yet
he somehow get it done anyway so you aviary simple question with a precise to don't forget that though laws or the the the orivante any
laws in the art of war the rules the simplistic backer white rules and he in the article are governed by other rules that state to break
the rules themselves and so so just a pot a couple of course i went in pulpit son to say he who can modify his tactics in relation to his
opponent and thereby succeed in winning may be called a heaven born captain so if you can adapt to the situation then and adapter tactics
in modifiers attacking up hill is a mont of casion of atactic right yes the next one i pulled out a son so says do not repeat tactics that
it gained you one victory but let your methods be regulated by the infinite variety of circumstances that answers the question in a tone
right let your maid be regulated by the infinite variety of circumstances and the last little codicilled up from son so according as
circumstances are favorable one should modify one's plans so there's three rules from the art ivor that tell you to change the rules of the
art of war when you have to so um ye you're told to avoid the situations but sometimes you have to externals important to remember that the
philosophy of the argive generally espouses an indirect methodology of combat aware often times your trying to ah keep yourself safe and
inflict damage when you can that implies that may be i have less physical strength or size then my opponent i've less soldiers or less
equipment in my opponent and from that perspective what lemanis would it be smart to attack normandy if you actually didn't have the the
numbers to carry out the attack you didn't have the old rowelling force that we had a mast on the england to go in a soul france it
wouldn't make sense then it would make sense to continue to obey the tethering in the art of war which as you know what we're not going to
tack head on we're going to figure out another way to do it so like i said these are rules but these are rules like all rules that are
meant to be broken when the time comes forth so good question but it's a bet the the art of war answers that question in itself do how do
this feels reconcile themselves with the fact they faced death on every operation he undertake more so than the conventional forces is this
something that is learned well first of all i may make a perfectly car that this is not true what is it a well first of all the part that
you faced a on ever operation is allowed chance but furthermore and more importantly this idea that the seals are special operations unit
face gasmere so than conventional forces not true in fact in many cases seals are safer than the conventional forces the conventional
forces are out there doing very difficult operations at are oftentimes more dangerous i mean even just something as simple as going on a
legists convoy you are aminatrait afghanistan you are extremely exposed in those situations ere on the defensive because you're a convoy
you're just waiting get blown up and so that situation is your your facing you're much you're much more exposed inhabitation doing at day
time con voi run down at roads then you would be if you were doing a night patrol through the same are there's just that's just the way it
is i mean there's other operation saving presence but trolls and senses operations all kinds of operations at the confessional units do
there are extremely dangerous they also often times have less support so for instance there's a air craft called in as one ferity that is
just a miraculous piece of equipment disonerable weapon system and it's a airplane that flies around at ten thousand feet and achensee
everything casassimma imagery systems on its thick can see everything that's happening they contract they can endiathetos roy anything they
want so a lot of times the the special operation you tibohine for instance something like an easy one thirty support of them you know it on
top of that special operations the get really good training so you've got this disolutenes commission forces often have great training as
well but some of it they don't have the best training in the world then it yearners patoon or your especial operations you don't
inessential forces ode you can't good training under your belt that you've been going through for many many years to that training made you
say for as well and you know you can get often times again you're going to get better dear and special operations because they have a big
budget for a smaller number of people the let justice support the the flexibility that you have in special operations is usually it's
usually better and i am like the logistics in the army or the minors awesome and and it definitely is better than special operations but
special ipation is usually as it is always supporting a much smaller unit so even though legists people or systems might not be as good
there overwhelmingly good for the small number of people that are in special operations so um man after to one step further a lot of times
you in a remote the conventional ice they were living out in the city they will living out in the city of remanier et become at our post in
place you know we seals would return to base after a few days out in the field these i stayed out there so we return back and you know get
it get a shower and get some good food and relaxing we had permanent guards that kind a guarded or base with a really big perimeter so we
we were in a good spot to stand down for the most part whereas the commissioner is there outheroded they're standing watching you know oh
eyo know we go back and can take a break and go in the internet when they take a break or gone into a wash tower so i just don't watson to
make sure i make it perfectly clear and that you know the the conventionals are by no means doing anything less risky than the special
operations in fact most of the time there doing things that are more risky tough for missions higher resk you know that's just the way it
is so that's why you know we have just the utmost respect in admiration for the connection is that we work with him remodel you the guy
that i we feel um so now the question becomes how to be any service meant face defiest and again it's any service member anybody that's
goin a war path to realize that there is a possibility that they could get killed and so what do you howdoyoudo that permet was except in
santos you know what okay i goldtooled he could happen to night he could happen to morrow he could happen to weak i don't know when it's
going to happen but it could happen and you know what i'm not afraid of it so if i am afraid of it that's going to be hard to deal with
every single day the other piece of it is you deal with it by mitigating as much risk as you possibly can't kit what can we do how can i
make sure the safe you i make sure i can say says possible i train hard i made sure my guys are training hard i made sure my guisarde died
and i made sure that they know what the plan is we go on the battle field that's that's what you do you mitigate as much risk as you can
and then there's areas will you can't mediate resk there is areas where you could catch him you could you could find an ed you could find a
bullet you could find a bomb and that's it and you can't in my mind you can't worry about things that you can control so the things that
you can control except them and lets focus on mitigating what we can control and i think that's probably that's what i that's what i did
when i was in those situations and i would tell you that that's what most of the guys that i was with had something along those lines in
their in their brinstead is such a like powerful thing like if you just accept something like kayites of this or i am like deniable crude
example comparatively speaking compared to what compared to excepting oathes of death but here let's you misitions exantlation the fans
wanted or to saniette good to work ill work and right when you alone you could cause the amencano boss looking for you he's going to and
you know you did something you mess up you bluff em meeting on an whatever messed up with the plane he like him in the bottom of looking
for you niafer going to avoid the loss at all caught ho that's coignes a listen you avoid him one day the whole day poyou cocked out your
out o next day same thing for old silas will be for even more even more even more after a while it's going away on you and once you desire
i many get you down limejuice it and then you know you can go through it stresses gone yet really to um um analogy excepted yet all are
alike for exitiali a belying for you yes go won't get him yea like a etolian if you've ever been bullied in school but um like its omens
looking for you the man a you or whatever and you know they're looking for you the bully and you like man you're waiting on your voider why
you desired i accepted the you know it is something's going to have to go down i'm an have to experience this comfortith and really you got
out in point would be to say you know what what's the worst thing i could happen the worst thing can happen he beats me up i get a bloody
nose i don't care any more for i'm going to go get it see a visit what you're talking about really is facing the problem which i i also
support you know what you got a problem with its meeting we passway gonna get you bully i'm going to face that problem is that's one piece
but one thing that will help you to face the problem it saying okay with the worst than that happens do what i go in to my boss he might
fire me okay if he fires me i anhalt go get a new job and that's no worse than it's going to happen right what's a worse thing that happens
if i get in a fight with a bully worsting it happens that i get a blood you knows and would get beat up a well you know what i can handle
that so luminate his issue and it's the same thing in combat was the worst thing that happens worse thing it happens i'm going to be a
killed okay that happens it's over i'm good with it let's go out and face it and you don't honestly i i says the worst thing but honestly
the the thing that guys are using the most afraid of it happen their friends get her yet the guys get her that that's the worst thing you
bleedin to you said that you the training helped and that seems obvious you know but i think even that is is that's like in kind in under
stated i think under appreciated and baniserile rememoration ah i remember looking in a promise gernot to go in there to do that but once
you learn even just some gito tis some digestion eat that way you see like them fighting the young stuff like that's a cold do that yet an
you all ye and actually the ponderosity sanitated you do too i didn't hear to do that want to be a fighter so i trinitatis and before
training that i would have thought you completely insane to do that but you got to be like a kind of crazy person but once you have the
train you see all keeney get to notelets like o kisell this stuff but you have dismissed to standing here that in all you see is not les
ambled and arms breaking itself secession just good evening in a leadership of titian is it ocated take or ask for suggestions on solving a
task or is it ocated take suggestions that stray from my initial plan yes yes and i hope that this that would made you decide to ask
esquisses because you just like found out about the pond cast on the book or whatever because this is this is something that absolutely
anybody that kind of lessons well what say yes absolutely he leadership possession you should definitely ask for suggestions take
suggestions share the planning let other people let many brains be smarter than our one brain that's what you want you want to utilize the
brain power of your team now the reason your asking this question little bit scary a little bit of a red flag the reason you're asking his
question cause you're afraid of one little look like if you have to ask he gies i'm not sure how to do this or you're afraid of of what it
means that you're in a look that you're going to look weak you're going to look at a weekliness the your niper that's your insecurity
that's making that happened don't be insecure don't be in scare because the old pemine and the asking for suggestions in the tasting
suggestions it actually makes you look like a better leader i know that sounds crazy it actually makes you look like a better leader in you
say he don't want echowe got this problems not or perfessor how i tackle this one can you give me a hand can you give me some suggestion
shire that doesn't make you say oh jacques now his game he's nadyusha jocko's looking for impot he wants to work together as a team so yes
absolutely asked first suggestions takes suggestion to have an open mind this regard your plan if your plan wasn't good i'm not just going
a hold fast to a plan because i'm the one that fought of it that's not good leadership and all don't do that open your mind ye yet asking
for a asking for suggestions all in this kind of kindly said already is tum it it helps with making everyone feeling even more involved
owing you mean it's a spreads the ownership throughout the tegeatans nandie that improves i know as like if if you know you're a believer
whatever and the ledaig me for my impinging it to him and you know any entermete that much more valuable in part of the team might be more
infinities now right now who's going to work harder than a project you on i come in and say he eocene hand to how do you think we should do
this in the oncome up with the suggestion and he start working on that plan you're going to go along hardradi i come in to hey here's where
i want you to do ye fall won't mind structions yes it soon as you come up to an impact and if all of toledo his follow my instructions as
soon you come to it of squeteague you know what a a need to misionari ewheres if it was your plan you come up to an optical you tackled
that thing you get after it you that's what happens he and united saying like some times where you know is as a leading might be reluctant
to ask with suggestions cumy commonlike inexperience or something like that um if you need a suggestion and your like additonal that or
whatever and you say you know whenever i'm just going to go ahead an move forward any way you know what i ponoton the best way to de man
you can look on and then you how like a house we talk about this before where if you don't know what you're doing but your acting like you
know what you'll ownerless than ever you emertine than you think and that goes pretty much with everything irislike name droppers you know
when people like drop me in the one really think that people going to pick up on it but lo my gosh you smell a thing for me while away
something i don like to night i was like well you know juistice orbit exactly the athanase what you do have twenty six to cast and i
haven't talked about i've been done much name dropping yet joy the first one man dropping you should say you ll tutor could you could be
done about that tory oh no darktoned you to go and i i guess i dropped jeffers name but those everyone drop gregg trains name too you know
who i mean we dropped the wearer body like everybody we train with we we dropped their names but just no one knows who they are red yes the
like and or big eric i mean we do we talk about these guys we'll technically that wouldn't be named dropping of technically like named
dropping at all than in but what about that he outringing with beggaries ch and such ye see if it potawatamies will he depends on the
contexture training and if you find to add into the stories of fact that i know this guy that therefore ameer who later as guy or on his or
would ever or associate with him so uncle whatever that in dropping but if you just try to paint a more accurate picture of your experience
or your story or with ameretat is a matter is like i was training with dantonist right do you know yes he sot added context one story but a
year it dan and then you and you attreebute so to lusterene the less the point is if you start the carrying on you know you don't know that
a oned suggestions and you say in a whatever i'm just going to move forward bathershan on you that you're your black like that yeah i'm
laughing so figurine and dropping right now it's true that the point there is your lot more transparent than you think like a lot of people
and something ligations parent enienes the the way that the business community uses transparent now they use it a pause if way ye have of
couches on be completely transparent on our doing this year using it in a line little bit of negative way like hay i can see through your
your craftier i yes and and i tend to use it in boltlike it adeiniog i partisan kind of cantinierea that i read that letitia not less yet
the ill serato that if you need sossiges tion to that's on top to add to the fact that all this other stuff that it makes a temperable it's
more it's a better over alway to to mine no doubt about it no dorymate way to you in case you wondering the best military plan in units
whether it's the sun things on this the army that i work with others on ring court the more open nay or in their planning taking to
gestion's from throughout the chain of command of the better off they do period and history i should have just answered with that and we
could move on to that's the way it works taxation this is the question lash clarification could you elaborate on flanking my impression was
that it meant to move around to attack from the side instead of head on but as often as it comes up on your paces i get the impression
there must be more to it or at least some interesting new ones i guess there's not that much more to it i mean a little piece of it was you
wanted distract him a little bit to the front and then you want to find him that's about the only additional information that's needed to
understand what flank is flank is yes you you attain said of attacking had on you attack from the side or sometimes the rear i'll tell you
just to point this out for any one out there that's either in the military amontons and you're going to flank and you're going to go to the
rear just remember that on a large scale at work because you have distanced where you're weapon tree won't in pact friendly lines but if
you surround a some one or you come from the rear of of a let's say a small target building or a situation in a with a a open environment
but your surrounding an enemy dudont forget that when you surround an enemy now you're cutting off your own feel to fire so that's why you
shouldn't do that you should just stick with the flank where that when you can still keep shooting keep you feel to fire as open as
possible it is onetho that in there but that's that's what it is military terms it means you now your tacking the side you're taking the
weak point which is generally the ides now it's the same thing obviously injudiciousness what they're defending it now you attack the
nakata their natatane the forget about their not and boom you flanked get their own gregan said that to me to night he you was an old hat
was the flank he said to great tin so dudes named drop what if i said delisser said if it would be a name drop if you said great trained
told me that while to day while i was hanging out with dentelles vocation have been an ararat i won't do that i so at nett then you get so
now you're frank and we sold about this before when you when you sought dealing with people then yes you you don't want to attack where
people are dug in you you don't want to attack what they are defending when someone has a strong point of view that there married tom don't
attack that it someone has a big chin ego donica that frank et me maybe even to give a little bit of a sage to that he giuditta em and then
the sneaking from the flank with your idea and you put it in there even if someone's got a plan that there defending hard or don't attack
the plan come up with a little weight to all commend the plan a little twist on the plan that they already have so er excepting their plan
both of poussin on it and that way they accept it because it's part of what is part of their plan so it works so i once again don't be your
adigit the wall forty seven times just flank real simple that's all this were the and all that tentified ive thing yes i will obviously and
and there's like all these little sayings he who flanks first wind and a flank or be flank the swanmore there a million of em but when in
doubt flayer's all these little fish ain't goin to but they with the creek thing about it is also just mentally okay if we're trying to
solve a problem and were just thinking one wave the problem when you get stuck in that way frank when you come up to a pen you come up to
an obscure flank when you get a bisisten and you can't figure something out flank that's what i'm talking in a mind just and always have
that in your head and i'm always doing that a most silly dealing with relationship scenarios you got your you relationship your wife she's
duggin on something don't last pack that thing flank that can alike um you want to go to train you gito but you'd gone like a bunch of none
or you want to go to talk with tuesday resumed i don't know wherever you go and you know it sir pedagogueries think satins you buy your
wife flowers the day or two days before i ye and let be like amain the man i'm going on i said so you buy it hear the flowers you plancon
then when that day comes you have the cartularies to see some friends just a quick one one night she insure ber those flowers could she's
on the foonote inoperation such speak you distract orright he played of the isoline a drastic park undo those the raptors you met your
ingressio i have it was quite some time in a little occasion was about dinosaur she yes oeternoe can't really see that good so you just
remained still youman real still he can't really see you cause she's moving the rafters that they're these like they're little meatmarket
they flank of ontotheology anthems like messing with you like engaging you and you think akaion to move for maybe i'll move or whatever
form then some notary you then they enjoy it you as their meal that's a flank the pre went in out for flank get that mine said the good
mind said to have the flank exquesite at what point do ye turn off the manipulation tactics with people that you work with or don't you so
this picture this this question i actually pulled this from a friend of mine not a good not at ottawa i've known for a long time but some
one that's a a a guy that i know because no me well enough but he knows well enough to ask me this question sure right in he actually sent
me a tax he's annotation after listen your podcast are you just manipulate on people all the time and it's it's a legit question right i
have that question accoosation so i obviously have talked about leadership and influence as manipulation cause that's what they are right
if i'm trying to get you to do something you could say i'm leading you but you can also say manipulating her gay and the difference to me
an exam the pointing out the difference before the difference to me is that if i am trying to do something that's going to benefit you or
benefit the team then that leadership or that influence if in trying to get you to do something that's going to benefit and me then that's
manipulation of talked about that before so that being said i i am not running around and fulanito mode all the time i'm not am not
constantly sitting there trying to to la blot in end make people do things i will say this though i am generally conscious aware or
detached enough that i can see my interactions with other people from a good enough distance to see how an affecting the situation so it's
there it's there you don't want whereof it i do have a couple friends not many where i'm just like completely unfiltered some of the times
some maybe even most of the time but with most people like i said i matest aware of what i'm saying and what i'm doing in a howitson
received its modulated though i'm not like i said i'm not to sitting there manipulating every one that i meet in ennatha of matter is the
reason most item i don't care but that don't care about them but i don't i'm not i'm not i have no reason i am not trying to do something
with this person i'm just interacting with the person and i like to interact with different people and i have i ganalon well with a lot of
different types of people from strait laced like religious people to reintroduce the sofered aloha jew to fitness freaks i enauren with a
bunch of different people and i'm definitely not sitting around trying to manipulate them i'm trying to enjoy an i i enjoy the various
personalities and sort of decisions in life that people had i i learned from him but tyntagel from people most of the time not manipulate
um so what you done what i do get in a peeding or a business setting or a relationship sitting where now what were do wing is on
interaction of humans then i definitely will be thinking about how my actions and reactions are affecting the situation and i will tell you
this i'm generally only doing it for good mariano trying to get things from people i think you would be one to say like god i'm preyest one
i'm trying to do with my life and and with helping people not that i find myself to be like some some heeler or some benevolent person
that's running around outamaro say that but i'm generally when i'm interwinding with someone enough that i'm in this mode i am trying to
help it i'm trying to help us that's what i'm trying to do so if this is manipulation to try and help people and trying to help whatever it
is undoing with other people to move in the right direction if that's manipulation of guilty re yeaou can mention that to where your your
using the word manipulation kind of ye i use it where most people don't like to say it right right most lola you don't want it i really
like to influence my friends and movement it direction yes well what is that doing that's manipulating yes so if you'll get me the
definitions to handle cunningly that a many calasanctius an older tintinnabulis ben that's a more general broad yes but i think the
generally accepted meaning of the word when the ulate is a manzanete connotation for sure and and it it is rightfully so because it
generally when you say it you're talking about o jocko's really manipulating an ill was that mean o jocaste stuff from achote turn the
deuce stuff rezon benefit whereas if i were to say you don't coches been hanging out with echoes really having a good influence on you
we'll get what that's cool oh every one's happy now but what did i really do i really bent you owed you i i really made you act to certain
way i led you i manipulated you yes so again i i i mean maybe i need to stop using the word manipulation but i always winterson i like you
because i know it i know it makes people think ye i know it makes people see leadership for what it is with leadership your trying to get
all their human beings to do what you want them to do yeserdo now in the the best form of leadership you're trying to get them to long to
do what you want them to do and an even in better form of leadership your trying to get them to do what they want to do and it happens to
be what you want them to be too to do to sir that's the goal all but all to those means i'm trying to get you to do something yea and
whether we want to call leadership or we were to call influence we want to call it inspiration or we want to call manipulation it's the
same thing the only difference being in my mind when i manipulate something of trying to help myself and i don't do that i'm not trying to
help myself yemeneeyeh people yet some light that it's helping yourself at their expense all exactly if elation and influence is even more
brought it to ion goes outside of many fountains influxo can passively influence on one out hang our uncompromising a foole to ye ye yes
you can you absolutely passed a limenian people like an nuthin you're doing it well no you can do it by not doing something all yet is like
passierschein yes but like influences say were just cruising and were hanging out you're not telling me or asking your whatever to do
something you're just being you in on my cot collacion let a simile my roll of my sheathlike jocoso know what d'like waneta's i wouldn't
call that money to bitaniti ye have a what if i intentionally was like you know what i readilit get a acto do accedes one do in the show
are on a lead i there so elisire isn't so that being said is in the languaging may being polite isn't that a low form of maneater if i see
if i say hey would it be possible for you to give a grub that she from me let me would it be possible now that possibly ascendere know it's
possible i know possible means why did you say if possible what they say that fustian you did feel good on otosan hoped you on the olefiant
knifeblades pity interacting with other people rat so yet to show some form of if we want to use the word many relation which we do
ateseyenton doing so in a way it's pretty are you going to turn it off yearly yeah really and so i guess to answer the question of one
again do i ever turn it off not really an my walking around trying to manipulate people and get them to fall under my spell of destruction
and ill known i'm just a normal guy that interacting with people on a regular way and when i'm dealing with people in an interactive
situation i aware of the way a acting and how it affects the situation that's it i happened to be pretty effective i i in a positive way
hogoo turn out like if it's for the goal of the collet right right it's not a unmaidenliness not all right so really that's to the question
is not really ienikale to abuse one got what one more yelled gettim for one more joke how do you stay motivated and hugomont ate people
when they start to slack a now motivation is this kind of a strange word because it doesn't really mean it what we think it means we think
it means that where firehouse thing we think that it means we are eager and passionate to make something happen an we think that somehow we
should just be able to turn on that eagerness and turn on that passion but we can't pious can't turn on passion you can't just turn on the
desire to execute a task doesn't work that way an honest an that isn't even what motivate means motivate doesn't mean to yell and scream
and in courage no to motivate actually means to provide a motive a reason why so to motivate some one is to explain to them wi their doing
what they are doing how it will help them where it'll take em why they should continue to work in the struggle and fight and when you need
motivation yourself look for some one to scream and yell no look for some one else to give you motation look at herself look at yourself
and remind yourself why i why you are doing what you are doing well mind yourself that this struggle this temporary pain i fight this fight
do your in this is what will make you stronger faster and smarter and better and there with that mode of bation go forward into the franees
into the heat of the battle where victory his forge think that's all i've got for to night so thinks every one from listening and
supporting and if you want to continue this conversation or ask questions or give us feed back you can find us out all the interweb on
twitter acacias echo the one and i am a joaille were also out there on the face book and even in stagra true and thinks everybody that
makes this pot cast happen and who is that echo aside from you um on it of course and if been living under a rock as they say and do now
what on it is it's a where we get alaric helps you a thinkin emeritus and what not etranger you break away um was it julie saying that he
takes a shote yes onything i was it was the caenat i think i ready said this he was decime said how on that you tata'he say as he did into
cannogate shrunken intensity stuff the for once anyway i'm on it is this supplement company so good on it not comes last jocint ten percent
of all elements that's the only one i would recommend really will ye no trade some day or the one before em anyway and then before you do
amazonian if you want to click through the length on josaphat so calm can support that way or jocatore dot come right or jocoseria jock a
store she before ye shall an amazon if you go to jocatore he can shop on jocatore if you like the shirt wiser even an aunt to um but yet if
you think those are cool sure i want to know and outdoor net not a darkness see no one's even now what these things me unless you want a
wash rag you're not going to know you and to me asking me what ye doing why you are that i can barely read it you said don't worry about it
yet and all i'll say this we were it now if i tell you before but am i the ideas behind the shirts there not just like random that looks
cool on a shirt whatever they do have like inside meeting you know like this legal tree to write so that thou your thing like a originally
before you started potestate when you said that is a a that to make any sense and that's where you said you said at first it emanated and
is like yet thinking it my head on and but then when you explain you like dan that's that's kind o this that's deep eoman on the ad does
make it make perfect sense actually numbed plenis one of those things you know this kind of were so okay so that makes as if you don't know
what it means all it is is yet another shirt with a little saying on it that's all it is if you don't know what i mean same thing um with
your head and set's good and regular as backwards right all these shirts are for you they not for like hay every one look at my cool shirt
even though there i can have that effect but that's not what even he more over you coyotes when you look in the man's as good then you can
see can read it backwards you know so the darkness sir if you look at a black one on a black shirt barely see it but it's that's what
darkness is in barely a happy you know that that does lampsacenian with the if you look at these out of back gets a will just say a dark
scene and unconstant but it's like a black sea can't unless you can i know and you really look at it you know if the sharpening something
to her you know and is going to be to your making sure i said actually ye got to be won a lathaea geinst you know to have that extra lay or
what self bubu him an if he you just think it just looks cool at do you misjudge a thinking portion also a solacer one that makes the bad
cast happened and the actual people that make the podcast happen easy you all listening to this po cast a year the ones that make it happen
that asked the question that right reviews that give us feed back and let us know that you're getting something out of it so thank you for
listening and for going out into our part of the world and mode of mating yourself and those around you to get up and get after it and till
next time this is jaconet
