this is jacopo gasped number twenty seven with a charles and me jackwell anon i know a simple soldier boy to grind life in empty joy slept
soundly for the lonesome dark and whistled early with the lark in winter trenches cowed and glum with comes and lies and lack of rome he
put a bullet through his brain no one spoke of him again you smug faced crowds with kindling eye who cheer when soldier lads march by sneak
home and pray you'll never know the hell where youth and laughter go that's a poem called suicide in the churches by sake free sassin good
evening echo in evening sacree den the sassoon was decorated for extreme bravery in world war one from the western front he was nicknamed
mad jack for his near le suicidal exploits against the enemy his brother was killed in action in the glibly campaign he was a venture sent
to a hospital to trianon recover mentally from what he'd been through while he was there he wrote a little letter that was called finished
with the war o soldiers declaration where he came out and said a week out o stop fighting a war like this am speaking for the men that are
on the front lines in the trenches being killed and even after that he was promote it he returned to the front again he was wounded the
time by friendly fire that's world warm one then while sigfrid's tells us to pray we will never know the hell where youth and laughter go i
do not agree with that i want to know what i want every one to know and understand and dice to hell the darkness that crushes youth and
laughter then taking us on this voyage in the darkness to night as a man by the name of bob hoffman that if you look about you'll see he a
very accomplishment he was obsessed with health and fitness and he became a business man he was the one a founders of the york barbell
corporation if you ever lifted weight in your life you used your barbels at some time in his often called the father of modern
weightlifting but interestingly what you won't find much about him is his military service you don't see generally that he was a warranted
the distinguished service cross the silver star the purple heart the french cross of war the french military medal the italian war cost and
the highest belgian military award the order of leveled you just don't hear that about him but that was a piece of his life he did right
about it you gone about it in a book which is called i remember the last war and let's go to the book a few people have been able to learn
much about what actually took place in the front line fighting of the war in war they have often asked about the war and he found few
veterans who could talk about it one of the chief reasons for this is that they had little or nothing to tell about the war approximately
four million men were in service during the war half of these went to france and of these half a million were near the front ten men or
required behind the fun to keep one man in action service supply truckdrivers hospital workers ambulance drivers guards in the base ports
the replacement in casualty camps many thousands of military police artillery engineers engleman avers mechanics and endless more or
division lost more men than any other formal national guard division more mondor men than any other organization except the first and
second regular divisions are regiment lost more men than any other regiment over our division are battalion more men of any of the three
battalions in a regiment and a company more men than any other company in the italian yet we had men who never saw a german who was not a
prisoner some of our men were cooks top sergeants company clerks supply sergeant beers signalman kitchen police the man who carried up the
ammunition the rations cared for the wounded advanced stations buried the dead many one reason men carrying messages from company to
battalion they fired and were fired at as we fought in towns woods and hills but seldom saw targets at which they fired bombs and shells
were dropped on them they suffered from gas and most of the horrors of war they were killed but they weren't actually at the front men who
were trained as i was scouting patrolling observation sniping who led patrols were connoissance recombined guards captured prisoners put a
gun out of action held advanced post served as suicide squads and we are being attacked with the men who actually saw war and most of them
are dead while a hundred and twenty five thousand american dead in france are not so many in divided among the million men who were at or
near the front it is a tremendous percentage when it is considered how few of these men were doing the fighting more than two hundred and
fifty men in our company alone or killed more than the original strength of the company lost their lives in france they can't tell you the
story i was phenomenally lucky so i will tell our story will try to tell you something of what happened over there there have been war
books written by other men who were better writers than i more fitted to place what they saw upon the printed page but i don't believe a
book about america's participation that war has been written by a man who spent days weeks and mons in intensive fighting at or in front of
the front as my comrades and i did there is nothing particularly glorious or beautiful about this story i've told it as well as i could but
have been able to give you only a faint idea of the conditions we countered during the five worst days of any unit of the american armed
army experience in france the five days of our battle pisma you could fully appreciate its horns only if you were there never was a group
of men harder pressed by superior forces of the enemy or more ill acquired to fight off those attacks that we no artillery support during
most of the fighting no trench mortars no hand or rifle grenades just a moderement of pistol rifle and machine gun ammunition no food
proper medical attention or the opportunity to bury the dead our men in that battle the handful who held the front lines covered themselves
with undying glory the telling of this story will give a better idea of what we did in france and other books than other war books i have
seen it tells the unvarnished truth about how we lived slept hike fought and died over there scores of my friends the men i've lived with
trained with fought with had come to like and admire died in the woods in france it was only by a series of miracles amazing escapes that i
did not die too that i am here writing this book i was young then nineteen years of age at the time of the battle of the argonne i had been
too busy to live and because i had not found one a fine place the world can be i did not mind particularly dying i had no actual fear of
death twenty one years ago when we fought the battle the argon i had thirty two ugly boiled blood boils on my body from eating a diet
consisting most of life meat and bread for some weeks boils which made me swear more than i have all the rest of my life as i constantly
scraped them on the rocky ground while digging a new hole to protect my body each time we halted i had french itch and copious canities of
mustard gas only burns which still leave their scars twelve bullets left their mark on my person or my equipment in the first short battle
i was one of thirty two men of our two hundred and fifty strength company who marched out of the battle of his may i was the only man to
return of those who followed me on five patrols that i led in one day in the argon forest i hope through his book at me partially to show
the gruesome side of war barred from the waving of flags the bugles bands the cheering to show at least part of the ugliness filth dirt
evil a morality and stink of war the sympathetic but remain aloof be strong prepared to protect our own country against any nation or
combination of nations which may attack our homes are democracy are american way of living if our country was attacked the first hour would
not pass before i would plan to enlist and millions of other americans would be in just as much haste to protect our wonderful country and
our american way of life so that's how he kicks this book off kind of burning through the interiere and i really liked the point that he
made when he broke down the numbers and how many people go to war but how many people are actually fighting and it's a big discrepancy
there is it takes a lot of people to get bullets to the guy on the front line it takes a lot of people with to get that person thransported
to the front lines he takes a lot of people to get to keep that person fed it takes all kinds of logistics and support just to just to get
that guy sooth the door of a building where the enemy is and i've talked about this before too in iraq there was places in iraq where there
was basis then iraq where it was basically like being in america they had restaurants and starbuck's cough in mc donald's and burger king
and they had pools and the movie theatres i mean it was crazy as it were like the mentonniere king for example do they desberger came the
company kunama a deal with you know the government be like hay we will you have liberating yes i'm sure and actually i shouldn't send
metallizing they must have it be the one that had to deal at the time as a burger king was there on base and you would see you traveled out
out stations where there's some army you at this is on my first upon men traveled some out station with her some army unit live in dowdle
of nowhere just totally desolate some marine court unit live in in the middle of nowhere eating and arise every day and like there was a
group we were work with one hoerselberg where they were to give him some credit but they are out there there on one ear you day which i am
orestes ready to eat it said don not a very not a very good as livornese guys were out there living off a wonder you day and if you bad you
know you go out we stop that forgetting we had to stop their base at to get some information catterson in till they knew some targets
around the area we learn talk to him saw how rough they were living we went out hair targets they were driving back to our big bass you
know where we had good food and you don't internet stuff like that i enanitos amazing how good it can be and that's what that's what people
some people don't realize about the military it takes a lot of support and logistics to keep the guys on the front lines on the follies and
not take in anything away from those folks that are doing that because at the hard job an a doctor of this before those logistics con voice
in iraq and have ganistan those things are we hard cartalaginous jobs to do and so not taken anything away but if you want to say okay who
in out and hung it down the enemy an got him he can much much smaller or people so it's like individually yet you got people who did that
part of it but collectively it's just a huge force it of people yet to master it's a massive force but in an it's even more extreme cause
in world war in one the the lines were very clearly drawn her you had literally had trenches or in the ground and so if you want within
range of the of the enemy attacks of an maybe the gitanas to you but you would dueling relatively safe and that's his point and then we you
got a lot closer to front lines yet you're going to get some or tory bombardment but everyone had done these nice holes in his trenches so
the guys that were actually invading german trenches most of or that most of them are dead it's a small much a much its antagonist one out
of every ten soldiers that was actually going forward to attack and most of them are dead i mean you could hear what he just said they took
more casualties than the strength of their of their company was so that two hundred fifty days there was actually a thousand guys in the
company because they took so many casualties that's why we are wont to so horribly disturbing and scary to me because like i said before
there wasn't a tactics you're your own tactless an get help you you're your own personal skill set wasn't really get help you now you are
going to get up you on a charge in and really a bob off men talked about this use just lucky he was a great athlete and he trained hard and
used constantly trying to make himself better i'm sure that contributed to an all somewhat but he when you when he comes off the battle
field and he penshore thirteen times a one you know in the knees his bull holes in his canteens he'd been just there just at just miraculee
sir going back to the book he says we should bend all our efforts toward the coming so strong that no other nation or coalition of nations
will dare to attack us we should build the physical strength of our manhood and womanhood or mechanical acquitment are navy in particular
and our army so that we can resist any form of invasion in the future and i i put that in their because you're going to see a a pretty
common feem in the way to sky lived his life which was to be stronger faster better smarter always trying to improve himself always trying
to be the best bob often that he could be an obviously that's how we ended up in running a giant you know organization for wait lifting and
ain't fitness etically took some heat for the way he lived sometimes and here they were they were on an teshep heading overseas heading to
france or order england and he's talking about an it was like for him being a guy that believes in being strong and healthy and smarter and
trying to improve himself here ergo back to the book all sorts of men make up an army good bad and indifferent i found myself in lots of
trouble five been fond of study athletics and work when home i didn't smoke drink to gamble or go out with questionable women or indulge in
it other diversions that some considered to be manly there were men who thought that i was assisi because i did not have manly habits this
led to a great many fights and i thought at one time i would have to beat every man in the company individually to prove that i was in the
city i did get enough practice that later enabled me to win the boxing championship in my body wake class of our division this experience
served me well on the atlantic crossing for i fought five three round fights and one day some one had to do it and the job fell on me so he
was gittin you know for lack of a better word picked on tauthe was good i do susan the only way he was able to stand up from self which is
to get a scrap on get his fight on a street edge yet laramie's at early day straight edge guys i don't think he had to the strait edges
going ahead yet that might outeat so they get overseas and now in taking a stray into it into them getting him getting tasted with with
their first mission and i we go was i thrilled the front at last when asked by our captain if i wanted to go with the betuni said do i want
to go that's what i've been a yearning in aching for all these months when i was just a young sherwood read books telling how anxious
soldiers were to go into action i could understand how men could desire to go out and fight and die but it is something that grows on you
you train and expect so long that finally you become anxious to get into it to get it over with time was short we went back to our
companies on the run our company was assembled a briefly explained that i portunity eight men was to be selected and that we were to make
it an attack with the french at six o'clock that night my words fell like a bomb shell a brief cheer went up from the company i asked all
of a man who wanted to be first in action to step forward and like one man the entire company step forward men did the men who did not get
to go on this trip cried real tears a direct contrast to the lack of volunteering for dangers missions a few months later when they had
become war weary then they would go if a sign to any task no matter how dangerous but they did not rush in they became fatalists and said
they'd go if they were chosen they die if it was their turn but they weren't going to overwork fate and if you that's to perfect a
comparison to the story that i tell in my retirement speech where we had to orfulest uation going on in eastern remade and i basically sent
oratio whoever wants to go and live in this worst area put your name upon that mornin every gap litter name up on that board and i'll tell
you this is also accurate in the fact that you fast forward two or three months in appointment after we take in casualties after marked
being killed and aloud guys were not and i'll use the exact cothouses here they go to any task a sign no matter how dangerous but they did
not rush in maybeam war weary in that appens then he buddy but i even saw that in my first to plimers got up in the bagdad everybody wants
to go on every misioneros all fired up but as time goes by you start sangate we doing this picino what's this mission about who who is
going after fear starts to creep in now let's get to the soul the french men were working like mad with their trench mortars they kept
shells continuously in the air at three minutes to six sergeant felix walked along the parapet and forming all on men that we were going
over a few moments i heard sooeep down not to make a target of himself but he disregarded my advice finally as our watches which had been
since nized before the bombardment pointed exactly to six o'clock there were whistles and commands and climbing men leaving the trench all
along the line the gunners who had been working so desperately with the trench mortars to pave the way for us cheered and cried out to us
evidently urging us to sweep the germans from the hill i just couldn't understand what they said and soon we were in the thick of things
bullets flying merely by this time from the german trenches perhaps a fourth of a mile away i was hardly out of the trench until some great
force posted me knocking me over for a distance of perhaps twenty feet i didn't know what it hit me but i felt blood running down my right
eye after that knock down i forgot the wine of combat groups and we fought just as our ancestored ancestors had always fought instinctive
rushing forward stopping to shoot rushing again and shooting again suchet your welcome a combat oh you're all fired up you ready go get
some cool golder the top the first thing it happens to use you get shot which you went happened to him he is even now it yet all americans
have a legacy which has come to them from courageous fighting tinier ancestors the american soldiers a good soldier he has not had the
centuries of drilling to make his own individual self subservient to the will of the commanding officer he does not like to salute the
brass bar unless that we tenants at one has respect to deeds he is not like to be regimented turned into a mere robot he can think and act
for himself and when a battle has passed the initial stages he is the best soldier in the world this is going a again reminder this is a
world war one and i say this all the time people the military are not robots and i can't speak too much about people from other militaris
but clearly this was a stand out fought as an american looking at american troops and combat that they're not just robots and one of the
best things about as at they can think now here come a bunch otamia over on some germans coming up on their trench perhaps the germans were
too startled at the size and evident ferocity of their antagonist to fight well for a minute but it seemed like a group of big men who
would who had met a lot of boys playing soldiers one push and the german's rifle was knocked from his hand a long frost and that
unfortunate man had reached the end of his life i can still see the faces of these men their evident terror their astonishment at the
number of men who leaped at them from the grass at the size and power of these men their evident helplessness there was not time for them
to surrender they had jumped up with bayoneted rifles and in a moment or two it was all over now this continues are advanced troops had
passed me by i could see dead germans lying here and there right near me were two of them close together one of them was a big older man
with a prussian mustache his hand still clasped the pointiness stomach where the bayonet had gone in and been withdrawn the youngster lay
all twisted up he too had been bayoneted and it seemed that his bones were broken from the strokes of the butt of a rifle a rifle was a
wicked weapon when swung by a powerful man and there were many strong men in action that day it you know you hear about bayonet fighting
but to think about it on this scale where this is this is looking more like a scent of brave art at this point that it is looking like a
modern war people clubby each other to death and stabbing each other they in that range the germans weren't giving out giving up without a
real struggle we had let her read a lot about chained machine gunners but these men weren't chained and they were fighting to the bed
bitter death of that chained machine gutters as i a rumor that happened that the americans would hear because the germans had a machine gun
and it was a big heavy so a medium weight or heavy weight machine gun a m g o a n an i was so heavy that they put this big sling on it and
all the sling it was made a leper but he had a reinforced the leather with chain and so when they find these soldiers dead with these
machine guns and then the chain would clip into their gear the rumor was at these guys that just been chained to their mission unscaled
yours going to stay here and fight to the death or men will come back to the book or men were constantly rising and falling some of them
never arrived again our ranks were becoming rapidly decimated and there were few of us still going forward at this point i have never seen
and altantic list of the casualties of a company that day but i know this i never saw a single one of those fifty eight men of our company
who went over the top that night again at the front i had been hit several times once on the left knee once on the right knee either bullet
could have left me crippled for life but both glanced off the bone leaving only a scar which is noticeable to this day one grazed my arm
leaving a scar at president inch long and three quarters of an inch wide i had a variety of feelings as these bullets struck or scratched
me the first which hit my helmet gave me the same sensation as if i had been pushing as if i had been pushed by a gigantic hand the bullets
on the knees stung like i had been hit with a whip and the bullet that cut through the arm and the one which left its mark on my face felt
like a drop of hot water and hit me about this time the battle would become very hot we fired at every enemy we could see and they were
firing from every direction from the front left and right and even from behind because we'd gone so fast that we had not dropped the
snipers who were firing at us from the trees caught the little three hundred and sixty degree feel the fire by the way conereene sixty
degree feel a fire after you been shot what five times we talked about lucky obviously better to be lucky than good at this point it's good
he he he well how we discuss getting shot you know how you almost think that ten you get shot that be so painful but when you're in the
heat of things anything it happened so fast that i like your nerves don't pick up on the the to destruction it depends where you get shot
yeeped where those round it i remember actually even here and guides from venango so you from vietnam told me um one guy told me a story
that the first time he got shot they were out or operation came back he was little had now to the finite excited was in the bar and he
realized he was bleeding then you aedon an even shot somewhere in the abdomen dabo know obviously wasn't that bad but vihave shot um ye in
it it can it you can give can catch a ball at the wrong place anita over for you can get a boat the wrong rasenian just take you off
fedoritch a bold run place in your arm won't move any more or to be master out o pain or you can catch a bullet in a right place and he
goes through and through it goes in and out very quickly does it hit me thing vital and you know you're just kind of lucky but the spars
the pain goes evening and you know it's the same thing you're right sometimes it goes through and through and guides barely even notice it
right then sometimes if it is the ongot they as a bonehead i mean it's dislike a rice cassaba like i hear of look stories above em in some
kind of good test but i give tillet stabbed in the back or something in and they'll be like it it felt like i'm thinking up a particular
story are where great stab by an attack or in the back and she was like a it felt like he was just party edme reis fist on my back and then
i felt the warm blood going down you know and then later on it they found out like honest weirdlike it happened so fast or something
combined with the drennon feel that that the destruction part of it you know and it's a parents wanted to its towhim and because the sun
waterseas sand to like hot water that you know he actually had a guy on one of my guys got shot he was out you know fire figon on and all
of a sudden he feels the hot you know the hot caradrion down his back hot liquid dipping down his back and it turned out he just been shot
in the camel back in the camel came back into those those there like services they're like allaraine their soft cantineria and then and it
was hot out o the water in your last hungarian you serenus he thought he got shot but it actually just his came back ay i remember it i
might to all fell off right and in training that i stubbed that on a corner and almost passed up so he kind o considerate discussion and
you know dear you can compare let's all like taking a boat would be less beanful didn't ripping out echoes tone while it was my tone that
ripped off and then so it was jacked up for a few days and then i stopped that on the owner of a news like when you got a bunch of nerves
in your toes he asked where you got finger nails or tone else and again the most important thing is where the oh what is that what is that
boy at what is that blade hit what is it duty you eh does it hit the desinere or not yet and i drawling because when i got my tone that he
no reoutfit at this weird angle where it just pealed back my whole big tone and it didn't really hurt them much because i'll rolling you
know the gentle stuff but if i do sat there and said he jacobital like that he probably hurt way more would her way more coulacanara card
he would go back to the book the operators of machine guns of any sort are targets for all riflemen their volubility action gave rise in
the term suicide squad sergeant feelers called to one the runners to bring him the gun the runner dropped dead as he handed the gun to feel
it we did vance the german third line trench fighting desperately meanwhile and driving the germans before us i had not reached any of them
with my bayonet but had been doing the deadly work with my rifle as we rushed the german trench expecting to jump down into an fight hand
to hand with the enemy we saw that we could not do this the trench was covered thoroughly with barbed wire so that nothing much larger than
a humming bird could get in we lay down outside the parapet to fire at close range some one shouted look out there's a balm it went off
they went right off in my face but all my part seemed to be present immediately afterwards i saw felix lying there sprawled out groping for
a pistol i said what's the matter bill he could answer but turned weakly to me and i saw that half his face seemed to have been torn off i
picked up the automatic rifle and as i turned it into the german trench they got up and ran back i was the only one firing i saw many of
them dropped with a sixty shot a mite it was pumping at them so i knew i was getting enough of the enemy to make up for our men who had
been killed and wounded for a time at the was nothing to shoot at so i took stock of the situation so far back that they were hardly more
than specks i saw tiny men in blue dicking it must ve been all the half a mile i knew that we should not stay out here in such an icewater
post but what will we to do i never thought for a minute of abandoning the wounded so there we stayed the snipers far off in a wood were
still firing at us in the was no way we could reach them or entirely escaped their bullets i couldn't get into the trench to i call crawled
around it well over into the woods shellholes everywhere i saw for the first time what havoc could be wrought by shell fire a place of the
shellholes were connected solidly to each other the trees and bushes were shattered men were blown up and blown up again they were in
pieces it would have taken a bushel basket or a jicatae gathered up all those germans for burial i admit that they were the finest of
soldiers after four years of war they fought to the death before we before they would give up a position they were so well trained there
was second nature with them they'd been regimented for so long at the never question in order put up with all sorts of privation and
suffering and were cheerful food all the majority of them were in very good condition when captured it showed they could take it i often
wondered if our own men could be as good soldiers after four years of war all of us could not be brave bravery is a sort of fixed quality
something that some men's have some men have and others do not only physical collapse or death stops the brave some will be brave when they
must when they like a mother animal are driven by the instinct of self present preservation to protect their own lives or that of their
offspring a man who naturally has courage is fortunate it is the ability to control his mind to prepare it so that he feels nothing
courages the product of physical strength and mental strength combined proper training will make men more courageous and certainly these
germans were courageous physical strength and mental strength combined that's where that courage comes from fact the book i try to do
something for the wounded they were very cold by this time suffering from loss of blood they were lying there stripped to the waist a reach
for the canteen of one of the dead men there were two bullet always through mind and it was empty just as i turned a bullet for a far off
to the left toward through the flesh of my cheek had i not turned at that very instant it would have gone through my head dead center
killing me or sabby may me for life little vote shone up who lay there was just sixteen years of age he was the first of a dozen youngsters
whose ages ranged from fourteen to sixteen who would have listed in our company they had lied about their actual age the avore with the
appearance of our fellows in uniform they too wanted to be soldiers some of them lost their nerve before they reached the front and tried
in many ways to get out of service the spenser brothers fifteen and sixteen years of age were to be killed by shell fire there was no fear
ness little italian boy starting a little votchina he always been a hot to hot head wanting to fight with a knife fork or anything he could
lay his hands on one someone antagonized him a bit he was dashing forward with band at a rifle in hand so fast when the bullet which killed
him which hit him that he lay out well on the barbed wire covering the german trench kids fourteen fifteen and sixteen years old i don't
i'm not saying anything bad about our current state america but i have a hard time picture in the current brood of fourteen fifteen and
sixteen year olds getting there trench warfare on fourteen fifteen and sixteen years old face to face with the germans back to the book i
called back and there was one of our men cried i asked him why he replied that so many of his friends had been killed i told him not to
worry about the killed and we had living wound to be concerned about to get back that he had better go for help and stretchers and see if
we could not have vacuate our fellows i had no other thought than that i should die as bravely as i could for my friends or country or
something so i prepared to sell my life as dearly as possible in a surprisingly few minutes there came a crashing through the woods the
sound of voices and a large body of men came into view i lay still waited until they were close and then jumped up pointing my onomata life
let them and was prepared to go into action i suppose it was very shouting to have a dead man jump up for i certainly looked dead i pulled
the trigger and as soon as one man fell the other all the others all shouted comrade it's like holding up a train no wants to be the first
killed so a crowded car from its one man to hold it up when the german found that i had stopped firing they were anxious to surrender there
officer was as nice and polite as any head waiter in a high class restaurant he knew a little languish and understood when i told him to
have his men piled the arms in one place put their packs in another and make improvise stretchers to carry back the wounded this altar had
just a few minutes and soon we were starting back a sea though germans he ended up capturing a bunch of germans and he actually actually
makes a funny comment here that he says that the as you was walking back with all these germans that he had captured a couple of her guesno
helped him but once he got off the frolics and he says that his award says that he had assisted in the capture of thirty eight germans and
he conceives can of obstabat that continent mind self you didn't assist he got the whole thing down and now he ends up because the wounds
that he suffered he ends up in the hospital and he starts having fought and explaining oldish being in aspilates that are in there with him
you of all nations seldom reckons the cost they make the best soldiers because they will go out and try to die bravely for their countries
as i expected and tried to do older matter more cautious they have homes perhaps families positions they know about life they usually know
the folly of war they are careful and battles are not won by being tearful tempetes youthful soldiers are the best fighters that's why war
will always take the flower of the manhood of the nations involved the strongest most intelligence most useful of men now he starts talking
about what happens is it again still monosina trying to recover from the wound he is he has his wounds obviously arnes bad as some of the
other boy that he's in their west back to the book when a man was dying they would move him out he was not it was bad enough for him to die
without his comrades could did not know whither own turn might come having to watch him die some of the men went out screaming when they
were moved but nurses were trying to ease their going by telling them that they were only going to the operating room from minor treatment
or to the dressing room to have their bandages changed the fellow soon learned to observe whether the little bag which held their personal
belongings sometimes a helmet or a coat came with them if it remained behind they could expect to come back but if it to is moved then they
were sure that worse was in store for them some begged to be left there at die with their friends around them not to be placed with a lot
of near corpses who were complete strangers the more pitifully wounded did not wish to live they constantly begged doctors and nurses
sometimes at the top of their voices to put an end to them some made attempts to end their lives with a knife or fork they became necessary
to feed these wounded and never leave a knife or a fork with them for blinded man who was suffering greatly and did not wish to live had
killed himself with a fork it was hard to drive it deep enough through his chest to end his life and he kept hitting it with his clenched
fist to drive it deeper that is i guess about as bad as it yet when you have individuals that survived combat pattern such a wretched state
that no soldier killed themselves with a fork a no wotan one of my guys one of my buddies bride joe he got blinded the involedes after took
a round to the to the face and it really does show he i mean i would talk to him on the phone when we were still over there and just as
attitude was so indomitable his spirit was so strong and i that something else he had been sent to that one point he was sent to the place
where they have the guise it have had traumatic brain injuries who having trouble with their thoughts and with their motor skills and guise
that were really bad shape and when he was there and a talkin the phone he he spent about a week there then he told me you know em movement
a man i think i said you bet already left but he said basically told him ache get me out of here i i don't need the kind of help that these
guys needs untaken up some one's bed so even though he was blind in of course he was a tough masterful i mean tough bastonate was blind i
mean that's a game change your obviously but he still looked at the guise that it were wounded worse than him and was like hay out to want
to take up anybody's bed i'm good i'll be okay i can't see but i'm good didn't say one to come back to oh yeah aarof course in art for ye
he he was like telling me just when we come back when we come back and i can not i can i can stand watch because i can smelted
unfortunately he didn't get a chance to go back so now there is a them the germans had made a drive for for paris that the americans were
now involved in a counter attack and bob off mistell in the hospital and now the wounded start combined from the counter attack the wounded
that came in now or particularly serious cases men who had been wounded by tremendous shells there was much screaming in anguish displayed
by these sorely wounded men seldom was a quieter night men whose nerves broke would be screaming all night there were many cases of shell
shock men who had had their maniacal moments when they felt that they were still at the front being subjected to shell fire they were out
of their minds and it was nothing that could be done about it but it made it most unpleasant for the other wounded horrible cases of
mustard gas were everywhere some of these men were blinded and had to lie for endless days with their heads covered with bandages some of
the men were able to walk sprayed a legged down the eyes i was told that their testicles had in some cases shrivelled up like dry peas in a
pod they were certainly in a bad way so the mustard gas it attacks the softness party otites right so your eyes your nose or your testicles
like eighty where werther's moisture and softness and on the twenty first of july the doctors decided that he's fit to go back to the front
he gits on a train a cumanos you fight this battle you get wounded you come back your watching guys come in better severely wounded shell
shock mustard gas and in they say okay by the way now you're got to go ernesta out to the front but you think you've got that million
dollar wound and we talk about and a bunch of these episodes were people say oh i got mad or off the font he goes off the front rodelein is
a month in a few weeks and now you're fit for duty again but to the front back to the front fact to the meat grinder that he goes there by
train in a surprisingly short time at about two o'clock we were close enough to the front that we'd started to see the dead soldiers of
both armies along in the way the american soldiers had been buried hastily in holes they dug along the road as they were advancing but
there were still many of them laying in the fields i could see their cake uniforms and their white faces as we passed there are two chief
reasons why a soldier feels fear first they will not get home to see his loved ones again but most of all picturing himself in the same
position that some of the dead men we saw they lay there face up usually in the rain their eyes open their faces pale and chalklike their
gold teeth showing that is in the beginning after that they are usually too horrible to think about we buried them as fast as we could
germans french and americans alike dipped em out of sight but not out of memory i can remember hundreds and hundreds of dead men i would
know them now if i were to meet them in the hereafter i could tell them where they were laying and how they were killed whether but shell
fire gas machine gun or bayonet in the beginning we had a fear of the dead we hated to touch them some of the hardest experience of my life
were taking the identification tags from my dead friends the first dead man i touched was philip back attic and austrian baker who was with
our company i tried to save his life by carrying him through heavy enemy fire and putting him in one of the cellars of the french houses he
was shot in my arms as i carried him a few hours later i found time to go round and find how he was he was dead stiff and cold i had to
remove his identification tags and they slipped down between his collarbones and the flesh of his chest they were held there and it took an
effort to get them out i thrilled and chilled with horror as i touched him it was hard to touch these dead men at first my people at home
hearing of what i was passing through expected me to come back hard brutal catless careless but i didn't even want to take a dead mouse out
of the trap when i got home yet over there i buried seventy eight men one morning i didn't dig the holes for them of course but i did take
their personal belongings from them to return to their people there rings trinkets letters and identification tags you hear these days you
know people will talk about the seeing a dead body and how that's a traumatic experience and as a matter of fact my son he has he found the
dead body one down on the beach and one guy fell off the cliff and by my house i saw that in the new the rife right and you know people
were saying oh you know you you should get a make sure you talk about it with them and make sure he's okay and all that you know great your
concerned but can you imagine a mean you're just see and dead body after dead body after dead body after dead body after dead body after
dead body goes on and on and on yet like that kind of this kind if you're in that environment sometimes it could you could have that kind
of desensitized you know feeling but automagnetic really come to get you after everything comes down you know like what i like how you
think ye he didn't even want to take a mouth out of the trilinear minder in this calm environment or minder of just all that death you know
now but at ye at the time it seems like their almost like there could be two kinds of reactions to it where they either get used to it or
get tired of it cinating and then solifidian just way on you way on your way on you but if you used to it it just gets less and less in
packable i'll you well obviously they had to deal with it i had to detach from it you couldn't amasuet to it doctor that's been in practice
for a long time of enticement get emotional attached every patient as they had or they would go completely and saying they wouldn't be able
to do the job but it's a same thing here obviously you can't get a motion attached to every single body that is dealing with but you can
tell that it leaves a mark yes fully and and you think that he in the doctor to the the good little analogy but the thing that the doctor
has an alsacian doctor luke were talking about it um jadestone question like it doesn't he wear you out when you you know you're operating
on somebody or whatever and but doctors get is this sense of occasion only the job but it's almost like working on a car to you kind of
know all of the little working parts and you can fix some use them together and boomers thou in now kenso there's that element of thinking
and then yes sure on the other side of this is so person and if you know the guy you might even be more personal but in war it seems way
more dark because the guys not supposed to be dead that you know the goal is to live in to win the war dances literally like the worst
keener for the person or one on so when you see someone dead it's like man it's not it's part of the job but it's not the the the outcome
that you're the goal you know no part of the goal is to die ever it's like the bad part so he can't be substituted with hey you know that
he can't substitute your thinking in regard to this epperson with you know part of bean pardon my goal of my job you know ye all are i will
say that you know when you've got at least we had of we have of all interior service and everybody that joined up no said that's part of
the rest of the job so at least even though that's obviously not the goal you know that guy have at least come to grips with the reality
that that that's what he may face yes ely then like if your fighter in the gay you know getting knocked out seelent out ran a broken leg or
something like that it's part of the game you know but am obesity way not quite as heavy as the war situation now so speaking which a back
to the book here they are ease now just fighting and he's with another guy named van and van kind of poses head up above this barricade and
search shooting an he's kind o look at him thinking that seems pretty dangerous for he sees voluntawy with it so he gets up there too and
start shooting and soon their their fire and shots and then back to the book here but after several shots each i suddenly saw valtellino
sailing down over the slight hill i looked at him and the entire top of his head was off apparently a dum dum tight bullet one in which the
lad had been cut so it spread and the instant struck during a terrific hole in the object that it had flattened against his helmet or tin
hat and had taken his taking off his head to a level with his eyes and ears he had been kneeling and his buttocks went back a bit his head
forward and his brain ran out there and fontane like soup from a pot i did not fire over another wall the sniper had his choice to pick one
or the other of us for some unknown reason he chose one am here and he's gone vallate for a couple of days finally he was carried down and
stored in the room where we had the other dead piled up like logs of wood but he had to have his own place in the corner it was gruesome
enough the nerve strain of the constant gasattack was severe we were wakened up at every hour of the day and night to stand to im
preparation for attack to prepare to move on or at least put our gas masks on but now there getting ready to do another assault one of the
greatest progenitor of the war was being put over the earth and the air casely trembled with the force of explosions each flare were show
us the details of no man and no man's land between the lines dead men were lying everywhere in the most grotesque positions some of them
lay as if sound asleep one man's head rested so comfortably on his arm that i could not believe he was dead others had been boned to pieces
several times and some were just arms and legs or torsos this night approached to the front made us sick as we finally found the men we
were to relieve we were all thoroughly sick the ground was rotten with tear and vomiting gas mustard gas too was all around wars bad enough
without the constant torture of gas there was a constant cry for stretcher bearers for the red cross the most diabolical screaming and
moaning that could be imagined human beings lying helpless no weight to fight back not knowing who would be killed by the next shell it is
hard to be brave at night shelling at night saps the courage from the bravest every one lies there shakes only the strongest can keep their
right minds it is on such nights as this that men go out of their heads one will never know how he will behave in such an ordeal some men
weep other shake some stand up nonchalantly apparently not caring whether they get killed or wounded some tell crude jokes but mostly the
men dig and dig sat is only the direct hits that will get them grimly enduring the torture that human being subject each other to not
knowing the will go next we spent five days in that place which was popularly called death alley i don't know whether there was any real
object in staying in dying there but we were ordered into that valley and there we stayed there were always a few maniacs around men who
was lost their mind through shell fire and had to be overpowered and bound some men were buried alive and we were constantly busy digging
out the live ones many would be smothered before we could get them out at times we would have a group of wounded and stretch of bars making
their way up the hill a shell at fall among them and nearly all would be killed so many men were wounded wounded again hence were still
under fire sometimes we found two or three men dead together in so badly mixed up that we could not tell whether we got the right parts in
the right gravotine suffered then so did the horses one of my most painful memories at the front was seeing his shell dropped near two
artillery horses the horses broke away from the tree to which they were secured galloped up through the field on the horses was hit the
aptian it's intestins intestine dropped out dragged on the ground and soon a feet were entangled in its own intestine point where it fell
down and could not run any further they lay there with its head out for what seemed like to be an endless period it seemed to be more
surprised concerning how it had become entangled in its own parts than in the pan we were sorry that it was so situated by this time that
it was difficult to put it out of its misery i think most people when they think of horses you just think of a beautiful creature
protruding free then now you have this image for the rest of your life there was intense fighting in a place called sergy and the usual
atrocity stories we heard many of them they went something like this a two year old girl got in the way of a marching column of german
troops a soldier benetted it and carried it away on his bay and that children were slaughtered from no apparent motive the soldiers tied up
civilian prisoners protectin with bayonets put lit cigarettes in their noses and ears and shot them eyes were burned out with red hot
pokers civilian snipers were tortured in every possible way in the mile they had been spread eagled in the public square a rat would be
placed under an iron kettle upon the man or woman's bare abdomen than a fire built a top the cattle the victim was tortured first by the
frantic running around of the rat on his over bare abdomen when it became nearly smothered and terror stricken and pain filled from the
smoke and heat then it would eat down through the body of the human living flesh to escape we found the dead body of a girl her arms were
nailed to the door and extended fashion her left breast was half cut away a young boy of five or six years of age lenador stepped with his
two hands nearly severed from his arms but still hanging to them at another place where the word of the dead bodies of a man and woman or
girl and the boy each of them had both hands cut off at the rest and both feet above the ankle child of seven beheaded a whole family
killed including a young girl because the girl would not give herself to the germans burned to death in their houses all the women violated
the entire german regiment drunk etcetera the above her exact cottons from the bryce report which specialized in outrageous against women
and children they are samples of the sort of stories we were always hearing he goes on to say that he never saw personally these things but
this is the kind of thing that they heard about happening all the time and they're getting ready for another counter attack a quicon far
brought the decision that we would cross the bridge and daylight the thin goriness and we prepared to rush across the bridge three or four
the time the ranks of every company had been decimated and probably our outfit consisted of only four or five hundred men and set of the
full strength one thousand men there should have been there were dead germans all around but i could see one particularly well he had been
coming up the street past one of the garden walls and had been hit with a shell his legs were laying on this side of the wall were lying
there like the had been taking from some gigantic frog while on the other side of the wall the whole the shell made i could see the rest of
his body he was a powerful appearing man in his early twenties with a tick shock of blond hair his eyes were wide open he never knew what
hit him about the middle of the afternoon the germans tried to nother counter attack and we helped the defenders behind the barricade and
in the houses farther up the street by sniping from the second floor of the houses we occupied we were prepared to stop the attack evitated
down the street to our positions firing over the heads of men behind the barricade we were able to assist in stopping this counterattack
the germans too had their snipers to cover the advance of their men i remember warnow's firing very carefully from a window in a house
while up the street i took careful lame and he fell forward out of the window during all this fighting the air was filled with dust and
with the fumes of powder they burnt our noses throats and lungs to such an extent that we could not tell of gas was in the air then it this
point there trying to make progress and they get caught in the horrible cross fire flanking fire fontaine is bad enough but flanking fire a
suicidal men were getting hit all round us they were calling for stretchers trying to apply the onfortnate on every side and some of them
were gasping out their last breath to come so far at least four thousand miles and to have their lives snuffed out so wantonly so uselessly
behind this wall in the back yard of a remote french village at the world would never have heard of were it not for the action which took
place there and this defence that they may of this village cuticomes down to one final situation that there in the hold up and there about
to be attacked by the germans some gas it fallen which added to the pain and bleeding of the wounded and prove to us that no hell in the
hereafter could be greater than this man made held that we were enduring man men began to go out of their heads shall shock if we could
call it that or just crazy from weakness strain suffering and hungry hunger with all bed death around them it was near the breaking point
for all of us who survived we were ask ourselves how can there be any more but there was more and worse the night wore on and the morning
of the fifth day was about to break the german artillery speeded up again we knew that an attack was impending everywhere i looked for dead
man there seemed to be no life men around to man the guns here they come was shouted along the line and many of the nearly dead men rose up
to man their guns behind the wall that had become almost a part of us wave after wave of germans were coming through the peer the percard
rifles hand grenades and machine guns but worst of all the flame throwers i could see the men plainly they had tanks on their backs and
from the ends of their hoses came great masses of liquid fire shooting toward us at a distance of at least fifty yards the smoke went far
beyond us we felt that the heat would do as up every man able to fire concentrated upon the men who were operating the flame for ours
almost immediately they were put out of action their tanks perforated and each man's body a mass of flames the flames leaped and shot into
the air thus was the attack stopped by the germans own diabolical weapon they suffered far more than we never after that in the war did we
encounter that type of flame for again they were the real suicide squad the men who operated those tanks were sure to suffle a terrible and
quick death it was a narrow escape there were just a handful of us left when we were relieved that night and staggered across the river
there were just thirty two of us left our companies on the line were almost completely wiped out but we had held the line they held the
line added on the father able cost in blood and sanity and lives the leblane in men like bob hoffman who met face to face with hell and
evil and darkness that crushes youth and laughter than for many people a crushes hope but baalin overcame all of that then he came back and
really for my perspective through fitness she led an incredible if and he added up writing a book about it and it was called how to be
strong healthy and happy that that's a tall artha's at all order who doesn't want to be strong healthy and happy and the book at some of
its dated much of it isn't but some of its dated but i i i don't want to go deep into the book when i do want to hit some a high lights
from this book on how to be strong healthy and happy some things to think about bob offen hero from world war one who been through hell
comsired some quotes of is physical training pays i always say that any exercise is better than no exercise now he talks about the sleep a
little bit the intese folks out there that a rash meal and twitter doc parsley constantly harassing the on twittered me to sleep more this
is what is that bob half an in de say about sleep there are different speeds of sleep some sleep faster than others and cannot wake
refreshed with a moderate number of hours of sleep which would leave others tired and worn fastly being is it a result of properly
operating bodily functions of preferest functioning of all organs and it comes to from accustoming the body to an hour to less sleep many
great men of history are reported to slept only a fraction of the time that the average person spends sleeping here resenteth ma sat isan
the world famous inventor which sleep up four hours a night but he had a cot in his laboratory on which he would lie and think in his
assistance of reporter took naps during the day many men who were reported to sleep of four hours a night will make up for it with taps
during daylight hours so there you go you got to go that's all you need to sleep faster talkin you echo to nineteen nine hours ten hours no
regular attice nice asleep faster now the speaking of that too much sleep is not a benefit rather it is depressing causes sluggishness and
a state a forge elect that too much sleep take that take that dock far sthout there but it all o you doctor doctor he tried vaguely yeah
but he is the ease he's a doctor but he's he stung lot of stuff with sleep and studying to eperney give me a hard time because leaped his
good for you i'm only kidding everybody sleep is taffy good for you i should sleep for i just have a hard time doing it there's so much to
be done in the world and you sleeping fast the land i am sleeping with fashion the everybody else fortynate cold any young man who desires
to obtain the most from life should spend a good portion of his time in proving himself physically regardless of your age you do make it a
rule to learn something new each day and i do something each day to improve yourself physically the tamboren tal and physical strength his
asolani self memor memorizing stuff doing mass in your head just getting smarter i believe we talk about that sometimes the best hobby of
all this physical training concentrate on your activities instead of worrying about the future welcoming opportunity to face problems or
deals or battles of your life you can build yourself so that you had tained pleasure from overcoming from defeating problems apparently
insurmountable difficulties you can overcome all your difficulties in wind you will find the next encounter easier you will have greater
confidence in your own ability got problems good let's face a tendall i forgot to mention this but this book i remember the last war i got
for some young tween i'm sorry to everybody on twitter number one i i don't know if people want to be mentioned or not and also when i
transferred what people tell me to the document that i keep it dozen pulled their names so they're just lost but usually people had me up
afterwards to sadie gave you that book so somebody recommended that book to me i remember was war and once i started to some research about
bob off men and i saw he had another book that was not literally called out of a strong healthy and happy i just ordered to mediately so i
could see what the end is say about it all in i think he has some pretty good information hears another coat people who know nothing of the
pleasures and advantages of having super strength and hold off and say what bitter muscles they say they have you no use for them that they
are healthy but they are only half alive in many cases for they will never have felt the indescribable sense of power and well being the
sense of superiority or capability that strong persons feel many you civil laminated in an inferiority complex by the growing knowledge of
the power lay possessed by their physical ability or superior or de over average persons women as lutece or baboon actually he's going to
ego checkered here himself i do not mean by this that strong men should go round bowling others by demonstrating their strength as an
actual fact a stronger and more capable of man be less likely he is to make a show of his strength by hurting or fighting others but
strength of mind and body does beget confidence to termination perseverance and many other admirable qualities sathink brought aback around
again as for you know talking before the poncasar about how some people if they are a little bit insecure but they want to be a tough guy
they bit they got to hate like that i let you know and when herewithin your looking at him kind of like the scotus not be that tough
because you got actiwally or getting less respect than they think they are you but if they actually had come forentan their situation if
they knew that they can handle themselves they wouldn't be acting like that hears another little something to think about don't worry about
things that might happen we cardanet best you can and if something happens it can't be helped don't give up never cry over spilt milk what
is done is done it can't be helped when it's too late i survived some apparently overwhelming difficulties easily enough with this point of
view sorrisi said me no use crying over spilled milk he thought have these to nough because he now am you know people have that at two but
then sometimes they'll let it overflow in the it'll get it'll make itself to allow it to be an excuse donteither under a pared the noahs
not a good idea ye es but i can do it you know because it's like a might be a small like great area you know because they're like oh i
don't really care that much about the ottoman's gonna happen is good to happen so then it might like i said overflowing their the part of
their mind of preparation o ye are one went on happen eh well you don't cause the opposite is like if you have essonite might obsess over
the preparation maybe you know the man that's that's a those kind to go hand in hand a little bit lefourche opposite you know you can get
that be like eh what whatever is going to happen in a happen so whatever that's not the excuse for looking for a inannatuma i that you know
her we go a few more these if you want to live long and be healthy strong and happy acquire habits of activity right now if you were
tempted to sit in an easy chair find something to keep you busy a few minutes to half an hour with the weights will be best if you find
yourself going to the garage for your car to get to the grocery store walk instead i like this when it dear if you don't feel like getting
dressed to go out do it any ways instead of lying down after a meal find something to do don't pass the buck as they say in the army do
yourself as it involved muscular action clean off the snow caught the grass spade the garden that's a good one that's just a general rule
if you don't feel like something cause you be in lazy to do it don't be lazy the thing that you could do to morrow he do it to day do that
thing to day otherwise you get this if you put off until another day your good intentions to normalize your body it won't help the road to
despair and unhappiness is paved with good intentions lost along the way i think he just sent get after it as it has what i'm gettin
there's around getting from ball off men this is is it old school dissimule schooled mallard here if our country was invaded and our young
men were a lot of cream puffs probably cowards through never having experienced hard work asked let it competition or a good punch in the
nose we would lose to the invaders lose or freedoms and things worth more than life itself so she bisaltae be harder tough endeth for i
support this idea on the present do things that make you tougher and better yes activity is life stagnation is deaf in life there is
movement is are all well known true isms and exercise bringing healthful activity to every organ gland and sell the body keeps the entire
body and mind radiantly alive and with a feeling of pep energy and well being that makes one so buoyant and alive that they feel like
jumping and running a afire up exercise both coordination balance control of the muscles i built speed judgment of time and space and
distance makes the entire body more responsive to the will an teaches the body to right thing in times of danger even before is directed by
the mind exercises the best insurance against disease or sickness exercise built confidence for the no road to supreme conferences sure has
a knowledge of one's physical and mental ability it cultivates power of will give you complete master of your physical mental self promotes
personal efficiency and all desirable mental characteristics exercise improve the efficiency of every part of the body it helps you sleep
sounder and faster so the capmartin for work and pleasure makes it possible for you to earn more exercise makes it possible tell live more
exercise will only take one tenth of the time you now spend on foolish expenditures of time and energy this is this is funny cause it is
written in like nineteen thirty something now you have time to sit around to read for entertainment too often true detective stories other
true stories which do you know good but merely tell you of the troubles of others you spend a water time at the movies perhaps or listening
to the radio in idle talk or gossip in watching athletic events which put which others put forth effort and received physical benefit you
sit you know and the inter web into that equation and social media and you've got no time in the day it asensio's basically all in all
tholede that without moving all that thistletons sure you can find time for exercise you to can much of what is worth from life you must
find time your health demands it and a onorat it up a right here with this this one but probably you have done as the majority do drifted
along from day to day promising yourself that you would start exercising to morrow or next week or next month when the weather becomes
cooler to morrow comes next week and next month who whether and even next year comes and goes and you do nothing about it after years of
thinking about exercise but not acting you find the firm round it attractive muscles of your uses changed and to weaken soft muscles the
middle age you take on a little excess flesh and make mental note some night when you gaze upon yourself in the mirror that you'll have to
do something cut down on starches or sweet get more exercise but you've developed an enormous appetite during these years and at best you
refrain from eating sweets for a day or two it seems that all the things you like are the best fat producers you can't give them up you
know that she don't have endurance any more you get tired after you walked a block or two your wind isn't as good as it used to be remember
last night how you puff when you ran for the street car remember how you mowt made you blow it carry you that empty trunk up to the attic
you're taylor poke you good naturedly when he's fitting your suit and remarked that the fat is piling one and your wastes increasing by
inches leasear all reasons why you should exercise it's not to eight now it's never too at his only touele to be around to exercise and
prove yourself physically men of all ages received quick results from proper physical training it's never too late to make corrections in
your mode of living some class estaffette little cabite with the house is never to let dettusura the more time that you have spent getting
into shape you can fall out of shape and when you come back to it it'll be weesie and i mention this before tess cuyo can you can keep
telling yourself that finelli you if lissauer your ride you on have a good base if you have a good balyn strong and it's going to be easier
for you than somebody some one that's never worked out before yes that's a given that being said if you take a person is never lifted
before never worked out before when they start meinengen ye ietu keeping lightnesse starting on a pottomet so yet the first you know ten
steps in the ladder come quickylye but that comes for everybody give her to you know give her de so you sure okay in the small little
picture you can be like have that that guescard in the first ten steps of the latter way later in life to look at his games waylayer in
life clementine you had those first steps done mertye years ago you're on step you know a hundred twenty five right now you are correct the
bottom line is both groups will benefit alyosha but is a galactic and so to the point being you know how any mentions this house as the old
till dis do it to morrow or i'll just do it you know the new year's resolution or whatever so more time you spend not doing it the harder
it is to to get their instanther the cause men it is eyo know the i i actually have a serio the stew like if you miss a work out he can
never make it up it's gone like isle is gone you can never make a case you work out an ex day but no no you miss the day to you ye that was
supposed to be a different work out right yet i winterdean get em back if that's sometimes you need abreakin we've got some questions about
that so now you definitely need a rest to you push your body so already due so much i tavatini but you're not going to get that chance to
work out again and you want to artisans anything you waste any time in your life that's what it's gone yes so don't waste it don't waste it
don't waste it with sitting listened to radio shows or internet shows or watching t v at a west don't waste with that unless the childer
helping you well yes yes if there hoping you they're beneficial in its jackpots man to inbuing you if yo yearely t v just random sichemite
that's not helping you get me better of course you you wasting it in you not gonna get it back sometimes if i miss something of i am lazy
about something that that that bites me off and at the time i say oh you know i all rashlie some excuses around it and then later i'll say
what is your problem why did you do that and his punishment time minutiae squaw rack to pay for that yes i i think and i ont put this real
bluntly almost to the point of ignorance but i think you value rest way less than a normal person i think i i'm knocknarea it could be that
you value the work part of it so much that your rest is quantity wise less a quality wise might be more you and also like for instance i
don't get the opportunity on the way i travel let for frewen i travel i verily leave recently i have not had time to do to dictaturae ing
so when i'm back here i got a just git it in you know and if i miss it when i'm in san diego i'm not happy i i'm i'm angry at myself and i
won't even let it happen i'm just not going to let her happen even yesterday i was all tired and beat up and illakee go train all tired to
beat up because you had a miss some days this week neygars get it on work on being weak and lame and getting your getting your game off
sementinae bunch of people and to a normally do and you know what by the time you are in the middle of a rolling it doesn't matter i more
your just be on with his situation you men if you keep get to that point where you know and you did this kind of a weird one where it's
really good really really good exercise but it's really really fun to do yes so it's like a wan way an you don't like to wait lifting i
think is like that it is not like that for everybody were of like it's fun to actually do even though sometimes you got to get a build of
the you know kind of the to the energy or war or whatever to er you know motivation whatever to do it it's still pretty fun but i so for a
most bepowder emote laceries like work it's like a shore the air benefited think the more you do it in a better you get at it yes he the
more fun lies the more you enjoy it in for me at a mental break you know a mental break from everything else i have yodogimi up this this
piece of made off the ground once fontaines yet it in in the point there is if you can get to that state where actually doing the exercise
separate from the results actually doing it is is fun you can you can recognize the the the pleasure in it um that's when you can be on a
on its program you don't howl just got back from a little like a vacation but i still i still rolled i still ah did you know liftway and
exercise straight train with it till it um before and i think most people it's when it's makaon time there off the program and i'm not even
saying in specific on a program but it's just too maroonlike ground again the deal men so if you you if you're into it you know like it
landlord to going training at a new spot and is a lot of fun to be had there then a lot of fun to be an gontram's box but if you're in that
mind set where you liked the exercise that you're doing by you'll do it you go on vacation you'll do it then we afterward to us yes there's
no doubt lendall having fun when you train is is and in joy an i guess it having fun because it is not like when i'm in the middle of a set
of clean and jerks im a having fancett that's kind of hat i mean though where um i remember what i slay football we we test and olympic
lifting foot like power clean was won and snatched was wanton whose end i remember training for the things that you get kate good at the
technique it comes for it he and her friends are you linnaeea such fun i guess i was thinking more of like a met concurrere you're a
wanting to ploverdale and i i got i'd be just been frankly you i am not always having fun during those sometimes i want to not do it yet
and i still do but i don't want to yet not one i would say more time in that fifine constitution if you to be the case so well my my
overall point is a few can get to that point where at the very least you can appreciate this that's happening right now i like i i i find
ye yes i sure in her and furthermore i will tell you this if you get to know the feeling of how you feel when you complete a hard work out
an ego you know what it's going to be worth it because when i get done with this i'm going to feel like a right i'm gonna feel good and so
that for me that's why i am trying to that's kind of why i'm doing hard work out cause i'm doing hard work is to give i know that at the
end of it i'm going to be like god feel on the field good olaf fired up for the rest of the day i'm going to feel like i did something you
loafe like a quality human being like i didn't waste a little secure section of my life a feedgit yet so when you know what that it a
singing with waking up in the morning when you sleep in that that feels good at the moment but then when you wake up you like a man i just
wished part of my life now whereas when you get up even though it's hard when you know how good it feels to be done with you work out that
early in the morning be like that mamurra it bring on the tasks yet and it's strange thing about worked out is the work out past you pay
you back for your work afterwards the old it is basically a you know you work out and the work out isn't what makes your muscle big it's
the response to the work up so when you were had as kind of like you did your part now your bodies going to pay you back with your games
you know true so you're like a i'm done with the work guying do some other stuff meanwhile i got that check to me that gamechick of the
goodwin yes but they all idly raand now i think it's about time we go to the interest but first you can actually support the pot cast to
the interweb acre i we do it will let the troopers now one of the ways of which may sound repetitive but necessarily so in my opinion on it
dot com flesh jocko could some people they want to improve their improvement with supplements and we recommend a wee i recommend
supplements that work on the sumitta ly do they go so on from uliviero men you know on it doomless jocko shriek these ones i take or have
taken them teck alpari cool for me yea were it ever sir odic thou of creil right now had ten yeah golikellece keep keep the you finger on
the pulse of the cruel alsation and then the ah were you baron out good that's not is that of supplement de thing would you call miserere
as she i have seen ye an i do come flash jack get temper sent off all supplements still also if you like the shirt that we make good dunloe
dot com and get one or more of that of those men and yet a good way to support i think in an be for you do your amazon chaplain click
through jacopo cast up come tis like dese little link on there ah and then jocatore was this happens on lingered clinked their first and do
the shopping um also on the jackpots website we have although i put all the books the escovedo all these five cast seeking see what they're
about clean it if you want to get one of those books full and then an audible dot com to outdo just the way to listen to audiobook so what
they're doing is to give you thirty eight three thirty a makotou dot com flashed jocose three days free and then you get to download free
book what on shouted load deepen would you recommend i think my recommendation of clearly be a little book by jacqueline lay faville
extreme ownership we we actually read the audio book to you so if you like he jacopo as urbain a light here in the extreme ownership read
by us in about eight hours long so it's like getting four pages may be even five part casts but yet you know we've gotten some rot really
because of the support people of showing upon casts and it's become a more poperinghe ere by much people that want to sponsors and we don't
want a bunch of sponsors in fact we don't want any the only thing we want is if there's things i can help people help people get better
while the that's we want so on it gives you the supplements that you need some of the gear that you need and then on top of that you got
audible which is a weight o listen to books a while you can't have the ability to read so if your driving if you're doing yard work if we
do in some something that requires your hands and your eyes you can just listen to a book on audible doubt calm slash jocko and so that's
another way too also then thereby sports podcast thirty days three book do it get margaret i am i recommend extremely neripeis well it's
interesting that you has read it um cause that's not always the case i sometimes it's it's like a professional reader whoever but um like
if you know it laviolette that man the idea it does olivette is yes indeed so yet there you go to skitterin i'm down i first question
jocked you ever feel burnt out from one full tilt several days or several weeks in a row and if so what do you do neveroff course um you
know burning a candle a bowen of vental it's going to catch up what you and for me it's can come in the form of too much travel too much
exercise sometimes i'll just be pressed at warfare with a bunch of different companies sometimes in writing and i'm turned to get a bunch
of writing done sometimes i'm trained so much judita's going crazy so anyway i order a lot of times it's the combination of all these
things going on at once cause tritet a bunch down to in a short amount of time and i end up whatever coming off the coming off the track or
a little bit coming off the rail vera little bit and so what do i do on those kind of days when i'm stareful like that will number one i
like to force myself to do it anyway that is a reality so yet even if i'm if i don't feel like work in out i'll be like you know what is go
to a cicero and easy one easy or work out or i don't want to train you jetterent the earlier don't really feel like training going to go
train anyway then may be there some formal work at are so stoopstone the work anyway now if if the next day i still feel like i need a
break at that sort of my red flag say or i you know what you need to break a unique to take in town time relax um do some kind of active
rest i don't really like discinct around i'll do something kind of active and probably eat in stakes poor trio eat something really good
tritet so just you now have my i might eat something really good like stakes and maybe sleep taking extra map trying feel better you some
kind of stretching to try and feel better witcom disrobe the as i'm not superhuman by anybody else some obstare down beaten up and i need
some downtime and that's what i do i try rest relax and eat some good food yet lets a good and that a thirteener orate how you were saying
oh if i don't feel like it or fife like i'm starting to get burnt out you'll you'll it's like that one last yes think lemme just do it
anyway you then i'll see if i do it you know because sometimes like how you say you you avoid the situation where you just now in the mood
in windiest not in the mood but doesn't mean your burnt out it is not in the most or that for whatever he's in so that's a good way to cut
a weed those days out and am and yet you're still burnt out the next day or even the next day after that and the circulators oh my start
doing that and and you'd be surprised what it how intimes you really not burnt out you just now in the mood that's a b do you might not
agree with us but if you are like not what it be burnt out or just tired of it you know you you just you just tired of the grind or
whatever and you need a break with vacation or whatever what i surprise him did do is it don't do like film in for example where there
would be times were i would spend like months just tell me every week file an i fell a like no brick and what i do is don't do any of it
and don't think about it don't don't do it at all and then slowly and need i in my trance i was surprised how quick i came back where you
you kin a want to get back to it but then i go like a like a week of still not doing it it's like you get if you like on man of tired o
training every day or whatever he had a turnin in whatever and you're like that i got take a break after about probably like three days if
you're compete three days real like men on to get back on the mat so will you do as you push that even more boltlike your oar pushing
yourself to be burnt out on the recovery sition only medicine for that burnt at a o recovery is to get back into it but that hunger of
getting back into it is even more than it normally would be after normal brake for mitiges an i just want to call us on both our right now
for being total cream puffs i think as well bob off is said here we are a talk about how we get burnt out on or court train if i don't mean
it's like bob agalma was you know living in the seed of mustard gas folding around and maybe we should you say don't get burnt out just
work harder yes or you may be thought a real bad therefore on me now i mean the ayont i claws like oh i was typing on a computer on little
burnt out shut up jocint a better idea why don't you just be fired up that you have the opportunity to create something how was that sound
oh you got the opportunity to go train you get to the gogetter physically oh i think i've been a go ahead and do that i'm not going to sit
there and say amberdon training no no no be burnout if bob affonso burn out on a fat winds of world war one i don't think we have an excuse
to be fired out on the pleasurable things we get to do in life but to suck it up and just drive on of changing my answer to iago next
weston jack i i how about you do as a martial art compared to gito judo is a great marsala and digitis actually rude and judo and i guess
originally due to was routed jujitsu and there is some connections are in my eofor japan he taught judo to carlos grecian brazil which was
that marney aeorastation and two at week ensifer now to be brazilian poor gracedieu you can see hoorly if you look a judo that you get
exists inside i mean brazilian just exist inside of juno verso down about it but there are some things about judo that have more than into
a different direction and were on it dudoyer somebody and anything touched the ground before their feet you went on a matically you can
also pin people in judo few old down for i think twenty seconds then the match is over and you win both of those so what that does is now
you can imagine if you get from okay you win if you're on the ground with your back down for twenty seconds you win so as that do it
illuminates a part of fighting that is very important and in there are really two pieces of judo one of them's called ran dory which is
basically rolling and the other one is near which is ground work and those two are directly correlated or forgo jujitsu digito boloine the
invoice if you don't know anything about these two juditious the fight to go on even after you get thrown and it allows the fight you can't
there's no penning in together you are allowed to fight and continue fight until the match is over and you can recover from being pinned
just like you can recover from being frown and it doesn't really matter me today we are training to day and week out some good duroplast
keeling was you don't you you you know keepin ye tenthe he tossed the cossigny the gandy and ethel he's better at judo and he tossed him an
it was legended andy and up kataetoi ion and getting in a better position but and so the fight was over his cause a cat throne and to
that's that's one of the big benefits of judith is that you will generally learn better ground game and but judo will you betty at that or
take down some in a judo players can to have better take down said agin player and i'll tell you if we're just going to start rank and
saying ye got a for resting out there because wrestling has possibly better take down to jude i mean with the gave sir judas as avantage
but if you don't know this in two thousand and ten actually band the double let take down from judication in the whole world read why
restless kegs rest as came in started double like an people will bonefishing double legs so yes i would say judais an awesome marshal art
it really in some way as could be considered the precursor to brazilian jujitsu even though judo itself is comes from actual japanese
tehito but i would say if you're going to if you got it up then to long out a lone lorn especially you know you'll learn that take down and
those are great things to have in real life the great things have in in self defense situations to be to take someone down with you to
those awesome in degapitation if you're duplay and diccon petitions you're going to wear on a get to take down with wendigee comtist
musicologists a really good rustler so good thing to augment your jesuit but i would say you would want to make you gittern focus the gree
ah the yet on the left him when you learn did go to some allopathy nowadays a lot of guys a void that he take down elegies so they know
ground game is a vast but the take down element though you kill out of people pulling garden when she just means pulling a guide down on
top o the that i fiorara thing to do in a real fight yes but but man if you're good for sure cotelettes was crazy about but no even if
you're really good at it did keane pulling he no one to you in this renitence parted in feeble to take him down from varying in time you
mean no brier yet not even close so that what i like to i mean the resting i think is more i mean arguably more more dinna make of a of a
thing because it's all these different situations even on top of just the takedown part but men juice like it takes a little less energy
and it can kinda keep you in positionally kin keep you in safe areas when you're standing up cause you know like these weird positions
where you're on balaenas off balance or you your controlling the guys wait when you standing up and um so i learned like the signatory for
for a little bit and run iron never wore to guess that for ye that's villiany way and then but as the adult learned a little bit judo um
from from terrified hid the judean am and man he was showing me stuffs i hate rests will do that alfayins all the gravehead neck and and
he's like an here's what you do as i judged him eats even elaborate thing he talked me but as i thank these are real youthful things for i
get even aside from the take down part of it and then going through the takourt of it if you know take down solid even if you don't like
three or four really good ones in your really good at em that'll change your whole approach in your whole outlook on you it to so okay and
here is an example to say you go into on anauke party or everyday thing where you could find yourself in a situation where you got a
begotten enough fight or you find yourself or your friend or whatever if you know take down and sishta down for you don't have to like
risti do it a double leg in our real situation it's kind of an all or nothing situation you know you can't just it's not like this gradual
escalading of force with a tolerating a temple down as you actually as you go on with jude is to die game much more subtle with your take
now would varying levels of of forcing on with it with the judication so if an if you are good at that men when you get into this the
situation it's like no factor you don't worry about it at all compared to like you don't know take down put your giant sick you like nana
got to get the name of a ground and a scout can be a pain and that when we get there on fine but just that one will cross over from
standing or no fight to fight is like they are a kind of can provide some anxiety for you but if you know that you do whatever you but i
guess the overall point is learned that do no very young not rain that he had orangewater guy knows that you know it to do to you you know
cause otherwise it is get callista me the other gorenflot's and sometimes i can be funny and find because you know they can toss you in
yann your back and sulitelma fan you landin your head or some gaditanian validity to ty a poem in that if you were a street fighting you
got son and land in the person put you down in a bad way i mean you're still it's it's like disloike of you get knocked out a hundred
potentate probably not even fifty per cent in time but there is as there is a chance yet that getting thrown it palm style in a street
fight could be i mean you go go polson jud over the ease of people getting tossed a one style even in the in the high levels in some of
those guys if they landed on the street they would be injured and yet not all the time and you do genooine a fall and judaea break your
fall sale but the out some of those would be devastating if they happen to in the street so that's why if one does have some of the libity
to it that if you toss some one super hard and they landed on their back or on their head on the street on concrete they would be severe
they would be the they could be a fight under but but it's not going to be a fight at her that's the promising to be a fight under it's
possible that in a fight just like a a left hook is possibly a fight under but it's not guarantee than of fight i'll tell you again keep
fight under wearied children i could covering yeh an if i'll tell you in knowing some judo and special knowing some juneman like i'm pretty
solid at if you do it against the guy who doesn't really know that much julianito choice whether you want to put it on his head or his back
if ye your crusoettes the other guy's choice that your fighting with her completing againsht then that is true factures so that's the
reason to at least no no for sure you should know for sure i yes learn you to learn rattling learned you get so so just is the most
complicated learn it first spend the most time on it longest rike to moti boxing saying this for the million tons of sad one to game
although i i actually do sometimes leave judo out not intentionally but just i just do i early like ye o a don't lastly i like it that
personally i like head of the rustling because when i was starting to to learn wrestling with them that message greg train and you can come
in at yeweller i do but it is i'm not saying that just like wrestling i'm just saying i like you no better because when you like i said
when you shoot a double or sing or something and he stuffed it yer you're a veteran or that ill worse ajutant if you to go for in old tom
you know saying nodesme thing and you don't get well he's on your back but i alone mediaeval jude through you have way less of a price to
pay typically do you usually have less of a price to pay in a judo thro that you do in a wrestling take down undrained generally speaking
in my experience that's why i all all i'll give that to it like a like a small percentage of agreement that not a full head it's not that
like you wife for sure that's no use looking recluse grand roman rest exactly how do not grand you like that but i hurliguerly more and
believe me you get tossed yethering dreckly they're not graviolens at all than not even shooting a but they are of the rowing you at and in
rectorate getter do it ye dracula's greengages also yes i'll agree um and then also that you do think it can to in my experience um take
less out of you you know dis it's a less it's somewhere in between judith wrestling yet the exertion he generally denied and a lot of
generalities please don't ah go crazy because of some generalities that accomplice for what we good there anywhere to add i have nothing
for to adduce training everything you can i like to do sums up with the jutogh for sure question of a three what's your recommendation for
a in imployees that is late to work who usually is late but they're usually a good performer so being wait is on acceptable and i i i tell
us when i write what was the company and they start talking about reading this guy leap from beating sometimes i was told that i was in the
militia for twenty years and i was literally never late i was literally he never late one time there we find about that twenty years never
late never late never late any time for anything will you would you know we would show at work in the morning so early that even if the
worst case in are my i got t bone on the weight of work i would still be able to get insurance get everything covered get a cab and so
solid being a hour or so you should be your right in the fact that being on time is definitely very very important so people shouldn't be
late so now with this individual gessonwon up lay for work he got it like any other leadership challenge what i would attack he is making
sure they understand why why is important some people never make the connection as to why being on time is important so you got to explain
to them whites important to get explained to them as a basic respect for other people's time that its basic operation readiness is to
follow a time line that it's about being prepared that it's about showing your reliability and your professionalism to to other people that
you're working with inside and outside of your company and even some so son to and i i didn't say this during the during the potestate did
about some too and i can't believe i didn't say it because i always believe in waking up early and being early and sansuta than he who is
waiting on the battle field is going a wind and who he was rushing late to the battle field is going to lose will that's the way your life
is too and if you're rushing things are disorganized and you're running late it's whole but if you wake up early and you can show up early
and your ready near prepared your waiting on the battle field you're going to win that's all there is to it so those he wore things that
you have to explain your employee that mate so that they understand why being late is an unacceptable and why being on time is this
standard that needs to be maintained some people it's a horrible habit that some people have of being late it's a horrible habit yea you
don't want to get into it it just just unreliability i am o'lone of those people i searching the night club em in here pendent on for a
while too from linesmen years and unlike you i feel like i feel like it in the atoning it or not her ponamu it feels like i was late at the
very one minute late even have a shift right now not or whatever time either one minute late or ten minutes late i feel like i was more a
late more time and i was on time but i read so my dad was always late i come from a long line of late guide for but none less oh but i was
this guy sagasta good performer i felt like i mean acording to my losses and stuff and i would you know i do well at it other than the time
thing else pretty reliable oh very real in that liliputian i'd always justify it like man all this time i would you know i take to be
prepared get there and find parking in all this stuff am i could be doing something else in my life for whatever not necessarily useful
stuff but just something out what do astier while i'm not work you you know it preparing for work out that'll kind of my attitude as long
as i have good output as long as my job is being done it's fine so when i stopped the you know when i was done with the nightclub um
industry jade my brother witham he explained it to me where and the the the thing that i read that really kind of hit me was being late is
a a blatant disregard and a blatant display of disrespect to the person or people who were waiting for you no doubt of his there time which
is time is like when you real sing about it the most valuable thing you have so even if you talk about one minute or you talking one hour
you are wasting that person that if you have a meeting or something you can you show up five minutes late people are waiting for you to
start the meeting as five minutes gone and where are you know we stole to go over the material so we're going to spend an extra five
minutes just because you're relate cause you failed to prepare every one else's thereunto and you're the one doing it in so and then also i
learned through a aasheit i forget where but ah where one of the two major the main things that insure your success or will get in the way
of your successes reliability being reliable so end in what one day went to the store right and my wife sent me in the shop in specie sage
this kind of time as i can tomatoes but it was like a disposition ever try to go chopinette brother's like this one in this on this one i'm
like i just gonneau grab one any one because i can't find this one or a nothing to get him an arm to the go home be like you get to
trimaleyon even want whatever it is her make so i will but am getting frustrate on the insight i tottie london the line of frustrating
things that i've told myself all away to the point of this isn't my job to do this it is much of it i but this is my job i don't want to
meost why should i eliminating right now why you you tinterton and it might be in his overseeing point so if i do that if i am like you
know it's red on not giving the tomato for me just going to go ahead and settle for the wrong one i've demonstrated and basically proclaim
that i am unreliable so why would any one come to me for anything who's to say i'm going to be the reliable about it and short you might be
reliable in some things but you've demonstrated that you can and will be unreliable under certain circumstances and those circumstantiated
by by you so who knows really you're not entire no you're not you might not even be a somebody friend for you think well it horror
hospitaler you know a entasses lack of being on time shows a total gesture for other people's time and it shows a lack of reliability on
her part some ease the kind of things you got to explain to your subordinates or explain to this person that's being constantly laid so
that they understand why you're telleth and then you take in then they can approve then you can you know if he was in a good performer
generally that means the receptors na care about how their preceived and dongo so let's get them to understand how being late affects
everybody else anne affects their own reputation as as a performer yet that lean something to place'll be a come through di evil likes the
come through guy go come through i'm sure they like you for coming in on time every thing all day for twenty attested next quest are you
stated in parfait you you are grateful for an understanding wife who allowed you to treat your seal career as a number one priority do you
believe that marriage and children should bring about a re prioritization of your life given that marriage enobling another person on your
life a partner but also some one who relies on you and especially children who heavily re religion how did you reconcile still treating the
seals is a number one priority both the wife and children you brought willing to willingly into your life was there a point that despite
having an understanding wife that you should have made the decision to end the seal career early because of people you have a new faberot
for he badly a peresilis greater than the responsibility for your career so the son something that can be hard for people to understand but
yes this hope was my number one priority over my family over my wife over my kids over my own life over everything and i just a why i i
literally told my wife that before we got married multiple times on the way to the chapel or to the same diego court house to get married
all the way there on the bridge driving from corn outside i said hey listen i just want to give you one last chance being a seal is not
just what i do it's who i am and you are not going to change me said don't think that i'm going to change and he was like oh i know i know
what you are you so want to do this yes i it's go do it and what was good was to her credit she in trained channel in that she intransigent
that she gave that to me she understood it and as for one reason why we stayed married for so long and alarming esseltyn as if you don't
know this has about a ninety per cent divorce rate it's an astronomer wodeford it and the reason the lot of it is because the guise are so
dedicated to the seal teams that everything else starts taking up a second a backset now i think that my wife actually solved that i was a
loyal and i was dedicated to the sualtem's and therefore she saw that is something i was positive in toleration transfer over to honour
parts of my life a gluey family now to answer more in this guy's question i want to think about this being the seal the best thing i could
do for my family was be dedicated to my job it was the best thing i could do for the other so will i work with it was the best thing i
could do for myself and for my family was to be the best seal possible why because we're going into combat and if i want to come home alive
to my family and i want my brothers to come home alive to their families the best thing we could possibly do for our families is to be
totally dedicated the jobs that were ready were prepared and we can bring each other back so i that that's the way it is and i would stand
by that to this day and it actually does transfer in many cases to normal sevillian careers because being hardworking and being dedicated
your job th generally is going to translate to being more successful in your job in if you're more successful in your job ye of more
financial that bility right if you have more financial ability have you how many fights in family take place because of finances i mean i
think that's probably the leading cause of problems and families as there is a there's financial strain and so i i think that it does
translate somewhat to people in their normal careers even or not seelie not preparing for war that their trying to do a good job there
being dedicated their jobs so that they can perform better and have more stability in their lives and by the way when ye were colder you
get rewarded more it also eventually transmittendum could you move into a liarson maybe you're going to a situation where you're no longer
working for somebody directly in their over you in the demanding now was an you get a little more freedom you can you can dictate what
happens in your life more so that's important is well and also in unto all that i guess what the way you act in a wee you carry yourself
you are actually teaching your family and your children something now if you're a warrior if you're a military guy if you are then you your
children guess what warriors have been going away to war for thousands and thousands and thousands of years and people have been just fine
from that the men have been raised by their moms because their dad was gone away to warm that's the way it is so i think that that's ok it
doesn't mean that the warrior doesn't love his family he does but he's got a job to do it he's gonna go do it and also if a kinfolks'll
situation if your children see that you are dedicated that you are hard working that you are a loyal that's a positive example that your
setting for your kids now of course the the shouldn't be thinking and i never came home to my kids and said hey look your number two on the
list of priorities around here now i might as aditten got a job to do i've got guys that are depending on me were going to combat bad
things can happen i need to be ready and i to be ready for my guide and i did to be laid for you and so i don't think you need to throw it
in people facing said no ursine to priority but your family should understand that yont working hard for them your building their future
your building your you're building a legacy for your family that's what you're doing when you're working ard at any job so i think that's a
good i think that's a good example to set and i think that there is nothing wrong with that example now where people can go too far which
of course they can they could do it in the military they can do to their civilian career where the job becomes not just the short term um
priority because i will say this my long term priority was my family right that was the land tempietti these theydon my wife and kids in
the rays emeriarde with me forever that's he that's what i'm doing with my life so a long tongue priority is definitely the family but the
short term i were the anisotoma in the years right to few five years three years that's a long that's a short term priority comparator
family which is going to be with you until you die and so i think you need to keep that in mind i make sure that you're not sacrificing
things long tom in other words if you're going to destroy your marriage because you're working so hard you got problems for you to destroy
your marriage because you're dedicated too much to your job that's not that's not supporting the long term strategy of taking care of your
family so that sort of where i come out on that and again consecrated to my to my wife and my kids who were in or is gone all the time and
they doubt with it and guess what i'm gone a lot too now i'm traveling all the time and again they all know that he loved to be staying on
with them but i've got to take care of the family old got us support the family of god to maintain my situation so that i can take care of
them if something bad were to happen ye and i think they understand that yet and that's a a i think that's a big component where you know
your wife in your kids they do understand and i must suing a man given you know what i know about you guys is that that you're you're
pretty clear through what you say in what you do that you are supporting them and they are a part of your layout consume people it's say
out of one's this diathetic situation but that leachit or detective he's real into his job he's frustrated with the job this posterior need
come home frustrated because whatever work stuff he comes home but he's not dedicated to his relationship or his family that much so he
allows the first rations of war to tarver carry over i will sit out on his wife because she said you know do the dishes you forgot whatever
she eat and then is even more mad cause he's fusted with work like that kind of thing where you don't he cut of in the back of his mind he
regards his family as some thing that should unaltered while he does his you know real light and life which is beaming detective you know
so i think a lot intereat and then on top of it in the the family wife will do say the the wife u has these expectations setter not clear
not not correct but it that way you know where you know you should be home at a certain time you know you shouldn't be working lay on that
was you know or or your family and that's the worst i like i'm not coming home but oh i'm done with work in this you will seems all done
with work up but i'm going to the bar with the guise and i'll be home and then midnight or on a talk in the morning for two o'clock in the
morning and guess what my wife actually understood that she actually understood that hey these guys are a team these guys are a family of
their own right and the agonale him go and develop and hang out with his friend because he's got a now these guys better than anybody in
the world yes he and that's that's our thing for ah for some people to handle yet and now when you got to be careful with navy seals to me
ye that it's obsoletely but some guys might use that is like an excuse just an not have to come home and wash dishes of coriander a been
there all right right so in a kind of be careful with alan like em you know i know a sail kuklos a deal and gods on to celebrate on
meanwhile it's done an o mothers dare something not something or something it or thursday he said you know um and you know they do i don't
think it's unreasonable for wise to have certain expectations especially if you don't address them like you know you don't communicator
whatever like you expected you vexation for your husband to come home after work you do so if he just doesn't show up all of a suit i mean
you're i'm assuming you're you're going to tell your wife hey i'm knocked on a this is why just like a sainclair or everything some miser
like i'm the man i i don't have to come home right now i don't want to would just kind of true but you're an an it relationship you're in a
tea eaten and really i would say one thing as to all some of my my wife is i would say oh yes sorry didn't come home i was on going out
with the boys he and she was independent enough and secure enough and confident enough that she was like a a whatever ham good going to do
this most of the time were there was sometimes flowers were both finished were figs angry built a yookoohoo it's a thelife right yet in no
one's going to be like a hundred per cent fois on that um you know that situation or the the the u e know you go had you you said i am a
navel don't you know don't change me or whatever she that's not going to be on the front of her mind a hundred per cent of the time she has
she's a person you know and he is you have her on her thin red onchange you yea he can if they know ultimately they can't they still for a
day they might you know and it in gobakoobee for so yes not going to go perfect but as long just like are you saying you communicated that
early and she was a strong enough person to be like understand that and unsensible that throughout the whole process then you know that you
can have success for that kind of thing but if you pens on how good you communicate it and how willing the gr your wife or husband or
whatever situation is um depends on how good bacon received it in an go through it in a orientia yea and you know the alamito ave been
talking along notorietee that listen to the pot cost an ampoules and service members and so ye guess what hev yer service member some room
to form those bonds to be dedicated that job because they are truly doing it for you they really are their doing it for you and now service
members as echoed don't abuse the privilege don't abuse it don't you got to do be the best you can be at your job bond with your brothers
in arms without your gold on the battle field with whether you're a cop whether you're a fire fighter build those bonds but of course don't
abuse it and make sure you take her your family to ye jacko can you lead those that don't want to be led it solatia ty of that question is
in its simplicity and the answer is yes and no you can't lead them in the traditional sense do you have to be in direct again there's a
word has to be in direct me you can't say hey you needed to that what i order you to do that you need to be indirect in the best waited due
that was people that do not want to be led is to let them lead put the paten in a leadership roll say he no want you really good at this i
think you got a good vision here can can you run this can you leave this in then one then a leadership roll then you can make suggestions
and you can saddle steer them as they led but important point is that you actually have to be ready to let them lead you can't just be like
oh i want your runnin then all the sun you go all level seven micromanage on people you have to let them lead yeele it go let them go now
you do need to make sure that there being safe you know or make sure that there being professor not doing anything ever egregious in what
they are doing but you have to let them lead you after let them make decisions in so that that is my first justness to put them in a
lerat's no way to put them in a leadership on then let them lead their little part of the mission whatever that is let them tell you how
they are going to do things in again you can make little course corrections along the way but you need be let lead now one of the hardest
parts of both the situations is guess what our ego because gasha you want to be the leader you are a fended by some one it doesn't want to
be led like a why are they listening to me i am also i am the leader i'm in charge i awake while they listen to me all those are little
insecurity set you have about your own leadership capabilities don't let it happen i was never offended by subordinate i had that wanted to
lead more that wanted my job i wanted them to want to have my job i wanted them to be able to take my job for me at what i wanted if
they're doing that good i can look upwards and our words i can focus on other things good coming take my job be good enough to take my job
and if i ever said to myself who i came leeterary to step up and take my ale i realize i like i'm meanin secure i need to put my own ego
and check because you know what if they can step up and do my job good i'll step on up into the next person's job so when somebody below
you doesn't want to be led let them lead and be happy that they want to lead give them that leadership that's what you do with people that
don't want to be led i just thought of a riddle so what kind of accident think of it i can oget it from twitter than made or made it into a
joke what what kind of stake dejoie rabbi flank steak oh i like it anterior from like for obteras also good cold good solid question now ye
that's on you hear a lot yet and i ha said that obviously joiett's kind o like foliating by way of flying or air and filelike don't lead
him directly how you would like to italy whatever of your kind of letting them lead but a toilin them for etta's theyselves making them i
mean the people that are like lesser people that are either have a big ego or maybe they stayed no more than you may their more all more
experience and you may be they really do know more than you and they're bumed or angry case they do you've been promoted above them on so
now what am i going to do i'm going to be a jerk that's when i into you answer all you know or knocking a support your plan and a knocking
to do what you tell me to do and i have my own way of doing things that's what's going to happen said don't let that happen all you got t
do say listen i really respect what you've done you are doing keeping to the langeni have you know what can you do you run this can you
plan thus can you execute this tabbies and then the go home okay i now if you they think all that's right he neight doesn't know deston no
not when you do it right now when you say he you have more experience in me i would really like you to lead this instead of me how's that
son you can only pull that off if your secure in your own leadership yet so way at work flanking tolly next weston jacko your podcast
listeners and twitter followers no you're before five daily meaning your up before five ah were out essentially every day and are devoted a
devoted student of judith what relationship do you see between physical fitness and empowering the mind flashin a man commence really
commits to changing its fitness what else changes well you heard bob often talk about this a bunch to night is balabola broth ebook there i
remember last war and he wrote the book how to be strong healthy and happy and there is no doubt that physical fitness is going to help you
in every fastastical in terms of what your talkin out empowering the mind and the will working out is a test of will right i mean it is
going to see canopus yourself harder can you get the last rapin you save another second off the spring kid you lift a little bit heavier
that's that's a working out distantest will and that tastewell an he fereles this before starts before the work out sarsiars when the alarm
goes off can you get out of bed in the morning these are all little test and discipline and of will and as we've taught about four
discipline begets more discipline the stronger you get the stronger you get in physical will that it takes to get tenths work out that it
did take to get out of betonica over the mental well so you can eat better food so you can get work don't you can get troyer temper so you
can origane things and improve things and you can be better now i remember while ago speaking of don't with her i posted a picture of early
morning workout got done and then i postoffice a little deep host surf session and then i posted a picture of post uitan and you know some
real like three posts in a row and some one made some kind of a comment that was kind of along the lines of oh must be rough right must be
a rough life i know you're getting up you deserve fing and done you did see and and honestly when i saw that with someone wrote that i kind
of felt bad i kind of felt guilty in a way because you i am i'm going serving him working out of training yogini of living the dream or in
fact in my mind i actually am living my dream don one i wanted to when i want to do it and and then there's other people out there that are
grinding that are either overseas there in combat that are working that are do jobs that they don't like their working with people that
they can't stand in a cubical somewhere whatever is the doing in his i was almost i felt like damon rubbing this in people's faces and i
and actually felt bad as a game i can't be doing that again in some well on to winter came on the same thread or whatever and said
discipline equal freedom they may quoted me and they were right they made a great point the reason may well go serving in the eisenlord
hour and do an over as because of disciplined sought my life in a gainin making no claims right now to be the ultimate success try i'm
certainly not and i will tell you this you know i live in a great place right now there is a time where my wife and i wonder live down by
the beach we bought a house touby the beach a dump that was barely livable and it was a hundred and fifty square feet and we had free kids
in their and my wife and i all bedroom all bed when he opened the front torious and walked into the living room a bed was on the floor it
there for a few years we were we just lived there and now we live in a great house but i after we myneyeple like you know what there was a
time when i just was sucking it up and living on navy pay and we squeezed into this house and barouch of bonny and lived all nough floor in
the living room but we had that discipline back then and in the discipline of eventually becomes a form of freedom and so he wasn't always
like this where i was just showing in surfing in doing playing guitar whenever he now there was a loud blood sweat dears along the way and
i and and by the way the boots went in tears along the way i actually enjoyed i enjoyed i wouldn't trade it i glad that i was put in those
situations to do those things in most importantly this is it valable to anybody that that life that you want is out there and it might be a
few years in the future but it's there and you can get to it and the path the path getting there starts early in the morning and it ends
laid it night in requires sacrificados in it requires for the will and that comes forth thirty in the morning when the alarm coshattas when
it comes so get up and go get it and that's why i think that the idea of physical fitness in powering the mind and the will on a otanes
when you commit to those things i think the rest of your life or reflect positively on what you've done and get what i've been real lucky
to you know i've been very lucky long away and i won't i won't say that ah you don't i made everything happen myself i got lucky i was
blessed in a lot of situation and had good things happen i mean for instance the housing market crashed and i was in the navy it didn't
matter to me i mean i had a couple of houses and all like of it i didn't even notice there was a housing market crash until i was buying
more houses and they were cheaper you know the e a but it was in that was luck eh bien plan that it was might have been a long term
shatagee hey i want to buy houses but you know a lot of people got caught upside down and some rough situations in the housing market and i
was lucky in the fact that i had an over extended myself again maybe that's partial love partial strategy but that's a situation again i
was triton out that i know i've been lucky and i in some of it um but let's make our luck with them hardwork for sir ye just you pointing
that out that you got leftyou know you recognize the insample don't like they d'want to recognize all the factors you know they hyssas to
blame something else for what did it happen and then blame not plain but take credit yourself for something that does happen good you know
yellerer recognizing everything kind of the good of lithotrity your discipline wave being ambattara dear your twitteration thousandths good
right there i thought um an i know thinking about that someone who posed must be must be rough right like a carcase obviously thou just the
fun the merit warn't in a jerkin think they were hum so so let bunyanite other way yet and in it he you actually in a in a good way some
people might be like a i worked for the distuona that you know take throng way whatever but you didn't you took it into the opposite way
which is says yet again more about you and your approach so that being said limeade so part where um when you look at those twitters like
that piterburg ye have your you know the the aftermath of your wornout yours you know go look at or incarnate er look at every single day
of your posts and every shingle day you'll see for thirty four wake up you don't work out for the everything with it and then step ones
that back and look at all the mallet once that's the the clear picture of your discipline of your you know doing it every single day cause
like okay i understand i can wake up at fort thirty four tumoro if i want to and i'll get to work out in and i'll be like looking me on
jaconets he's like sick but if you expect me to do that every single day and i'm not used to it and and i do it that same a lot more and
you do that zither is your picture that's what it is of course don't folks on just that little narrow view of wowow cool it was that he got
to do gigascale a cruise look at the big bitter and that picture is like i said dislustred em there it is eretrians ter ye had i was cool
mattheson actually had to point that out to me for i read it i was like dame say merman a very good point yeah yeah but anita's like the
perfect example and my opinion that disciplinarian it's like within that picture of freedom all you see is discipline all over it starting
with the fourth thirty found the morning and you know i tell you i you i would a had more dispietati i'd be in it even better situation
than i am right now like i look back and say man but i do this for what i do it for and that's one thing that as it would now when people
talked to me ask me questions i'm trying to tell what mistakes i made things that i did wrong things that i did that was doped so that they
can say oh okay cause the opportunities are out there you know the opportunities are out there to make good things happen in your life but
your gonaleuse up at your door step you here not coming your doorstep in magentie yo that right now you have to go out and make of them
happen ye you have to go out and hate them because they are not red come not in under door the good deals and not come in her door not
happened still crazy how obvious that son you know that other the like ye say that i'm nothing like had never realized that i thought they
were on a come to me or step but it's almost like most bull don't see most be but it it's almost like people don't really understand that
that true because you have like people who watch the tike if you will you can remember lost murmer that flowed etowah it oletta few upslope
ple will just really into that and there like talking about loss in the characters because it was a confusing shot is why you are lirette
and they're talking about the likes they know how the details in their train of figure is the houdiniere like season upon seasons of loss
and they know that like prayun what you could have been doing with all that mental energy and an satine that it takes to watch all this you
could have been doing a lot and that loss example just one of many examples of what we all do i think rewolver fitting of rescale lost can
you lost the fontaine in a boy oritur life he and leslie there things that could be so inspiring i guess some artworkers aphonous film or
move or show that can be so inspiring to you but if it's not inspiring if you it's not i not forcing you to get out and make something more
of yourself or creative the more that is probably not worth your wild be quit on us were the right and in again that the whole you know
lost situation i mean of that they everyone's infernino but when you're watching t v which is a test i think a huge one that that people
waste their time on i mean i can get some iteration from t v with intimate ause i'm invidious but i think that i would argue that that's
not my most supported it not why there watching of keeping up with the carnations i'll tell you that so i'm not familiar with this it's a
show on t v none the less am people don't act like that that's true that opportunities not going to just come knocking on your toreros back
to reanimate lier to day i hear you in a let are you gonna you have so much time you only have some much time and if you miss a work out if
you miss a moment with your family if you whatever your missing is it worth it ye your letting way you only got that day is only going to
go by one time you don't you only all want shot at to day will you do with it yeah to something good yes yes so interest interesting how
again this is like nothing new you know but i i feel like work a lot of us act like that that simply not true went out were dull yet his
cause it such a big inner you have a lot long time on this earth if you if you just sit back go day to day then wasting a few hours
watching a t v program may be the seed like a big deal when you add almost hours up and you subtract them from the actual time that you got
here man don't let it go the way second n't do it when he is on lost was named mister echo by the way he eddied to one not i well she
wouldn't have give me that information for my head you waste excepted alaili echo actual tothill stick with that than i am i think the last
one near my red time for one more jack i lost my little brother who died in a random medical accident he was some one that i always looked
after how do you do with grief and loss of men in your command some one asked me lesion of caution that the other day some one long lines
of argot be good when you lose all love one and not defile a tough question and i almost replied no it isn't good there is nothing good in
death in and then i started to remember the people a'most to out my life the memories of them the experiences the fan there you neque
personalities in it everything they given me not only in their life but in their death what their life to me and what their death taught me
the mark the mark they had left on me and i realized i realized that even in death evening death there is good for of all i was lucky to
have that person in my life even if it was only for a short time too short of a time but at least i got that those unforgettable moments
those precious moments at least i got losing to experience those times to know of the beauty of their personality their attitude their
outlook on the world they were all unique and unthankful pretty opportunity that i had the interact with them even if it was just for a
short amount of time then now comes death death is horrible and death is wretched and death is real and death is it fair then i don't know
why the best people see to get taken from us first but the fact is death is inescapable there is no way out in death in that desk is part
of life and like the contrast between the darkness and the light without death than there is no life then the people that i've lost they
taught me that they don't me how precious life is how blessed we are have every day the lean intergrown to laugh and to live to live to
live every day with purpose and with passion the wake up in the morning and be thankful thankful for that morning and thankful for the
opportunity to go out into the world and live to live for them for those that don't have the opportunity for those that were stolen away by
death cruel and for them i will i will cherish their memory and i will live some so let's fly no more let's mourn no more let's be member
but let's not dwell instead let's laugh and let love and let him brace and cherish everything that life is in every opportunity it gives us
livin i think that's all if got forenight remembering the one we have lost by embracing the ones we still have so devout there than you for
bracing us and listening to what we have to say in supporting what we are doing echota sport podcast this was a shop that on it on a
acomplished ocean per cent off ah and that a way the support you self it well up fomentation the good kind not we have really talked that
much about on recently but i mean in any kind of depth but none the less i stiltstalking worry bar and whatever else eh you get into on
there you can get get really into just to experience the website really don't anyway i'm dolinas or when you get any of these books are for
intestine in these books a junker views um and you want to listen to him rather than physically reade of edonai or or do yard work or
whatever um use audible audible dot com lashed jaconet thirty days free and get a free down load your own you want them a lot theyaodene
yourself smarter yes stop watching t v programs get yourself smarter good audible dot com slashed jocound support the pacas while you're
doing it epernoun a run a bunch of advertising some here where i could read a bunch of stuff we just need your support said as to audible
dot com slashed jocko and support yourself or get a shirt i like em disatisfied om you know groan speaking of good one the good one that's
one to good anyway goes but a joltram see if you like any of the shirts get one of those contoor coffee motor whatever um yes or a if you
in the moon to donate with some people have been doing which is to crazy yet very i think were very grateful for the enaden ate something
for olessiya plants or whatever anyway um those are the ways i and as always if you want to continue to conversations or ask questions or
give us feet back you can find us all the interweb is on twitter echoed charles is at echo tales and i am at jaca willing and we are also
on face book and on instare an you know this has been a pretty cool experience so far last week this little podcast broke into the top
twenty on it in which was pretty cool of all podcast and that's kind o crazy to see an it's the cause of you because of you out there
listening reviewing telling people to check it out spread in a word it's you you are responsible for all this your questions your support
so thank you for joining us in this this crazy world will live in in that for choosing to fight instead of surrender for choosing to bring
light into the woe instead of darkness for choosing to be stronger and said a week or for choosing to get better every day for choosing
till live every day but she was in to get up and get after it so until next time this is echo and jacko out
