this is jack pot cast number twenty eight with that charles and me jock a willing he was a mate a real good lady was a friendly sort of
fellow like the joke and if it had to happen it's a shame it had to happen to such a decent bloke but ah fair dinkum don't it make you
wonder what god in heaven thinking about up there the way he chooses who do sacrifice to me it doesn't quite seem fair you think he'd want
a blow to take a bloke like me would be no loss to know one here on earth but no he always seems to pick the best whose life amounts to ten
times what minds worth now there's a sort of aching here inside i can't quite put my finger on what's wrong but a soldier can't afford to
feel this way he's got a gittith and carry on so how is a bloke supposed to deal with this i know they trained me well i can't complain but
this is something you don't learn about when they teach you how to play the soldier game the teaching how to shoot and how to kill you even
learn which enemy to hate but nowhere in their training to you learn how to live with the loss but were good mate good evening actor
bidding that is an excerpt from a poem called he was a mate by a man named lackin irvine was no strain guyzered in vietnam as part of the
three r a r the third battalion royal australian regiment i knew you look at the vietnam war and he was definitely some major advances in
terms of technology because i had now things like helicopters and better radios and they had the beginning of night vision and they had
jets and better munication but even with all those technological changes the basic principles of combat remain the same there was de cover
move keep things simple poetize next cut decentralized command but in addition of those technological changes there was different is now
with the people obviously in bionomics ive anti war movement in america in around the world and in america a lot of the troops were
draftees round some afterclang old time anseline is on her before and that is that selenides and marines are not robots there people and
even though seals for instance have always been a volunteer force in to day all the military in the u s is all volunteers there still free
thinking individuals their people their human and you have to lead them but what's interesting is when you look at the leadership
principles used to effectively lead troops to day it's the same leadership principles to effectively lead the drafts in the atom drafts or
volunteers conventional forces were special operators or savilian teems and companies in organization of fundamental leadership for indies
used to actually lead a do not change at their corn and there is a great example of this and again we're going back to a guy by the name of
colonel david hackworth who wrote about face we talked about him before in this pot cast that book is in actual my favourite book of any
gator but definitely within the realm of combat and combat leadership about faced by david aceronereis at the top of my list when he
actually went into even more detail about one particular episode of his career and that was when he took over a battalion in vietnam that
was in pretty rough shape and he wrote about that particular experience in more detail in a book called the steel my soldiers hearts
reditis about the the sub title was the hopeless to hard core transformation of u s army forth petilianes femenine an patry in vietnam then
let's go head and jump on in three times before nineteen sixty nine i made the same eighteen hour trip across the pacific to southeast asia
nothing had changed a plain was full of effingi new guise nineteen and twenty year old pink chick caked dry mouthed wide eyed eager with
scared one more load of fresh meat for the vietnam grinder i couldn't help wondering which one of them the ci a travel bureau would be
bagging up for their return trip home even the lucky ones the ones who made it out alive would never be the same when he talks about
arriving sir gift of vietnam and he talks about arriving in in in the head quarters got him general you wells headquarters and you've heard
me talk about this before but how some of the bases of iraq there were really really nice all built up they have storebox one and swimming
pools they had nice jimsey had movie theatres i want basis in iraq i know it it it sounds crazy for people that we didn't go there but
that's what america does we have awesome logistics we have awesome support we have a really well funded and you know what we got a bill a
big base over there we're going to make it pretty nice it's the same thing here that haworth rolls into it in vietnam who we go back to the
book i walked off the pad and jumped into a jeep with a kid behind its wheel waiting to run me over to general eels headquarters the ride
was an eye opener nearly ten thousand rear as alan mother facers rents to the grunt out on the line were stationed in dunham surrounded by
all the creature comforts i saw a miniature golf course and a swimming pool i caught a glimpse inside of barracks decked out with clean
beds under mosquito nets these guys pulled down the same combat pay as the soldiers in the bush who lived in the mud watched their feet rot
burning leaches out of their crotches and laying down their lives so that a common term is a grim come from enumeration the fucker
obviously lay for thy name or business as alan front because we wanted to be that we want to be perfectly guardover body that we were not
talking about leadership from the rear and put your talk about leadership from the front so hat work goes on he spent a half an hour with
far general you and he can't get hold o what what and then he he kind o gives his assessment of what he heard he is pragmatically i could
do nothing about the chain of command in the tactical operational stupidity of done tom i'd be out of oels and hans eyesight oenus and
warring about how to come how come that operations were being handled from above was a waste of time at best and god men killed at worst
there are beway around that the ree highlight that paragraph is cast lot of times i get ask questions from from troopers out there that say
hey you i got the issue with my boss i possidentis my possiedo that this is what i try and tell them look it doesn't really matter you know
you gotta get out there in the field that you make some space and then you execute how you execute you know i'm not saying you're going to
disobey but people can't control you and as long as you are accomplishing the missing your finding the best way to do it you're going to be
fine so don't get all called up and exactly what the boss is saying let's figure out what the spirit of what the boss is san would you what
they want to get accomplished and then you go out and make it happen because no boss should be telling you something that's completely out
of sink with what your gold or i mean i damnsure military you shouldn't be in told something like hey get your guys killed or give up
sensitive information or lose the war ones in to tell you to esoterical you to keep you guys alive here goin t tell you made progress on
the battle field so when you get that sort of when you when you pull that commanders and ten out of people and you know what it is that
they want you to accomplish go forward and accomplish it don't get all caught up in the little details that you might not agree with
they're not going to make that big of a difference out there now as i as i said this this book is actually about the transformation of the
fourth petitpoint temperature so key he's flying out and he talked about the about in about face and we actually covered on the pont des
this is a little bit more detail so an i find it i find it to be more ob cover some details atnatu he's flying out to this batalion which
really was half an hard time and the gibraltar the general brought em in cause i knew that that hackworth was hard as an that he was a good
performer that he if any one could get this batalion turn around it would be him so they brought him out there so now he flies out and this
is his imp his first impression of the base where he adding when i landed i couldn't believe my eyes or nose the whole base smelled of rash
shit and rotting moral toilet paper blew across the chopper pad machine gun ana was buried in the mud and troops wandered around like
zombies there weapons gone red with rust these were the sloppiest american soldiers i ever seen a bannon unkempt unwashed unshaven their
uniforms ragged and dirty hippy beads dangling alongside their dog tags their helmets covered with graphite not exactly what you're looking
for a good and scared away military organization now one of guys that he brings in he brings in one of his guys to be the senior in listed
there to be as his command starter and at the innombrable press in nearest what he says about about robert press weed also served together
in the states as well as in vietnam and our pageship went all the way back to the same unit during caria lean and mean press would be my
new battalion sergeant major but non coms chief asked hacker and new role model you get a you get a good impression of what back guys like
this is a this is a gunny highway snare and here's what press had to say about the local about about the troops it is is from press i
looked around and see no one wearing helmets no one carrying their weapons everybody in the sea p that the command post grew was sleeping
above ground slepington misothea bombed ereintage killed i into a fox hole anywhere sir this outfit stinks worse than we thought so that
the first impression going into this obviously bad that situation kinnear drafts and i even agacerie meself myself that too because the
whole time i was in the military as all volunteer military and sure you give some slackers and some nuclear but at least people had
volunteered to some point to be there these people are being pulled against their i mean i think your benavente example of this than me
echo echo imagine when you were eighteen years old i got i was eighteen years old is already signed up i was in imagine when you were
eighteen years old and then coming at ye where were you in your agentur sity of hawaii playing football is now what if they gave you in
said a acolytical to go in the muster your going to vietnam how how would you feel about that ye now ye you'd be rough yet and and you as a
disappointer that's an athlete you're gonna be ten steps above some will net you know out on the street if you know had ashbury smoking
debut that's for muspel words a cross section of america hum so sure you would get some kids that were getting drafted from you know a
aleatores i gave my turn to fight i go go do it and then you're goin to get you neither cross section so earth when he don't want to be
there then every word out like some one telling you what to do or something that you know that you got to go to a man everything every
little thing yes and you can't have that at oloniae shift that like what i want you all sir cannot go all sirenical is like bo camp but
it's a little longer and i had already been in the in the military for eight years and went off ter canigou know there yellin at me about
the way my own towers folded in yellow'ammer looking at my food when i'm eating and yellow a me about my about my socks not being rolled up
right some grown man been this hell teams fur like eight years this one way and this happened you know i did loved it said oh really my
onwards not measured four by four inches on its fold up i will correct that now and make it for my florences ye cause deemouse kind of
recognized the value that this is this is somehow valuable in my gal the man of you lies your will and they are like do this or whatever i
don't even want to be you also lit out like i made it into a game i made it into a game that i played with my full intention of winning
right you know for instance they make you yell everything and all striking yester yell every word that you say with a john fares or were
you friends or whoever we untie your friends but with the other can it had to tell everything they called him ballistic tone and so i made
every one yell one cause i was a class president and made everybody yell one hundred per cent of the time so for instance the upper
classman had little closet that they would sell food out of you know candy bars and soda right sir and we had the line up if we want to buy
something so i i told all my people you know you will you go in there you may you may tan your belletti voice at all times so there he so
my whole class lives up in the groin and every one is yelling at the top of their lungs like i will take it on gooloon necker's par place
sir and it's a about ten people going through it finding the upper classmen came out and they said hey you guys me you come in here don't
be balestick and of course i said request promises peak you guys are not maintaining the standard of valiant school we are supposed to
maintain ballistic tone at all times they have been to thord looking at me likely one to kill a but think could vanities i was correct in
all so that the gate thing at an end that was a victory for my class you know as i was the upper classman and is like a cool victory for
the class and everyone was all laughing and then i fired up you know like we're going to be so perfect that people are going to get an its
that that's what i did ah now going back to the book here he kicks this one off bissis directly out of about face to the ants also well
this one says there are no bad troops just that officers in the in the book extreme owners if by lay and i we have ill chapter hercole no
bad teams only bad leaders so the same thing and that action goes back to napoleon who said you know know bad bredges only bad colonels or
something along those lines so then he talks a little bit about the gay wilds previously in command or guide by the name of colonel lark
and that's a suited him so but here we go after six months under colonel lark the four thirty ninth had offered the equivalent of nearly
forty per cent casualties without ever meeting a significant enemy force in open combat rockets mortars boatraces and friendly fire had
done most of the damage that same thing in iraq that's what most people were face in iraq rockers rockets mortars move traps resided is
from the fire that's where you're gettin most your case from a course maracas mostly its but then mortars rockets and then you get your gun
fights by you know blue on blue definitely makes up a section not a huge section and but of course obviously something that that we
experienced back to the book here all armies prefer high ground to low and sunny places to dark son so road over twenty five hundred years
ago low ground is not only damp and unhealthy but also disadvantageous for fighting if you are careful of your men and camp on hard ground
your army will be free from disease of every cut every kind and this will spell victory i don't think general westmorland or the u s
commanders running the warm vietnam new sun so from sunny and share than he he talks about what the damaging effects were of being in the
low ground in just forty eight hours in soaking jungle boots foot rot said in mosquito zap them with malaria leeches sucked on to their
balls and even up dick and moral vaporized before charlie fired one shot luckily we've covered some so on her side no nobody that us
iniamata cast is ever going to be out there thinking without thinking about the basic principles that son so taught most of the fourthirty
night soldiers knew that each time they took a step they rest the ugliest of wounds a bullet makes a hole a chunk of shrapnelite off an arm
but a mind turns a soldier into a splattered shaped no puncture basket case many troopers in the italian had concluded that waging war
consisted of crossing the field hitting a mind calling for a medic patching up the wounded getting a man of act then moving out again and
hiding another mine they also did the math and figured out the not many that would be lucky enough to make it through three hundred sixty
five days it took to rotate home the horrible view of war you don't worndee going to walk around in the bush until we had a man some wise
going to get blown up were going to call in the matter acrington of there the best we can if they're not dead and they were to keep walking
until it happens again back to the book the wounds were vicious young men blind ed legs and arms and dicks and bulls ripped off bodies
punctured with dozens of bleeding holes for the v c mind and bebita's were economy of force weapons easy to deploy cheap to produce besides
causing heavy casualties they prosute produced a lot of psychological stress soldiers never knew when they would lose a foot a leg or a
life and the frustrating part was there were few ways to fight back cause we can fight against the bomb goes off there's no one there it's
the it's a victim activated a d which means you stepped on a pressure plate o you pull the trip wire something that you did made a blow up
there's no one if there's one fight against norseback now the tale of back of the book the colindres death in the four thirty ninth was
well established before colonel lark took command large and mediate predecessor of gun holena colonel drove the troops like in derdinden
servants one steamy day accompany working its way across a rice patty was plodding through several feet of water buck while overhead in a
commanded control chopper the colonel kept screaming faster go faster it was never going to happen the troops rarely moving at max in a
later the colonel landed jumping out of his birdsbreast a patty dyke and he left on top of it to make his point a supreme may cong dealt a
no no and when the almost instantaneous explosion of blue and twenty feet in the air he died immediately and needlessly the ultimate ego
trip i was told the grunts cheered so the reason i i high lighted that is because when we start talk about hackworth than what he does you
gotta see that he's going to like the terms to use as here is up gun holenrake the troops right you're going to hear you're gonna hear
hackworth doing the same thing but there's a difference in the waited does it he understands what he's doing he's not just doing it out of
ego and out of pressing the guys for no particular reason and then the other side of the spectrum you get this guy a lark when lark took
command he knew that he had to turn things around and he worked hard to do so but with zero combat experience and not enough time with the
troops his good intentions meant less than nothing even the basics were ignored he wore an army green baseball cap and said of a steel pot
really cool except that the troops who followed his model and the lected their helmets wound up and dark holly surgery with their brains
running down their necks he was a he was into good guy frat kniving to build moral a well intention notion for it made for bad news in the
field so you see the two extremes you get the the holoerder guy that just a maniac portion of her one on hardyman i say and then you then
the next i comes in as on the other and the aspect he am everybody's body let's neotoma weren't at home it ay and a inletting uncomfortable
m lark sent his a company on a three day sweep of a woodbine completely empty of the sea but a hot she met wet dream of booby traps and
minds that was the day sergeant tam ache and lost seventeen of the twenty nine in his poltoon without hearing a single shot all we were
doing was tripping moby traps he recalls his voice trembling slightly there was an enemy and that wasn't any enemy in there no go at all we
knew it but colonel lark kept saying sweet the wood line sweep the leborne more than thirty years later achenmead a list of the men in his
botoke under larks command when he finished writing it his wife asked him how could you remember all those names after all these years his
answer was simple how could i forget them now here's another incident that takes place just before hackeries and take over the c had
planned an american made claim more mine alongside the road the world up suddenly in smoke and fire evans recalls in dock ptomenites
another book his blood and guts member of life with the four thirty ninth a wall of supersonic steel balls blasted the passengers shredding
metal and flesh from the bush rockets swore down lifting the gap and trailer up into an expanding fire ball that tossed mangled soldiers
all over the road automatic gun fire stitched every square foot of the road as those few gee still able to make made a run furnace water
filled ditch those left behind screamed and wailed and cried out they crawled and pulled themselves around in the middle of the road like
crushed boves with limbs and pieces of their bodies missing teddy creech used his elbows a claw his way across the road like a mangled warm
his hands were mutilated beyond recognition his leg had been severed from the hip except for a tether of bloody skin and flesh the jagged
end of the detach one kept digging into the road and staking him in place he fumbled out his knife and in the way that a trapped animal
will noffin foot in order to escape cut himself free of his own leg richard forte lay with a bullet hole in his belly his bloated gun
signaled heavy and turnal bleeding his face was the color of old ivory not something of seen before were someone got shot there's not a
blot of blood coming out of him but you can see their their stomachs starts to fill up cantherin ternally beating in they turn super pale
cause it's like their bleeding out but there's bleeding inside of their own stomach it's really obvious what's happening to him back to the
book it's all right i'm okay doc he groaned do the others they need you go help my buddies dock where do the one get such men evans
wandered thinking a lover others when they themselves were dying can what did they getten return the vspace us off one by one he recalls
one by one day after day before thirty ninth was helpless and demoralized against a superior army of ghosts accolto us what it went she so
that's the situation that the four thirty ninth was in just an absolute disaster then you can you imagine what the moral is like day after
day you're going out as we just said going out walking through the bush just in order to get blown up so that is when hackworth comes in to
take over and hears the here's the situation we come to take command scraggly bunch of the italian soldiers assembled from the change of
command ceremony undisciplined a dispirited wondering what was going to happen to them next they stood like characters in a police line up
were every participant was a pope with silver blades gleaming in the sun a flock of brightly simonized hues drop from the skies over dizzy
dizzy as the the the area where they stand one by one starched army brass with an entrada a fer strutted across the el general eel leading
the way their fatigues pressed their sleeves percisely rolled up above their elbows into foreign folds their shoes polished parade ground
perfection to the grunts they must have looked like aliens from outer space i stood soldier straight and watched those from on high pay
absolutely no attention to the assembled troops the men from their battalion their division for them the boys on the line were beside the
point more pains to be ignored it disgusted me in the night the vision that gap between the brass and the grunts looked unbridgable sir you
remember hackworth was a grunt he came is enlisted he was a junior army person and he came up through the ranks so when he sees this
behaviour of these senior leaders which he already knows that their back with miniature golf courses and pools that now he sees him show up
there in their starch cammies they're looking all perfect and they don't even pay attention to these troopers even if they were to say look
you guys look like cap what is wrong with you did it together even if they were to say that at least i be it be recognition now what did
justin them so he takes over and he says time for shock therapy as i past planned i fired the incompetent as three that the operations
officer and the heavy drop italian sergeant on the spot and replaced them with bumstead and press those its one of the guys at toledo at
earlier press bumpus one of a half words other kind of prodigies thousand other changes needed to be made but i didn't want to bury the
company commanders or staff on the first day together if i ordered all shortcomings squared away immediately i have sent these leaders into
overload blown all their circuits no one would have got to anything right so i approached this conversation from slackness to soldiering
the same way i trained a pop just a few tricks at a time starting now starting now were going to follow the two rolland i said i'll tell
you what the two new rules are and you make them happen once your troops have mastered the first to rules will add two more and we'll keep
doing that until we're squared away first will call crawl then we'll walk and then we'll run just stay with me because we're going to run
faster and faster every day they shot me a prove it look so you can see hawkes going into a little pryoristic right he knows that people
can't do that going to change everything immediately e's got to do in steps and that the same thing you do with any any situation that you
face we got multiple problems that are vague looking at you can or you can't change him all at once you can't fix him all at once you pick
the biggest promise you start with those then here he started to establish himself and his men and his and his leadership team as to what
their attitude was with the troops a few days later after finding a very small soldier who told me as feet were killing him because he
couldn't get any boots to fit him they were all too big i had a light conversation with the good as for as for his the supply elements are
in the military and the army hack went balestick johnson recalls the theodotas chain of command from his squaw beater to his company
commander and then he got a hold of me he made it very clear that i'd better get that man a pair of boots or all kinds of hollible things
were going to happen to me the army did not make of men's boots small enough to fit the little guy we scavenge the country and found a pair
of woman's boots that fit the bill this talus all in infortunes that hack cared for the lowest of soldiers and he expected his commanders
and staff to damn well look after them this is how hack goes on a campaign to change people the little things build up now he's continuing
start the tighten things up more i finished my first session with a set of orders that stone at a commanders here is the drill i told him
were shrinking the permeter night i want you to recolonisation when it gets dark each company will pull back you maintain your old position
to with half your force and by midnight i want those holes filled in i want nothing left at the enemy can use but ticularly holds that the
viccolo into if they attack all your people will be at a hundred per cent stand two ready to fight in a new positions by the midnight i
expect tonalities disappointed remember nothing happens other than recounting until after dark you've got up eugen always remember that the
enemy's out there in the bush watching our every move and he's always looking for a weak spot to knock your cock stiff and closed down the
show you call me at midnight from the new positions midnight understood the command is went out to brief their troops my orders went down
like an iron kite preparing a fighting position is hard sweaty work moving a fighting position as even more of a bitch because you have to
fill in the old hall before digging in again it sucks in any circumstances they hated my god and now he does the same thing with this with
the with the leadership element which works in the what's called the talk at acopea ion center he says and all the talk personnel
regardless of rank or order to dig in individual foxholes around it they lived there when not on duty my talk order had a two fold purpose
having a bunkered command post made a much harder for charley to take out to italian opposite with a one well directed round which
remarkably he had no ready done and if charlie hammered to be talith coming fire or penetrated or outer line we'd have an interpreter staff
we need to hold off the enemy while we fought the good fight and called in supporting fires plus the staff would be setting a posively for
all the line soldiers we'd live exactly like the grunt we sleep on the ground like stonewall jackson did during the civil war no one would
have a plush deal any more common them we heard that one before ten that night so after they pulled their permettera and they've chambaa
changed their positions to what the enemy saw during the day during the day enemy saw where they were once the one i got dark they moved to
new positions they dug in they filled a role holes night comes and guess what they get attacked morteros recoilless life rifle rifle fire
machine gun fire and our pg round screamed in comrades are calls then all hell broke loose stroit they had just become an assopiated ers
meeting that afternoon flipped on around the perimeter the vic were hitting us hard but we were ready now who i thought steals to this guy
and ye'll be all right then another guy that hack over heard as they're getting this attack and they survive it i do well no one gets
injured hears a guy said he's a mean son of a bitch but he knows what he's doing in this is part of the campaign dan back to book dawn was
breaking and pressed walked to permeter sir some of the troops are saying that you have your ship together he reported there talking about
how you pulled them back maybe i made a few converts that night but i knew i was a long way from convincing the grunt that they could hit
charley hardy than he was hitting them over the next four weeks i talked to every swing in dick in the battalion i told all the soldiers
all the sergeants all the lieutenants and captains and each button and company what was expected of them and why we were going to be the
best so so just to reiterate what he did did he's going around in personally talking to all the leadership and all the soldiers every one
personally talking to them all and telling them what was expected of him and who why they were going to be the best this stuff just as an
happen you have to make it happen will your leadership position bactra when i spoke to the troops i promised i'd take care of their bucks
and be right out there with them when things got hot i wanted to get into their heads that by stealing a page from the enemy's book we
could take the war to charley rather than waiting for him to strike now he talks a little bit about the v c he said that the c were very
detailed planners but strict here and stood their plan was also veritable heel they almost always stuck to the scenario even when things
turned to shit so that's great your good planter that's great you came up with a really solid plan but when things start going sideways and
you maintain that plan you don't make any adaptations you're going to get crushed and that was he saying the vics figs weakness weakness i
also had all are all our relievers rea pant of combat rules and tips from articles i written that i put together as the battalion combat
leaders guide i wanted them to get their heads both how charley fought and an an thought and how i thought and thought i wanted to build an
offensive team to make charlie react us instead of calling the shots as used doing all over vietnam i stressed how we'd find him by being
hard core and agile using stealing and how he could turn his very own tactics against him then that i breezed over this but the other
things that he had all this people read was mouseline book which was the the communist you know sort of manifesto about fighting in in the
umpire which is another book that hackworth put together so he had everybody used he was eddicating the troops he was educating the
leadership not just on how he was going to do things but i have enemy thought and this is a re hash from about face to let us go ahead and
reachin i brought back some looting a sign of military discipline that had been swallowed up by the rice paddy mud then i added a twist
when a soldier saluted i required him to sound off with a loud hard calecon sir to which the officer were reply no fucking sack the salute
discipline aside also built unit pride the name recondo a combination of reconseleing infantry do boy came from the rugged hands on
training the hundred first airborne division practised it for campbell training modeled after the british command or an american ranger
courses hank dummerston had named the first brigade the recondo brigade to make the unit feel a leap like an air born outfit the trying on
this idea i named the four thirty ninth the hard correctes bob press hired a machine shop and side on to make small black metal recondo
arrow head pins which the men quickly began wearing we painted the recondo and signe on the side of our helmets and on all of our vehicles
just below the wind shield along with a large white hard corn we painted the same in signior company battalion signs at the fire bases and
back in our wear are an dumeta we also had sharp looking hard core recondo stationary printed up and gave it to the troops and all outgoing
mail was stamped with the recondo logo all of this said were different were not just plain old infantry where the best hard corn recondo we
drove the point home that an infantry combat the keen the squad puttun in company with the primary instrument and inspiration we stress
pride in a self pride in unit and never let a buddy down rifle company designations were changed from the conventional alfrado charley and
delta to alert battle claim more and dagger which went down as micky mouse until the troops got into it and began to think it was very cool
all that something that i completely ripped off emulated stole from haworth when when i was a tasking to command her and the you know the
the designations for the task in it or out faroucherie delta sometimes to the dell the using when i was in i was alphabetically and so
obviously i said ah when i can be bravo we were signed the name bravo but we immediately changed that to bruce and then we lived that way
back to the book a hard course soldiers wouldn't look like bums any more either they shaved every day where their dear properly and always
been came ofoeden on ops and the leaders made it happen by setting the example and being hard but fair this was all viewed this chickenshit
first and i was considered to quote dark holly the original g i joe life or sent from hell to burn their hides with fire and brimstone so
if you don't know this life for the term life or in the military especially turned venom you know that's the opposite of a draught you know
a draft that does dis wants to do it tim and get out the inapposite of that is the life for some one that's totally into it some one that
totally gungotree up and they call the original g i joe life or as claymore companies jim robertson put it in the february letter to his
parents a new cruel is not it would take a week to tell you all the nutty things he's done so i'll make a short lying companies are
offering sixteen hundred dollars for his dead body he won't last long he'll get tapped he stark raavin mad nobody liked hack alert
company's tom ache and recalls i remember the guys from be company talking about we're going to kill the son of a bitch or an put a bounty
on em and i'm telling you the truth if i ever told in my life i turned around and glanced at one of them said and want of them and i said
i'll frow in the first twenty dollars but each time they saluted they gave themselves a little sub conscious commercial brain washing that
they were hard core and after a while i knew they'd begin to believe they were the meanest mothers and be etnam the men of soon to be hard
coritanian hadn't seen anything yet threats are no threats i continued to issue them and daily basic brown shoe army as kicking and
tightened both the discipline and standards more and more of all the many traits needed to survive and win on the battle field disciplines
number one without absolute discipline you lose and these guys still had virtually none in again at a point out that the original member
the original guide that was super hard corn trying to impose this discipline at very similar at acting very similar the difference being
number one he cares about that guise and they just haven't seen that yet they don't understand that the discipline that he's chin them is
going to keep them alive and when they recognized that mellie knows the kind of pushed that through that point you not make an ado things
just to make him do not he's not me not using discipline just to be a forterne primate can make now that not his goal is not what he's
doing he truly is his the freezing he's trying to impose discipline on them is to keep them alive because he cares about those guys in it
going to take a little bit time for them to recognize it boncer cognized it there going to be on board here is what he told this a
battalion leaders to the leadership antidote tiling if you take care of your soldiers they'll take care of you according to battle
companies lieutenant carl olson and oestraat whose sharp as a hints and customize the rules were simple check weapons checked feet show
that you care and let the troops know if we get into deep shit help will be on the way i used every second every day to train men still
discipline beginning with something as basic as making sure every man wore his steel pot and carried his weapons at all times we trained in
the fire base we trained on the ambush for trolle trained sweeping a large patch of jungle we trained searching for charley i stressed all
the unit leaders that all of the drills must be executed over and over again until they become automatic i wanted these soldiers to roll
into a firing position or take counter and bush action even in their sleep close combat allows little time to think do it right and
training and you'll do it right when the incoming slugs fraeb training in discipline disappoint and training the men groaned and moaned but
sacrificing and suffering together gave them pride in taking all that crazy bastard could throw at us as the tenant tollere described it so
now you starting to get them unified a little bit just in fighting against the man you know gainst hackwood whether the that's very
something what happens in in boot camp or in officer candidates school it did drill instructor or the drill sergeant sort of the comes the
enemy that your fighting against you know you want but you want to you want to beat em you don't want him to find dirt you won't you want
your room to be scared away you want them the platoon be squared away and so you start to you no fig as a team but the only reason you're
unifying as a team is because there's some one to unify against and then apron pervokin of yea yea and then eventually you realize that he
is doing it the same thing as that thought busily event to you realize that he's doing this to make you a better person and make your unit
strong hot chow routine under lark was now a blur memory from softer days my idea of looking after the troops is not to spoon feed them but
to make them as hard as forward steel deadly in their kill or be killed trade eating se rations every one knew could easily e everyone knew
how food could easily be flown the inn made the point better than ten lectures the ways of the past were over that something i didn't talk
bout larwood flat we have hot food delivered on a daily basis and there's resk in their we convoys that would get blown up in half worth no
where are field trod the ways of the past were over stay alert and stay alive you can't make a unit proud by praising it and you can't make
a soldier proud by telling him how tough or good he is that superficial stuff no pain no gain they had earn it the standard was perfection
and not just for the grunts all the italian support personnel cooks corps supply drivers are to be soldiers first important stuff yer unit
doesn't become good just by you telling them that their good tabacos think that sets him back you're good to go oh you're doing great
because they get that little bit of satisfaction they get the satisfaction in their ego starts to think i'm doing great right i'm doing
great yeah i don't you transferring even just for one day you know thinking great gated of the nyneteen it'll day of oare yet not good
plant regardless of my heavy schedule i made sure to talk to every replacement to welcome them to the hard core before they went out to
their units at night had come back from operations late and sergeant major press would have the replace in it assembled and waiting i
stretched at each new man how important he was how report i was to follow the basic fundamentals of the infantryman's trade with the zeal
of a vangelist all hard corlder's dealed in the new guise without when they joined the hard core they were joining a special brotherhood i
made the code for the these leaders simple and clear fight smart never be in a hurry lead from up front set the examples take care of the
truth before you take care of yourself keep the good commogious the vietnam primer and the battalion combat leaders guide that's a simple
clear instructions for his leadership many combat that's come to think they know it all and start taking short cons they blow off the
basics and neglect the little things that keep them alive because they get cocky or think it's better for their men's moral they build a
fire at dusk smoke at night walk on trails don't carry their weapons go off on security don't save their grenades or weapons where
miskellaneous er patrol don't send out flanks security on operations short cut get you killed the troops continued to betch but that change
when they saw the tuffos was for real one day murder one of his leadership one day murder saw soldier wearing jungle boots with the toes
worn out and immediately gave him as on a pair of his own which happened to be the right size the story spread like wild fire finally some
one cared not long afterward murder went down in the sense shopper epick up a wounded soldier a soldier wounded by a mine as the mede
slipped the wounded man on the top of floor he looked up at murger grinned saluted and said hard coricao sir a new gun how attitude started
to take hold and that's the opening of the book and then you get into the combat that they went through which was just a great straight
stories and lesson you can learn from understanding the tactics at their use a leadership the pressure situations that they went through
and it's definitely a book that you should get and read so you can absorb all that information bomongo go to the end of the book to the
afterward in it something that packwood basically right after he had got done regrafted got done being of a time command her and he led him
through a bunch of combat he changed him from the the hopeless of the hardcore so van trantanti tic display of leadership than it you know
it's like the boat grew story and in a book you know when when they change the boat crews from the boat he sixteen is in the last place all
the races and then broke or two's winning all the races and the just switch the leaders and all of a sudden borostyani erases it the same
thing here you have of the italian it's hallblithe one the worst that's got the worst record in vietnam and suruga you put it in the leader
and they become the best battalion in vietnam leadership is the most important thing on the battle field so far those from that experience
he goes into this i could never figure out or my logic the command of an infantry or tankful tone is the most demanding in dangerous job in
the armed forces yet the army senior brass consistently failed to recognize his reality and provide lieutenants with practical cans on
training me need as a result paton's to frequently wind up under their command of under the command of the least qualified most
inexperienced leaders in the military the average infantry tenant who joined hard corn nineteen sixty nine with simply not prepared to lead
a rifle button because the armies approached to training it failed to ready him for the reality of combat vietnam he was extremely weak in
trulen practical knowledge in small unit combat operations and was almost without actual field experience the old saying good judgment
comes from experience and experience is gained from bad judgment was certainly applicable in the hard core and this is something that if
you are a leader in leadership position you have to let your subordinate and you have to let them exercise their judgment and got a let
them see the consequences of bad judgment if you don't they're never going to learn back to the book besides technical and tactical
incompetence the next biggest short comings of new infantry leader replacements were a failure to be demanding and a reluctance to ensure
that their men carried out the basic statute them alive on the battle field backadana one of the reasons for these deficiencies was that
many of the social values were diametrically opposed to what's expected of a combat leader to take a single case in point i had to
constantly deal with a sevillian installed value that drastically conflicts with the combat leadership principle popularity by the time
these young men entered the army they been brainwashed for at least twenty years about the importance of being a nice guy after four years
of college are out s military academy trading or about a year of basic infantry and ocas they were supposed to be well prepared leaders who
always placed the welfare of their troops just below the accomplishment of the mission wrong the average new routent who joined the hard
core had an almost pavilioning for being popular so the definition of welfare was up for grabs because he had to be a good guy he become a
joiner instead of an enforcer stead of a leader become part of the pack need this step up and be a leader in vietnam good guy let their
people smoke at night and take a portable radios to the field good guide allowed night and bushes to be set up in a bandoned get wet and
left only one guard by the door so everyone else could get a good night's rest i let their men leave their boots on for several days and
didn't inspect their feet resulting in a merino they didn't make sure their men kept their weapons and magazines perfectly clean or
protected themselves against mosquitoes or took their aquirements a malaria pills good guy witena ended up killing their men with kindness
and you got asked yourself even in meanthes is a yeundertake on combat here but if you are no leachii in a business and your not helping
your troops by enforcing by teaching by holding the line by disciplining him if you're in charge of gagool and your not doing that your
they're not going to perform the way the supposed to perform there not got up the emminster business is an genaemt way your business is
supposed to perform that means your business is gonna go down so you are actually going to take the job away from the person you're not
going to be able to ford to pay him any more so we cause you didn't how the wine because you wanter be nice cause you want to be a good guy
you're you're actually doing the worst thing for them your killing them with kindness that kind of like home i said am oyouki tiki helping
on ye for my helping i armorica's very similar cause if you are if you're letting your let's ego sales people and you say oh you know what
to you make him upon call to day right you know what i want to push you too hard what would you rather just go for lunch with me would that
be nice without make me a good guy what should be what should you be doing if you are a good eater she said but get on the phone you got
bills to pay you got a mortgage to pay you got kids you want to send a college git all the phone and start dying make it happen let's go
let's do this are you are you better leader for you out of your going leontion going to lunch and i stand you not in the mood i know that
he has good eland have now that's a great a great twist on that term of killing people with kind the cause i actually that you at someone's
being a jerk how would she do do i was out ye know killing with kindness and i literally mean it if this is a different way of doing it yet
yes of ousehold different states is the eye while the back to the book while the run of the mill lieutenants had a vague idea of what was
required he did have the experience or good sense to enforce the rules when push came to shove he preferred to turn his head the other way
rather than come down hard on slackers he overlooked efficiency such as dirty weapons and ammunition improperly safe weapons and grenade
incorrect came flaten and the improper use of train not using natural cover a provide protection for small ones fire and without an
asticking company's skipper or demanding and tio the soldiers habits begin sloppered sloppier carelessness ruled and of course the result
was casualties that could have been prevented at the lieutenant demanded the small things be done well my own experience has been that
soldiers in combat will do only what's required of them under weak nice guy leadership they'll try to get away with everything they can
violate every basic rule in the book at the same time because they know their long and that this behaviour is placing their lives in
jeopardy valrosa to the demands of a positive asticking leader the result will be fewer cattlepens in aveling respect from the leader who
cares a noughin to make them do it right so that's important affigat this is not some people here this kind of talk that i'm saying and all
of a sudden they want to turn into a super hyper angrave person that's going brazero everybody in trying to enforce every little um every
little order and every little discipline so hard that it it breaks the guys down and again a quietness focused on that to beginning at it
the first guy was super hard cord you could imagine that he probably had people slew them in the field too he probably you know was he you
come to attention when i walk in the rehearsal super hard corn stuff and it was stuffed it in an ye it wasn't the important stuff and so
there's a fine light an he makes a great a great point cure of pointing out that your troops vay know what's right they know that you're
there to help him there on to take the easiest way possible but when you actually step up and lead and you explain them why this is for me
explained to them why this is why does gonna keep them alive and whites going to make the company more successful then you will actually
get trachian you will get loyalty cause when you keep these guys are live they become loyalty when you get your sails person to to sell
more and do more or ginnerally you when you get your manufacturing tea to produce more and do it faster there because you push them a
little to harder they're going to respect you they're going to thank you you bear therough follow you ye yet the the the that's real clear
there where when you show some results till you know they'll then back to the remember i move the boiler room my brought up disease said
eat mention something along those lines eries like she mus small return and the totantora what he said like don't give you there first for
someone like that thank thing you show us a little bit of result like em like her i gesumaria when he's making him sesthetical my sophia
awaken'd that even making him stand and floor pin the fence all this stuff he's mad but he he he starts off with a little bit of trust in
him you know because he heaton's a cried and then when he saw the results he was at all man with safe menones in we mister eagels real
loyal to him but now ay tank thing another spectable canoter serious shortcoming was the failure to teach leaders importance of supervision
and the technique of supervising the average small unit leader nineteen sixty nineteen to take for a granite that his will would be done
and that he didn't have to follow up the contour you got a inspect especially in the beginning do you get the tone right and to me to
understand what it's about what your about as a leader the nature of combat and he may come deleah we operated in the hard core greatly
extended this problem because small units normally operate on the widely decentralized basis in bitching terran this restricted regular
visits from the company betailed ers prohibiting more experience senores and in toe from checking the plotoons and passing along tips of
the trade without an experienced the maning leader these carelessly led buttons were headed for a world of her the infrequency of heavy
combat empire to world war two or corea nineteen fifty and fifty one and the prevalent all his cool attitude had a tendency to low soldiers
and leaders into a false sense of safety the more alertness and security went slack the greater the danger of an enemy attack became we
played right into the enemy's hands as some so put it so well when the enemy is weak attack so walwar to corea you know fifty and fifty one
and creep the they were fighting so often that every one knew that had to be squared away but here you might go some time you know nothing
happened yesterday nothing happened the day before nothing happened for last week may be i don't need to clean my weapons to night and
maybe i don't need to dig into a new fighting position maybe i don't need to wear my body or more do i had to inculcate the hard core
leaders with the burning need to keep their people a lot and never let down their guard i had to instill in them the need to supervise the
troops twenty four hours a day to make sure that the fighting positions were at a quit soldiers knew the mission the situation and where
the elpsie field sanitation was being practised all battle field the bree was destroyed to deny the enemy a sources supply the troops were
all sleeping under conferenced from first round hips and fire support bases or camps suborners were heads up and demanding that their men
were alert and tightly controlled and never ending list of the little things rifle magazines cleaned weapons test fired goned saved l peas
and clamors out sectors of fire known salt tablets malaria pills jungle rot all monitored by the medic stand too frequently conducted i had
to get every leader to follow this added the best fertilizer in the world is the bosses footsteps they make things grow so just on that i
was just a giant list of all the little things that you we talked about this we talked about chestelaine ses learn there and how it all
started to fall apart for the russians when it when the guy stopped shaving and this is the same thing that hackworth i said you got a
whole the line on the little things and i will tell you this yet the hold the line ain't you need to hold the line by explaining to the
troops wi it's important you can't expect just to say he told you could you weapon because if i'm not coming back from another week you
know that you're going to clean it on the sixth day he he one time what happened if you get contact in on the fifth day and your weapons
are working now so i got explained to you he look this was going on this wide and portant you can you contact in the time you need to have
your weapon ready to all time most important thing to me echo look i'll want to take you home i want you to get home dear family and only
thing that's going to keep you alive in a fire fight as this weapon you have right here and an old though we may go two days three days
five days five weeks we are getting in the fire fight we don't know if it's going to happen in the next thirty seconds so you got to keep
that weapon ready so you're ready at the moment a truth you anderston what i'm talking about that's when you explain people why there doing
what they're doing and because now he say it can be a backing in the back of your head now you be thinking like you know one doctor me a
better get this thing clean this is important if i want to stay alive i need keep this weapon clean boom guesser do break out your field
cleaning kit you're gonna get it done you clean your room why so they said so not going to work knocking a work yeah not on to work you
don't want it all work for for two days you know and be maybe and to the bar minimum he you might be the barmecide a low but but if you
explain to people why i mean in your room why you got to pay your own you don't what i have guessed coming over the arm family it needs to
be represented well if you're looking like a slob and i have one of my clients come by and they see that my own kids can't be discipline
enough to clean the room and you think they're going to hire me to come straight out their company no wrong answered preciptate thieto the
rugae out the fact human it thataway you tell you get a good recipe when they're young you know and go recitative why if it afoot you got
to show them that the nasty dental pictures and people that don't brush their tekintetes out for you and then you tell them you know that's
what you're going to look for it when the five years older nadine turned into like a obsessive compositors ersson he was cautious to
immediate loving of ah of nasty looking peace routes the medium level don't find the crystal math people that that have their tea falling
out don't show made onteora to brush her teeth you much tea just find the cavity situation orsopola title and an dust to him an that there
keeper going to ride out in the air and an the kids are visual most of the time they may keep her out out they'll say now men tell maybe
that could work wolcheck out the dental hygenic here a few years on the on the children to make a decision back to the book the principle
was to learn so that we didn't keep making the same mistake again and again to do this we copied the vice technique of ruthlessly examining
every operation and i exercise that was a lower for the v c because they weren't as rigid about rank as we were when rank rules people say
yes sir when they should say no fucking way i wanted to instill a particular sir of insubordination don't get me wrong when i told the men
to do something i wanted it done but i also wanted an atmosphere where no one would be afraid to sound off and speak the truth this is the
dicotomy this is the balance you don't want an even hackworth as strict as he was he wanted it on a do all these i keep all the small is he
wanted them to have a rebelliousness in them to say no at hakodate doing us wrong or you know what hathi think that's the wrong way to do
her you know what has i think you should have pushed us over there left his back over here or were not going to do this it's stupid that's
what he wants and that's something that watair people have a hard time we cause they get a fenimore one of junior rank stepping up to them
and say he bosses wrong and you can't have that attitude you've got to welcome and encourage people the check you and test you and question
you that's what you want a yes when e take it personal ah you tentat pretty much it and they take it for ye that he stepped to me he has
ductile the order or the fools a little scenario that i painted he tested to me with it on accepter back to the book after every operation
we sit down at the squaw protonotary level in a work up a detailed critique that spared no harsh words it was tom you had your machine gun
in the wrong fine position ball you're right here you trigger the ambush early hank you're go to help plant sucked war is so simple yet the
military school system tries to make it so damn complicated probably they need to propagate a mystic in order portoport their turf but the
bare bones bottom line to winning in battle a simply to sneak up on your poem belt the shit out of enframing as hard and quickly as you can
before he figures out your in the neighbourhood and then beat it the hell out of there we should train our small unit in not in the class
room but in the bush where warriors can be taught the got fond of metals of infantry combat rabelais the best form of welfare for the
troops is first class training for this saves unnecessary casualties first class training means hard work and sacrifice general bruce carks
adage the more we sweat almo training field the less we bleed on the battle field is one of followed ever since i was a teenager and
unconvinced it keeps the casualty list short everybody knows those too does everybody follow em not always not always you see it with the
military with elise where fire with sails people are you putting your troops to realistic training that's hard and making them sweat and
making them think or you do in that you need to cadets a new readers who show in attitude and little leadership ability such as that
walking atrocity we can and william cary of the mi lamassi infamy should be immediately eliminated i left this in hercules is an important
port if you will alencarliense guided the horrible master of my life in vietnam murdered a bunch of civilians cole was recycled three times
at infantry osias after being found wanting in leadership before fineing commissioned in order to show a low trition rate to higher
headquarters a bad mistake with big consequences they had a guide he knew he was a weak leader he was showing weak leadership in his
position going through ostreidae school and where do they do they recycled them three times we failed three times they keep pusheth ough
keepers of troupers and the they finally makes thee goes out a commitee atrocity cause he's a weak leader you cannot lower the standards
more than any major enemy victory the shame and horror of my lay caused the american people to withdraw their support from the war effort
one they saw what callyhan wrought they said enough is enough in small unit leers confidence like fear is contagious troopers can feel it
see it and smell it and it will rub off on shoulders from a platoon to a division as quickly as a good room on rubles out of latrine
confidence produces courage most leaders are soldiers on bon with a double basic load of guns the average leaders are scared as the next
guy of their first or one hundred fire fight but if they are confident that their tactically proficient that their unit squared away tea
motivated by a strong sense of duty to accomplish the mission that courage that needed to do what many will view is impossible will be
there mouth may go dry guts may turn and hand shake but when the slug start snapping the prepared lee will be as cool on the outside its
clenod and no one will know he's really scared out of his brain to our going into combat that you never been there your leadership is no
one not your nervous it's okay no big deal be nervous do your job besides being one held a job leading men in the battle as the ultimate
responsibility on the battle field decision such as go left or go right or go straight ahead or made in a split second and right or wrong
good or bad people get killed leaders carry the scars of those decisions for the rest of their lives later battle seemed played back deep
into the night like an old movie why didn't i wait why didn't that bring in more fire why didn't i go myself why and i go to the left
questions that will haunt the blooded combat leader when till he six feet under good preparation training knowing your job an attention to
detail will keep the nightmares and any casualties to a minimum to be a combat leader in the profession of arms is one of the most noble
most deadly jobs going it's rough and tough and its rewards are few but if at the end of the day the troop say he's a good man as a posed
to he was a nice guy that's pretty much as good as i get and i know that something that something that i definitely felt through my whole
career especially once the war started was i always felt like everything i idto do everything i can to have these gardy everything i can to
have these gared and when i was in charge of training and now sending buttons overseas i felt the same way this training is what they are
relying on the keep them alive and do you sit there and look back and say i awoke why didn't i wait whinnering more fire went it go myself
fighting to the last all those questions yeah you anna have those questions but those questions are a waiter if you know that you did
everything you can to prepare the guise for the situations at their going into this book obviously like like most of the books we bring on
her in his so many lessons to learn so much knowledge to gain and i mean i wish i wish i would learn them in you know i think part of it
then you give talked about this the other day you were talking about how when you know juge if you know gogetter you can you have a certain
context that you can learn you get you so if you know you did trolley you can make sense out of things like you can watch a you too videor
you can read a book and you can look at it you can say okay i i can do that even you agnefit you but if you have no experience would you
get to ye it's very difficult to to look at a you to be conduits connote a lot longer cause you don't have the contact of the move and so
you're going anesone body to show you givin a need to it experience yourself so that you can understand it in and one of the things that
kind of think of why people like this pan cast and a sort of like one i have to offer is obscene alantois things from a leadership
perspective from being in plotoons myself from going up in the teens and in going into combat in the training between the ingoing into the
corporate world and seen what leadership is like there in the context of that and i think i think one of the reasons that people like this
is because i can disorther em put these things in the contact a little bit better and then they can take him and put him in the context in
their own lives but it's nice to have that little bit o help but you can do yourself everybody has been led mum you've been led by people
most people or have been in some kind of a leadership position even if they're in charge of one of the person or five other people or a
hundred other people but i've either led or your being led an so you do have the context to put these things in but you just have to first
of all do the work get the book out opened them and read them and then when you read them try in weed them from a perspective of balancing
or or not balancing but tryin read them from the perspective of overlaying your own experiences on top of them and that will that's what i
do i'm trying to kind of explain my process and what my process is been over the past twenty years when i see something that selathin
situation i over lay my own experiences on top of it and compare in contrast to it so that way i can learn something from it i just don't
sit there and blind me watch a you too video about you it without putting context over it i so it's what you got to do with leadership
eating my pinion so great book steal my soldier's heart hearts by colonel david hackworth and i think we can row on two questions before
get it all into the inter webs and the questions therein one talk about how the interweb can actually support this pot cast cheap or a
loewenstein support this pot cast and at the same time support yourself which is just in just as important it might be no supplementation
on its often are they are the best ones by far the only ones i take ye will i take only one you take i recommend alferian small for brain
or ring redicote repository and instant instance it right fast results or better than floreals no but sometimes you need to lad result for
you know anyway oh where are you bars as well i would recommend moyself that favour big favor umkenheim pershal a box or warrior bars in
your house began when you're hungry and you don't want to eat something junky is open up a worry about any basically eating us a a snickers
bar it is good as a snakeroot better and it's got proteinaceous different though it is different that is nickerman's alieno to not to
sgusting ly sweet yet like this we the ye have but it's like a meal sweet you know liking me like a very occation how that sleep ye but
it's it's good i have i tell you i he do you know you speakee a box a worry war you the on these sing called stay on it and it's like a
knot the electrolier wires that's a good call i couldn't that's a good cow did you say if on a dot com slashed accounted for the tenth or
sent off his wife pay zero per cent off when you can pay or paint with temper set off the price anyway in a doomless jackal also another
way you can spot the spot gas is by at times when you are about to do amazon dot com shopping good a jackpot cassacam first click on the
atman link then go to amazon and then do some shopping then and as on all give us like a little percentage like a referee will you by which
you actually need and you support the pot cast yet and it also a jocatore up come this an amazon link supplement you're goin t buy anyway
hjuki through there first to he can support that way and of course i would say arguelles way not as something to it but it really good way
to support this oasis good a jackal store do come and get a shirt or two or a coffee in look or bumper stick it could like a see you go to
boarding one of those ways the cities you languages very much so i got quest she number one how do you relate between scope which is
standard operating procedure and you gitting could you say that the basic and fundamental are the sops of grappling or something like
drilling your specific game well so yatesbury actually an obvious question right a standard offering vision when you re talking about those
of men yesterday exist in business yes they exist in companies the way companies handle situations for me i'm just going to bring it back
to my roots in the military yvette operating procedures for things you anober in portugees for many of the things that you do as a unit or
as a team of the stand redway of doing them and what's good as you dilius like hack work just talked about this you drill those standard
operating procedures untrained alamut how you train to train this you trying this you than that you train the other thing and you keep
training it until he says they're going to roll out of bed in her and be able to react to a compact joe to an ambush that's you react with
standard operating procedure so how do you get good at em you train them and you drive em now they're same thing exists in side of
grappling some one starts to mount you you have a stated operating pursuits to begin to escape the mount some one sarasson the guard of the
or gets past the guard of the standard operating procedure if faced the suite get out again to get the under alcuin a cop to a single then
some one mounts you're gonna eat deemed ately put your elbows in tight maybe try and shift to wait a little bit shift their way to little
bit get their knee light you in to try and put them in back and allots or these are all little staves someone starts to all walk you will
you know you for your weight down on them if they are turn on you lacking from the guard eargate operating forceurs just like will your
otiate field you want you seem to have stand arupeii ers definitely in grappling you gonna have to tender operating forces well to thee now
but when you get there is pie doing repetition that's through drilling but in both situations you don't want to have people so strict in
drilling that they lose the ability in you if you have a person that all they ever do is drill and judithe actually won't be able to apply
it to retire life when some one trying to resist a wen that the technique is an exactly what they expected or is with a person that has a
different body size than what year used to dealing with you have to in courage after train for creativity and adaptation again something
that the military con sometimes overlook jugis upepe con sometimes overlook it you have to train for creative and adaptation so if you're
going to drill don't just drill the way you think it's going to be drilled a strange variations that it could possibly be you know you have
so good witout using it imposed restrictions on yourself so they the only thing i minnesoty an is a aplanes even if the gelatines whiddon i
got a fistie that up and frown on a pot on you's goin to make me is going to force me to be created to bring about the different position
that's not so obvious welling with different people better than you worse than you the same as you bigger than you small as the new tale
the new shorter than you every different variation will you work in saturating procedes in the field gushats you want to put yourselves in
different positions to mix this squad mix the potion plaguing different locations den you want to get contacted you don't want contact fun
contact left contact right contact are those the basic guess where your acagete your contact from giving that contact in from the right
reader and at the same time another guy over on the left a little bitten so that's what you want to do you want to get that creativity
working because things are not going to do as you expect them to go so yes stared offering pursuers armed for in it anything that you do in
a business but in a business like you of again we been talkin about salesian er thing that customers are going to say when they call you
and you can drohuil the standard responses that you're goin to give em but you also have to drill your people witiges the customer that you
have no idea of acting crazier that has a point that you've never dealt with before you any of those responses that's what you want to deal
with your your in any business things are not always going to go perfect away you want them to go so you got a jollier leadership they can
handle the adaptation that they can be creative and still figure out solutions yes it seems like get good at the spice of like i know in
digitius get really good at it at the spiteful instead of practicing as open jiu just be mindful as of spy really all the time be mindful
of it yet and i had a gun or warder asked the other day you know hey im i'm in the basic or can make it to the beginners classes so i'm
only in the advanced classes and now were not durling anything i'm not making progress and you say it should i keep training brother keep
training definitely keep trying but i think more important is just but you don't have to you can you can find the time to join your own
minamoto escape look it up on google look it up on you to see the malacca at that the basic of you anna work on and then a grab your go
friend and say here i sit on me like this i'm going to do some movements with la happit might seem awkward at first but i'm going to do it
anyway as honey and then do it that's goin you know er once you get to class shop to class or steak class a little bit later spend ten
minutes join him out escape ten spend five minutes doing a block or a how do almacan you do in five minutes i mean you can do enough to
drill trust me you don't need to drove for half an hour so just noblewomen learned the movements and then just go in and do a little bit of
drilling and you'll get there but even if you didn't do that and you just rolled and you took the advanced class and you learn the advance
moves of lechmere going to figure out the other stuff to it's a it's like being a mercenage you know just because you went and got a
mersean a kindergarten class doesn't mean you would learn faster than if you got emerson you know real life college you know oloron we'll
just normal life situation ye yes to to if you get good at these um state operating procedures and you can mind the moitie and at the same
time i call your saying i exercise your creativity then you can you can stick to em but at the same time you can know when to break the
rules so to speak you know you well den but den is really good with some of the basic movements he like a sorelly really good in them and
he can almost force them where as jefferies good at the base to but he he's more in my mind he's more apt to do something creative whereas
denis like so good with the fundamentals that he is even a half to be created sometimes of course he is also very creative at's why he ah
you don't donsie in the world but both those guys have crazy i mean a a duneside for th any really good duesler's gonna be awesome at the
basics and then they're goin to be creative that's what makes the jugoro you yep lacombe actually jeff as this this gal that he think i
rezidente up on the spot too it seemed like i did then but it's it's basically you he'll be you'll be like hell he'll yell out a position
an you got to get to that position kindness is like a the quick as you can do it physically it's more like the the with the least steps you
know but you're like a half guard now do any bar now do or he'll session he'll say i am a different position or a half guard not take his
back not you know and you have to like hodoi take it back from hatcord and you have to cindy know so exercise is not only your creative but
thinking fast with this you know softer while you start to be like all riannodare was a neat bar from her with only like two steps you know
that kind of thing oh i dare really like that joe and he was like a like ye and want dentro de have died as is same thing till just call
out but i'll call out like a leg be desireth me with like positions he he'll be like you know for eleven didentite din garachico through
and will disaster do right and what's cool about it too as you get to learn mistletoes ah yea also you're doing any independent not not not
hard quarternight were you making that little adjustive being mindful yes lines you yes as erbes lorum durilu be creative yeah ole man it
seems like this that's a one hundred percent translation right there like you know that a canaletto hundred loango to the esselen in down
the iller in some of carne's a wild so i go as piminy base mind your pastor my or no your elbows otis is this like all these things that i
went in out you do it it is a one hundred per cent characterise as as the fusion jochen does asking for imput up and down the chain of
command as disgusting absolutely six hinder the lead of the billy of the make timely decisions especially when gaining the initiative is
critical so we have this isaacson that i asked him i got a cat answered for you t j c asked the question when you are we okay so that the
situation is a little bit different if you're in an administrative situation or your in a planning situation meaning neither one of those
are restricted by time then of course get the input and by getting the in but of course your first of all your plan becomes better revise
your getting in put from people you had more brains working on it you also when you get in put your building a little bit of her latcha you
wonolanset there the relationship we onerati ships are based on trust and so trust is a requirement inside of leadership so that's what you
want to do if you have the time and it is ministrated scenario or you got the time to plan than just go ahead and take the time to plant
take the time to get the impot now there are situations or you don't have time to discuss or debate a decision and there's you don't war
times were may have time but it's going to affect or impact the ability to make an immediate execution which is what often times you're
looking for you on a game the initiative and sometimes gaining the initiative takes precedence over gaining consensus for everybody and and
i takes precedence over coming up with the best possible things to aneta's possible plan but sometimes fast action is going to take
precedence over that in and patten said a something along the lines of a good plan executed now is better than a perfect plan executed
sometimes acaso what happened is in no situations agrando make a calling that to be decisive for you have to make the decision and because
you built trust with your team then when you do need to make that call it won't be that big of a deal and people will execute it now i've
told his obsedee you know lay on oration eration with some of our clients and and as they were kind of talking about the same thing about
you know giving people orders in their not less thing and one i do and and and i asked la from the mill this at a lad how many times that i
tell you hey lafe this is a command i'm telling you to do it i'm ordering you because you work for me do it now and lay fusie is your otane
now that being said that being said although i never in it administrative worn a planning situation ever since late you will do this now
i'm ordering you because i am the senior man in the situation in tactical situations where we were in the field that we had to do things
were to make things happen quickly i definitely said things to him and said he go do this now like i would a said you know take that
building out over there a moved on bees over here or whatever and he would do it because he knew he didn't have time to discuss it now
what's interesting about that is i didn't just wasn't just me that was telling late sometimes late for saying to me jacobines moved over
here a joodgement i on the high ground over there and you know what we had trust we had a relationship and i did it even though i was
senior to him weaving care who is seen eurooethat wasn't the important thing he saw something he was making a tack wossin i knew he
wouldn't be tell me to do something unless he needed to have it happen so if he told me have moved the vehicles down the road i do like
roger moving and that doesn't mean that were if you take us to a situation where we have the time to debate like you would come in on to a
jock i think it might be good at a push the vehicle down and rode oh why what's going on well we're starting see some movement out
maintenant okay got it i'm goin to track it i'm going to push two vehicles down their cold right that's a normal conversation but if also
there was on fire and make it push a veil down the road to the north i think doing it now you know what i mean is so there are definitely
times where you don't want to sit there and sit around and debate and figure out what the best plan is there is a time where the leader or
the fall of were o'er the person has the most visions tuition need to make a call make it happen so again the more better latinship you
have the easier this is going to be because you are going to have that little men can unification of the commanders and tent and of the
task and purpose and you're good you can a be able to be thinking along the same path and we you're doing that everything gets a lot i
hallooes so when you got the time to take the imputeth input half the debate have the discussion and that builds the relationships so that
when it comes time to be decisive and give a command you can give it and be erect up and down the chain command without a bunch of
hesitation and you can go back and later and say hey years where i was talking about here's while we need to do this but that's it and that
should the trust is so critically a like the zouitin bill that relationship or whatever i even at the time where it seems valuable sir
trust but its sons like this where that trusts going to shin even more you know when you can just say to do you don't even have to say why
they do it because he has no he knows are good to you and now you know what we're on this subject i will tell you this is well beat with a
more time you spend if you if i was always giving orders to everyone and not actually discussing us its ordering every one to do to
everything all the time your year in burning up your leadership capital ye like when i wekaine not in the field and when i was out in the
field with table tones i called them gave an order over the radio because i want to my guistiniani did say something they'll just do it
because it was me and they knew that if i was saying though some had to be done so if i said he vronging for forty forward now that's
ecatotowin everyone together where as if i was trying to give orders the whole time on every operation on every little thing and every
little detail of venture just to do or the what is it the boy that cried wolfendon to give every order and people stop listening to you
even though in the military even though these chinaman and even though the supposed to listen to me you abused that thing and people will
stop listening to you the less you the the more you talk the less people lessen and the less you talk to more people lasso i reserved my
actual direct gives in the field to be the most important things that i needed an if i didn't have to say that wouldn't i would let my
troopers lead let my leader so that my support at leadership leadin him to no quality not on it e affirmative next question many vets are
getting out of the military not back to college myself included or to college for the first time what advice you have i like how you're
doing sort of like the newscasters thing when you go on the question in keeping it i like that i like an so you go to college for the
nitebas college or even the military okay the number one out of the gate gaeta's what you should do in college he should go rushin you
should study harmed and you should crush it now in order to do that you can get a mind set cause guess what you're goin to think o me out a
military you may go to norden to to this doesn't matter dovetails i was in iraq ain't once gorias interogatin six months ago and now you're
sitting here to tell me to read a book and write down words on a piece of paper of this dozen matter that's an easy that's an easy path to
go down m it's pretty easy said you know why because it's actually true you and what you did in combat has more gravity and more
consequence than any thing you're going to do in college it ef you want to go down that path and be this stuff doesn't matter this desatir
tant compared to what i've done so i'm going to blow it off that's a pass you can go down if you want to i don't recommend it what i
recommend you doing is straight up crushing college that's what i meant recommend you do it how do you do that aivrybody if you make that
decision that you want to crush it if you want to make a decision that you're going to prove to peel that you know what young i was
overseas i was in combat now i'm coming back and your little games that your plan i'm going to beat you in your own games so how do you do
that no meron i do the reading that ye could assign to the assignments that you get past with do everything let that be your new job these
silly little games that their put it let that be your job secourables when those i made that like a game for me that i was going to win so
do that with college and then on top of that make it a game yes but then on top of that as a deeper commanders and ten make it that you're
going to not just do well there as a game began do well you can get smiggers you can really actually learn information that's going to make
you a better person and give you better ability to dominate in the world of that's what you should be doing in college now these kids that
you're going to be one to calliopee not going to have this attitude they're going to be you know he would i need to do to get by what sally
doing tonight i'm more concerned about that than i am about going out dominating this course so that i can get an e so that i have
knowledge so i can go and crush some some vocation later on in life so don't just do that a game to play the game a little bit i mean you
got to get it for me i get the game mentality going but i beg game mentality is a rooted in something deeper and what it's rooted in his
gaining knowledge to be smarter and better as a human now i'll couple o things about college in the actual tactitian procedures to dominate
cause when i would a college i did dominate and when i went to high school i did not nominate were high school i didn't care about high
school i was like whatever god waging in the military and the right killian go now so but when i went to college i had a new out itude
which was i'm going to dominate imitamente battle against these people here i'm going to beat them so this is some of the things that are
important number one colleges all about time management getting ahead of the curve because it's so easy that's what happens with kids and
callista's why they'll do well because for the first time there's no one tracking them no one day inoson discipline on them you have to
have the word well in college at to have self disappoint because no one can i tell you to start that paper that's do in six weeks no one's
going to tell you to start it to morrow you you can just blow it off you can blow it off for five and a half weeks and then you've got a
right of thirty page paper and do days if it's going to snow on to be quality at one as ye have you done your homework before dinner
dairies you need to get the time man is reconciliation time management schedule in need to get i had of the cove as early as possible right
you don't when you want to reapers do a thirty page paper do you need to write it in chunks and it makes it so easy i mean you was a joke
and i was going to call and i would have my papers completely done like a week out like a week out i would be done with a thirty page paper
me and then i would just be reviewing it and getting it all completely diatheter it in two days early and then move on to the next one
sainting with studying the don't want study you will do you one of study hard right before the day and testion to have knowledge already of
diorite sonontowane to study leading up to that when you do reading that i talked about high light break out the high lighters that's what
i do at all these books that were hammerin through right now we don't always i was sent out petronelle and marked up in that how ontogeny
the good information out of him so high light and then another little trick is to make the flash card and i used to high light and the old
make fast cards about what i i light it nor turn everything into a question and then you go through the flash cards in you're going to
you're going a member i stuff m oh here's a big one this is really obvious begasset people don't ask a wastin ask questions is to raise my
hand to i would sit in the front ralestone i sat in the front room i was twenty e or the twenty etticoat enty seven or twenty eight years
old going to college i would sit in the front row in the little desk and i look like arnold sorter like a little kitlands my hand all the
way up like all the way up over my head and they be lookin at me you know cause in college they kinaston raising their hand but i did it
anyway see just to be be you dematerialised my abut you ask questions because i guess what the college can they don't ask questions in and
guess what our tolson's cusiensi don't they ask her custard an eagle that one look stupid right you'll i don't care no i mean i want on
there the wind exactly oh i oh you don't think i'm smart let's check out the geoloy okoamo ask questions if i do any any ask question to
assume his that as soon as the knowledge as soon as the understanding train starts to get derailed a little bit asked the question right
then maybe give it may be given a minute to see if you can get it back on track by yourself but the minute you realize you're not
understanding razor hands a hay you know what teacher i do understand that can you read explain that my cause i'm not understanding me you
don't want to essenian i is the arrandoon's want to know it too for of course all and then you're just lost you'll so when you feel it
coming off trying catch up requirebat a look and then his raise your hand put your hand all the way up in the air sicofante your hand all
boy up in the air and look at the teacher with with the dead serious face in there going to look at you all nervous and be like the s
yetsisewahhawitonh to college they called me john because because that's what the attendant she said because my real lives john and natty
and in sheet said and so they eyestein there and they say a yes john and i'd say i i onderstand it could do re explain it please he when
they called john did not feel the fire no not at all they it doesn't matter to me but it's the only time because i i didn't know these
people because normally if i'm going to work with some one when i introduced myself i be like a mightiest's what everyone was called me but
these people would call my name in the tents and i didn't want to have this you know adversarial releasing chastises john nothing that the
other thing it is you know do some psychological warfare et o i would bind up my pencil i do it on the pad cash you bolalile up pencils
it's a eitheh also getting in the character i your priming you some prime myself on looking at the teacher like i am so ready to tell one
that if i have a down to pencil it will not cost me a single letter in badinage is a you contingency he again he passes a stand by and then
soon the front row why up your pencils have you no betrayer onally calling the teacher you wanted to eat you and your personal channel to
be to pull every piece of knowledge out of them and then go beyond what they know i was i was i was competing with the teacher so i was
trying to learn more than they actually evan in they bring their little testeam you now distrustest now to the pineries of her he is this
can get political this can get political and if you start being offensive with the way you act if you start to rubbing it in their face
then guess what that caneford and part of the game here is he got a good grade so you actually to trampleasure building your relationship
building skills time to start building dere leadership skills cause you mister manipulating the teacher right you in a make them think that
you're actually super interested in our stupid crap class that their teaching i want them to think that not ottowas going to love even your
word wit from like if you're in the english and you get to take advanced grammar and syntax you're going to sit in there like yes this is
rocks but doesn't he some class as you don't want to take but you got to git in there and make your teachers think that you're
superintendance fire have to learn that thing and that you're not just interested in the grave but the same time they got in now that
graves and portant to you do so you want to get along with them and again go into college and vivario representing the all of us out there
so you should be on in there and just smashing college tannate we have a better reputation not just for being talon the battle field but
for being smart and academically sound as well an andin a way if you go to college later you kind of in in this weird way have an advantage
bonteen a weird resistait up having advantage yet cause i was heifen in the military ten year to much man because you got the discipline
yep but the only thing that will screw you usif you have the discipline but you don't apply it because you think all this does matter is as
nothing compared to come but that's what i started off by addressing ye this is important well he's at to make it important yea and you it
couldn't type for college and this the part that i think will i know i just couldn't connect the dots on this you no matter how many people
said it i couldn't connect the not that you're going to college is worse a anaitis is it's all up to you these people here to give you an
education in all this stuff you can do whatever you want to do you not have to choose a major rightly do whatever you want to do your
gonnaerea vacation that to it and then to me it just didn't register it just seemed like the same thing as high school except one was
monitoring your gratian there was a way to otherat more going on so really was the same thing you do football you're one of the coeds this
copartment different thing which was bad then high school as you had your own place sidey other people were staying around you that were
your pears that were hanging out and didn't have to go to bed as certain time so if you're not that into grades and stuff in high school
and you don't see that clearly like how you would if you re like twenty seven twenty years old coming back and seem like the real value of
education and college and stuff preta this connal like is just one big party here then may be have some class or something or going under
in the day on an all and then the end you make your own schedule golyte this class at this time and this in your life you almost it's
almost like one of the biggest test in college is if you can pass everything that you just talk about yes if you can go and you can get a
dispoint you can get time management you can go to the classes you can study the stuff that's one of the testing allege and military
personnel shouldn't fail that test the only reason they i'm telling you no no no i'm sure there's all the reasons but definitely the the
fact that they're not taken it seriously it is what's going to consolitary been through it lay aliment ye but then we moringeae true but
again we were not trying to but we will be on to win yes you know i want you you're a veteran ear to listen as i want you to dowie and
shouldn't even be fair i mean honesty would i was gone college i wasn't even fairtime because i was just a head to i was just working i was
consecrating is focused and i was making myself focus you and ye men messaoud i remember i had that any of it what you ate this like you
know the therasa classes in this lecture classes so i remember in the lecture classes i criminology or something happen to be taking and
there was this guy for you have basically you cepaea like more nearly type gun of and yet be right in the front not like just in the front
row right here in fateatur and there is like a projector thing that he can he's right next to that and man this guy he had a question
boomslange would monopolize the whole class and care and i renew like an this guy's motivated in on the why mahometant a susan or nothing
and so one day we had these um like speeches like eyelid on something and then present ye out a can't remember i think i did maybe i did it
i don't know i forget but i remember what it was his turn ansairi so yuaa little might konohikis you the mike so you speech so that this
gets this guy's turned to go up and the teacher you know give them a like like one that it goes can you guys hear me in the back and i'll
sit daigue nose you know he's into this he gives his speech and he taheitan the teacher it was got and he was older guy he may be taking on
like eighteen years old catheral twenty five or so of ye was a better actual and abetment wouldn't surprise me because this guy was there
and he was there a wind dead thinking that as the older gun man i wish i just had that attitude at the capability men lindarasse that i
like like i took a muscular skeletal anatomy class room and i got and that one i think it like ninety seven per cent and i'll piss like not
less through per cent but in so thinking like really my hole just outlook in that class like i was there but it was little bit different
new year old straight up interested in it the arno and there was consoorting of interest to me to ye and those classes are easier to get
through because you like you had a yeatman that attitude of like aluminite whatever telling the test was like this almost awaitest shoonoo
erful ye this little thighearna will get on to my attitude and i eekoo thing one more thing i want to add is when i talked all
concentrating my focused i which set up the time management you don't want to try in case i know everybody everybody that's you know been
overseas they take a wagon trouble i have trouble concentrating right so so so what you want to do is you want a chunk down your time sir
you're not trying to force yourself to constentit for six straight hours you know you want to have my own abaout but i andaric now an i'm
goin to get into this but there it to go well yogis i want come back my doneraile and then we do a work out an i were come back on the
denote hour than the hang out for a little bit etonian and then i'm going to go and you know finished up and released often that self that
is one way to over a calm the attention span disorder that we all have a theycannot centerton that right o one way to overcome that is to
try and do suffrutescens wells right in the book i didn't write for ten hours of its initier you know fifty minutes but i did it every day
consistently and that's are you to you an a chunk to stuff down so you don't have to sit there and focus so boiardo eh but you don't want
to have to sit there and and focus on something for six straight hours is difficult ye men of erself arrest how you saying like um and at
this comes from a lack of respective i mean to not be able to do this or did chosain or whatever it comes from again lackapity that
eighteen year old would have but going back how you can get smarter and understand that you using that to be a lie my excited better person
so if you're ceneda affection what your dosing right so use that like a calilaya about whatever excise i'm nisette we learn to day i'm
aesthetik on a like ductive game where um you know you choose your guy or your kiditchin led supernatant use it in a real senario yaoorie
neelie he easily but um like okay there's gingled super offer you get a truck and you race and if you win you get these points that had
acceleration you get to add to oboyan whatever you got to add you have let so basically you doing that so nyoula exin pick our poem on an
age existoit le brain you no can take on the world with this exitus learn and just keep like that's actually how feel when i read now now i
was howbout learned about that like bonbon playing to and then i when i get up or whatever i like as she is i'm kind of like a upgraded
personal not to know about this that on cotta's what has a great that's a great way fecerunt college should it up grade you meddle so you
have more fire power to use against our old and whether the at and though near you that we reclamation and that lack of respected them when
you eighteen and to parties going on you the you know you can i think you would probably follow pollington that too but just less likely
cause after come from the military if you had it's like when you're eighteen your pressure to go to college this after his hero every one
sucks away on your animality guys could fall into what like the travels like okay but thinking about it not as lillyard doing a like party
altamore then you environment oh alec so seductive you know yeah oh absolutely because you notary eyes exact e g i bill and there like the
roll thin out of connie car of elstree and students and there pretty much sat right favillia of sudden they're like ohayo know they know
about the world they better round the world they know how to drink and they know how to party really well an so they can take a leadership
roll in parting with other people neave a great time and that's cool but make sure you don't make you up grade dear dear truck yet are you
there he yes that so you more likely one fishing when you make the decision kind of on your own talaheeti i said in your eighteen come out
of high school everyone stalking with your parents are talking about him as likely kids around you like a i got into this cause and if you
are the guyant run a homage elleston cather cool plan or whatever ammuse you just joylity right but that's a like another thing you know
they baith the military but what are you doing and you're like i tetragono college then onless you're goin t so you kind o go because you
are expected to go but you will have that clarity like if you go thoba glenlike some people who nowadays is populated well i widderstone
guys that once there getting out people say witching do now oh negotiating to go to college i mesmion i go okay yes i hear going it without
a without a focus wrote pointed military guys can't fall into that trap is a lot and that's why i'm open that there listening this going
hay you don't want a this lily take advantage of the fact that you're with a bunch of people when you can hang out you can parting have a
good time but have the discipline that you win if none of it matters that party doesn't mean anything if you don't win every day and make
yourself better and come out of their witty ability now to set yourself up for a good life because it's all college is supposed to do it
wishie you opportunity you that's what you want is opportunity that you can take advantage of it and solitude i am thinking back to any
party hang up situation is not serving me at all right i'm not at all not one and i think that was like that's what really got an now i
already like inhibitory or you the wasn't the kabouter the social scene would just pull head way more of a draw then making it said
cuscoussou borhman being you like social activity of most human beings like that even as an all us consider out of be like no i do not
negative one to speak to other people i aerialistics for for you know if i found myself not situation roberto you said you bring her a game
of the brine every single day i wouldn't literally be you know like when you train for a tournament the argonne your costeus are going out
as a laughing i want to do i wanted yet in all in a rest and i can't wait to get back to training so i can do learn some new stuff gave him
better she you know such like lazarous aosta even if it's not like focusing on the gold a whole sing your folks do in waiting that day on
and winning the next a winning this week you know and let that's a valuable to man david vices will take it you next west can you discuss
here and leadership a bit such as during the bells which is basic officer leader course in herminia school or other training environment
without a command structure i know you've touched on eve before and said that is probably probably the toughest forlivesi but if you could
discuss things that have worked well for you and any tips and asenion ments so purelier ship and i actually at whether that's harder than
meeting up the chain i command which takes the most amount of new wants and technique kind save as opposed to purely aship which definitely
takes a lot as well in there's nothing new here yet nothing new in your trying to lead pears just like when you're trying to lead up the
check mahogany down the check of my what you now noordt be humble you're going to listen you're going to leave when it's time to lead you
in a following it some to follow take the hard jobs of work hard put the priority on the team instead of yourself except the blame when
things go along give credit away to the team when things go right keep your ego in check and keeping you you jack is very porteuse when it
comes to purely yoshi discerns into like there's a lot eastridge going on those actually a baby go struggle coming on to the whole time
because i eat what peter is all actually competing with each other in some form for promotion for a forty four recognition so you're goin
to want that credit you can a wanabeen in those little things inside your brain if you really put a big good purlett him go you gotta let
him go you got to stay home book now a forinstance when you come up with a plan you can't get a diet your plan you can't think that your
plan you can't impose your plan on your peers you don't want to do that you want to hear other people out that in fact one wait a bill
leadership credibility as when you become champions of other people's plans you go mad at awesome i'll run with it and you take a
leadership alith someone else's planned how cool is that they actually love you then they say man jocose he's runnin with the plan i put
out he's given me credit for it of course you're building leahi leadership ah i read it in with that person now so very all does he
challenges right a belangin falls back to egobun the other thing is you got to be mentally nimble when you're doing purely or ship because
you can be constantly shifting back and forth and back and forth and back and forth between the dicotomy of leadership the things being
aggressive but not being overbearing being a leader in being a follower sustain up and yet not stepping on people's toes so you got a you
got a balance those noobian and forth between those all the time and that's what makes that wames pereleshin hard because if you and i
appears if i'm in charge you that then we know that and so i can conocal be a little bit more inactive in my balancing act because i'm in
charge so he icosaedron i i i can be less active in balancing any evasive thing of you or for me we know what the rolls are your leader in
following me it that the other way around a o'lang in your following we know what the walls are we appear it's just constantly bounce and
if i go too strong and one direction i'm going affect your other of amana find your ego which can a make you turn against me what you all
these problems come from you so the end of biggest thing a bow that about that balance is what makes you good at talang it is knowing man
it's there that's what gives you the ability to balance that you know that you are balancing when people don't know who what that their
bouncing up on the simoom in leading i'm stepping to the just lead and every one goes manister as a baby i care that's what you don't want
shalute you know that hay if i'm stepping up to leave right now i need to pay at tension to look around and see how people are taking it in
make sure them getting misforte ple in if i'm not that i go harouyu see to have really good importantes why don't you take this section and
lead it so people see o jackosn to take control everything he's not a control freak that's what you want to make happen do so that is in a
nut shell some advice on how to lead in the pierce situations yet fully and then e went on only first meet solenopsis i gyascutis slot
where if there even close to being you identity wise i can all whether a certain age of you within a certain bill of you whatever your
brain goes into this place real focus mode is small pretty and it it wants to make a decision is this guy my enemy or my friend i want one
of them i don't care which one i i but i jes got figure out what it is so automatically us feel sense a competition we see guy near you in
your like environment you know like if you are you got you go to the gym or you gonnigle what happens if the new guy walks in any about
your size and he walks into the jugi tefterdan there is a ecatomiti helices old don't have be wearing a black belt all that's even closer
to you now now it's like all pay was the sky you know who is this guy and inferum to settle here by less say he rose up to any just so nice
to you the aonian then you guys roll he's good he's he get you whatever he pastorate right but he's really nice he likes his amelotte you
like i'm saying he disarmed me i by saying a man was going on had really good to meet you i've heard of you i i know you are with you
mister deussen of the main guys of always like its great meet you jacopi you guys let me come in the gym and love to row with you some time
you know and if we if you could chance to you know i i i i know i really respect you alsame rat yes exact the right so bold now that
decision that you like romanite nehal to mate i may your like oaiti got you home your my friend you may lie but you get a guy who my man as
you but a with other calculations he's kind of the same as you more or less so if you had i and should not this is the same as to take what
you're saying which is onapart and folks this is just about to give obviously right it is a bow and a life in when you meet a person comes
in your office and there they have a roll at their company or with in your company or whatnot er company in your meat never the first time
and you know that there's some water equivalent of what you ever intese peer there a spitter even you know that you are too were there a
region old man a gun whatever the case may be your automatically do necesse so would you want to do do you want to do on a bring them to
make the friend the ision or foe the casion right let's beat leaders yet and that's the curate there coryate relationships not adversary
stiff bore not admire trial relation yes oh what plant were of but yet and the key there how you're saying is you want them to make the
decision that you are their friend he is not yes saying you make to this agin that that's your friend and you know what else to this going
to egoists the more secure you are as a person the the easier tis to be nice to him i like when someone comes into the gym and their mad
dog and me it's not hard for me to be like a i was going on i what will what are you from me because i know i be training for a long time i
know that they're not anamaboo with me does not as i can happen i'll raemaekers i'm i'm confident you in mecureu i know been training for a
long time he ominousness world and i meet some one and i know that there might be close to my equivalent and i in secure where i got a bow
up to them and act like a talkin now i'm actually calleth it what i do as well wownie good i know any to good tea i know that i'm solid i
know i know my information well i know a hard worker so why am i going to be up to him i now know not threatened by them no big deal to me
let's do this i and yet and even he feel those you're compelled to to kind of have those feelings or to do something to blow up or whatever
cause may be you are insecure not a one secure whatever um just keep it on the insight you know don't behave like that and yet you ask me
no that o camellias in hose like the cars when somebody bows up to you when somebody bows up to me i don't get to feeling that's their
secure and confident and i don't mean getteth good i did he feel in my all dis guy's protecting something biscuiting something you must not
be that good because he's intimidated by me that's why is bonfoire wasn't intimidated by me he'd be treat me cool me but he isn't
comminated by me so would the coffer you try and act as actually at two a kiltin of person atoned people let offer you chi and act the
weaker you actually appear yet now her unnarrowed intimidating white belts either in the business world or on the gaathaus a matter cause
if you can wait anyway no some entitate the white belts ho not lay it make them want to be friends with you a good un now rameaux weston
jocko how would you have handled the leadership rollin the first world war characteh in other words seemingly helpless situation this is it
this is a question that i didn't even want to answer it cause it's so such a brutal question and that's why i did answer as could i i i
want to have to be questions and i would love the same that i would obscure up like a man and like a hero and done everything in my power
to stop the madness and to come up with a new way in protest the futile tactics and raise my hand and say we're not doing this sir i will
not send my men to their death i would love to think that that's what i want a done and i can tell you we wouldn't when i was told to do
things in iraq that i thought we shouldn't be doing i said he do what that's not a good idea of findin other way less to some different so
i know i've done that before we got we got we had operations that we looked at an said you know what this is not a smart operation there's
a really high res an there's very low reward let's let the not do that one was find another way to do it so i know i've done that but you
take me and you put me no world war one trench now we have a different minds have a different brain and the thing that i'm scared of the
thing that haunts me is what if my mind was trapped what if i own see the futility of the situation because everyone ain't no in a what
would we confess that that we've done these things and we prepared for to we got more bombs are going a drop of game more or to this is
going to be a one you just need to go over the top on what i'm a warieties that what if i couldn't see this solutions in fanamy and that's
what scares me he is what if you become so brainwashed and closed minded that you can not see any more and you use your telitha in that's
why all the time you're going to hear me say free your mind that's what i'm talking about for your mind that is the situation that i am
talking about a washin what is around you question the status quo cuestion the authority in the leadership and your sorbonne question
everything in order to make sure that you are not following a a well worn path a well worn path that other people have gone by may be it a
path that you walked before but it's a well worn path and it's a path that leads to suffering in pain and tragedy and you can't get off the
path because your mind is not free so how would i have handled believers ip situation in world war one i cannot honestly answer that
question but the way i try and live and the way i try and think is one with an open mind a free mind that kansee second see different
perspectives that can detach from what's being told to me and i can go as initiation up with a difference solution for your mind found life
circumrotation jocko echo toff verses smart so wait what is this deep in initie is it better to be tough than smart or just in general well
you just read the question as it was stated it just said she for topics for poncas tough verses smart an inimy opinion i don't think you
need to be tough verses smartened think it needs to be tough or smart i think you need to be tough and smart an i don't think those two
traits are mutually exclusive at all in being tonenden smart as actually what we want we you don't sir we we think of tali think we think
of using fronting blunt force to solve a problem right and any might think that using blandford does all promise stupid and at the same
time you might think that stepping back from a problem and taking a look or stepping back away from it might be giving up so you are weak
or you're not tough but there are times when those options are the best offisher's sometimes when blood forces the best option and you just
got a power through and you got a beat toughing to get over the honorer the offshore through the alcuno truman and there's other times
where the best possible thing you could do a step back and quit beating your head against the wall and trying to blandford through
something you want to step back and find another way you want to be murger not hagar and i think the gin this comes out to battle and
people pushing when it's good time to put in a good time to be tough and at the same time knowing that you need the balance out with being
smart and the only were going to be able to do that the only will you to be able to fill you out if you're just being too smart or not
smart enough or two tough or not toulouse a will to the achanna and look and see a sassetti on if you get to enthered on it you won't be
able to see that a you've be your head against the wall forty seven times that's enough stop step back and find another way the just like
the four so engrossed in solving the problem in finding the perfect solution in finding the least impact through the smartest resolution
you don't if you don't step back from that you might not see that if you wait any longer on your brilliant plan the a year going to be
overrun by the problem eel so being smart and being tough are not mutually exclusive you need to be both and the weight you balance them as
thy stepping back detaching and doing always doing necessitoe so let it you had to choose in memke the question in an arter no specific
seero was yettocome you got to be either freystadt but not to or really smart or or really tough enough to mark what a load each he
unfortunately you have to go with being smarter yet emitation huronian ate but it is the the the reality is being smarter is better yes
these being smarter renou can find another slushiest you might be bangour had against might literally be impassable for that too a section
you and of all you're going to us be your head against it eventually you're going to you're going not make it you're in a die siloing smart
is always better eh in a guess they i should add in just in life let's say you know literally the question of wondering is like in life you
know god was there any sakay minasi one of these on you in just in your life you can either have a knack for being really smart but but not
tough at all or really tossin and not be smart because he isn't is eight an i shouldn't even be like making this iasicus rang smarter
better yet beings being smarter is better and if this is tissot about it then i'll being smarter is better but get by the way being smarter
look look at the human race wide we rule the world over the animals i mean you tell me that you're tougher than a then a chimpanzee old
mill yeates right the only reason the thing that went his intellect and will win every single to welwyn a lot of the time yet out of the
dive and if you're smart you can figure out a way to overcome the tofton yet and that even nogotiations ye exactly right in that the like
when you said are you so am i tougher than a grill a will say well in a way yes duniasha run yes or if i have a a anything you know
anything that i think up to build or buy you know me as other people hate me thought it off an i used ter nolledge you know because i got
smart to do which goes back to original question or will question we ask or elwig about college by cooledge and improve your essares get
smart ye yet the law always say that on the pot cast a malindi not always talking about being stronger and faster and bigger and tougher
i'm always talking about you got to be smarter too no doubt about it he tininess i've had for my life is zero of it just about your over
his come from anything physical or being tough now there is a mental toughness that does help you when you are doing intellectual things
till i mean i can force myself to do some intellectual of goals or some intellectual chant when is that if i wasn't if i didn't toughness
word but if it wasn't mentally tough i would be able to do it right yes but if you're smiters art figure out late they get mentally tough
like as you're like a iii know i'm not mentally to a smart enough to know not mentally though for i'm not physic and he figure out a way to
get me all figure out a good work out trenire be the guide that is really tough in an stay in cold water for forty five minutes or the guy
that events a wet suit like jackal velini can stay in the water for element or monime now here go don't sonoita and mike in a real the
another next quest than i intend no riley know seplied manaqua back the dogged one or one more maybe ah okay jocko as far as self
improvement and getting after it goes whose standard should one measure themselves by so old i use as a standard to measure myself by it as
really every one and no one because arteriole in the world that have skills and strength and talent that i will never have one in some of
these notions that you can be whatever you want to be is as long as you want it bad enough those are not true there fairy dales we all have
limitations and i don't have the right gens to be and a line weight lifting champion i never write genetic to be in a limp mick champion
sprinter or a jim nest or on ever sport ye want and am now sherif i trained my whole life perhaps i could of achieved some level in those
sports but i can tell you i do not have the donate the best in the world in those categories so what is that man does that mean that i give
up does that mean that i get of course no not at all it means that amgiad the best that i can be the strongest the fastest of the smartest
the smartest human that i can become that's what i'm gonna go for and i will i will compare myself to others and and look at them and see
what they're doing and i'll say that it is possible how wotan i get to that greatness to close can i get to that glory but the reality is
that my gory it doesn't happen for of a crowd it doesn't happen in a state heatest happen unless stay there's no medals handed out my glory
happens in the darkness of the early morning in solitude alone where i tried and i try and i try again to be everything that i possibly can
be the best that i possibly can be better than i was yesterday in better than other people thought i could be faster and stronger and
smarter and with one victory that no one can ever take away from me a victory that is earned every single day a victory of determination
and wall and discipline endover that is achieved because i will not stop and i think that's all i got for a night so once again thanks to
every one for listening and down loading and supporting the pond cast a through the various options that we have to do so echo were of
those options option if you care about supplementation the good kind though work ugolini on it supplements of a brain for rain make you
smarter make quicker decisions memory a itself proving the work by the way unopened i do not some some supplements it they don't ruvettus
say hey this is let in it that's it there's these one proving an you can engage to take look in all the research is cool in way on it not
come lashed jack ten per cent off boom on or before you do your amazon shopping just remembered got to jacopo cast a comb or jocatore up on
dis click on the amazon link and then we had a little work be little cups sports of boats like passes supporting like easy you know but it
costs you nothing pushington you're actually does kittatinies milinut you but your supporting the pot cast for free in daggett that it lets
um or if if you like the shirts and mason stuff you know if you into that which i don't i have i'm there pretty cold a we do i would i do
add like the lay yours to the shirts you know they're not just look saying or just when cal freedom as it is like more to it you know like
your saying the one you know her the coin linon if she that your opinions well must cater your saying there's a whole nother level of cool
to the shirts that you may i think they're cool i anton one to make the thiotrih you are henry there you go but i want to be leader cool
and then people are that he be you know they have different opinions there and not condone they got pushing up castoff i think they are
cool put a jocatore dot com if you think they're cool go again or two and that's all so cortinas and you get a caterina's we did a year and
its egg i used the actually people asking this sort is element where what kind of shirt do i use use the blinded one polly polly cotton gin
to her aniela did this a bunch of fern kinds is a really light one and then there's like a medium but still soft and in no that's the one i
chose because the light on it's good and i like those lot but um some people might not you know true light to light may be you may be i
don't know but am i i i figured that out and but if to the dull anyway though the high polity ones and not the ball park gave away shirts
you know altytood you know where you go jacketed a com i'll check them up for yourself and then i'll tether you go well also you can
support the pot cast by refuting it on or i tunes or stitcher a good play or whatever you listen to it on and that helps promote the pot
gas and spread the words i think a couple of minutes and bright a rub you and i read him so say something cool in there and i should say
something cool and then i'll i'll talk about it it'll be in my brain so like that they do what you respond to an i tontoli can't say like a
man thanks yet because it is sentially it's it's a review it's not like a conversation i know but it albeiro be a conversation siubhail
seemed is that that would have collarette again if if people think that you are going like respond to it they might not owrecoming cool now
some people of done they've savalie taken a screen than of it and they may lead on twenty that wagala is comanalyses elatior i can say hey
good point you will will will think about that you will make some adaptive ship adaptations perhaps in otnit but giving the screen shut of
their ituraea that's the message in an of itself that saint hay i i put it three view on eton venot necessarily hay you know your audio to
quiet you know it's not that if they wanted tell you that they tell you than unto whither ye arlieu on money there at least the least there
showing right right that a this is this is this is funny because i would like to see like some reviews like there's some people that right
reviews and that i i i laughable they foliolae i i am definitely getting after it and nickolai got a lot reely this guy is guy talked to
all the time brathe he ill like shop it mason and i'll be like clickmitoadist the man so that's cool appreciate that and also of course if
you want to continue this conversation like we just talked about you and ask questions you want to give us feet back you want to send us a
scream shot of your amos at aries ah here you want to kick it with us that you could find us on the inner webs on twitter echochee is at
echo charles and i am at jocko willing queer also there with face book and the instare and we do appreciate what you do for us the
questions of support a comment the fact that all of you are out there getting better putting these points able to work on the battle field
in your business and your personal life i i see budgebudge that i have an erter into it there listening and are given me feed back and that
is worth everything to me to know i get a bunch of mails from the reins for costs from fire fighters that they tell me they are put in this
stuff to work i get emails from business people that they're putting the stuff to work and that's what we're doing this for him you know
and so that's what he inspires meet i do this and keep doing this and for me to push myself because you are pushing yourself out there
earning that victory every single day by going out there and getting after it in so until next time this is echo and jack at
