this is jocko podcast number twenty nine with the cochers and me jacqueville into the midst of this war torn land were inserted twenty two
able body to merican soldiers and a botoner as i made my way to the potenciana post see p the sun had already dropped from the sky night in
the tropics come fast and even as i approached the outgoing buttoned the shadows had begun to be spurious facial features i found him lying
on his stomach in a depression situated roughly in the center of the platoon as i bent over to introduce myself he motioned for me to get
down assuming that perhaps i was dangerously exposed i lay down next to him hello i'm jim mac nona i said feeling somewhat awkward being
still for more while lying on my stomach tom wolf he said are you here to take my place he was unable to conceal his eagerness yes i
replied do you tell me what's going on here as he began briefing me it became apparent that the potion was not the object of his thoughts i
asked questions about the disposition of the squaws the personalities of the men the tactics of the enemy the attitude of the villagers he
responded by telling me about out difficult to job was how much his family needed him how he never asked to be an infantry lieutenant how
dangerous nor ontel his life had been of late and how he did not deserve to be wounded or killed he was overcome by a fear that on his last
night in the field the enemy would somehow snatch her rival away from him as the hours passed we did not move for opposition in the midst
of the batoon i became acutely conscious of our protected posture all about us echelon i saw silis of soldiers as they moved about setting
up their positions for the night i noted that at least one patrol departed from the perimeter but that the orders for the patrol did not
come from the lieutenant well lay there chattering aimlessly into the night describing again and again from me the wife and two children he
had left the hind gradually he hold in on his point you've got to understand i did this for them they need me they need me in one piece
nervous silence followed as i tried to find his eyes in the darkness what was he talking about the question arose even as the answer was
forming all around me they know what to do there good soldiers silence again he was shocked by his own confession but at the same time he
was urged on by the bearing of his soul i could have been a hero sometimes i even wanted to be but i had to think of my family you see
don't you most of these men don't have any family they are just boys the shamefulness of his words hit me like a club he was not the leader
of this button he felt no responsibility for the mission he felt no compassion for his men in his mind the other members of the platoon
existed for only one reason to protect him to keep him alive they were expendable he was not he had reason to live they did not i wanted to
crawl away but it was dark and i had no idea where to go we stopped talking i had nothing more to ask he wanted to say more about his
personal concerns he knew he had gone too far but he didn't care his only concerning the world was to leave that noesis possible a button
the night could be damned if he survived justice would have been done that night nothing else mattered for him his soul lay naked stripped
of pride guilt and shame they were affections of the civilized world out here only living matter unable to sleep unable to move i lay there
wondering which i would turn out to be the craze killer i had met in conan with a blatant coward beside me in the dark which one was more
devoid of humanity i did not know later after almost three months in a field by saw roll forgan after battalion secured behind of italian
perimeter of eli north english he had adopted an air of bravado in the safety of the officers club he told me of his brave deeds he talked
as one who had seen it all in his own words he became the dashing fearless leader of combat infantry men he even had a few combat awards
for valour the procurement of which fell among his duties but the most amazing thing of all was his belief a belief in every one of his own
words as far as he consciously knew he was all he clean to be he had forgotten now he lay quivering in the dark praying for the enemy not
to come from that point on i began to watch myself carefully was i really what i thought i was or had i deluded myself as effectively as
rahat in the morning the helicopter came to take ralph away he brought himself to his knees which is as high as i had seen him rise since
my arrival the night before and without a word of farewell to me or any of the soldiers he made a desperate dash for the helicopter in an
instant he was gone and i recognized with a feeling of awe that i was now in command good evening echo good evening factional leitman his
book right ear is called platometer a memoir of command in combat by james or make done he served you at west point so four years at west
point and the neat got assigned to the hundred and seventy third air borne brigid and vietnam and one thing about this book and this is a a
fantastic book and italy there's a cold on the back of the book here it's the marine corps is that wrote this stands alone as the finest
statement of what it means to be the commander of a small unit i hope that every patonee reads ponders and truly absorbs the words of
geniculata so it starts off there that was him going to this small little perimeter upton perimeter outside of a village in vietnam he
taken over from the outgoing button commander and again this is something very different than we do in this items where you dis avaran dom
i knew guy show up it's going to take charge were lucky the way we were set up we do like an entire work up and prepare for the ployment
with the same guys are going to be on a ployment with and then we all go on the pointment together we work together and when entetement
over we go home it's a very solid way of running that system this is different there's guys trickling in and out all the time throughout
the entire chain command all the way up from the front mind guys all the way up through the commando the platoon fresh out of west point
fresh out of college had a military college but shows up in vietnam than here he is in the bush back to the book i was alone that was my
first sensation as a leader i gathered up my belongings my weapon weber a rucksack and moved toward the command post and net few minutes to
gather my thoughts before i made my day bees patently r i knew was going to be a tricky business i tesson that i would have a have a
company commander near by to give me orders but i had not even met him yet i would not meet him for week so that's the guy who's above the
long commanders the company commander i know his mind he thinks you and have his company commander somewhere near by a venturing him
telling what to do not happening doesn't have an even as even met taken over to one as even met the company commander yet i would not meet
him for weeks the fact was i was totally on my own what should i do whose advice could i ask the boon sergeants the squad leaders in time i
would listen to their ideas and corporate them with my own but i could hardly begin with well would you think we ought to do men no i knew
that the basic decisions were mind to make now i might go in that situation a little bit different and i wouldn't have any problem asking
patonee it ask him squawberries what's going on getting some feed back from them was been working was not i don't think there is any
outthinking with that at all m he took a little different tack he didn't feel comfortable doing that then you don't want to the reasons why
he didn't feel comfotable doing that because he's young he distressed out of college and he's a little nervous step in in this combat roll
obviously back to the book the first few moments would be crucial obviously i was the object of interest that morning every one was
wondering what the new tent new tenant would be like and i would be telling them with my first words my gestures my demeanor my eyes so he
knows that everything he does there watching him in their judging him i would have no grace period in which to learn my way around this is
a life and death environment if i began with a blunder by credibility as a leader would be shot and so might some of the men i decided to
begin by giving my attention to tactics in a military environment everything is determined by tactical considerations where you sleep when
you sleep where you go what you do and in those company you do it all are dictated by underline tactical necessities i would communicate my
style of leadership through my tactical instructions pretty good call pretty good gal let's just talk tactics something that were all
familiar with the first thing that occurred to me within the cessity of sending out patrols the or actions were strictly defensive the
enemy would be free to pick their tactics the initiative would be theirs and this would eventually disproved the illusion of security that
the perimeter wire offered by training told me that a completely defensive unit is a prime target from overwhelming attack boom to he knows
that it gagin they've got this nice little perimeter set up they got thirty or so guys there they've got a defend this permit or from
attack but instead of just staying in a defensive position he is like we got to go on a patrol we got to get out there we got to disrupt
with the enemy's doing in combat leadership as in real estate location is everything i was the batoned and the patrolling would be done by
squisitamente nor move there were ten men in the squad and force quassation be personal strength being what they were my square down to
only six or seven men a piece and there were only three squads i would be risking oversurging of the patrolling squad whose direction was
better left to the squabber i went with it i would also be away from the majority of my peconic at the purement other hand to stay with the
toquis in the primate with the nine me the knowledge of the train in which the my platoon operated and the opportunity to evaluate the
calif the patrols the major offensive activity of my tactical position moreover i would not be sharing the highest risk operations of my
men and would therefore might lose their respect i also might miss my best chance to appreciate their perceptions needs and attitudes
finally i might slip into a defensive attitude myself and that attitude would have vental overtake the entire platoon so basically there
ought verini that poor mater he's got three squads and he sending the one squat out on patrol on a fairly regular basis and he's a question
as you know where she go what should i do any decides that the best thing for him to do he is rotate through and go on betroth them
sometimes and i love the point of of moreover i would not be sharing in no highest risk operations of my men so he knows he's got to take
some of the ricketing that will also give em a chance to appreciate their perceptions needs to attitudes so if you are a leadership as
titian and you never get down to the front line troopers and he with their doing see what their dog on the job sight see with their domine
field she was going on up there you can't understand it and then he says this finally i might slip into a defensive attitude myself and
that addition eventually overtake the entire protogaea goin to turn in to what he's turned into oh what he is back to the book if i were to
made contact with the enemy and at last it for any length of time a second squad would be sent to react if i were inside the perimeter such
a time i would move out with the reaction squaw i firmly believed it was the duty of the combat leader to move to the sound of the guns
especially when a majority of the unit was engaged so he is going to be there when things go sideways he's going to move now back to his
feelings on what this is like even more on spiring than the scenery was the realization that whatever took place in this part of the world
whatever these men did or whatever happened to them was my responsibility i might describe myself as a long for the ride but what ever
happened here or back at the parmiter i would have to account for to my superiors to my men and to myself i felt i was living a lie i was
trying gestillten one i was already supposed to know so the reason he talked about that is when he goes out with the squads there's a guy
that's junior to him a sergeant that's running the squad as running of a troll and he's not going to go out there and and leave the box
he's been go out there sort of along for the ride you know he's not going to take charge of the squad he's goin to let them do what they do
an he's goin to be more of an observer but he is but that doesn't relinquish an responsibility from them he still owns it he still taken
owner that ship at ole thing and this statement about i felt i was living a lie i was trying to desperate to learn what i was already
supposed to know that's very common for anybody stepping up into new leadership position you don't think you're ready for it i mean often
so bad you feel confident but a lot of times people would people hit me up with questions they say you know an taken i've been promoted i
don't think i'm ready to do that job interseparated to feel like that and my statement of setter is o k you you know there's a cognitive by
it that when you're a real smart person you don't think you're that smart but when you're not that smart you think you're smart o ye
unreverently is a cousin longitudes a we had these um we had these forms of used to make the the leaders in the saloons fill out and they
would write themselves on you no one being below a score five being the highest score nate grave himself son whatever ten fifteen different
items tactical knowledge ah ability to lead understanding of the troops understanding of the tactics and a degraded selves on everything
and a hundred per cent of the time a hundred per cent of the time don't make that claim very often a hundred per cent of the time let dis
that grated them set a guy that were really good really good leaders it really stepped up and ruined dungeon they give themselves of a
grave their great avere would be like a solid two point seven they they he no have acagete at this like a huberte here the githa were not
good they were not good leaders and their patons were struggling literally there begredge would be five porto they would gave himself a
five in everything they are self that's the no arrogance is completely crushed your ability to do itself assessment you know unbelievable
tin back to the book back at the proton base i busied myself learning more about the tactical position and the personality of the men there
was a distance between us in those first hours i was not sure of their soldier lines and they were not sure of my leadership farinous
little little mutual assessment going on right there now there out on a patrol and there is one of the one of the guys spot got him down he
spots somebody and he sort of get ray dunage an ah macdona says what are you doing then he and the sergeant reply was short the men nesvig
he says i felt it was time for me to assert myself i would not allow the squaw to fire i did not see any weapons and regardless of
political leanings of the older man the boy to my way of thinking deserved a little more consideration hold off i said to don his looks
spoke a thousand orders he was an accustomed being second guest not only he had he been a squalid he had been leading the entire platoon in
the ready says that is because in the the ah the old potenciana who was weak and was hiding this guy done was out there making stuff appen
and now i was challenging him my decision was made and i couldn't back away if i relinquish my command the squad open fire both of man and
the boy were good as dead maybe done was right what did i know i was a new comer if i let him give orders the consequences were his if i
gave orders they were mine no i decided either way the consequences were mine i was the senior man even if i looked the other way i would
have sanctioned the killing i stared back at don so he's taken ownership one might even tell you staking extreme ownership of the situation
and despite even if the other guy makes a decision he owns a cause he's the sear guy out there now there continued so they let those guys
live and now there continuing the patrol and back to the book i send to slight pull on my right fit foot and pivoting to my left i took a
broad step the roaring in my ear was tremendous as if in a dream i began floating in the direction of my last step it was still a warm
beautiful clear day yet somehow i didn't seem to be there any more i was going off into a deep sleep although my eyes were wide open and i
could see the soldiers in front of me exactly as they had been a moment ago i continued to float how graceful i felt sensing everything in
slowmotion i saw the ground rising to meet my chest what a perfect landing it was the ground sliding up onderneath me then i heard that i
rose again rebounding from the impact in a billow of of soft fine dust particles again i eased down into the dirt sending a second thicker
cloud of brown to breizing round my face and outstretched hands abruptly the pace of my thoughts quickened as the curialistic effects left
my god we've been hit then the pace increased normal oh no it's me i felt sick to my stomach i thought i would vomit and i made my first to
liberate movements as the explosion going off in my ear from my pond position i jerked my head to the left and gave them my legs oh be
there please be there they were there bleeding and torn but they were there i was so happy i wanted to shout with joy i was you for there
is walking and it the boredom to that description i eerily similar to jode minax description of getting blown up and the i mean this this
oh mcdonald up in a little bit better situation in the fact that he kept his legs but jody the way joe describes that in his books very
similar you know just boom and horrible situation back to the book a wounded leader is still a leader a less sowing capacitated he can't
make decisions i wasn't that bad off and i found it somewhat consoling to assert myself as the man in charge at the very least it staved
off the shock that would come later so they did they get him out of there and he's on a stretcher anyways lying naked on the stretcher
suspended between two chairs i began to suffer the first sensations of shock i began to shake so severely and i fought once again i was
going to vomit i was also afraid of defecating where i lay i was so overcome with self pity that first second i called myself starting to
shed a tear the more fine was having its effect and i was not in full control of my emotions more than anything i was scared i was no
longer afraid i would die i was afraid afraid because i could have died my heart was raising my body trembling there my ear confused my
drug thinking even more and i couldn't focus my thoughts i only knew i had completely failed in my first attempt to lead a combat action
the west pointer the parish be the ranger he had lasted less than forty eight hours blown up by his own blundering foot work and ill
considered decisions how in glorious at all seemed lying there in my nakedness do you onagon for forty eight hours and this happens go in
take over the platoon call the other guy a coward basically goes out on his athiests was his third patrol he had done to other patrols
nothing happened on those other patrols and then tom gets blown up now he's in the hospital four other wounded soldiers came aboard one was
got shot and about four inches of his stomach were poking out of his middle he shielded his wounds with his hands as he walked out to the
chopper one american armored cavalry poun had just burnt been ambushed in the five or six valley south of banson and nine bloated and
charred but still alive soldiers were brought in and placed next to me they smelled awful and their pain was excruciating mercifully some
one conscious but those awake were screaming the violent shaking iheried at the eldens was rampant among the group i was grateful to be an
infantryman i will want to travel in gasoline fed machines that invariably exploded and burned when hit coveted had been brought in and
placed ahead of me signifying the greater severity of his wounds he too had been got shot and apparently his stomach and intestines had
completely spelled out his stomach lay quite exposed but his intestines still attached had been dumped into a sand bag which was tied
secretively to his thigh on he was brought in he was unconscious but after a while he came to i saw him lifted head and stare at the sand
bag what he saw made him pass out again the cycle of coming to looking at his intestines and passing out was repeated three times on the
last go around he must have died for he was abruptly removed from wine and taken away from the operating room doesn't matter what ware is
you go into that hospital with a bringing in those wounded soldiers when it's growling he gets luckily his wounds weren't that bad she gets
healed up if he weeks and goes back redback into red back into it right back into it then here there going out on patrol and i mean think
about that he got blown up he's there for forty eight hours he gets blown up he gets in the hospital for three weeks heels up ameres dear
you might as well have died when you step on an id just dismated and how big it was and this one have obviously wasn't big enough to kill
him but if it would have been little if bigeyed or if a strapdown the wrong spot he'd be dead or if you sandalled bit close to duty be dead
or or if whatever they didn't get him out in time he'd be dad if he had even he'd be dead if he atriedes so he knows that and guess what
doesn't matter giddy up go back out there you're back in the game and he we go they're going out on patrol i placed myself for in the order
of marshes we slid out the wire the first fifty yards were tolerable but as we left the relative security of the primaner fog and further
behind i began to dread that each footstep would land me on another boy trap i tried not to think about my wounds and the may image i had
seen during the past few weeks but the more i tried to forget the more clearly i remembered if i was going to die and i began to grieve my
for myself for my wife for the little boy who had never really know his father sweat poured from my forehead my back my every joint my
stomach was as tight as a knot each step fell as if it might paralyze me i tried hard to feel my legs so i would remember them long after
they were blown off i was torturing myself then i realized that the other men must be afraid too yet they kept moving i was their leader
eidenthand for my job in the best installations in the u s army had to offer west point are born school rangers cool jungle warfare school
how could i be deficient after such an investment while my men wrenched from unmilitary backgrounds into the army in quickly processed in
an impersonal training facilities continued to do their duty somehow i kept moving i could not allow myself to appear cowardly in the eyes
of those men besides there was no place out to go that i d beitrage threat is just horrifying and you know it carino for for disbeief there
you see the destruction that it causes but but getting blown up the nacelle personally stepping on not and then your back in the field
three weeks later then the same area patroling the same ground its current now is there moving into position on an ambush sight he is
getting some stuff from his gear and here we go back to the book as i struggled through the undergrowth the lace called on a branch and
pulled the compass loose from its birth causing it to fall in the ground where it struck a rock the metallic case made a loud ping as it
bounced without hesitation i yelled mobita lord suit threw myself to the ground covered my head with my arms and tried to pull my legs up
to my button bracely explosion that was about to rip me apart and all the other guys are doing the same thing divine for cover so if you
didn't catch that he was just moving through the brush and something caught on his compass and pulled it out of its pocket and it fell to
ground and he heard that metallic noise and he yelled out for hither on the colder setting up an ambush at a pose to be quiet and tactical
and silent and all of a sudden he's young outbreakin diving to the ground and makes everyone take over em so they come back from that and
he says i took the time to deep red the platoon upon re entry to the premier pointing out the strong points and the weak points of the
night actions i did not spare myself in the critique i simply stated what had happened i had made a mistake but an honest one there were
few subdued comments by the patrol members all of whom clearly recognized the danger of my action it didn't matter i overcome my fear i was
once again in control of my person and more importantly myself so he make a mistake on it that's that's what you got to do and you make a
mistake on that back to book my indoctrination period was over i had been blooded but survived i been embarrassed but one recover the early
shocks had been merciful in that they were over quickly i could now turn my attention away from the self conscious concerns of how i would
fit into this alien environment and how i might be perceived by the soldiers i led i could concentrate instead upon improving my style of
leadership and fighting the enemy there was much to do for two long the parson had done only those things necessary to minimise casualties
and approach that in the long run which surely lead to maximum casualties so you want to sit back you want o you an hide your letting me
enemy get a get a drop on you and he knows that you got to take some risk i'll front to prevent the long term extreme risk back to the book
an old army added claims that soldiers only do well that which their commander checks in combat everything must be done a well yet i
realize that couldn't possibly check everything but i could create the illusion that everything was being checked especially if i use the
squabblers and the patooan as extensions of my own will so little bit of decentralized commander he knows he can't inspect everything he
can't be every well the time but if he uses property centralised command he could make it happen cause its leaders is a born had leaders
will make it happen back to the book not only tacked expell matters relevant to our life in the field had to be supervised for instance
health habits had to be inspected as diligently as weapons were soldiers have to be kept clean the after shave and watch wash and the
squabber has to see that they do soldiers need a place to relieve themselves a place secure from both enemy and the disease metacomet has
to be kept clean and soldiers need a balanced diet feet must be cared for a squab beater as accountable for the changing of socks as a
years for the cleaning of weapons men on a lord must stay awake no matter how exhausting the priest eating hours of ben radios have to be
monitored kept dried and supplied the fresh batteries proper communication procedures must be maintained codes must not be pocopos
positions must be caused tly improved the claim or minds have to be checked came a pied and re came a flashed trenches have to be deepened
firing positions must be made more leafful to the enemy or to be fires must be registered in re registered grass ocation to the wire must
be kept cut the ammunition bunker has to be kept dry soldiers must rehearse in all combat situations that they that may be expected of them
a functioning of the chain of command must be clearly understood by all the men in combat leaders are quickly a tried and every man in his
turn must be prepared to take over the mission late stuff to handle that's why he say and he can't do all that himself you have to use the
centralized command in the situations back to the book i checked positions at night every night i lay behind the machine guns of the men in
the strong point i checked the frequency of the radio carried by the arco i ate my eat meals at irregular hours sometimes alone sometimes
with a group of soldiers i sat and listened to the men i studied their manner of speech their gate the fact that they were left to right
hand it how soundly they slept how well they saw in the dark i listened to their stories their hopes the grip i tried not to speak about
myself there concerned about me was whether not i could get them through their tour they might want to tell me about their homes and their
families but they wanted me to listen not talk they did not want to know about my life away from vietnam i was an officer in their eyes
that made me different i was a part of this war i was one of the tay they drafted the soldier they trained him they ordered him to this god
forsaken place and they sent him out on terrifying missions to be maimed and killed they did not have a life other than the army they were
the army so i listened and i watched these men with a prime resource of the button i would fulfil its missions they would do their
country's bidding but they were men first they were not so many boots on parade they were human they had loves fears futures that they
hoped to see they made me wonder was i coming to know them too well to make them do what they had to do or did i not know them well enough
to ask them to do it i say that all the time that's one of the misconceptions about the military is that the people that are in the
military are be there a humans not so many boots on parade now he's talk a little bit about the enemy the enemy were also young also at
herenthals tic faith in which killing was not the essence of life yet now we faced each other obsessed with the idea of killing each other
there was no respite from it once a day wrote a letter to my wife it was a moment of sanity snatched from the madness of war if anything my
thoughts of home reinforce my desire to stay alive in my determination to keep the enemy from killing me they would not kill me they would
not kill my men we would kill them first war is the management of violence claimed the contemporary social scientists and military
strategist as we hacked our way through the struggle of vietnam feras violence was killing there was no management involved people were
either dead or they were not i could not manage my baton up a hill i had to leave them up there i had a mission to accomplish and i had
menike alive as many as i could i had to do more than keep them alive i had to preserve their human dignity i was making them kill forcing
them to commit the most uncivilized of axe but at the same time i had to keep them civilized that was my duty as their leader there were
good men but they were facing death a man facing death can forgive themselves many things or give the appearance of condoning almost
everything but men must live with their actions for a long time afterward a leader has to help them understand that there are lines they
must not cross he's their links romely to order to humanity if the leader loses on his own sense of propriety or shrinks of his duty
anything will be allowed and anything can happen some men in combat will come it war times just a son some men in combat will fail to take
care of themselves they will experiment with drugs steal property abuse women when this happens it destroys the discipline of a unit making
it easier for others to follow suit war is added very core the absence of order and the absence of order leads to very easily to the
absence of morality a less the leader can perserve each of them in its place the leader has to set the standards from rowdies clearly as he
sets the standards for personal higgin or weapons made men he must allow no cutting of corners a bottle of soda stolen from an old peasant
woman leads gradually but directly to the rape of her daughter if the line is not drawn in the beginning there is a lot to codicote in
there and and this is one of talked about before i was making them kill forcing them to commit the most incivilitie of acts but at the same
time i had to keep them civilized then you don't nother one that i talk about all the time is the fact that you care about your men more
than anything and yet you have to send them out on thirion's where they can be gravely wounded her killed and so this is what a combat
leader is struggling with it is the dichotomies ip this was a war this vietnam involvement and in war things tend to happen but the
commander was the link to order and civility and he had to be human at the same time he had to be uncompromising to protect the lives of
all the job was not easy the job were not easy no sir it was not now he goes into a chapter that's called a cast of characters were he
described in some of the people in the peteole suns that america said to war in vain i looked for thee or typical pucoon of romantic
fiction the kid from brooklyn wasn't there the incipent poet never made it the rich mamma's boy out to prove his manhood stayed home as a
cross section of america's youth the paton was a complete failure to all these charactera characters that you see a movies and this idea
that it's a cross actual america no he was at the military draft was never concerned with equity its sole purpose was to obtain the
required numbers of men with sufficient mental and physical qualities to do the job since the pool of men from which to draw as much
greater than the numbers needed and natural selection process allowed the educated and the privileged to avoid the draught altogether the
selection process continued for the unfortunate draughted so that nose with some education of particular skills would be diverted from
combat service even among those who made it to vietnam the vast majority never saw combat only those without skill without schooling and
without friends or whose or who were opsite in the face of ceaseless profit iciting against their obligation to serve made it to the field
and they knew it talking of some of the guys here he's got dining jim barns from ashville north carolina who is good solid operator got a
really bad stutter um gin corpl john kill again from bakersfield california and he saw of his de throughout the book he's a guide that is
sort of the the model soldier and ah he twenty two years old already on his third tore duty and vietnam and by the way a torrent in vietnam
a year long so this guy then sicilians on his third torn vietnam most combat experienced soldier in the potion every one respected him but
no one considered him a friend uh the reason was simple i so well respected he was the best soldier among us he had the reflexes of a cat
he was a deadly shot and ferocious in a fight and he never showed the slightest bit of concern for his own safety as there were so many
ways to avoid ending up as a combat infantrymen there were so many of their countrymen who would never see an all of drab uniform or a
drill sergeant or the green hall of vietnam but each of these men he seemed destined to end up there as if it had been written in granite
on the day of his birth they did not complain was what those guys loved with the little bit i noticed one day that specialist barnes turned
away when one particularly beautiful girl walked close by him as he was clearing a thicket of underbrush away from the wire the girls left
on was missing her empty sleeve folded neatly and pinned to her shoulder what's the matter borne i asked in his painstakingly slow stutter
bonds explained that the girl and her lover were among a group of arriving who walked through one of our ambushes one night the ambush was
sprung but boy friend was killed and the girl's arm was mangled by a bullet the girl was evacuated by the americans but her arm could not
be saved the eventually she returned to work her fields what do you say to a girl whose arm you shall off barn daste his stutter clearing
for a minute i could think of no reply now the start getting intelligence your port that there's ominous forecast that there is going to be
some big attack some big enemy thrusts and he taking some time to prepare for that my targeteer were disciplined in tactics the two are
closely related and the heat of battle there is no time for second guessing the pecamane and is necessary for a soldier to develop an
automatic response to an order such instantaneous obedience will overcome all fears all confusion all inclinations towards self
preservation it is the result of unmitigated daily discipline in all things from taking the daily malarial to shaving each day to attacking
in the face of an automatic weapon i'm adding this to my life the statement of unmitigated daily discipline in all things there heading out
on a patrol and as the dona heads up the line to inspect some of the soldiers here we go to the book suddenly there was a hollow sounding
explosion and a whistling past my ear followed by another explosion a second later about a hundred and fifty meters out in the bushes i
spontoon to seek king tone of the guys king with a sneer on his face sorry alt the words he has from his mouth i dropped my weapon the
grenade launcher dangled from his right hand a waft of smoke curling up from the barrel it was clear that he had fired his forty millimeter
round at me at that range he could not have missed so he must have meant it as a warning he was telling me he did not like my attitude to
you got mc donahoe benison discipline and try to keep the guy's squared away and this got as mike and so he sends me wanting shot with his
with his emset night donelan i was scared but i was angry to king had not only threaten my life but my authority is well a few weeks
earlier i might have been overcome by the situation but since that i had developed the thick skin necessary for survival in vietnam with
murger and my eyes i looked into king's face slowly deliberately i walked up to him saying nothing until was close enough to touch him i
had made no ferreting gesture suddenly when i was close enough to smell his breath i flicked my insistent and fire position and placed the
muzzle of the weapon in the cavity of the under side of his chin he went up on his toes as i increased the pressure of the rifle barrel
lifting him up against the bottom of his head the sneer was now on my face as i raised my voice so even could hear you son of a bitch the
eyes of every one in the portion were riveted on us drop your weapon again and you better pray a god it hit me square in the back because
if it doesn't bastard i'll blow your brains to kingdom come not a man stirred putting down a little rebellion but again this is something i
ween think about that my for my perspective of nothing like that overcame close to happening me at any time was he was it whether any time
where i ever fought any my gas would do anything in any way to hurt me in any situation in fact those guys are do anything to do to save me
then we never let anything happen to me and here you want of your guys that just to sidon to be a warning shot with a forty millimeter
grenades onereuse he doesn't like your atwater the prey had let to do it but a lot of those guys didn't want to be there absolutely no
absolutely now they are moving forward on a troll they had a little incident happen and they find a corpse from the book now i was becoming
fairly accustomed of viewing the dead but this cadaver was particularly grotesque it was the old woman who had cared for the children both
her breast had been half severed from her body a deliberate cut made on the under side of each each palm in the soul of each foot had been
shot through with a small calibered the killing wound which no doubt had followed the earlier torturous wounds was a blast from a wet
weapon evidently placed inside her mouth and directed out the back of her head her eyes open transfixed and terror jabbed into her belly on
the end of the straight and safety pin was a note nan the kit carson scout translated it for me to an cow key has been found guilty by the
people's court of aiding the american imperialists and their suppression of the vietnamese people as an enemy of the people she had been
made to pay for her crimes this is the justice that will be brought to all who consort with the americans and aid them in the villainous
suppression of our land war is hell now they start to get attacked inside their premature and here we go at that moment the first rush was
made by the enemy twenty to thirty vicon appeared coming at the south wired a dead run i shouted for my men to shift fire on them there was
no need for my words my men were spending well we are getting off a hand held flare every thirty seconds which illuminated the rushing
enemy very clearly the two machine guns on that portion of our permit or barked out a welcome in neat six round bursts several of the enemy
fell their first rush was stopped in its tracks it was becoming increasingly clear that the machine gun was going to be the key weapon in
the initial stoppage of the fight and i dussint that because i know i get a you for military guidalotti cried i roeren i diswade reiterate
that in a fire fight the machine gun is the key weapon now there are continuing to being attacked and from the south east a woman came
running toward the break in the wire she was carrying a bulky object in her arms but in the flickering light of the flares it was
impossible to identify it don't fire lawrence barked i was not sure i agreed if it was a satchel charge that the woman was carrying should
be able to fling it in an out in another few steps the explosion would whip a part that parmenter wide open allowing the enemy to rush
through unimpeded on the other hand if the woman was seeking help it would be a tragedy to cut her down as i hesitated the heavy beat of
enemy rounds forced her down lawrence made a dash for the wire got ten steps in the wind into a low crawl inching his way along he made it
to a break in the wire and came up to the woman in her arms was her seven year old daughter the little girl had taken around clean through
the chest along was collapsed and she was bleeding heavily her mother was trying to make it to us to save the child so again this is the
dicotomy of war you got people torturing and megrin old women and then you get this situation where there is a woman whose rushing the
perimeter and this guy you know says he don't shoot her and then calls out rests life to go and try and find out what the situation isn't
helper there is darkness and there's light they beat back that attack and the next morning they go out on patrol killian was the point men
on the first patrol out the morning after the fight all night he'd work the machine gun from the southern tip of the baton triangle his
steady hand holding the enemy rushes at bay early in the fight the attackers had recognized killians prowess and tried their best to put it
out of action the sound the sand bag surrounding his position were torn and pope from the bullets and shrapnel aimed at his early
retirement he had not flinched throughout the night and now he took up the point with the alertness of a well rested cap the man seemed
indestructible now he starts talking a little bit about the situation that they were in and and some moves that he made him one of the
things he did was he kept his forces together at this point when they had been attacked or he reunited his force in the talks about that
here had the enemy struck walmy meagre forces were split they might have overwhelmed one or both elements piece meal controlling the
separated elements would also have been almost impossible and the subsequent coordination of outside support such as air strike an arm of
batoon would have been too hazardous had we even survived long enough to receive help to sanbourne or just going out the people that are in
the military in the field avoid splitting your forces of this just a void season times you obviously have to do it but always think about
it think about the ramifications of it when you're split up number one you're through your two elements a week that's why when you do spit
up you should stay as often as you can stay within position of mutual support while your weapons can support the other group and you can
bring em back to your permeter you can attack you can flank lycon sport em the other thing that's very difficult when your spot up as it's
very difficult to control a happening in cause you you likely out of verbal range you could possibly be out of radio range and now now how
you goin to trace in a happen so if you do have to put up nature you have very good wassington plans do to react your something happen to
her go to this misterton here's going to be the signaling there so you've got to think about that and finally when you split your forces up
on the battle field in you lose control of them now you can't call for air support you can't it's very difficult to get help and bring the
thunder that you would want to cause you don't know where everybody is so when you do have to split for suit you do absolutely have to do
sometimes avoids much again and when you have to plan for the worst case in erie so that you're ready for it now there back to kind of
sorting things out after this he heard carbottle when they when the v c attacked my eyes were turned to the bodies laying so lying so
neatly in line why did we find them up anyways was it a pension for neatness and attempt to bring some order you order you ness to the
disorder of death it was so absurd i remembered reading somewhere that world war two the german had lined up the bodies of american
prisoners they massacred disorder and order barbarity and civility civility ironic jack suppositions in the affairs of men begin were just
talkin about dicotomy of war my elation was reduced to sensifying ificant by the cold brown look of the corpses sprawled in the bright
summit a few hours ago each one had been a dynamo of a human spirit hope and ambition now they were still there motion frozen at least and
that last instant of life as if making a mockery of the final effort they had become meaningless clumps of earth for ever an animate no
more significant than the rocks line to their left and right how fickle those human ambitions now seemed help pointless those concerns and
just as the body had become part of the earth on which they rested so i had passed during the battle from being in the war to being part of
the war continuing on the fog of war is privacie as vigilant as i tried to be i knew his only a matter of time before a mistake was made
there were six squads the control as well as the onward cavalry put toon and the still disjointed araga moreover leading these regular army
units were infringing on my area as buttoned i had the problems of the rich tommy resources to coordinate in a limited area of operations
the ingredients for a tragedy were brewing and so he had been augmented with more with encalada's with more petions or is arioste montanaro
a bunch of people there yet thirty before now he's got a lot more and there's patrols or happening things are going on and we start getting
a call of potential enemy out on outside the wire an he's checking his map and he's gideon back and forth on the radio has that we have any
friendlies in that location not no friendlies there are checked with the other guys note we had no friendlies there so no one's in that
area now there's no friendlies that area okay god shackamaxon back and forth and now we go back to book all jack had been made the squatted
the moving element and sight the decision was now mine take them under fire with the sniper then open up shoot to kill the last savent
seemed poreless we always shot to kill but he reflected my trouble fought over the risk i was taking the enemy just did not go that way but
no friendlies were reported anywhere near us it had to be the enemy so here's the one shot snipe go out that he hears mass canfire go out
you can probably tell what this is head in and then a frantic voice screamed from my radio cease fire sees fire my god you're killing us i
was horrified as i grabbed the hand etendard my order to one to one this is to six see fire over they had heard the original pleaver as i
spoke the malay quieted again the radio spoke you son the bitches their dead their dead so in the confusion in the fogger they'd seen some
guys in the obviously they turned out to be friendlessin over the next thirty minutes they did the deep reef of what's happened it was
american adviser was out there with a vietnamese bolton one of his guides were dead and two were badly wounded then hears a he felt about
that i had ordered the execution of those men because the lieutenant adviser had made a mistake by the way they were two thousand five
hundred meters off course and they would shout not have been in that area and when they were hearing they were here on the radio
hetherington's out there and they thought there's no way that they one could be talking as right now oh but it happened and a man should
not be condemned to death for it einar however the price from the stakes is dear and terribly final military leaders must weigh effects of
their decisions carefully before because usually there is no turning back ah that that bombita fratricide thing to real thing is the real
thing i lived through it myself i've been in charge when it's happening it's awful and it's real and so everybody that's out there that
soldiers marines special obstine train for that did that make yourselves to make your leadership make everyone is confused as you can is
what's happening so that you force yourselves to think and understand in over communicate where people are what positions are going to what
positions are leaving who's were on the battle field the foger is no joke now there's another attack that they that they pushed back and
the kind of ford it early on by by catching some one that was going to the was inside there was goin to try get inside their compound the
catch that person and he we go to the book there plan must have been to rupture or defence with a tremendous blast from the ammunition
bunker and in rush at us from the eastern flank with the five sappers while we were still dazed the sappers were armed only with
fragmentation grenades but they had plenty of them later we took forty nine grenades from their bodies one of the sappers a young muscular
man who in life would have epitomized the propaganda stereotype of a revolutionary but who in death appeared like so much wasted clay was
dressed only in a loin cloth folded within that single article of clothing with a small piece of paper upon which was drawn a rough but
accurate sketch of our permettere the first lincolner planted been destroyed by the capture of the infiltrate and was further to toated by
the inalien of the sapper force but the vicon were never noted for their flexibility and they continued to press forward according to their
original plan however instead of meeting dazed dying into moralize defenders the enemy rushed right into the protective fires of already
and able poltoon because of a slight twist of fortune over which the beacon had no influence the attackers went to their death rather than
to victory that night thessen time referred that is just there the device not being very flexible not being very adaptable with their plant
so once again if you are to leadership position you got him i got to maintain flexibility with your plan whether you're in a combat
operation or whether you're the business world it doesn't matter maintaining flexibility is absolutely paramount in it from a leadership is
prospective and from a team perspective now there are after that attack they they move out to go for a counter attack which is pouches just
i mean let's let's think about this year in your perimeter you get attacked there the to have person that infiltrated and almost made it
into the main ammo bunker that you have they almost blew down out and then the second thing was haves the sappers these the soldiers
crawling through the wire with forty something ends with them to go and jack stuff up you push back you repel this attack and then guess
what be time pokotilo tack so here he is as the squeak the book as the squad lined up for the exit wire i looked at their young faces
tightened to stifle the fear building up and side their bodies they were barely men yet called upon by their country and abandoned by their
more well to do peers about the face of ruthless enemy who meant to put them in their early grave no words of complaint from any of them
they were american infantry men and would do the job they were asked to do no matter what no matter that it would not be appreciated no
matter that they would be condemned by their countrymen are least so countrymen with the ability where would fall to mould public opinion
to night they would do their duty though they were little more than boys though they were frightened though they were most not ready to die
they would do their duty most of them were labeled as coming from look lower social strata the american society as if that were something
in noble i felt proud to be with them and glad to share their company their qualities of more and physical courage of unselfish dedication
to each other amid the difficult job they were called upon the dommartin my mind as among the noblest of human beings so there out on this
counterattacking tribute to the american soldier unbelievable unbelievable dedication and pride on believable men now they their patrolling
out front of marine westers and whispers out from him where it of chingar an there tryin figure out what to do and it sounds like um begone
sorenesses kilby's guy there's badiabad where retto the whispering and killin tugai arm and said stay here like i'm going to go check this
out he basically says you know i'm the we shouldn't we should kill these people and he magones kind of piste cause he's takauti for us to
baterie now i will want to make a decision and he says kill again in one of his rarement his speech he hasted me let me check it out first
so killigan doesn't talk much he gets it done so he creeps forward the o and an he was basically say look i'm a goin alone i do you just
let me take my chances i'm not put in anybody else a res a just me and so he decided to get go ahead you won't take you in derisive and so
he can logan disappears into the darkness and in all while later he comes back as conwell go to the book here that is quietly as he crept
away kill again reappeared from the darkness he called up to my face and said it's okay let's move on what were the voices i asked family
was his one word grisons i passed a word to hold fire and the file began moving we moved out of position of through the brush to our fun
there huddled in a whole of must have been used as a household garbage dump where two aged women and old man one young woman and four tiny
children the elderly people at shy and barradale on their faces the children stared in sheer terror well they might i had nearly killed
them all the sight of the family was haunting a ten others like me are trained and commission to lead men into actions that determined life
and death or authority particularly on the field of battle is virtually unquestioned we were tastoa to lead men like killaan to tell them
what should be done and what they must do we have no obligation to listen to their point of view indeed to do so might be in itself or
cause to occur a failure of leadership and yet the american soldier is often much more prepared than its leader to make a sound the
termination of what should be done kill again approach had been wiser than mine i was too preoccupied with my own safety and the safety of
my men to consider there might have been a noncombatants in the area i had succumbed to the most basic of battle field strategies shoot now
and ask questions later a thousand times i might have been able to rationalize that course of action after the fact but i had gone but had
i gone ahead this time the people huddled now hold been dead nothing but rotting corpses by a heat of the next day that they were alive was
no thanks to me it was to kill against credit and he was just a cot lowly american infantrymen so once again just credit to the the trooper
to the soldier and an anyveres this is some of the things that he talked about that we have no oblergation alison that a point of view that
that something that you can see seasonest and he thetis paragraph is a visible evidence of him transitioning from a look on amabassador do
what i say to you know what these guys no better than i do in many cases and that's from from a leadership spectatorium porta lesson were
in the sun i learned the better off or going to be no people that our leading often times no the situation that job the technicalities
better than you do so melion them cannon them asked their opinion and and the fact of the matter is when you don't ask their opinion it's
only because your insecure about your leadership ability and your position and by not asking you actually you actually develop less respect
been if you say hey you know what kill again you been here this is your throgton vietnam what do you think we should do here you will not
lose respect leaders you will not lose aspect if you ask that question in fact you lose respect when you don't respect your front line upon
you don't use their talent when you don't take advantage of their expertise that's when you go backwards listen to your troopers so he gets
he gets pulled back to command they assign him to like a mixed match unit of a bunch of random squads because they have a certain mission
that they wanted to do and they've gone out and they've set up a permernent nasciter terbaccy three hundred and sixty degrees security for
a matter where yours you have guns pointed to the outside and you have usually a leadership will be in the center of the permeter and
therle small teams kind of out in the prematernal up the further sets of the position that the an he's got these random squads that he's
never worked with before and he's in charge of him again this is his as something where you know we we die a work when i races on my last
upon but often times your work as others see you'll obesus you know grisegonelle well you know everything they are going to do and hear you
are you in flint a combat environment on a very dangerous patrol into enemy territory that you don't know very well and you got a bunch of
guys you never walk with before so as he is in that portmanter he's given the guys on instructions about something called channin replies
so it's a way of confirming his a pitch black these guys don't have nightattack he says he if you or someone come and you can issue the
challenge for a number so of ten which is like if i say echo or if if i hear you coming in i say seven you had respond free if i say for
you had responded six so they this pass that word if you hear noise you need a challenge to that challenge a reply so he's out there and
he's crawling towards one of the little elements on the outside the permeters who he can find out your check in with him soothe seen me
thinks he farheard thing and here we go back to the books was his only warning to the others i came to a complete rest waiting for some one
to issue that challenge the seconds ticked on but i heard no sound i began to sense there was a problem the next sound was the bolt in
firing pin of a rifle sliding forward in response to a pole trigger both fell forward on an empty chamber terrified i realized that i
should be dead that the riflemen meant to nail me no questions asked only as earlier error a not having chambered around save me don't
shoot i shouted ho it's the tenant but i was too late to stop the momentum of events i heard a panicky remarked from the midst of the group
get the bastards that around was chambered as i flung myself at the sound fifteen feet is not a far osprey but the journey seemed to
endless i threw myself parallel to the ground and longed in the dark figure appearing before my eyes as i launched through the ear i felt
round switch by my outstretched body nine or ten bullets burning out of the bell the automatic weapon my arm circled the knees of the fire
or bringing him down in a heap i pose the hot barrel skyward as the last of the round excited the weapon although i had in the fire i also
to think about the two other men with him a yell out don't shoot you son of a bitch et sur porton leader there was no further firing
fighting my rage i tried to focus my thoughts we were in deep trouble don't shoot don't shoot don't shoot i say i hold your fire i shouted
across the former i could hear no bechatter from all round so he barely escaped he gets the guy to stop he doesn't even really he's mad but
he's basically taken responsibility in being in this situation in the first place so he says to the guys that were there as i admonished
all three men to challenge correctly speaking to them as if i were giving a clap class from instructions to a bunch of eager if not very
bright students i surprise myself with my compass it was when i moved back to my position that the greatest struggle within me began
perhaps it was triggered by the decision i had to make by the book i shifted i shifted our positions by the book i should have shifted our
positions we will recount patrol we were badly outnumbered by the enemy and it compromised opposition with all the shooting and shouting
there were good reasons from moving on the other hand it was pitch black night if the enemy was close enough to get an immediate fix on us
he was close enough to hit us before we could move even if he wasn't close further stumbling around in the darkness might worsened cement
moreover to effect the movement i would have to move around to regroup the dispersed men this was the point that weighed most heavily on my
mind i no longer had to hartford it i had come within an inch of being killed shot by one of my own men on the side of an ink black
mountain the middle of nowhere i knew the men were ready to shoot anything that moves and i didn't want to give them a target i should have
been ashamed of myself i was too afraid to move to implement was probably the best course of action for my men and my mission i couldn't do
it naked fierce stripped me of all shame or guilt fear was all i knew and i didn't want to move a few moments earlier i'd been in effective
batoning his job now i could actually feel my chest throbbing against the dirt where i lay i wanted to billy my face in my hands i want to
be like a little boy i used to be hiding from the darkness by putting his head under the covers i could not think my be body began to
tremble then shiver then shake on controllable my god i was going to die i could not possibly live through the night if any one heard my
breathing or sure you kill me tetwas everywhere i sensed it felt that lying down beside me i didn't want to die but death was there cold
and clammy reaching for me with his icy touch my pulse pounded in my ears and i felt nasus i almost threw up the passing minutes hours
whatever units of time exist in a nightmare brought no relief the fear only worse and i would not live through the night i was sure of it
with a dying head i wonder when i disappearing the nothingness when i first walpolean to press myself on the ground i fell close to an ant
hill a few of the ant scouts to metely began reconosco my body but is not until the aunts legions were called forward that i noticed them
as i lay shaking on the ground thousands the ants began trooping over me adding to the calling feeling on my flesh still i did not move for
the move i knew will put me in the embrace of death so i lay there where i was haround ing skin sweating ears to bobbing while an army of
ants probed and pricked it at my will some time later that night the rain came in a torrential downpour that senestra gushing down the
mountain side at us i still didn't move my night of terras not over yet and when the rain stopped after a few hours i still lay in the ooze
and slime first light brought a sense of recovery darkness was ending and i was still alive only then did the beating of my heart slow i
loosened my belt reached down into the soela of my under short and wiped out a streak of drowned and the rains had swept them over my body
with a become trapped and they had drowned as i removed their dead bodies thousands of them i seemed to rid myself of my fixation with
death i had lived through the night vunerable as i was the answer died and minutely adaptable as they were somehow the irony of it
reassured me one died when it was time to die apparently it was not my time as don broke i pulled myself together gathered up my makeshift
patrol and moved back toward the ranger camp that night on the mountain instead of engaging the enemy i'd come to grips with my own
mortality that night if i had been a terrible buttoned up perhaps i would be a better one thereafter because of it a little bit of an
intense evening foitenant macdona unbelievable now he gets some introot this book there's an i talk about this in beginning that there's
rotation of guise and guides are getting wounded guides a time for them to go home so your constantly constantly getting new troopers new
soldiers knew not commission officers that are going to be the senior guys inside the platoon and it's just as is a constant stream of
incoming new guys which again is very foreign to me these in the salpeens we do very little of that we do do it sometimes for guiraut seal
training and they happened to be assigned a team that's on the pointment they they might come over and join join us on the pomonian happen
but it's not it's not the norm so he's got a new guy that shows up we distapeart in pawmet then owmans like almost forty years old he
crossed the canadian board um are a the canadian border to join the canadian army and he had spent time in the british army and cypress
each been chasing orbaiceta a sightly under six feet tall not an ounce of fat on his lean frame determined look and this is quite contrary
to the guide he had been working west and here he axat that a little bit with her nan disentrained i had to push to get them patrolling
with poleman i had to hold him back he believed firmly that the only good defence was a good offence and he was ready to set the example
every day not only do you take himself out on his many patrols i would permit he invariably pushed heed to the front of the column
eventually threatening to displace the point man he exhibited such enthusiasm when he and i went on longer patrols that i had to order him
back to the back of the column lest i find myself trailing him he never meant disrespect he just wanted to be up front were the action
might be polemen was the perfect petunia year definitely blessed when you get it when you get a leader like that in your command and i was
definitely lucky enough to serve with the many guys with that kind of attitude that i had to hold back here is an interesting thing um he
says during the war we lost approximately ten thousand men to other than enemy fire the onomato full of treachery danger and outright bad
luck that he's on this administrative mission and he is like playing it safe because he isn't one to die on a get killed by a criminal
getting a car accident but you don't think about the hand thousand people dying to vietnam just from other than combat and we have rained
to disturb the enemy from moving against us that was some comfort obviously the borhman after all too often they seemed above the
constraints of normal men too hardened to the rigors that wore down the rest of us although it was tempting to rest on our haunches taking
advantage of the respite of a by the weather i knew that in the long run it would be safe for to push more on the offensive to lie back
would only allow the enemy to build their strength as i was building mine and allow them to choose the time and place of the next strike i
decided to go after them in their lair one of the personal changes i made was to take kill again out of his squad leader position a
sergeant arrived to take over the squad i passed word to him to keep killigan off point kill again did not like it and was close to the
point of rebellion but i refused to put him back on point his luck was about to run out a matter how good he might be the odder heavily
stacked against the point man my order however meant little invariably kill again would move up to the front always out there a little
advance of the moving element it was a role he defined for himself so obviously we're going to continue one of the themes of this book as
begreifen and fail me off an that's absolutely true at reason i highlighted that thing with killigan or his cause here got a guy that's all
about good order and discipline but guess what he sellenthin don't walk point don't walk on don't walk point and killing good goes okay
won't walk point goes out of so goes up to point em an that's also one of those things where you know it's an sometimes i get as you know
on my boss is not doing this or were not getting weeting had well we're not getting clear direction or i don't agree with this thing
sometimes you've got to make some stuff happen you know especially if it's a right thing to do you've got to make some stuff happen
sometimes now they do some some operations and their start take some toll on the enemy and he's with the enemy does the enemy retaliated
with more buitran and other regular attacks one morning the village chief was caught at the well as he bathed his ever present forty can
forty five caliber pistol left the few feet away with his pile of clothes a small nine year old boy no doubt acting on orders from a
relative walked up smiled and shot the chief twice with a twenty two calibre pistol once again however the chief survived returning a few
weeks later to resume his post specialist bonds back from sixties australia stepped on a buoy trap and lost his right leg at the hip robson
the not repay face kit from illinois who had arrived at poleman got wedged head first in a vehicle tunnel as he was clearing it he panicked
amended in drowned in his own puke before he could be pulled back out another man recently arrived sat down beside a trail to take a break
and trip the chinese claim more with his button i hope his mother would not ask to open his coffin the gruesome tale of the boretta on our
nerves no matter how many we found we knew there were others out there waiting for a misstep the terror built is one thing to rush an enemy
in battle and take your chances in the face of his fire power the experiences frightening but the momentum of the act compels you forward
sparing you the agony of considering your predicament thinking your way through a booby trap there is completely different experience and
much more harrowing moving along these suddenly noticed a freshly smooth spot of dirt to your front you look hard and see the three deadly
prongs of the anti personnel mind come into focus and unholy trinity extending from beneath the surface of our to greet your footfall and
whip you upon you look to your right and see a pile of rocks or intertwined twigs the vehicle warning to their own that this is a killing
ground you ought every one to freeze as you strain your eyes to pick out more booby trap clues your nerves of turned to steel coils your
eyes dug over the ground for tea signs of human tampering smooth bird and unnaturally placed vine attached to a pull pin safety a thin wire
across your path a broken brush time stand still you're afraid to move at the same time you want a duck your head and dash the safety maybe
you can make it before the dead nation catches you but one of the others you have to get them all out keep cool that's it bring the others
slowly into a straight file careful watch where you step now work your way up to the front look carefully before each footfall watch for
nearly invisible wires one slight tug bring metal tearing through your flesh like a frenzied power saw o k letting love stay in mine don't
banjo can't let one boyage more than one of us but which one i am concentrate don't think about the explosion look look you can see them if
you look carefully enough taken other step we're almost out of it christ on an bushes now we can't move concentrate think of where you
would plant them look for the telltale signs and so it went tremendous pressure followed by tremendously relief as the bureta area was
cleared then the journey continued only to bring the patrol to another threatening area he played on your nerves somehow the men put on a
show of bravado i thought that section talking about getting a deed i mean that's like what is like it was just perfect perfect writing and
being on a patrols were you thinking there's going to be ida's what your mind is thinking that's what you're thinking of looking at every
little thing in the road every little piece of trash every little wire everything could be a pressure played it could be a crush wire it
could be an id could be just be anything and so you're just constantly in that mode of assessing in looking and trying to figure it out and
i thought that i thowsands incredible job especially by goodall triggered an idea of himself and got blown up in some keys probably feeling
that that pressure ten fold to a leader who are betrayed when the laws of land warfare overtaken by pragmatic concern is treading on
dangerous ground the laws exist for practical and humane reasons and i knew that well but the consequences of my decisions were immediate
and i could not afford the comfort of a philosophical debate on issues i tried to behave in a humane manner and did not intimidate but i
persistent till i was reasonably assured that i had the truth or that my interview we truly did not know i owed my men that much one day a
stabed ambush only got into a sudden fire fight in the exchange one american had been hit in the leg was being profusely as i approached
the action with the rest of the patrol intending to flank the enemy i noticed that the base of the hill we are about to send was heavily
mind a frightened farmer crouched in the grass near by come you papa san acold none asking how to get through this stuff the farther stick
his head in dismay a call came on the radio damn it if we don't get archibau of your fast he's going to believe to guess death as i again
nan nan i ordered again the fond will refused his eyes widing and fear i took out my knife an tell him i'll kill him right now if he
doesn't tell us i had crossed the line i wouldn't have killed him but he didn't know that and the threat itself was criminal but i weighed
that against the bleeding soldier and the others who might bleed if we didn't get through to them quickly a leader as no one to look to for
advice on such decisions he must do what he thinks is best but he must not fool himself as to the consequences of his choice was not a
series of case studies that can be scrutinized with objectivity it is a series of stark confrontations that must be faced under the most
emotion wrenching conditions more is the suffering and death of people you know said against a background of the suffering and death of
people you do not that reality tends to prejudice the already tough choices between morality and pragmatism the farmer let us free we
forced the enemy away an extract of our soldier in time to save his life we let the farmer go but not before i thank him he looked at me as
if i were crazy very enough is the gain this is another great description of what you're dealing with in war and the decisions as you have
to make in these horrible situations back to the book fricker was nervous for the past few days he felt his number was coming up out o know
what's all with me lieutenant he told me shyly i don't feel right what do you mean a feeling sick i asked no it's not that i did feel down
like something bad is going to happen maybe you've been on point too often i'll tell step sergain to take you off no no don't do that i'm
the best man for that my squad i want to other guys thinking of yellow fricker wasn't yellow he was scared but he was more scared of
letting his friends down then of getting hurt i hartson to take a break but he had insisted on staying on point i told robinson to take him
off anyway fritered of it and pleaded with me to put him back are yielded so on a lovely evening fricker was cautiously leading the squat
up a hill when the machine gun stitched in across the chest robinson turned and dashed down the slope making it tony meters before he
stumbled and broke his ankle ten meters behind fricka nail and wilson do for cover fricker went down on one knee and spun around a fracas
friends blood and air bubbled fate hole in his chest he dropped his weapon and tried to rise his arms outstretched as if reaching for help
his eyes opened wide and terrors mouth a gape as blood spilled over his loose lower lip as a machine gun bullets tore into his back he
tumbled face down arms still reaching out for help that would come too late wilson took in the scene with horror trekkers dead my god
fickers dead his voice rose above the clatter afraid that no one understood wilson repeated his announcement till now he's dead he's
gagelle with all his might nail silenced him with a curt shut up he's dead and that's all the suit somehow nails words cut through the
hideousness of the moment more graphically than frickers death wilson was stoned in the silence there was a cursory change of rounds the
enemy fled down the reverse slope and wreckers corps became the and the lame robinson were evacuated nail became the squat beater that was
all there was to it another american had fallen one of more than fifty eight thousand to die in vietnam the action took a few minutes there
is nothing you neuamt at a messy business to be sure bontate can be cleaned up by shipping off the body and making a few personalities but
fricker was dead a few moments are lyre had been a young man with a lifetime of experience as a head of him now he was just a memory to his
family and to us a few moments earlier he was afraid some of his friends would think of them as a coward sirnames no one would think of
them at all as a mother would get a telegram and then a purple heart maybe i could write him up for a metal but what should i say that he
was brave because he was afraid to be afraid that he saved his squad by walking up to the machine gun first and what did he save them for
so that they might live a few more weeks before following in his footsteps he was all too much to consider as nailitself and that's all
there was to it metaxa little bit about the morality of for it was not a simple matter of killer be killed i had to think of my men i could
not let them be killed because of a rigid morality on my part but if i compromised with that morality too often i would become little more
than a war criminal unfit to lead those men i had to struggle to keep a sense of balance that trotcozy thing about that economy of
leadership is that these these opposing forces that are pulling you in two different directions their both their both correct it's correct
both correct and the balances were une to stay as soon say that they're both correct but their both fibrations you can rash in wise either
one of em you can rash line hey we shouldn't do anything at all it's to stay inside the wire life protect my guy eighteen as that and you
can ratlines go out and kill everybody before they kill us and what you have to do as a leader to combat situation you have to balance
those dichotomies and you know you could translate that into business is because you in a business you've got to take care of your people
but you got a make money you know this allers all these when you are a leadership position there's a posing forces that are pulling at you
you have to balance them and if the pay attention because what happens is suddenly you start going to fan one director of the other and you
start to breathed's control research seethings go sideways that's when you say erself way to second my going too for in one direction and
now that's probably what is happening now are goliathic little interlude dead than a quire day a sixty millimeter more er and they were
training with it and one of the guys was to wanting to train it they didn't really gentile him use it too much even though he was excited
to try it out and then of getting attacked and the only guy that's in it icinity the mortar to use it he is this guy spangler and so he
attempts to fire the mortar he screws it up while bunch of times and the v c and up getting away and we gonatas dejectedly i scowl i scold
it spanker who felt absolutely terrible about the whole affair i knew it was in his fault it was mine i had failed to train him even though
he was eager to learn more ownership right there from macdona now this is this is just a shocker in the book of his one of those situations
because corelli this that how does this even happen um mc dona decides that they're there actually by the ocean there are couple of miles
from the ocean and they all have their skin of jungle rot their skeered little infection than a bog by it in their just all jacked up from
this from just the from just living in the survivre knows is as you know forget these guys give a troll down to the ocean they can take us
some in oceanette sun dry some of their you know wounds offer what have you so they go down there he puts together the plan he actually has
to like pass let giste cause there's the sayyid rather superannuate bad skin then go out and has to do another patrol just in go swimming
and he kind of convinces a couple of guys hey there's couple of its atwane go to couple guys it say you know i'd rather not go he convinces
the guys to go he put tergether a plan he wants to send some strong esquimers with the group he's actually pretty ware of the danger of the
ocean he sends the guys down there they get down there and to the guise drown and die and again we're going to hear salerie james was the
guide that was run in the patrol and the duneses i could not criticize james he had not followed my instructions but the fall was mine not
his i built the idea into a plan and then ordered its execution in so doing i had executed spangler and even i felt a hundred years old no
tragedy in that god forsaken country it hit me so hard it was my fault i was the cause of two deaths in the name of good intentions i had
talked those men into dying i staggered under the thought the cost of leadership had finally been too high and i couldn't bear it i didn't
consider myself fit to lead but the job was mine and i couldn't quit for better or worse i had to do it they did back to camp and oh wilson
who is good friends with evanston the guys that had drowned he says wilson was crying for loss of even his close friend had deeply affected
him ashamed of his tears he hunkered down behind his machine gun at the strong point of the south side of the primate i spoke of evans
totness and tried to draw from that up benevolent interpretation of his death evans was a piece now i told wilson he was no longer part of
this night marish war although i couldn't fall the logic of my own words they seemed to lighten wilson's load he began to talk together we
groped for meaning in a man's death i did my best to conceal my own skepticism and agreed with everything he said somehow we came to the
conclusion that evans death was a good thing it must be good if god willed it by then i wasn't sure who was consoling whom sometimes works
on important for their content but only for their being sad and whatever we said that night seemed to be good enough for both of us
although i couldn't excuse myself for the drowning i realized that i owed it not only to wilson but the whole poltoon to put the incident
behind me now the next situation that the rin there doing no salt and as i get through the versiculi all mine through a target area that as
the salt a mine through the targar there's a vehicle and his weapon had been smashed by a round and he wasn't able to fight and to he just
surrendered and this guy madwomen tions gundamere this land as a veenestraat retranslate thurprithe called kicar scouts they know the they
know the area they speak the language and sell he says ask him if he's got the buddies on flanks security i instructed man a rush of
vidames words and seed only to be answered by no back and american vietnamese slang version of idle understand god damn it east beaconless
you answer him i shouted in the prisoner's face nan asked him again the man's face the man turned his face away defiantly my anger was
rising after my worries of the night before about finding a way to the target and the successful attack that followed every thing could be
overturned by an arrogant but the argent of one prisoner tell again seeing the way my face was flushed made the quiet comment don't be mad
lieutenant he's just a soldier same as you and me damn him he was right i would hope to do the same if i were in the shoes of a captain of
the captive killigan the quiet man who disavowed all pretense at leadership once again made me aware of the fragile superiority of my own
leadership and then as they proceed on they take these captured guys and they bring him back to the company command post and we go back to
book at the end of the morning's fight we linked up with the rest of the company a sense of the reinforced book too that it completed
comprised a blocking force i turned over a prisoner to a batoned a young stern as first action who i later found out did not last another
two weeks predictably the company commander had stayed back at the base bring the goat bring the groups over to the sea potent passed her
do my son sergeant they are goes i said quietly there soldiers just like you and me for a moment i thought i saw killigan eyes flashed then
we started our journey on they're going to go on up companies operation which means their taking multiple potions of which mc donald's one
of appotioned and the company commander was named more and more a calls them all together to do briefened haven't talked about this much
gomera's kind of guy that's he's not real proactively out in the fields so he sort of stay in back on base he's a little nervous about the
situation and this is just a great example and then he's got the other portion commanders who you cut a hear his judgment on them but this
is a great display of leadership of of taking ownership up and down the chain a command and to his peers the here we go from the book the
plan would put more whose the company commander two thousand years away from our present location and four thousand meters away from the
objective i tried to conceal my disdain sir request misson a control the operational movement of the new reforest in the initial phase of
the operation i spoke with one i hope with his a totally expressionless face so he sang listened bouerin be way over there what do i just
go had a control this the boss says sure jim i guess that makes sense you the scene we tended among the protons did you have a plan in mind
mary was easy and i was going to take advantage of it tom i briefed him on my consent come i concept routilov ent well we would set up time
of anticipated contact with the enemy and types of weaponry women carry the captain concurred with the plans then excused himself i've got
to get back to the sea pan report to battalion seeing an opportunity for complete freedom of action i continued sir i need to flesh out the
details with the other pecuniars may i brief them in your absence yes certainly carry on he laughed as we stood up to salute so lose would
just happen out beautiful at as he took toll on shall and not only did he take control of the janice's going to give contemptor the peers
as wealth i an he's he is judging and passing judgment on the way the other pontoons are running there will what the way the other
portunatus are running their protons and he says observing all this i silly roke lieutenant smalley out of the plan if he could not
exercise a minimum control in the defence he would surely fall apart in the attack witena evans first poonster was anxious he'd been on the
job only a week in this was his first operation he was a tall good looking boy from the midwest but i felt he was too eager he was
disappointed to be standing pat for the night as the reserve unit but the call had been mais not mine perhaps it was unfair of me to make
snap judgments of others and then plan my aces on the basis of those judgments the fought bothered me but not enough to deter me i was in
the business of a valuing people and the traits of other men would determine my own fate and that of my soldiers presumptuous though my
role may have been i had to make judgments and act accordingly morey was timid smile was weak evans was eager i did not condemn them for
that i noted it and adjusted we were in a war not a community social at this great leadership example of how you lead up and down the chain
of command so now fer a actually about to head out on this on the operation about fifty meters shore to the ford of the stream till egan
dog leg to the west and brought us up on the trail the heavy labor in the bush brought beads a sweat to my forehead and i concentrated our
present movement leaving thoughts of the night operation for later we were soon in the treacherous position of doubling back on a
previously used root always dangerous tactic for a second i considered yelling at killian to get off the trail but we were so close to the
ford that by the time we were new at off the trail we would have been at the crossing sight as killigan moved ahead in his stealthy glide i
saw him freeze momentarily and then glanced to his left directly into a bush overlooking the trail i knew in an instant that we were in
imminent danger for killigan never made abrupt move except that the movement of conflict excepted the moment of conflict caliente back to
us his face contorting as if to shout a warning i yelled to ambush and dove to my laugh kill again took a grenade blast in the face at
point blank range at the same time sergeant james went down it with bullet in his shoulder the enemy was sprang as from up position across
the rice tatty killain and i had had a cotillion had hit a command that mated boy trap i pressed my face into the dirt as bulletin over my
outstretched body i calculated that the best at best they're only four of us were laughed i peeked out from under my helmetpane struggling
to get off the trail the red blotch whining in his dark green fatigues he was moving not into the bushes but toward killigan who was lying
face down in the patterer the blasted knocked him his blood during the yellowish water red within minutes if he were still alive killearn
it's they get killanoola situation they get back to their base they go back again to do the ambush there hit again on the ambush they
evacuated guy they moved again and now there there in the final moment where they are going to do this big ambush as part of the company is
kind of what this last section the book is leading to it is morning intertexture the fortune final movement into the ambush position it is
morning and there is a grim a grimness in the drizzling air silent figures moved to the west shoulders bent under equipment loabes taped
for silence can of flag paint smeared on taught faces goes in the night young boys really from places like valdosta san diego bolder
madison portland out to kill as an boys who were out to kill them the gears of war grindot er unrelentingly mechanisms in motion that will
catch up human flesh as they mash societies clash politicians deal diplomats to bate young men struggled to the death to morrow or the next
day mothers will receive the news and cry but nothing will stop the mornings killings they finally did very embuscade and now the ambushes
about to happen simultaneously another group of enemy walks into the third and bussie it is tripped and all the enemy or killed the first
group of three years the may lay and panic one darts back man the old scout catches him with a round in the side he falls and and the old
man finishes him with two rounds in the head to the enemy scrambled through sergeant dunportian and our hit one falls dead the other scamp
scampers into the brush down pursues the wounded enemy ducks on to a hole in the ground obviously is formiliar with the territory and
vietnamese down yells from the come out there is no reply don yells again bullets spray out of a hole dunlavey don't leaves and flesh fly
out of the opening in front of a blast duntroon grenade a death rattle rash from the whole sergeant down looks around for the newest
soldier spotty in eighteen year old he sends him in a safe way to harden the youngster toward the events in store for him during the year
to come the youth emerges dragging a vicon but behind him it's a goose him sight the man's face nose mouth eyes are gone are is sucked in
and out of a hole where the nostrils used to connect the jelly like mass rising and falling in bubbles wounds gape everywhere on his body
there is nothing we can do for him it would be inhuman to prolong his agony so tacomas that ambush and their continuing to press the enemy
but something that macdona didn't count on something that he couldn't have predicted we that he failed to predict back to the book but i
underestimated the ruthlessness of our enemy and i failed to realize the extent to which political ideology can displace human morality it
was a major oversight and it cost us the village of trong lamb and drawn land as the village that they were actually their promoters
excites whole time and i should gone over that right in the beginning but trong lamb is the fillets that they were there to protect their
anapota these villagers and keep them safe and keep the vet can and the communist out of the area so they're sitting near in their permit
one night you know their literally tous meters from the village that's with us whole stories taken place and as there sitting there i will
go to the book the first explosion ripped one of the huts the park in a blaze of brilliant orange and yellow flame another definite
explosion than another ripton the air punctuated by the staccato clatter of automatic weapons we braced trying to print pin point the
direction of the attack my god i explained i exclaimed to no omen putticular there hating the village the would be a butchery the vicon had
penestae the eastern end of the village and were moving from tachot to thatch hut throwing satchel charges inside and shooting down
anything that moved serapoline leave back third squatterdom with me were counter attacking into the village and two minutes they dashed for
the village we dashed for the village as the flames burst upward the scene revealed before us was ghastly a mother ran by me with her
decapitated baby her own left arm hanging by a strip of flesh to vico stood behind her trying to shoot them down in cold rage i fired into
their faces their heads collapsing into a pulpy mash two young girls came running at me tears of pain streaming from their eyes at a glance
i could see that both had been disfigured by shrapnel the vehinehae their mission kill as many villagers as quickly as possible and they
would doing it well but they didn't expect our sudden rush upon them at point blank range from somewhere in the smoke and fire a woman a
mode with her young son she thrust a little boy at me begging for help and vietnamese the boy was folded completely in half at the stomach
a deep wound across the small of his back along his fat little body to be creased as neatly as a piece of card board surely he was dead i
looked into the mother's eyes and patted on the head later i said i'll help you later we pressed the attack back to the edge of the village
almost a fourth of it was now burning one more american fell with a chest wound and collapsed his long we broke the back of the attack
these bodies lay sprawled on the wire through which they could not withdraw the dead and dying lay everywhere a bit amid the burning hot
from the glare of the roaring flames i could see dead and wounded vietnamese laying and twisted piles already the older women had begun
their pitiful wails of morning shrieking and tearing at their hair and faces smoke filled the air but it could not cover the acrid smell of
death that filled my nostrils children search for their missing elders or howled in groups groping at each other for comfort their eyes
wide in terror a mother rockoon legged baby to her breast his life was eyes undisturbed by the bright flame coloration them both the worst
had happened the enemy had struck directly against the village and it most assuredly killed and wounded many of their own families it was
unbelievable but it had been done i knew that throng lamb had been a defeat like the entire american system of vietnam we have fought a
limited military war with constrained objectives the enemy had fought a total political war with no preordained restrictions we were doomed
from the outset we were the focus of the vehicle attacks because we kept the village alive if we died so with the village but even at that
we were the indirect ive jective the village was the direct objective if the villages were destroyed then there would be no village but
only now did i understand that kind of logic it had not occured to me that the enemy could take such a step to hit the village would ensure
the wounding and killing of their own kin in a battle within the confines of the village itself there could be no discrimination among
family communities and government loyalists every day i saw the children of the village they were like all children cute and dearing
growing with the emotional and physical needs of children the world over i couldn't hurt them it was unthinkable the possibility was so
barbaric that it was alien to my mind but my mind was not the mind of the enemy though i had tried to understand them even to think like
them if only to defeat them i had fallen short for a few more days we continued to patrol the area it was a bureaucratic gesture a mere
continuance of what we had been doing for so long i kept to myself my own recognition of the emptiness of our world it was essential for
the men to be convinced of the importance of their mission to an lamb was no more but leadership must always be positive so he wasn't
really expecting that that the vic would come in and just slaughter every one in the village horsman people as they could on believable
savagery now has wrapped this up he's he's he he gets his relief just like he coveteth beginning of the book and its he takes over for
somebody somebody comes to take his place and he leaves that he tries to keep track of what happened to them or how they fought and things
that occurred will go to the book here a schedule the patonee on and continued to fight as long as i could i kept the watch on the fate of
the men specialists nail was wounded yet again to fonseca palamon got out in front of the pecuniarity and took an enemy rocket propelled
corned in the right leg i learned the corporal killigan survived his wounds although he lost a long and a stretch of intestines sergeant
done made it home untouched one the few sergeant james and specialists king were killed although the circumstances surrounding their deaths
would never made clear to me and so it went and infantrymen's days were numbered and the law of the triton applied to the peon as it always
did in the summer of nineteen seventy one i feel out of cameron bay to return to my wife and infant son i just made captain he had been a
long twelve months and i had changed in more ways than rank and national airport and washing and c a pretty young woman stood waiting in
the terminal as i walked up the ramp by her knee stood a fifteen months old child with curly blond hair barely able to keep his balance on
his chubby little legs i kissed them both hello but woman was happy the boy was confused i was both i was also sad i mourned for the men i
had left behind i grieve that the contrary would never know what fine men they were i was proud to have served rethem and no doubt i
absolutely feel the same way he mazing man nandawon coosaw cut down at the height of their lives and our country will never really know
what fine people they were what fine human beings they weren't and i hope that from that from their sacrifice we can take and we can learn
from what they learn that we can be inspired by them and driven by them and become better leaders in better people from their example and
from the example of men like jim macedon and hackworth and bob often and all those other losers and leaders that if taken point and led the
way and we try to follow them down that path as we remember those who gave their lives to clear that bet for us just so much to be taken
away from this experience and it's almost like blossius weed the whole book but there's so much more that i didn't cover that i wanted to
and you know that the fact that matter is you could get this book on amazon you you go you buy the book you learn that's what you do you
don't have to live through this stuff to be able to take away some of the lessons from it and the cause that was such a such a good book
and there's so much information in it obviously i went long so we're going to hold off until next time to do you a little cuiaba if you do
want to support the pot cast there's a couple of ways you can do that number one you can go to the website jackass dornock come you can
click on the amatola you can buy this book right here the book is called but two meter a memoir of command in combat by james armor donna
and you should do that you could do yourself that favor yet it also another way could be simpler is disculpate du potato come in going to
the books section where lived all the books that you cover not to be on as click on the book full middle take your right to the to them as
an link even easier the tawaina to search if you you know if seriatim cranch i like that a what else what else can we do to sport for gas
um just if you're going to buy anything from amazon go to the jocatore outcome or jocopo gusto come click on the amazon blink before you do
you shopping it'll take it out mazan just like you would have gone any way and then you know do you shop in her can support that way past
only and i am also on jock's story you like you know the shirt sweat some coffee mugs on there some stickers to whatever um you know if you
like in it that stuff just yet some get up and i of course if you're in the supplement or your running low on supplement go to or go back
to you on a dotcoms flash jocko and in get some those good ones pick up some crooil for yourself ye pick ups and strong bone pick up where
your bars simile warrior or somebody admiral low granite but a warrior bars and to day i must say thank you you're out of each is to game
it is it saves the day ye tae the day looks starosta some one asked of it are wary your bars a post work out or the amulet like what are
they all there you bonelli's all of that and it just a snack it's a snack but then eat two that's a little meal eat three that's like a
full meal more or less it would the salad or something but it's it's it's good as always if you want a kind of kick it with a one he can do
that right on the old in the webs and i am at jackwell in echo charles is at echo charles that's on the winter that's on the face book ah
that's also on the instamatic ing but the integram i just found this self not yesterday but like the day before that there's a lie direct
messages on instance you alladeen though that year i eat i did not know that because we they have it on twitter had people send me direct
masters o'casey can show me how to check that wall yeah okay so you'll just people said lysimantes heah all at a people send me so and then
i've had integrand for a long time ye so there's a lot of man like all men i got a respond but basically if if it always spend it's not
because i make garnett's cause straight up i didn't know it was going on you're supposed to be very good the plaguy here all men and not
paying at learning but a leeland right we ask you did good deed nor ah with that you can join us there and you can join asters we continue
to try and get a little bit better try and do a little bit better and we got examples of leadership like macdona like the people that we
talk about the people that i admire the people that i looked to and say yes that person stepped up and led that's the example that i try
and follow people that stepped up and led through hard situations who dealt with the dicotomy of the aship and yet dealt with the almost
unwinnable situations tell with boles of engagement dealt with challenges dealt with their own patonee threatening them to kill them dealt
with all those things and yet they still led and so as we got it easy regarded easy so there's no excuse none do stopping any of us from
getting up and getting after it so until next time this is echo and jacob how
