welcome this is jack pot cast number two with a corals and me jackwell in good evening i go did evening so people ask me regularly what
books i like in fact than paris asked me which he asked all of his guests m what books i have given to people what books i regularly give
to people had i what what books to a gift which i actually am not a real big gift give her that for some reason i don't know why but i
don't really expect gifts from people and people of the world that should not expect gifts from me either lessons not give ye less so but
there is out one book that i have given to a few people in my life and it is a book that was and still is a very influential on me and
especially on my perspective of leadership and really especially in combarieu's and that book is called about face now here is right here
about face if you can't if you lessing audio it's an eight hundred over eight hundred page book to write by gin named colonel david
hackworth hackworth was a kind of a soldier's soldier and born in nineteen thirty joined the merchant marines towards the end of world war
two at the age of fourteen had the light get into the merchantmen got done with that gig he joined the army just after all war two ye
mespillion to what would it mean it the lie to get into the mosuto young he was so light of but fourteen years old he lied about his age to
day and at fourteen to the merchants when he went a few years later to join the army he was still too young and had to lie again to get
into the army once he was in the army he went over the europe and he served directly underneath the war hardened veterans of war war two in
those the guys that brought him up in the ranks and talk him about hard training and really that's what they taught him in an again that's
one of those things that i look back on my military career and the vietnam veterans that worse still in the sealed teams when i just gotten
items and nineteen ninety ninety ninety one there was still some some veterans around from vietnam in those guys when those guys spoke
lessened as they had a word to put out and i absolutely listenin to what of those lessons that those guys taught me those of vietnam
veteran taught me i carried on through him i held on to him and took notes and passing on in the waldos concepts are the basis of of what
we were about in extreme ownership an so e did that um he ended up getting a fighting career sir career was kind of his where he first saw
combat he ended up getting a battle field commission in you don't know what that means that means you're you're one of the foot soldiers
and all of a sudden they go lock your good leader were going to put you in charge that's exactly what happened to him he was wounded four
times before the age of twenty one to so the gay was a warrior and a reed is a read the book dedication here from the beginning of about
face it says dedication to steve present who is one of the word war two combat hardened better in that taught him how to soldier so says to
see presence who showed us how to a soldier to henry de boer who showed us how to die to glover johns who showed us how to lead and to all
the dog boys the ground pounders the grunts the american infantry men passed present and especially future to them this book is dedicated
so he wrote this book obviously the pass on the lessons that he learned and i got a make no here and read a little section can talk about
henry the boer who showed us all i die so mister place n cremorne and i'll go right into it during a big fire fight and hears hackworth i
saw a soldier prone on the ice he'd been there a long time i thought he was dead but then i saw a movement and i rushed out to get him my
god i thought it's the boer private henry see the boer had been with george company since berlin the war he was one of the few survivors
from the original third eton basically because in those first hard months to combat he had not seen even one good fire fight he had an
uncanny sixth sense he could always tell when the platoon was in for a major blood letting and invariably he finding excuse to be somewhere
else so early guy that backward his saying this guy was all fiting combination to fuses normally that excuses going on siccatine by
regulation he was allowed to do when he couldn't stop i even though knew the only thing that was wrong with him was a chronic case of
cowardice so abouts being called the gallery the burial even admitted he was a coward and he hated him for it he was an outcast for the
platoon we even had a little song about him which we'd sing in unison out of the dark jury corean countryside comes the call of the
deborded sick call sick call sick call he pulled this he pulled his stunt only yesterday as we were saddling up for this very operation
he'd sense the blood letting all right but he hadn't figured that the fogger cast covering the battle field would not lift and the attack
would be postponed he returned from the dock last night with a clean bill of health most surprised to see us the rest of the pucoon took
great pleasure in the fact that his malingering little ass would be in the thick of things the morning so he there was a big operation
planned and he was supposed to go on it he nockt went to sick call said he sick the the the operation got postponed because it weather he
shows back up and here it is round opening that he missed red did miss now back to the book now debora ashen faced hit in the chester got i
don't know there was a lot of blood and well into shock i knew he wasn't going to make it come on to boer you're going to be fine you'll be
all right i said giving him the old pep talk as i grabbed his jacket collar and started sighting across the ice but the boer said no sorge
just leave me you're going to get hit just leave me sage then suddenly he groaned sarge i shitty pants and that was it he was gone i left
him and ran back to bourine became one the greatest heroes of are outfit it was true he'd never been it anything in his army life but a
coward but he died right he died like a man he didn't say take care of me he said leave me take care of yourself in here i told the other
guy the story old tabor became a legend in the potion so that's the kind of thing that hackworth saw as a young leader from there you know
he went to dream war ended he was an highly decorated corean war ended did time in a bunch of different units in between the corean war in
the vietnam war when the vietnam were kicked off he went right into the thick of that again and it up as a potalon commander in vietnam and
here is his heresies of a war the distinguished service crosses ten silver stars four legions merit distinguished flying cross eight bronze
stars eight purple hearts so you have a guy here that is a obviously a highly dedicated soldier a guide that would do anything for army and
for america but and this is a big but this guy was a rebel he was a true rebel and he went out and when against his officers he went
against with waitin was running a of the war in vietnam and eventually he went out in public on national television and spoke out against
the vietnam war and said that we should not fight there any more so he went on this tv program is called as she's nanters is a big show in
the ah in the seventies and he did this interview and again he got a member this guy's in active duty on active duty highly decorated
senior officer in the army i mean this guy is all by all count should be the most dedicated to me and he eisis what he says you know is on
the courts from this interview i think that the top managers of the army and there is a big difference between a leader a combated and a
manager the top managers were so involved in systems analysis in the normal bureaucracy of an all they were that they were fighting from
day to day just to move paper that crossed their desk and they couldn't see the forest for the trees in february when we went a louse we
went into loucine tonally the idea was to block the enemy's supply ralph so he dropped in there we paid a horrible the vietnamese paid a
horrible price tremendous mistakes will make again conventional thinking he etonians on this low this idea of conventional thinking in
again you got a guy that institutionalists been animality service as these fourteen years old you'd think that they would have him meant to
leave so dated to a point where he would just think what they come to think that he does not and that's the dichotomy of this guy again
conventional thinking conventional thinking put us in that operation rather than have a light mobile guerilla force but a thrill of force
that belong to the government of vienna or american army operating in there like gorillas he was saying that the novitiate does the the
southeners be doing this or if we're going to do it we need to operate like grous it takes a sea to catch us ef what we need is a thief we
don't need a conventional trained as big dashing through the woods when the large force behind him we need small people well trained highly
motivated and this is what we have not had because what we have now this is where you say yourself while that because what we have now
among the army is a bunch of shallow till a tone who run from pill reposed trying to punch their card serving minimum time at company level
because the exposure you are very close to the heat of the finest there meaning you can get in trouble the sly so he is on national
television a colonel i army a one of the most highly decorated individuals at the time and he calls he says the armies filled with a bunch
of shallow dilatation from pillow telepost trying to punch their cart and purposely avoiding combat is what that second piece made an you
don't see this kind of haviour from army officers very often i know that ah and here's kind of how he closed the doubt she says i is the
interviewer they are sorry he says the interviewer says colonel do you think you feel it's possible you have become too emotionally
involved in vietnam and he says i have become emotionally involved in vietnam one couldn't have spent the number of years i spent vietnam
without becoming a mostly involved one couldn't see the number of young studs die or be terribly wounded without becoming emotionally
involved i just have seen the american nation spent so much of its wonderful great young men in this country i have seen our national
wealth being drained away i see the nation being split apart and almost being split asunder because of this war and i am wondering to what
end it is all going to lead to so that is a devastating statement and when i came out they he mediately she put in his resignation papers
to me they and the army started vestigate immediately in the trying to me try to get him in trouble for very little my noriac of the
happened underneath his command at any time in any situation they really tried to come after him and he ended up retiring and you know i
think one of the things that he expressed there is at thy conomy that any body in a combat leadership position will feel and and that is an
i don't infect this might be the largest dichotomy of all and that the big state and that is as a combated you are told and beyond being
told you are in grain and beyond being ingrained you are again errantly inherently caring of your guise there is no one more important than
your guise if and the dichotomy is as much as you care about these guys i you love these guano do anything forward them but that being said
it is your job you send these guys on operations that can kill them to that is a huge dichotomy and i think that's one of the things that
haworth when he saw it on a grand scale because he could deal with it in his own droops but he saw it on a grand scale you know we young
men being sent to their death it's it it it's i think on what turned him um so he ended up after this you know he can continue down that
path and he moved out of america he moved to australia and he ended up kind of playing a big roll in the anti nuclear weapons movement and
i mean that's kind of where he went so i year was a complex person hackworth that's kind of his nick name ever culiacan was a calm flax
person and i don't agree with everything that he says i don't agree with everything that he does and and i we think that he did i don't
worship the guy and you know what's interesting about me questioning what his decision the questions then hips i that something i learned
from him like don't even don't listen any body a hundred per cent don't put you shall always be questioning what people are saying in and
making sure confirming it through other sources and other experiences that is the right thing to do that something that i always try to do
with everything is is used at attitude and so i i i i don't andonia and i was actually trying to come here to night as trying to figure out
when i got this book and actually have no idea i don't remember it it went appeared in my life at some point and i don't know how i don't
onner made the recommendation to me i just somehow ended up with it and but i got it i got it before wanting i do those i got it before
september eleventh two thousand one when that happened i had already read it or get it in my brain but when i was in remote and thousand
and six this i i i literally read this book every night that i was not out the field i let this book every night and to just opened it up
to get open up anywhere in that in this book and you could find something some some piece of information some similar situation so moleson
learned that you can take from it and i could guide you in the end your one of the like like for instance and it all applied to what i was
doing this situation i always end so for instance we were in iraq and we were supposed to be working with iraquois who are a motivated
poorly crept poorly trained on educated bag moral and that's a and corrupt so there the money is all disappearing it's it's a horrible
situation and what was hackworth doing the venom they were in with the southeners who was corrupt a hand unmotivated and poorly trained in
all those same things they were dealing with the same things we are doing with that's a wan example of many ah i took a little break about
three months in a deportment i took a little break in and a not a hundred per cent sure why but i found another book somebody had left the
book and in our building and the book was speaking of dichotomy the book was the electric cool late acidest by toole and i think at this
point i you know fremontia i think i needed a menemen to escape you know at least a case is a being with combat all day and then i go in my
run and read about coritanian i kind of was it okay you need to think about something else for twenty minutes or ten minutes he is get out
of it get it out of your head and i ran only found this book in one and i had read the right stuff by tom wolf which was so fantastic book
and so i said of this i'm sure spiering's well so as i read this book the electric coolheadedness which is about hippias and drugs in the
sixties and that's what it's about hate ashbury the whole nine yards and there's a cot the middle of an actually pulled out because i will
never forget this crown how this quiet was so starkly contrasting with about face he and i and i'm going to read this quo and he's a and i
kind of forget the whole set up to it but there at some kind of a concert and there's all this screaming in craziness going on at some rock
and roll concert and you know he says i couldn't hear what they were screaming either but you don't have to there screaming me me me me i
me that's the cry of the ego and that's the cry of this rally this concert me me me me and that's why workith ego because enough people
want to scream pay attention to me and it was one of those things that i read no it was so stark we different from the situation that i was
in while i was with these guys in my own task in the seals in my task in the marines that were there on the ground lest the army soldiers
that were down on the ground will thus and these guys were all so selfless the last thing they cared in the world about was me ne ne ne and
i done with that book and i went right back to about face because i i related to it i understood and i i said to myself this is true this
is selfless missus where i at right now if so i went back into about face and i continued and in eventually this book is a widow the one
book that is given to a few of the guises that walked closely for me ah including include late lay favete one of my brothers through
rotestein ship and with me and ease on the guys that you know he got he's got his copies all dog eared and marked out in his integrate book
ah so obviously well we like on twitterin face book and we asked for a people to give us questions a lot o the questions are a bobberation
are about leadership and so i i kind of as i thought about giving in a little bit too to this book and in an talk about a little bit in
course you could spend you you you weak a do fifty episodes ten hours each on the poker's soko dense and filled with information out of
menotte hundred pages long there's um but i wanted to go i wanted to go a little bit deep on this one situation where david act worth
collators had now gone into vietnam and ears of a batallion of soldiers and they were kind of a disaster they were kind of the standard of
like what one had happened with some of them the poorer leadership a vietnam and he took over and again just to kind of to kindly out what
hackworth was like hers a quote that come start off the chapter hack worth was essentially a legend just before he re arrived i recalled
going to the dean and asking who the new bettington er was going to be the nepigon said can't tell you you know how personal people are
they like to hit pocket everything but he's mister infantry i thought who the hell is minimise infantry of course i'd read about david a
chatard so his canonic name was mister infantry that was what is reputation what his hip pocket men meaning have if it's people at a charge
of a personal and moving people round inside the military they know that no little bits of information and is that of giving it to you they
keep it all garlike it in their donations and then a two to count explained to that you know there's some people that on gather skies this
guzarat leader he's comin in but to kind of show you what the attitude of the troops is getherer the eveena we got drafts we got him
besmearings of anti american it's crazy times ah to callister quo ostrom a medic charles winsor dahomian i were sitting in the age station
drinking beer and saying god this is going to be hell we've got some g i joe life round here is going to just ruin us that was probably the
lowest point of araminta in not only it we've been taking a lot of casualties but now it looked as if some one was going to come in and
kick ass and make a man mad career soldiers out of us and it goes on to go through more cots were actual about a price on his head be the
soldiers talked to the hay we weened to kill this guy before he gets up skipwith is just kind of crazy yeah yeah that's right you know you
hear about that you hear about that and venom this idea of it's called fagging as a name for it they were in fragrancer means were gonagall
our own officer and it's a something that definitely happened on an it's a yet this is a perfect case of where people talked about it
possibly happening so tied into this chapter a little bit here's haworth talking about when he took over there was no sense in showing this
sorry outfit i was in the state of shock it wasn't just the command post group that it wasn't just that the command post groups slept on
cots inside tents that they had folding chairs and state side foot walkers portable radios and plastic cools filled with beer and coke at
their fire base out in the field more than that it was at they had pourables toilets too so he iasthai to be out in the field and they have
all this luxury and at something that we saw in iraq where there was certain basis where it they had a starbuck and subway sandwiches in
macdonald's literally had those things and you the fire you go out into the fray you get guides of a revisitation my first upon mentreche
got some imbue you don't completely in the bush living like jesmariosp by on one of our oday so the now we talked about the command post he
says that the command post apparently were blissfully unaware that just near by their troops were cracking on the ground and not even
covering it up so you have complete just disaster situation going on here and then the the general that's a torcher of all these italians
as he's about to put hackwork and charge gingham general el says it's a pussy battalion and i want tigers not pussy but he got it wrong
with the fourth battalion thirty nine and thirty ninth matutta en over it was not a question of feline degree as far as i could see this
unit was not even a military organization since that's what this guy walked in through comes it was to it he goes on to say it was told the
sensation throughout the fire base a man amid the ship and to the paper and the machine gun ameland where troops were worn love beads and
peace and botelho more like something out of hate as perry than soldiers in the u s army all were low on spirit and a few were high openly
on their lana there was minimum security few men carried her carried for the weapons most of let them go red with rust as they strolled
around without them gonads weren't taped and when a unit moved out most of the gunners were there amapondos the ideal watagaru tee a weapon
am sometime down the track when dirty dented cartridges weren't served into their emmetites so what we have here it is at olearius it and
the another thing that this ruined me of was i was always trying to when i was silken desartin pulls much information about or of his icon
one of the recent wars and recent times was when the russians went into cheshire the first time in name they had a really or time and i
read the after actions reports from the russian officers that i take trotter and one of the ones that i remembered it the looked for it to
try and find it in ification know i don't know where i went but i i haven't been able to find it but the guy basically says in all started
when the guide stopped shaking and when they stopped shaving and they then an extinguere were clean their guns then the next thing he knew
they warn staying aware while they wrong watch and the next in of the were getting over running killed so those little things those little
things that you do right all the time or important and that's the same thing with you and with me and with our lives at those little things
these little discipline a little daily disappointed little sichlike um you waken up at four thirty in the morning like me when i get the
ritual you know that's one of em at you know i try to something physically active every day that's another thing when when you use that
discipline what goes next the next thing on the letting athenaean then the end of the next thing you know you're sleeping in insitione not
going to get work on and things are going horribly backwards but it's his little disciples ye and and what ever i feel myself unto slip i
always think of this i always think of the fact that they are the little discipline that mean so much and they build on each other the
intensest ing is i didn't i didn't really look at it that way ever and then make complete sense where ye you let the little thing slide in
slowly by slowly both things that you let slide start getting bigger and bigger i always thought of it where i remember hearing somebody
say if you can't make your bed right rithen how do you expect to run a company i think you was how do you expect to be the boss of a
company you and i remember thinking well unless your company is a bed making hominy man as nationalist and this is also a little bit
counter to something out for recently when they talk about and you heard this decision fatigue if you heard that not so eustacie where
every decision you make take some sort of toll on you mentally if i and to you should you should not fatigue your your decisions you should
only should save your decisions reporting things so for instance is that kinelike if you're with a group of people and one on desistere de
yeas one to eat and every one says oh i don't care i where do you hate is different not the same thing it will sameela lower level but but
the level of this when i heard about the decision fatigue the level that i re disons like you every day you don't you shouldn't think about
what you're going to wear that day you should have your clothes ready because if you wait of the festin o do i wear that blue shirt or the
white shirt and and it becomes decision and then you decide a one of a half a breakfast my vista and each one is decisions chip away now
now that's fine i i don't believe i don't know if i believe that a hundred per cent but one thing i do think is the opposite is i think
that the smaller disappoint in still and create stronger disapoint so the waking up early the making of the bed the the checking off your
list that all those little things that you do i think increased is one i know what you want when i fall off the discipline wagon for
whatever rotinelli an it's like a tree you know i'm like all the god would just happen i'm all of a sudden my room as a mass in my it's
echoes down hill and tries and two days and i go my god get back in the game so and in a soosing i implemental smaller disciplines boom
were back in the game and in the end they'll bigger disposal no place so continue now there was a general that he swung through vietnam
general james wollnow and he served and this going to the book general james will know observed and wrote to the cheat to chief of staff
westmorland we all knew that is less than a month before so before lished showed up before hack with a coup this guide general james w
wollnow had observed and wrote to chief of staff westmoreland less than a month before during his whirlwind nine day trip to the war zone
woo told the chief that the most that the almost universal opinion among those he'd spoken with was that the young officers and enlisted
men being sent to vietnam were indeed properly trained prepared for combat both by training and mental conditioning so this guy wrote this
flowery report after he goes gostinni as neglige somebody like hackworth it spent five years in vietnam somebody shows up spends nine days
there he's looking at this gallicise edinian this is a a classic a statement about leadership he said this is haworth going directly to the
book again what a mistake it was to listen to the generals of corporate e cu who were brief only in zertificate and so far from the cutting
edge expected nothing less it was among the biggest mistakes of the war the politicians only listened to these generals and these generals
to themselves that's that's crazy and this is again when i was talking about questioning earlier incalike question hackworth on a question
at everybody and everything of costly asking those questions because you don't know you don't know if you're just listening to the general
that only listen to themselves back to the book few people asked the front line soldiers the only woonce knew so he got a talk to your
front line troops he that's just the man to tory peace of leadership ah i like to i uttered great word on this is called incest you will
knowledge for i win the win this little group just lamon themselves and they believe everything that they hear and they and they agree with
everything they hear and no worse this wise this and we saw it with mimosacae you saw a guy that got so in de their own little thing with
no outside influence that when they all believed there own crap yet and indigitate too fully the ificant be that way and you got to have an
open mind with everything you know um in definitely gigi's waneth things got up an open mind with it she what other people are doing and
how they do in it and thus that's the miracle these days as you can be seeing getting all the influence from the internet is all news
different people out there and showing out their doing it and it's it's a whole new world but you got t have an open mind if you have no
don't have no to mind all you do this incestuously converse with other people that believe the same thing is you you're on em and this is
crazy this is this is again this is what a wollnow says what is left and he stockint the this vietnam what is left appears to be a mopping
up operation i do not believe that in the current situation the enemy has the capability to more than harass us i did not find a division
commander who disagreed with this conclusion with respect to his own tax glary operation it is nineteen sixty eight and this general come
abacinare can't do anything but her assunta's this this guy was the ranking guy going in back and reporting to west morlache the whole army
razy crazy that this could be taken place as we go a little bit deeper into this they had a board that explained is like the scoreboard for
how many tchigan howdy them had been killed or wounded and how many americans had been killed a wood and when he took over when when
hackworth took over the enemy had zero caeso that there been zero and mikado enemy wounded and durandarte meanwhile the americans had a
twenty four killed and four hundred and eighty five wounded societies said i did so the enemy had a zero killed zero wounded zero captured
and yet we lost twenty four americans killed and four hundred eighty five wood this goes back to where was talking about where i would see
these similarities in iraq to vietnam because these wounded came from rockets mortars bovedas frindly fire rockets mortars buitran fenians
i think seventy per cent of the casualties and iraq were for my desinit in ideas an improvised supposes that the boyhood the other big
percentage was from getting more you know where you're sitting inside your fire base and all of a sudden bomb start raining down from the
sky and anywhere to like this is something that we talk about often at something that at that hackwork about his well is if you have heard
some one say in vietnam we want every major battle but we just lost a wherever heard that he witality statement that peep some people make
and as i started to analyze that because when i was younger i was like you that's right because where the best military in the world we
would never lose these guys were asoman we are asinates altar in the world but if i have a poutonous forty guys in the army and we lose a
guide to mobita and we lose god to a mortar and we and we never confront the enemy howson win the war at morass that was very ah very
disturbing and we did see some of this we did so some of this in iraq where things would get sugarcoated and that's one thing i'd go back
to the book and i'd say why is surgeon is what's go on somebody needs to speak the truth you know we need tellinas really going on here
they i raised my hand and say no moss is now i death we we need this we need wore this is where we're going to lose it so what's going
wrong and luckily we had some very strong you know milkier leaders that did that you know a pictures for sure who containment ed the serge
we had a mixmaster intact a lot at eric master up and up a northern iraq and you know the guy that i worked directly for cornel shanahan
whose now a general a e those guys were guides that spoke the truth and i would hear i heard matootonha i would hear that guy say no
actually we can't do that now that actually the wrong idea no we actually need to engage with these trilled even though they were
tremefecit ago no this is well do so i got to see some of that leadership step up which was which was awesome ah he goes on to talk about
how i got a read this so he goes to his what's called the change of command which is when you i'm in charge but i'm going to give you the
italian so the following day took over the battalion from lieutenant colonel franklin a hard in a parade field change of command in the
middle of the may cong delta what kind of war of a gotten myself into i wondered a perfectly starched general you was there having flown in
for the occasion in his polished choppers there were there were other brass to and photographers the american flag at the vitalian colors
which were ceremoniously passed on to me and all this before the scrounges most spiritless assembly of soldiers i ever seen incredibly none
of the generals are colonel seemed to notice the slack condition of mine charges or their positions lieutenant colonel frank car would
still receive a legion of merit for his job well done with the battalion so picture not your mind your taken over his battalion his guys
are just complete disaster the general show up in their polished compellates wearing starched eautiful and they don't even they just ignore
it like a like goblins on there just ininen the fact that these guys are just a toy biester crazy thought crazy thoughts so um then we get
into the point where in this is where when we got when we get these questions on twitter about leadership and this is sort of what drew me
back to thinking about talking about this book was cause as we get these questions you end up with a with a just really great examples and
an a lot o questions that we get are um you know what he do with people at her own motivated we do and you know and and everyone has that
question of what you do in people are motivated and i'll tell you the kid you imagine i piano less motivated then a thecosomata drafty from
vienna from the benmore in it's it's kind of great yet no promise ah one of the things that hack says is little could i have guessed that
whipping it indicated me the italian would require every little bit it bit of knowledge i gained in in the intermis whole cure he realized
his whole career at take every trick and he'd learn to get these guys in the shape now what's interesting out this is he says whipping
these guys in the shape and this is something out had all the head executives when i get on get on with a sea o and i'll say i need you to
come in here in a whip mine eyes and chandan it's always it's one of those cats that i i have to push back on because they think of the
coming the like a downstroke and are orders and people are going to end a dozen work that way and you know you you have to do you have to
do more than that so when one of the initial things that he did was institute discipline and as you know this applies at my favorite work
going back to the vocare from the outset i realized him that to make this unit and effective military force and after implement about a
thousand changes so i figured we'd start with five a day little things basic things like where your steel pot elmet and clean carrier rifle
in all times and amunition will not be worn pontevico my first order was that come darkness the fire sport base primer would pull back
three hundred meters the troops instantly began to grumble at this but at the next order but it was the next order that really began the
muteness feeling within my hard luck outfit anything you can't carry twenty four hours a day is gone on the next copper the arneguy that
were living in tents that had toilets out there radios and all the stuff he said a thing you can't carry with you use going is out o here
that's hard core discipline and they piled it all up in the middle of the ah the middle the base and had a big helicopter come in and take
out now one thing he says here is it says i wasn't there to have them like me and this is one of those dichotomies where adam sure
everybody at one point or another he has work for some one that is very abrasive and think taking just the words around it and and no one
likes work in for that guy it's it's awful yes and so there is a fine line between listen in not here to make friends and oh i'm just going
to be totally a brace of entry every one what crop because you're not going to get people to follow you with that added duteous he
obviously was very good at walking that fine line between pushing hard enough where he is i am iterato make friends but at the same time
not push him so hard that he's gittin shot or the visicom lete mute negant it i you think that some one who who in my experience and people
say that i'm not here to make friends than on here to whatever it's usually kind of like in excuse because they piss somebody off yes so i
think that to really you that in it in a in a in an accurate way or in a in a conducive lamiter to make friends is if you can show them
results and at the same time not necessarily you know be the nicest of guise then i think that's when you start to walk that fine line on
so it's beautiful that you sad that so this this goes right into the fact that ah a short time interfastened pulled back this perimeter
severe night instead of staying where they were just all relaxed they packed up they pulled the back of the dog in a short time later we
were hit with a paragot and recordless rifle fire but most of it fell on the old positions when i got on the horn and called for our
tillery i was surprised i was very nervous command is not like hopping back unto a bicycle and after two and a half years away from it his
rusty and actually scared i screw up but then i heard a guy later to i bet be identified his lieutenant larry taller who worked in the as
three section running behind me to his defensive position and here is the cloth from this guy he is a man son of a bitch but he knows what
he's doing so that exactly what you just said and that's exactly what affected had um now moving through this the men and now he saccommis
unit before three nine the men of the four three nine had no unit identity and no pride in themselves so for all those people at war out
there that a sent me toward a question in hathawi of people that are motivated how do i know how do i change as another one how is
coluctang ah these going to go into that as a first step toward rectifying this i decided to call my hard luck battalion the hard core and
the troops reconnois so he's renaming them he's reading reading in the potion and i actually did this very thing when i was attache to
commander when i took over tasking it so casting into the selta they have a a fanatic letter for their name so theirs out casing to alpha
tasking a bravo tasking a charlieite new got the patons on an eat them so what i did with ours is basically a sons i took it over i said he
we were casting a bravo b and i said guyser not casting a bravo were taking a boozerine that was one of those things were even thought at
first people were a kind of you know what what's this all about but then but then afterwhile the like o none o no cause you're in a task
you i'm in caseous and i and it really does have a elegiac like a little lakalatcha sense of pride like worthies met unique kind of almost
ilgret in that small little tanoa way of and yet i think branding a lot it that oiled to do with branding were or where um you get like a
company for example um you do just little things different and include every one when that be the name whether be little i mean sometimes
they do it with them like tending utilizes or what at sinaloa ones that that that that don't really they're not very effective but there's
certain things that if if those activities can cunious sense of pride and you guys are doing it together that's one that's when that can
work and the name things it's crazy how that such a big thing when you're a little bit and when you have a cool name were lay alms like a
gang mentality it is admirer they had no un identity so as wot he no pick that identity calmed the hard core called terreno he can to give
them that identity give them something a latch answered he goes even further so he talks about how in the past when he was in with another
unit they had this greeting between officers and alisorges and the offer it air borne in the inlets all of the way so that airborne all the
way and so now these guys are in vietnam and it's a little bit difference a little bit harder so now tis gone back the book when a soldier
saluted an officer he said hard corn recondo sir and when the officer responded it was with a heart felt no fucking slat and i mean it
doesn't get me better than that and as a matter of fact when it is this one of the most fired up things ah when i when i retired from
selfish a guise that ran the land warfare training select the most miserable hard training out in the imperial valley of california where
it's a hundred and twenty degrees and you humphrey the desert and i jist completely hard core and we would atrailing was miserable and
toughen realistic and bad as and when i left those guys from the land warfare group gave me a shock gun and on the shock gun was engraved
no fitting slicko the see picture these guys walking round it's like you just said you talking about you to identity and they give him this
name but now the water on it every time they see each other there saying hard coal recondo no fucking slack and i don't care that a montre
you know that becomes a monster that becomes a what you say and it doesn't take much for what you say do start to become what you believe
if an so i love that i love and when we work with companies we give depending on how long are working with him for i will sit down and i
will have him come up with a mission statement yes and who will come up with some kind of a moncontour about no fucking sainted like one is
going to make you one is going to make you think that way could that's what i say a land warfare you know when i was running land warfare
training you know hate we give these guys a little extra time so we give him the chrotta the closer to the inter point of his cane make
this a little bit easier for him and i'd say no fucking so and the reason was i wanted these guys to be ready i wanted every one of those
souls that was going aracan have ganistan to be ready for eighty thing to be read at one of the training to be harder than real combat fell
as the gold and then these the little monteros and in all these things that kind of gives every one a sense of pride in going through that
heart training oshio ultimately result in being ready right so for them to to take pride in enjoyment in that hard training because of
these little tiny things and that makes it that much more effective you know the whole the whole situation it is completely true um there's
another piece simulation back to the book simultaneously i started establishing standard operating procedure that would not only keep the
troops alive but also give them for the first time it feeling they were in charge of the situation not at mercy of the visor insidious
bobcats so think about that you know this this idea that you're on the defence all the time in your constant like waiting to get blown up a
waiting to get more grieving to get a take a nip round that's a horrible orbling being on the receiving end of that stuff is horrible cause
you don't have control over it so then they started slowly putting things together to to go on the offensive as ostended operating portugos
included such things as every officer having to read mouth blitter red book so this was kind of the communist way he wanted all the
officers to no one understand that because how can you be an enemy if you don't know what they're thinking that was another just classic
move and you got a think like the enemy i got a couple more things to pull out here people talking about em you can for your guys and
here's another good you know i this is going back to book i wasn't going to lose any legs for a couple of the s i was into fighting hard
but not at the expense of bleeding troops the fact that i had that i walked with the pontoons put me in the good graces of the lot of men
but my stock at rose even faster when they got word when word got around that i wasn't a butcher so even though he was hard cold and he was
saying no fucking slack what what he talked about relier that paragraph is if he found one of the young officers was doing something that
was careless that could put guys at risk the runner on a boy hops or and that wood that didn't have a good return he fired that gun he
would live with his fire to guy and that the insolencies realized okay this guy's hard corbies what he cares about us and that that that is
huge and and another piece is conabar to what we do said all the four three nine really needed had need had really needed was a good kick
in the ass which included treating or bringing in leaders who cared for their men and giving the man some sense of real purpose wowow you
know and what we call at in relate niabon in the book it's the why why are we here and you would be surprised it happens with companies it
happens with families it appened in the military and happens with teams they don't understand why they're doing what they're doing their
just doing it as a task as a robot and you can't treat people like robot people have to have some kind of long term go after understanding
of why they're doing what they're doing so when that's that's like ninety nine per cent of my answers when somebody says have got this
problem with his people don't want to follow this rule they don't want to do this safety a cask or what see procedure the you i can't get
my guess de safe procedure and i'm like older henderson why they're doing it well what do you mean do they understand why they are doing it
to understand the why they are supposed to clippin at the end top of the cow are that they're climbing going understand why do understand
the implications if they fall to understand the aplication not just to them but to their family are they thinking about the implications to
their job in the thick about the implications to the company and then all their people's jobs you put all those why here while your climate
that tower as if in fall you can't pay your mortgage or kids you can't eat then on top of that we have to shut down the tower for a week
were going to lose money we're going to just at a and when you think about why that all the thing i go okay i guess i'll clip that he it's
one of those things so that idea of understanding why is just extremely important and a to close out this this section on you know about
face which again depending on i don't know this may be may be this was just a m an exercise in my own bed by one what is it was that were
selfishness tagliato this with people and have the miran and for me to go from this book again again unlearn every time i read it but to
kind of rapp so he goes on and they go on this is a long chapter and akoontaltl about all these different things that they did and they did
turn the fight and they did start kill the enemy and they did start to spare their own gesandten started fighting the gorillas like they
were grass he really implemented all those things that they had talked about so now he's getting ready to leave and he says ah be hard
coritanian proved to me everything i'd ruminated on throughout the two years that went before all those ideas and theories on how to fight
the g and the gas geillis if there was satisfaction in that there was much less in the fact that my success didn't make a den in the way
the war was prosecuted so even though he did a great job and it really changed there battle field for him other people didn't say oh i see
what they're doing i'm going to do that too ironically what did was the debacle of hamburger here hill where screaming eagle general melvin
zac ordered a leaven of salts up an extremely well fortified totally use totally useless piece of real estate as if he thought as if he
thought he was in corea or storming crowd positions at normandy almost four hundred american men dander wounded later the one old one unit
was king of the mountain but within a week the objective was abandoned so i don't know if you ever hear his perambulate deal whilst four
hundred guys wounded her dead held it for a week and he left the ensuing horrified uproar among american people and in washington bad sure
hamburger held was the last huge and costly battle for in american troops and venom so i guess if no one learned how to fight the war from
me and the men of hophead corps at least from generals as they finally learned how not to but we were already four years into the war and
there were almost four more to go to so that's about face waynites e a that is heavy book figured ively and literally and you know again
depending on a what people follow that made will come back to it and talk about it again in the future that book and the experiences are
kind of war this comes from this mind set and the attitude that i have or i'll not to it the thing i don't i couldn't sit your in put a
percentage on it um from a leadership from a combat leadership respect the it is as it is a pretty significant amount you know it's
probably in the in the twenty or thirty person of confirming things that i believe learning new things seeing things and reading about them
and then watching them happen and an understanding of so that it definitely is a is a significant portion of some kind if meanwhile
meanwhile on the internet on the interweb we got a bunch of a great questions bunch of y e got ponders of conjugate questions and obviously
we can answer them all so some of em we kind o compiled together some of em we pulled out and you know that i did not do as that did not
put the names of the people that submitted him so next time i will do that i think we got one person that that recommended that so i
apologized for every one out there on tenter and face book that submitted questions and we used him next time i'll i'll try and get your
name in there so you'll know that i am talking you but ah but we got some great she back and comments and all that so let's ah let's dive
into some of these i pittiet toughness or win back to this i think this is important mental toughness cause i think this is one o those
things that a constant endeavor for i would don't i would argue for everybody i would agree i mean one way another i've suliman that
enequen tions really appropriate mental toughness is not just one thing some people are tough in the gem or in fight but weak when their
wife leads them for example do you agree with that and and this guy and again i wish i had a ever you are i apologize because he actually
make es statement do the statement mental toughness is not one thing and then he quantifies that statement by saying some people are tellin
the gym or in fights but weak when there live when their wives resone says he you grewell i agree a hundred per cent and this opens up a
whole spectrum of reality and that is that these that that would is it that crushes a person because different fevered everybody has this
thing this weakness that may be never to come covered maybe a does and the fact that he talkington know fighters and saying that people are
tough in in the jam there toughing fights but they have some weakness that can crush them i think we see that point of a just famous people
famous fighters that this is happened to john boneses have yenowines in animal and fights he's animal training in the gym but he has some
mental weaknesses that he needs to overcome than that hopefully you will be able to see he can reach is for potential and i i i hope he
does but you know he's lucky he's got a good support base around him and he's got money to to try and solve these problems because there's
a lot of people that and up with those weaknesses or have those weaknesses and ends of crushing and that scary and i'll tell you what the
scariest thing is and i think this is a great lesson and it something that i learned over and over again and i don't know when it exactly
solidified in my brain but it's so to sturbing and bear when you see somebody that you care about and you watch them go down the spiral and
it so obvious what they have to do stop it to stop the downward spiral its like oh ah giriftah girl or get stop using that drug or stop
drinking or do whatever the case may be whatever that thing that gottheiner telling him to stop it and may don't ye because i mean i
anythink i am i think i know what your points going to be here but i use a when clearly odious it's clearly obvious kind a wait to put in
it is clearly obvious on paper where you could point it out and that person the person you care about he shohare they'd probably agree with
you he always this holding you back you think or is this gamin you and they'd probably say yeh but to be like all just simply let it all
lisaveta girl with say a ooelogist ah ah you rely yeah the girl's gaming me up snarly eyes on his sure for marienheim and you don't seimpo
that get rather girl but i think in everybody's different there's a certain need that some one has an inherent need that that that that
girl is the filly and that needed big a man how deep down it is it's a big need obviously that their letting that need get the filled in
and at the expense of their goal there training her whatever so it's no that easy it's obvious sure but if it is not that either goin
ollister girl i didn't say was easy right but i know you seen this i think we've all seen this were you looking at a situation with some
one that you truly care about and you want to help them and you could write down in two sentences what they have to do to completely
resurrect and change their life in it as in a is as easy as getting rid of a girl or a guide that in her life that's a disaster or it is
easy as stopping the use of drugs now call orthes easy as cutting sugar out of your diet because you're sick from it or it is easy as
working out a certain methodology to get you through the situation to it's it's it's horrible and it's one of those things that's for me
it's taught me to again i talk about the tatcho did catch for myself to make sure i'm not that guy that doesn't have some issue that's
holding me back and like i could be doing better if i would get if i would take that import from other people or you better off if i could
detach and see that in put myself and self correct yet but is in you when you can see it in some one else that's really what you what the
dynamics of that relationship is meaning let's say anna your friend is something a girl for example holdin him back it's easy for you to
say o dido this he as the two heads anseis like as to get rid the girl be happy that's it it's easy because you are detached if axel to the
hard part is for him to actually detached but if he can detach look in he'd be essential in the same position as you and probably be able
to at least be on his way to do it exactly it's weird though and that's why i say people are crazy like we do easier we make big mistakes
with yet a motional we do things that are crazy human beings do it and that's very very difficult to deal with and and it's really a it can
be very sad to see you know i've seen people with great unbelievable potential that have for all practical purposes cast away for some
ridiculous reason that again if they would have followed to bullet points on a piece of paper that said get rid of this girl and stop using
this drug galifo be different and you just you can't help him eh and obviously you know getting rid of a girl umbell just an example it's
not were not saying girl sir any yeopim ailment thing with girls and guises he went grettes guy that's a disaster the dragon down whatever
and it could be the one it was you just say relationships and rabiner ye toxic relationship yet tell it i romancin um i've i mean you use
the word ridiculous which of you know cool but i don't think he is really ridiculous because if you kind of if you break it down i think
like i said they have a certain need that isn't obvious to every one you know everyone aside even to them it might not be obvious but they
have a need in there that this tale relationship is spilling its gaming up a bunch of other things in their life were their goal but it is
the filling this little thing that they need will o k you can say that that that i inthat make on of motor argue with you if evaderet
proletariat but it if that need is if basically the the the sun of that need or the the the size of ye that belies vagrantin tined of them
achieving those goals which may seem weird because it's like all that teeny tiny need to be loved or accepted is bigger than being a
champion of the world or it seems weird but from an individual sampling on the in how they feel in the inside that need in a otanes is
vigorous which is wavie are great pain because it gets a man redetermination and you can't help them settle peace you cannot help the yes
any try you can paint it out for him you can tell me toushines it thousand different ways yes you i think you yes i think there are ways
self obviously a think it's like through like a therapy type of situation not necessarily a professional therapy maybe but not necessarily
or something really impact for ye i was here you know you always hear it gotabite rabot of persons got a hit rock bottom somehow reddin
they realized caestre my life now a certain again and yet she can help him before they hit we a rock for all of unknot the toy with its
great heating rocklinite reason that its tip and i don't want i'll just use work easier it's easier to move forward when you hit rock totem
is because you're not you can't go any further deeper but what that i mean that sometimes but what that means is your here rather the
bottom if below here's unacceptable it's death or it's you know on jail at an now whatever whatever you wrapped on em is so you can never
justify oh i've been doing it this way and i'm still here you can never make that justification at rockbottom because i've been doing it
this way an i'm here that's on acceptable you're a a but let's say you're not a robottom but you're pretty junk you you're not doing good
but you're making it your handling it sure your job socks but i'm still here we noisily got my car yesterday only justify yes yet on the
alkali i need to make it improvement i'm a start in a start on monday on through the making improvement le started one okay goes good to
day and goes good when day some temptation calms and whatever the drugs are drinking whatever on their kind exhausted from putting in that
effort to change and is a alcaldes have on bear caloocan just start drinking again because he really oi'm cool with it you know i i i be
pinnate it it's not he hold out a bad device their station in life bright and and somebody accepts their station in my fren i guess they're
not on to be motivated do anything right so and that excepting their station is essentially their justification i e relapsing bonarroti can
do that soliman obviously people's rockenend like he said but if that's the reason that it's that it's easier i know sounds great but
easier to move for when you at roosters so of yet mental testicle how you said it is a it's different for every one and you can be men it's
not an across the board thing you're right and mentally to ye in eaties back into mental softness is again go back to detachment he a man
glad work most people listen this aren't dealing with a situation when they've got some reeves scenario going on and their life is on a
downward spiral hopefully well your downward spiral is that you slept in until five thirty you know that's that ateethin were you on a
catch yourself and i we thought about early you wanna get those little disciplines in place and and build the pond those and become better
ye stay out of them never by the rock motion was get to the top of this bad boy he tokay in it and with that i think this might be kind
obvious but it's portant to recognize what elements or what aspects of your life that you are not quite as tough mentally at you know like
you are you know if you have a weakness for beard alcohol and recognize that or i've a weakness for giving up when i start to get tired in
training or something like that um you know recognize that the anahet for i portant acota with orchis mas eve um i went to the store to
eresus and it was real crowded that supermarket right so i go and i get two twelve fat ober and some tomato and i have a cart not or i have
a basket an not a cart from carrying it so all the lines are long so intome standing in one of the lines and um and i holding the basket
with the twelfth back ober in one hand with the tomatoes and the other twelve back of bear in the other and so it that's you know it's not
like terribly heavy but i kin get heater a little while so that in real so i got to be in at line for a while so after while you know
shoulder sat getting tired and right then i recognized okay he this can be a small exercise in mental tosses just a small and not on it you
know not a marathon another like that but you know what i'm going to do i'm going to just in a whole esential until i put em on the then i
not put down because right now i can kind of want to put him down so what i did as i made it consciously made it an exercise saw held on
and every little thing that would happen this guy not take in em or if as not been quick as he should be but that that another element
added to the mental toughness exercises no dere goin to write a check right over yes so i did it i told ye did it it took me the allocated
ten minutes to go ten minutes of just holding it you know um so i put my my my stuff on the on the little carol whatever to get it checked
out and i remember then aleta's one little exercise in mental tugh did a little work out mementoes done now i realized that the
demonstration of mental toughness that's quitely but as far as recognizing the potential situation where you could be mentally weak using
it as an exercise to be to help with mental toughness as a concept that's an important element in a now like the best about that whole
story was the fact that you add to mentally detach herself and recognized because that's the true exercise in my mind is having the ability
to be outside yourself and look yourself and say you're being weak right now there's opportunity that's real triumph it on a small scale
yet when it er it it morinobu if you can just start thinking to yourself that way that's small little exercise on turning to a little bit
bigger exercise and an next thing you know you're in a detrimental situation recognizing half i can practice how exhaustion right now where
you know a month ago two months ago i would straight up gave a but let me you this as he had another excited an it's a big detrimental
situation or bring a look mentally though i liked it at whooray yes approved sure barely a protogones said next question ka ka next washing
is my son who seven seven years old and i want to get into juditha lessons has it taught you in life well you know i talk about jigtime
because i do think it a great matter for for life some of the things that it teaches you without a doubt as a teacher humility because if i
going to teach you you know by telling you he be humble beyond boats going to hit you humility because you are going to get surmatian be
forced to surrender you people better smaller than you that are weaker than you that a is good to have redeye and that's going to happen on
almost a daily basis sir when you first start out so there is no doubt about that it's goin to teach you about respect and i had a iapudia
great dude big ah i know your outer somewhere and you as a usband e looked like a super hero super strong just any any go up in satyrian
texas you some kind of a game member in texas had a rough childhood use use a bat as scary dud supernice but but be definitely could bring
it in when he started training after like a month you know i said so you know what i wad think of jette and he said ah you know i used to
think i was bad as and now i don't want to mess with anybody because i don't know if they've been training for three purseley have been
amendable so you definitely will learn respect from gigito ah disappoint you know we were just kind of talking earlier and i was talking
about training day and how i just did not feel like trainais all beat up all tired of so and there is only one thing that got me on the mat
and that's just happened the discipline to get on there i know that i needed to train so there's nobody on a care who you are that feels
like training every single day seven days a week but if you want a get better n you want to reach the goal then you have to do it and so it
teaches you about disappoint and and he would say from a mental perspective one of the coolest things that did gitche s you is it teaches
you that maneuver and that tactic said that brains that those things trump strength and trunk meeting force on force and i talk about this
all the time in psychological situations and its to bad i wish everybody in the world changes or because you have all these metaphors that
you could call em so it's great when i have a client that actually trained to gioia's then i can or understand them i may or watches
marshal arts so watches you have seed because even use these examples but you know the classic case in the mental confrontation is people
have a tendency to one to go you know fist on fist and if you say one thing if you say method e i say method and will just cannabin to
methods together and see who you don't well onties it's too as more rank then i'll what you know what acoomin charge to are going with
methraniayah going to do what i say but you're not going to do it willingly you're goin to sabotaging whatever the case may be that's not
segued you gits is is using me never and setting people love and and being more crafty that's what you git is and that's how you win and
that way you win not just on the mat notasten life is well in it the same thing on the battle field you know we you we have a little saying
in the in combat he who flanks first wins meaning the person that gets around to the side and attack from an unexpected direction is going
to win and the same thing in imental enguetra thing in in you know mental confrontations with people it's it's who is going to manoeuvres
always this indirect approach that's the key phrase that i use when i'm dealing with some one that's not a jujitsu person and i'm talking
about how do they deal with their boss that is does this or there are subordinate that has a they had or whatever i tell them listen you
need to use an indirect approach because the direct approach is not gonna get through this person i was i have was donsayso other than have
this guy he explained the personality of this did that work for him and the guy that had worked for me had been moved underneath him in a
in a reorganization and it was one of those guys he is a senior guy who he should have in appear but almost on his reporting tom he's been
in the business for thirty two years and he knows stuff better than i do and the guy says to me so i've propped the gun and i've told them
on going to coach him and this is what i'm goin t help him with a said an you you are no way is this guy going to accept that that you're
going to coach him aithis not in his personality you can't go where is this guy that will talking to calling mike i said mike you want to
be coached you want to be helped you have open mind if i came to you to hand when a coach you'd be like that great this guy is the complete
officer if i go to him and say hey i'm going to coach you he's goin to say i don't get to go charade if i outrages no i'm going to coach
you he's goin to do it reluctantly anesone savantain even ever goin to put me effort ato and and he's an actual do the opposite to prove
you wrong a yolky him to sederet approach you get to is the indirect proaching hers a what you do with this guy when you're going to coach
missus a lesson you don't i need is your so much more experienced in this i need some help running the organization can you come and help
me get things in order and give me a hand straightening things out and also can you fill me in on what we can improve him side of orpament
and when that when you do that now all o sun he's cared tell me what all the problems are and now i can just streak ly and indirectly coach
him on how we're goin to fix those brothers that's dugit and that's one of the lessons you learn from it yea yea and not to mention the the
sort of more obvious things where in autocrat work out you get um you know kind of this on a man actually just be all people they have a
sort of aggressing kind of built into him and it's the spectrum some people more than others umayya you in hingions and what we trying to
count me you can in sageneuein bet a pretty accurate simulation of whether be a fight or any kind of aggressive combat situation and it
still be safe in duable where you can do it again and again you can go you know the next day is the its if you call spar recoin yoape do it
every day and you can go all out if you go all out and do it every day you can get massuyer injudicial do that and so you get that
satisfaction when you when you leave and it's kind of strange because when you get the satisfaction from that you kind o wanted do it some
more moseos people when you talk to people who have been doing it for over her talk he ever anyone you know that has been doing it more
than one year i would say my argument would be eighty five per cent or more will tell you that at some point there were a dicted to it as
they would go to sleep at night and they'd be thinking about a move or something i set into go along with the santa you just be obvious
things because you're right there's a mob to things the the worked out at a great work out you git more in tune with your own body you do
now to hand yourself in the real fight and an it does give you absolutely gives you confidence and confidence as you can handle will
situation confidence said i got out couples with the respected you look at every one and say ay you know what this cat might be able to ah
this got might no more than i do some of the respect him but at the same time you know that i'm going to be able to at least no one in
doing very nantilly so it it helps out across the board in its definitely a a great sport so with the new year approaching what have you
changed your mind about sinfioti intervooin well the biggest a saying that's been a radical change because i i i was talk about how i had
this big open mind and all that but if fateatur is i i very setting my ways and i kind of fallow patterns and i i believe things and end my
beliefs are open for for changing but a lot of times they just don't get changed a ocasion thing that's been radically different about me
in the thousand fifteen in it's been kind of a bazaar ride is the fact that i am now out there in the world and you know people obviously
when i made the decision with lay that we are going to write this book we knew that we were going to be out there and and people are going
to know us now the book has been more successful than you know it's kind of in the max level of success that i thought i could achieve you
know i thought there was a spectrum in and we definitely achieved a great success and we were sophia super happy about that but that means
were even more out there then we thought were going to be then on top of that there has been this whole into net phenomena are of out there
on from glandifera show with them and going on the grogan show with joe and then doing this powhassan being on totterin all these things
being on face book i mean i didn't literally did not have a face book account literally did not have a tinerant never been on em before and
then now i have you know a man it and in it and communicate with people and i think that you people would tell me like a social media care
you can link up alter people and i was definitely i didn't want to link up with the people in any want had my restandi didn't believe want
to meet me other people here but now that i ever it's as honestly it's awesome to have people all over the world i've people all over
worstell because you know i do the thing in the morning with my watching and i work for thirty in the morning takenouchi p post on turnin i
get those because other people do it and and now my twitters filled with people from every time one throughout the day that wake up at fort
o aneurin they to get their work out on and that's that's old man that's here cold to see that there's other people in the world that have
the same kind of mentality that one be better that an improved that one or do their best and i think that's a i think that's been pretty
cool to see and it's also been it's it's been it honestly it almost makes me feel like i'm in a leadership position in it ate hecate i've
got like people that ear saying hey thanks for putting this out there and thanks and it makes you feel just like just like a bean in a lear
combats sition where you feel humbled by these guys that are doing so well or i shall the same way with these people or humbled by the fact
that these people are out there in their communicating with me in talking to me and and saying i inspire them and i always ride back man
you inspire me you know that as far as me that you're out you know kick an ass and and there is these you are was talk about like the
single mast single days that are out there there in upper lier than me amororos you know and that's job number one and they're getting home
late so that's that's in firing to be at a think it's been a pretty cool ride so far any other weird thing is i have no idea what the ride
is going i ai do not know now i'm all about plans and i'm a little bit of a control freak which is to be out there and on this roller coast
of gioia where it's going so that's that's pretty entertaining to yet i to connect with them with people who have the same interest in the
end at all inches obviously but to some of the same interests as you it is kind refreshing because if you go just through your day to day
life right and someone is extreme as you are it's going to be hard to find some one to relate to an specifically is or you in a general way
is concolor some in you so when you get this little tid bits of people doing this he often is you and it's like than i i'm relating to the
peril just in that small little way every day or a however often you actuated its kind o refreshing and i remind you that there are people
like that out there you no annawan up early in and be disciplined and work hard and then face the day and get stuff done or whatever and
and you might not see that in your day to day life outside of the internet like in your in your rollife might not see that fleeing have
this feeling of man in my the only one who's trying to get this stuff done you know almost like that kind of thought right i am and i'm
definitely not tahitian right it is es reassuring and his cool to communicate my people had up got one of firemen and police officers they
run there that are fired at every day bonhomous ly a bunch of former military people in it then you don't cause i have kind of a weird
background i get these crazy old the hard core punk rocks and i you know they communicate with me and it's just it's very interesting i
overturn the pin and interesting ride like em i'm curious to see what all unsuported think that the more extreme you have with people the
more good stuff you can learn that that people have in them regardless of stuffy might not agree with him but if you can find have more
experiences with more people in whatever way you you being orientation this is really deeper or the rejection i had of social media was
based on what i talked about earlier with that tom wolf a book the electrical it acetate me me me and i always felt that social media was
me me here's a picture of me here is me doing this years my food and this is my car in this is mememen he just felt so disturbing and but
now i like your say i realise that this this social mediately as the way that i'm involved in it right now it's no about it's about we
ronesse that ham the similar mind set and some of them are more into it some of them are but their vere and they communicate with me in its
not me it's we and i think that's a ye that's prefet portici is everything it's a spectrum but i think it i think we all feel that even if
her people who are really into the internet really into face o creline er um and instigate if people overdomestic of me it in front of the
mirror if you beteten pictures of of them taken a picture of themselves and from the mere at that's a mean emesato sure but they're just so
that signeture mats all your business that this here all hands a different people and i think the majority people are in that we we
cataracting about me but there is duringthe we without me too no not cooli don't like people that same stuff on twitter get pitcher day of
people's watches i get pictures of their jump rope or their kennel bell i've no one so i don't know what these people look like which i
guess is kind of bizarre and but that's your right they're not about me i neither about we and yet like having a little a little group
little gang not get after it yes and you in it you mean and you wasn't worth thirty one wellington his fourthrater exacuate to pum so your
sleetin you sleep routine you get less than eight hours sleep you have what i know castelloubon how many hours sleep do you get and what
are the technique you used to get to sleep be you're not tired you know detectors to the disaway so i generally sleep i try and see you at
least five five and a half or six hours a night he generally ends up being somewhere between five and five and a half generally i feel not
good if i sleep for you know seven hours i don't feel good as feel groggy i don't know why that is i have that's the way it is though i
feel good and i sometimes i feel better when i slept four point five hours otherwise not is for half or so is so so there is no doubt that
i don't need a tenassee um that being said sometimes i do feel tired as a man you know come the afternoon i is specially if i have to do
something boring or tedious and that's when i'll feel really legitimately tired if i'm up in moving i don't need to sleep i i should don't
need to sleep like i can go long periods of time without seeing if there's something actively engaging my mind it specially something with
guttata ly physical you know cause you sit down reading a book when you're tired as it is tough so ah i do and and polenas or gray and this
is sunthin that i learned the part of it in high school and parting basic feel training when i was in high school my anatomy physiology
teacher i used to go in walk by his room at lunch time and he be in there with his feet up on the desk in like a charallave setting you
know doing little at work and one day i had you know you will undertake there an he said he this is a technique and i said we you mean he
said put your when you when you rest elevator feet above your heart because you are your veins are stressed out you know the one way
volvierame got blood pool up in areas in your feet you want to get that stuff out of there so elevator feet above your heart all like o
that makes sense then in sufering you come back from let's say breakfast in the morning or lunch and you get back to the barracouter b dear
to get ready for ever next i've lucian's going to be well they'd give you time you got the gear but they don't give you time to you know
use a bathroom or whatever and he would literally be they carite had to be back on her and ate minutes well it take in one minute he or you
in so find half together i would go my room i wouldn't lay down on the floor and put my feet up on the bed and i would set my alarm clock
for six minutes and and i would get a poniard you false let the puseyite ly because you're so tired so you just fall asleep six minutes
later boom you wake up and you feel refreshed and you feel a charge even sleep for longer than that sometimes you start to feel draggin see
you got to be careful that you don't see far too long but ye try he loved heat above the heart eight minute power now will you feel untired
and it'll make you feel better you got to set your long clock so you don't do that eight minutes doesn't reside you and and that's it you
know i look i know and probably ah i know i should probably sleep more and i would like to do that i'll crepitant that sometimes um but
also my mind it's not like a big choice that i make it you know when when i'm thinking about something it cannot be stopped it cannot be
santron thinking about something it just goes and i in my mind i feel like i'm going down a various tomes of fall necessity what if you
like i'm going down these very tunnels of thought and one meet soon other and taking a left turn right or no getting all these ideas and i
can't sleep you so you know yet and ouiment me allowed of people are like that where if they have a a lot going on in their life you know
where they can't get these certain thoughts out of the hadgitated you know sometimes you just excited about something and you can't stop
being in tomatin whatever um but if that's a problem if he gets on newyear's jam in you up the next day then i am sure you can in an
tomelitan can kind o hell that's from what i hear about mediterranean i will say this if you if you want to go to better er yes get up
early like he doesn't work in reverse you can't just force yourself goosepenny yet his wake up earlier and be more tired of the end of the
day he and i love the feeling of war i'm so tired that my my head as the pillow and i fall asleep immediately i love that feeling olus
exhaustion that's what i'm going for every day seif i can just turn it at barnet out anesthesia tired at the end of the vetustate croyais
of doctors and steffanone are sorry doctor and now like a think they say that the ethel among of sleep is seven and a half hours for some
like that but i would imagine it'd be different from personalite if you're used to getting six hours sleep doesn't everybody conform like
getting your sleep cycles i think they come form to that six hours said they have donderdunck's spoken yesedees conform i let that from the
internet thinaeum so in gaston you know hevin gold and disorders its life hutteea with love one who seemed to determine or who seemed
determined to hold you back from rigolot's i guess that's kind of somingley have loved ones that are determined and hold you back from
meusel that enough in issue this is one of those questions that came in and i think you voted aeon the selaon was left to answer the few
itinary did you why are you so faded you want to ingentesque tion encuentro had this experience every word that answered this question with
that asked this question i put a line through it choragic from the fedosay eye alkali think people deal with it i i don't i haven't extreme
this personally but i've seen it happen i've seen it in other people to war and i think the part of this is just my philosophy but i think
a big part of this i believe a big part of this is you can apply it it every situation where it's a supposed love dunwater bear family
smile whatever em where they will hold you back sometimes and sometimes he can be because they are like jealous of you or something so and
not necessarily jealous other gonnas um you know they're going to lie to you and say eight that's a bad idea when it's really good one
enough and i that just they'll just be focussing on the bad part of it so that's say tetsey unemployed for a little bit you've been working
hard to to get this job and you finally get a job and then you are a anapaest or whatever says well about time you know he shall instead of
dying in oloron you got this job to herulians they they focus on the negative and that can second be discouraging on a personal level like
like there was no there was no happiness there was no encouragement there was no no one saying ah that no one making me feel like there
were on my team who made me to like em alone in doing this people do i do that and then they do a bunch o the stuff as well telling you the
other part that i said they will tell you it's a bad idea to start this new company you know cause there they may be afraid so consciously
or whatever that you don't be he might outshine them or you might do something good when they haven't done anything good so yes i had ye do
with that um and of course a bunch other ways that they can hedge in the way uh this polly isn't to be anything new but you know how you
surround yourself with light nipple or you throw yourself by certain types of people in your ginesta to become like that so i'm not saying
disown any family members or love to one so that saying that but you have to create boundary specific boundaries to these people and i know
a lot of people say well that's my family and i can't change that or this my family so you know i'm an they feel like there under the
obligation to a sentially give away part of their life but i think it should be the opposite i think that that's a your family so they
should understand that you are on a path the success or you want to be on a pass de success and if there in the way then there in the way
in those monies have to be created if they can't handle that than there it there is some one who who is against you in your path and if
you're honest successful path and someone is against you just that that eventuality is that there gonnected of your life and if if they can
respect boundaries and buoyant keep them in your life and they can be the hem and you can i love them for them no matter how they get of
their you could have all that but if you don't there either going to bring you down or you got a come up cutout your life family or not i
think a family should be held in a higher standard then your friend or your whatever because there there your family there is there the
ones who should be treating you good so you're saying your loved ones or treaty you bad there's the ones that she had the last people that
should be treating you bet there your loved ones so if they are not treating you good then like i said there the one in violation not you
for pursuing your path and you know and not giving them the attention or not going to their house every other saturday or whatever like
you're supposed to whatever it's therefule or not their fault but it's ver reponsibility to support you and if they're not then like any
one else is not supporting you they should either have a boundary between you and them or because i erlive i think that's fairly sounded
vice hail tell you that a couple of things for my perspective first i think that many people are negative in the world and the coiner that
is used very often these days lot people are haters and they don't want you to succeed in an we would see that we don't see that missiles
because selfinsons of really super competitive guys and everybody is competitive with each other and when someone starts doing something
well other people get kingites of em pretty quickly and so that like like i had a onnontare who he decided that a using to try and take
like a year off or get get orders to go to an ivy leech while he was in the sultana he had applied in actually got into but one you know of
one of the best colleges in the world to go there for a year and get in degree and you know that's awesome and he came to me and it said he
you know i've got some eyes that tell me i shouldn't do this is going to be bad for my career and this that the other thing and i said
bruittis these guys are just there haters there just jealous the fact that you thought of this the fact that you and i'm a limb fact you
may this appen fact you put in application if factota the task to get into this school and now you're going to go vere you and have that on
your resume which is awesome you know what don't worry about anybody else there there are just you don't idesthe word jealous but their
jealous effect that you're goin to out make this happeneth i thought was ah i thought that was awesome the other cunacarai advice to what
she just said is when people aren't approving what you're doing and there tangent things to you and are not giving you the praise that you
want for your own what you're doing that's your fault you're the one that's wanting praise you're the one that's looking for approval
you're the one that wants all the support like no i don't expect to anything from anybody cause people are crazy as i briefed earlier in an
oncativo you support the ones people that are that are negative they're gonna be negative no matter what you do see you can't be be hung up
on getting their approval of getting their support you go forth and conquer regardless of what people are trying to do to told you back and
as the whole jackal you back how's agatha i i it'll let them hold you back yet in a naigre without for you don't let him hold you but hold
you back but here it is an example let's let say your pursuing this langoustes degree or something or you or he want to start a teaser
company and it's going to take all this time he got a really get your knowledge down and you really do all your research and so and it
takes a lot of time to say takes a fifteen hours a day every thing will day while you getting the thing up and running but you visit your
mamatee typically and you go down there he held brother yard work discuss you want company i am i know you do all this stuff if you don't
you make you tell guilty you not be can't make it or or on your sackerson she makes you go guilty so you're under this oblin when you grow
up a kind gesira in into you you know like these relationships with your loved ones up and not to mention there your loved ones there
suposed to love you you know in your supposal them cum so i think you do care about the support i think that's a natural part of it if
that's your love dons i'm the minot saying like your friend or your neighbors not recognizing my my successor whatever that's your love
one's typically that's if anyone's going to praise you you're going to hope that there the first one you have a chicane hunoor it
especially if there are crazy right and that's cut that's my point i was reported at all except it so you say yet you that's how they can
hold you back if it's in grand in you that you have to be there for you ma machee trained you from a little kid to be to say you owe me i
gave you lantine again that your fault of your letting them oliba from this your fault readynes of it mouvans so yes exactly that's what i
mean by you create those barriers yet ye have to suck it up or or canaanite and i oryou would say about em about other people or other
situations when you're in job or or at leishest where you can make them understand if you could make them understand what you're doing ye
that's ideal where you can maintain annatoo the relation gear correct now you just sit down on his you're going back to his principles at a
let people understand why and you have to make them understand white can be beneficial for them in the long run and you so dealing with
guys who were working the horror ah you training guys for combat or we were training for combat and you think oh well you know you got a
lot these guys get home to their families you know they're going to be home to night with what a out early and i say look the best thing we
can do for these guys to help them and their families is to train his horse possible so a long run with they come home from combat that's
what a wearier to do yes and everybody understands that message so to same thing you're right you will you explain to your family members
this is why am doing what i'm doing this is how it's going to benefit me which will thereby benefit you which full tetterby bed of benefit
whole family yes that is correct i explained the wi well next question umbwa is the water the bullet points and kesouse for motivating an
engaging a team of leaders well first of all we just kind of coperate we talk to with a about about face for a solid hour which is which is
one of the questions here i actually answered this question last imiteetions that you hear all the time is you what had you to motivate
these guys how can we get them engaged and first of all i want to say that leadership altho there are basic principles fundamental
principles that can be used it is not something that can be bulletined it is it is like thing to boise how you play guitar or china blaize
how you play the violin it is a it is an art it is a practice and there are many many different ways to to manipulate that instrument to
make it make the noise that you wanted to make a nat what leadership is leadership is not followed these so for steps and you will become a
good leader doesn't work that way it is an art now again just like there's principles behind music there's principles behind beatership and
that fundamental principle state the same but how you engage with those and the new ones involved in executing those those principles is
what makes leadership so challenging which again is why we have a book which is why we have a business which is withers leadership schools
around the world because it is a very challenging thing to do so you know the poets are i don't was after saying that you know what it were
the bullets will you got to potations if you got to listen to people you got to give respect you got the main thing we talked about the
night with about face you got to answer that a people got a understand why you're doing what you're doing and understand what their
perspective is so you got a communicate with him it's all those things but i think it's important to realize that leadership is a learning
consolantes is a new one too there aren't any bulletined less that are going to make you into a great leader of morrow what there are are
principles that you can learn and understand and interpret apply in different ways with different amplitude different times with different
personalities it may him it's may him that's what makes you so challenging in so fond and i i desolates me love to talk about the ship
because there is it's an infinitely complex thing on in so many different ways but all that being said it is something that does follow or
principles and so learn those cor prance we know those corporals and that's what will make you good leader but don't look for a quick
solution look for a comprehensive a comprehensive a mass of knowledge and technique and understanding that will make you a battle in your
opinion what are the best tactics in order to remain false rouge the this is individual for me because i know different people have
different tactics if you are if you are using whatever taken ages you have and their not working well than they're not working sir chamiso
my nora when i have to do something focused no music no video no t v plain in the background on the that no fallen turn that off and and
get focus on the task at hand so what are you going to do to folks on the task in hand you have to predetermine missis there's a thing we
used to use this silting silkiest scot task condition standard here's the task here is the condition patterole in the task and here's the
standards that you have to complete the task too so i like to think of when i have to focus on something i set up my own task conditions
and standards for it and in a good example for me was a riding or book wouldn't we were writing streach lay frottole of it i warabouts half
of it we actually rode a little bit more of half each because we we both wrote chapters that are men there and but it was lotteringo do and
how do you do that how did i do it i'll tell you i said the task conditions and standards for what i needed to do for me it was what hatted
the task was to write the condition was i i was trying to write the draught so i knew it didn't have to be perfect and i got perfect out of
my head because perfect can be bad and the standard was i said on every damerite a thousand words regardless aretaeus words and i tried to
do it in an hour or less so that's what i did i made you no music no foe no videos playing in a background i am an hour on a acito on a
gives none so to me that's a form of motivation when you say okay this is why i'm going to do is how many do it this how long is going to
take me i got etitorial going to try get it dumb fashion our rate and i used to tie myself to a a i don't to me you don't forty nine
minutes that's pretty good penny her cross it exert like your going into him a little wine with a challenge and then you go about it in a
in a disappointed way and that's fit by the core of a lot of answers i give yet i think i'm going to die sigriore personal even from a
personal standpoint i mean with the no music thing i think the music and my case help i think for a lot of people music helps it might a
when stackpipe about writing the music does not help me especially music with like words old lie if there is it lericourt like some sane or
something like that i care detach you are clear to listen piano as you create evil insurer striving to the work too for shelley many
inmates the more to do now squire on good an any advice on balancing the thousands of things ye after do every day yet again chapter in the
book is comparing priorities and execute that is the name of the chapter that is a one of the basic principles one of the laws of combat
that we used in that is that you have all these problems happening on the battle field there allemand at the same time because murphy's law
and when they do if you try and handle them all at once and you try and do him a all a once you will fail so what you have to do as you
have to prioritize them and execute so in business that looks the same way you yolara though these you know initiates that you're trying to
start the thing you've got to handle and that's that's good and that looks very simonetti's level it's the same principle but i'll tell you
what i consider to be for lack of a better word am i will i will use this word i'll alltalk aesthetic for this a innis's no genius thing
here if you really want to get things done make a less of what you need to do the next day make it in a priority ah what you actually need
to do it scedule of the time that you're going to execute those tacks a piece that i want a people miss so i guess it is a little bit
bigger of a hack then then i gave it credit for you have to say okay i've got to do these six things to morrow you've got to put on your
schedule when you are going to do those things and that really drives execution because it put a time limit on it and it makes you get on
there and get it started and get it done can move on to the next task so cast lists and calendars should actually be connected you know
intimately and then once you have that in place you get up and you go and you get it done wake up early and make out prior ties and execute
not what we do new year's resolutions twenty sixteen is coming up in a few days so what's your one thing for twenty sixteen that you need
to do such that by doing it everything else will be easier and or unnecessary and that's that's one of the new year's resolution questions
that we pulled out casaubon ch of him because every one's thinking you know what what is what are we all going to do for the big new year's
resolution and i mean you seem pretty fired up by the new year's resolutions of it so what are your fate to the awaited my percival new
year's resolution and or fault daran the ah i you know i'm beotian come up with any specific ones right now maybe i will maybe i won't um
but i think yes think all evaluate where i want to be where i am and the sea if i can connect those dots whatever that looks like you in a
donnythorne's that sounds real or any one not just heard that no world um please ignored driefontein a fifth a okay both actually hers a
funny thing was i think that resolutions are for the most part little field good statements that be belied to justify a delay in execution
that that's what i think so i say don't make a new year's resolution for to morrow don't execute then execute now execute ow i when i say
echo i mean now and now and now and now and continually execute what it is you're trying to do and in the other thing about in arrestin is
it's a year that's a big long chunk of time and that type of gold to anybody i don't care who you are a year's too long it's too big of a
chalk so saying that you're going to make that type of a long term for to you go it's like shooting when you shoot if you ever shot weapons
before em if you look at the target the long target that's to for hundred beaters away at least if you look at a target as you look at it
your vision can't hold that folks in a comes bury a softer shift back to the front side weapon which is only two and a half dead away and
in that becomes very clear and he and the long distance targeted the background says a little bit but that's okay cause you can see that
thing right in front of you and that's what you want to make happen so what you want to do as you want to set those short terms a gods that
are closer than a year a way that's going to be blurry into a loose impact and you're going to not see it any more so make up that long
turns titathat fine but make sure you may some short term tactical goals that are closer now now that being said the closeness out said the
last cortion i would say don't make a meyer's resolution to be a better person to thousand sixty i would say make a resolution to be a
better person now make it a resolution of discipline to get better smarter faster stronger healthier more productive less agitated to e
cleaner live more to go and do you all those things but don't do oneven do on yours day do now that that resolution of discipline to work
and follow through and maintain you will that all result in the freedom that you're looking for yes you are once again discipline he was
reduisaient that that's all i got tanomi ter echo thank you even at out that lessening reappreciation we will see next time keep getting
better
