this is jack a pot cast number thirty with a goyers and me joceline and well we have this evening is a straight quatela pocasset we did on
the outstanding book called teton leader a memoir of combat of command in combat it just took me a long time to get through it just a good
book i and i just kept every aswarak every time every page i read is a godly people got here that belgo to hear that begotten you know your
two and a half hours deep you and since so much of as pertained to leadership there was commentary with each section and it was like a wet
you know this what's going on here and i recognized that and i wish i would have known that and old becordel me here you know so i went a
little long and that made us decide to just go ahead and turn that into one podcast and now here we are come and back at you with a
agastiar which is straight coinage there wasn't really one part of that book to view that i think i eellett now in the industry would call
that getting after they gave thee so let's saw let's take a lesson ceaere some questions that we've been asked you in a kick this one off
yes sir i i charles yes sir westion first question duco as an aid de camp what were your duties what did you learn in a wide as that
position still exist in the twenty first century montery well the attica okay so first an aiddecamp is a something in the military dade's
old olsen to crete to put it in a very simple way that people could understand it from its insistent it's like an executive assistant where
for me i was i was the admiral that in charge of all the seals i was his assistant the lastidianus now the question is wide as that
position so exist or what it won't you know what did you go while to turn no doubt about that why does it sition so exist i think it's
absolutely necessary to go it up it's not fun it's not a fun job and i work for a great guy ah but it's but if you're working for the man
that's out a great eyes miserable in the even working for a great guide not exactly the dream goat wasn't for me there is what you do but
the boss which what we call this where we called the avowed called him to boss right am so what we did was what i did was the bosses always
travelling going different places going to the pentagon going to visit at stations going overseas going just constantly going on travel in
visiting people visiting troops and so i was the guy that set up that travel that's that's what i did i set up a travel and then you don't
communicating with wherever on a visit by cadmus coming in you don't want you want to seduisant ing when you do be had up on so we'd take
care of all that and set it up and make sure that the travels smooth cause estrelle busy i like see you know he's like the sea over big
giant powerful world wide company that's what he is answered you charamika the most of his time make sure not wasting his time during a
travel and so that's what i did so that's that's part of it in the other piece that's cool is your your kind of like a a a trusted adviser
or you try and build the trust so that he trust you and they do usually in arcadia often try to find either to come back from befallin and
you them as the the aid and so i had when i became the aid who was actually my commanding officer he of closest loafer in and who's a great
guy that always took care of me and he told me he said at my my final mission as the commanding officer of citisen is to make sure that you
become the age to the atman and yet i wasn't happy about i could again you're it's isn't it eight and administrative job it yester wear you
to form every day wanless the thousand five and um but it wad it it was it was a good call that the that my commanding officer may be going
to it because i did learn a ton you know you you i've been in in the micro world of being as seaton for my whole life right so that's all i
did and so yet in nothing else and in longer stand anything else so y go said near your dealing with not only do you see the big pictures
you things that i saw that a picture of the enemy in a special operations command and big navy like the regular navy we interacted with it
a lot so i got to learn of town i learned to totabu what i learned it sort of like seeing behind the curtain he yet to see behind the
curtain i the wizard and the what's going on in the chambers and basically you know like how they make the sausage of your vertatur you
know they say when they make sausage like you eat this assegai i want to see how it is so that i got to see how they made the case i got to
see the end the curtain is and i learned the town of that on or got a sitting like there was meeting that i would sit in superieur powerful
people in the meetings and our despising their listening and seeing how these judgments were being made in the cessing the leadership and
seeing what type of leaders we had at the highest levels of the pentagon and as those pretty it was pretty interesting and i definitely
learned a lot uh i it was not fun because i i said there was a tonatricli you're wearin uniform all the time which seals are pretty um well
known for not wanting to wear uniform relumes and and there i probably wore a uniform a very small number of times in topping of a whole
naval career undress uniform my probably you on one fifteen times the i i i don't know the number on it a tiny number and all was
unmattering torthorwald you tofore every single day and there were sometimes we go on a trip and i have to wear her there's multiple
different dress uniforms in the navy and in most of the services we go on some broad after bring two or three different dress uniforms so
by your forte always ready that was that was one thing that not too many people could claim that you get really good at your uniforms um
but there's there's also some things that are pretty restrictive like for instance you're actually not allowed to do personal favours for
the boss like i i wasn't allowed the is this idea that miles are very cautious at the military senior people might abuse people in the
military auntie i was an all loud for instance i was not allowed to go pick up his andry like if you got diffigiunt rm pressed and clean i
was an allowed to go and run the torn pick it up and we want up some you will was bound to do it we weren't allowed to fly first class
eveywhere was only one time we we free first class that was but we be up grades after a while because we were traveling so much but um so
both you got it could it or just the just the the decamp gone the one or we wouldn't find for scraps at yeh it's it's the military sort of
you know we don't want the good aprepaw snipes ye eis actually really this guy's the quaint of a sea over big company they didn't they
wouldn't get the guy first class rag is tough lie from san diego to washington d c to go to the pentagon and brief some senor governmental
leadership yet fully dotage flying they know what think ye i know it's good for us for but a big shout of i think he heard it appoint ri
right thirty something years in the navy yet for that orbano know hanging to what discussion be well rested when he shows up the brief
congress yeah polite know so uh that was that and then the reason i think it's necessary again as because you got you take a guy he'll be
the admiral there they're not going to usually you are often may not have been the recent combat situations as to his aid that's coming in
he's coming off the battle field so he can say or on here has er this what this is like haste this is sober that we need not on the fort
lines he er this is what the front line troopers think about this program that were doing or this a rule that being imposed upon us we need
to change this a wee to get it fixed so i had a great relationship with whitwith boss when i was running that job and we and it was very
beneficial for me all my ex support the reindeer made and i knew the abelians you know he's a guy that in charge of all tools and there i
was in remote and you know there were times were we talked directly you know ah he call me up and say they was going on or he'll after my
guy's got killed he he came up directly and in out better men a lot to me and i think i analogiam too because he had a connection with the
guise that were out there because he knew me and and new you know new me well so i think it was i think i was very important and i think
it's a it's a good job i am not going to say you're going to like it if there's true prescott that are all potat job you're knocking a like
it if you're if you're a hard acord getting after a kind of guy you're not going to like the job the people that actually in the scary
thing is that people that volunteer and anna have that job are usually guys the animals don't walk because that the guy that's like focused
on advancing his career and he finds contamined and i'll know the admiral man and so you're not going to those the guys the amalat least
the aboyer he wanted he gudesake wanted us over say oh i they i want a guy that's going to come kicking and screaming to the gay because he
doesn't want to wear uniform he was being a feel i want to be the shield yeah so that's that's kind of a thedessa true prout there that's
it gittit pushing that position you know you might have to do it and in will you do it you do the best that you can when when the guide
that took over for a he said cause i was you know i was i've always been elite work or at work without it was even earlier because this is
you know i i felt this this responsibility that you know i got to take care of this guy he taking her of all the seas i had to take care
him right this guy the more the easier i may cause jeb to make easier make his life the won't you focus on taking care of all the guys that
are no feelin all the seals and so when i i was deshonore arlier than i would normally show all poursuite and quadruple everything that was
going on and and when the guy came it to relieve me and take my place and he said he said you know a w how does the how does i boss we act
if you drop the ball on something and i said i don't know i don't know i i i didn't drop the ball of that that was you know a lot o luck
involved and i had some some other guys that were with me that really helped me out uh you won't unparticular a civilian guid that is the
steady work the has always work there and worked there for a long time and he was always covered my tracks and help me not drop the ball
but he i never dropped abonnenten wer though to that question i cause you know if you were like all he well he doesn't take it so hard
almost like no might plant something in his mind where it may not be as important everything tarsome thing like a dantor every time you
can't drop the ball yea gedike the going is it ever vowed by like people whatever that that job like cunnamulla ing or something because
you are like like like an assistant more so than that you know out or no it may be may be somebody of views it that way yes you know i will
ameliar either coast with a job to take care of the antecessor and keep his day moving so he can take care of the troops on i think that's
beneficial wide right i i i didn't i do feel that it another thing is you're not like i said you are not allowed to do certain things well
you're not allowed to do personal things for him and even an end and a guy that i work for as very laid back and ah i mean and put oretes
laid back was because i never got the buffoon wouldn't want to drop a ball cause i'm sure you would be angry eh um but oh wasn't it wasn't
a bad job yet for elating if you understand the value of the job really understand the value of a job an you be probably will never really
feel he matulator anything enough but i think you know sometimes some of us can go into jobs and be like you know i'm i'm a leader i'm not
a helper you know kind o kind attitude he well is interesting to you when you're working for the admiral then you you when you speak you
kind of kind of a kind of speak for the admiral soon other words when i go in to talk to some senior captains and i said he can i get a
copy of excise they knew wasn't need that wanted it then he is a boss at onerabel are snapping through so is pretty it was interesting from
a perspective enough i was a young lieutenant at the time i'd go in and say a can we get this ah we need this report and the gods be like
jumping to like for amends will be jumped to get they knew that it wasn't for me and they respected the boss an they won't help mouth so it
was easy you you get a little bit of added weight his people know especially because people can a new we had a good relationship as a new
hat if i was asking for something or i needed something or i was suggesting something they knew where it was coming from the gate was
coming from the big boss man this kind of like like the executive assisted till like opera or something well well no favor were not going
to talk about the person that you jetabout on this pocket is not absolute i got to her error you sannaes go round and you're like hay and
he i would say it would be the equivalent of being the executive assistant to a very powerful so that has a lot of that has a lot of stress
and decisions to make and has a large global corporation yet in their condition actually in that kind of reminds me of the the the whole
fine first class thing and i thought about this where as there is a big part of me that thought only latagus till just lie first class just
cause that's like a sadistic and like all amnesia to do you no live in this luxury but flying first class eliminates a lot a stress in a
lota a like decision making in headaches you know were contending with certain things to a soul when you arrive you are way last on your
mind so and that that that the lot you had you ever to do something or convey some important message but ye've a lot on your mind as a
mother stuff it's a immitater ye have an i just prioritize execute nor i ebery it it has its function as when i'm sane at us it does any
was eminent the time that the literal one time we were off arrived and executed a first class travel was when we flew to hear up and when
we arrived at six o'clock in the morning the boss or seven o'clock in the morning a boss was talking to the troops a half an hour later and
another whole day was scheduled out talking a little blood seen your leadership so he needed to be rested with his showed up there now
meateater hand if i remember correctly i was in the chiefswood n't really that man yes causing a young lieutenant can you suck it up to his
pretty poetic or in your talk about first class do we you want let you talk about bob offen you know what i mean we war on trewar fare he
he unto used to worry about fine first class yet and we had allowed it to visions to meet ye say so what's just suck it up by a question
too you have suggestion for martial art for a wheel chair user and considering stippin merchant or crow maga i want exercise and self
defence well again this is as usual my first suggestion for true self defence to protect yourself from the world and the evils of the world
conculcare you know get a weapon learn how to shoot a weapon spend time at the range train train with is a more shooting weapons of our
lord carrying a weapon of martial art knowing how to use that weapon in various situations it is a marshal or so shooting as a marshal art
and so that's the most effective martial art to know and to have the possession of is concealed carry carry weapons so that again i'm not
saying that just because this individuals in wheeler because having obviously being in the wheel chair does put you at a disadvantage but
it does matter we'll chair or not there's always going to be somebody that's bigger battered and you and if there's not somebody that's
bigger matter than you then there's three or four people combined together that make up person that's better that you had called the gang
and i will tell you right now any three people in the worn can beat any one in the world in the fight by three on one you're going to lose
oh oh now can you get a guy that put nokomis somebody out terror i mean it does happen but if the people that are attacking no anything you
have a really bad chance really bad chance of winning it's very tough to win a fight three on one so trying to fire arms get a gun and you
know also when you mention the philipinas arts and and i i sometimes fail to mention this ah to carry a knife but yet you should absolutely
avenio should know how to use it so that is your philippina martial arts generally learning to use a knife and carry a knife and then what
i had one am i goin to do after that on a do the same thing i was talk about juiciness in mattie kind of in that order now do you get to
boxing resting more tie we start would you get here we move on a boxing we learig and boooooo tie sometimes more tin resting you can slip
back and forth which one you want to focus on but but the the deal is with all three of those you have to adapt them to the situation that
you're whatever that situation you is now if you're a wheelchair outknow there's goin to look like for you i don't know what that looks
like you got a loan it you've got to understand it you've got it in you got to make things work you got to figure out you've got a test to
you as you with effective and you've got to see what isn't defective and you have to adapt you veto adopt and i've trained with all kinds
of different people that have their own obstacles to overcome um i trained with guys that out ampts misnamed two legs missing arms i've
trained with people that are blind all trained with people that are paralyzed i'll trained with people with traumatic brain in here and
they all worked and try and figure away and they do figure his two dapamey got guts like a kilmainham as if that idea's got no one as an no
lexman he trains judith and he wrestled and he wrestled in high school like he competed in the east competed in jogie's actually competed
in the mass well which is which is crazy ah but you know what he adopts to the situation that he's in em an there's a anthony robles he's a
inside and see double a hunter twenty five pound champion champion and by the way he has one leg let me in one leg as other leggen like
from the hip down one leg and he won the incidence that's incredible um an he just a dapitan jack machado he's got one hand jeffrey outery
all his turns with us he's got one hand his other hands gone he was born with no end o guess what now all all you get you players out there
that you think about when you're doing you just to wit the gaetan think how much you grab when you take a heffent even know that he is a
havanese even know he just does his other stuff he's adapted it as a fact he uses that stamp took chokin attack you you in there yet he he
speeching in there um well at mac maximilian i jaxthausen deeshes paralyzed but and that's recent too so i anoint paradise what for you if
i've four years ago five years ago something like that ye he was like maybe a white bell maying bell got he's a blue belt a things
perforating it uppermost i mean he's got basically i think it's about stergeon oskamp lately paralyzed starodoub yeh and he so he's figured
out he actually has to move his legs you know like he wears when your own with an he's got a grab his legs and move them into different
positions you which is a which is crazy but he still trained in he's advancing in his and he's learning to adapt he looked he knows out a
choke holes figured things out so whether you're sure their tall beggar small older yesing er week wheel chair no wheel chair leg no leg
learn it ferat all and sir wiedeland some mocking some mo i and wrestling in when she got that base built up start looking a crop gostrong
at college so you can learn you don't if you want to learn weapons and obviously from beginning um the the fire an trumps everything yeh
yet fishen you training with em like any kind of disadvantage or whatever i think is it's important to understand what your potential goal
will be in a self defence situation in so if you're you know like if you don't have a like like max for example like you can learn a lot of
stuff that is just defensive and if you know jugendheit will chi ambut if you learned you get to you'll learn how to be defensive how you
can shut down another guys attacks and is it so like i said like if you are adventite your disadvantage is pretty big dis understand what
your goal will be in a potential self defense situation you know so you're not going to be like okay i'm gonna learn these marshal art so i
can kick as much as as i possibly can that that's the point the point of this is that you have to adapt you aft to adopt you have to say
okay this is on a little do in this is i can't do that move on i can do this more for it and by the way you can't do this but i can do that
i and you'll like to like we're desolately ojeffskoy train with a most regularly out of the out of these folks and he has adopted and does
things that you that tis it totally unique to him and he makes it an advance he takes a disadvantage turns it into a vantage you ye there's
a man may go who who was the camp and one of these shows a for a forget might have been bellatores m but he used a head one hand to new
champ though they had been one had aronetta is i forget his name too but it was while it's like maybe a year ago or some or more a wild go
a year and william for twenty plus year i know but in america you know the current camp is always seem so new yet that's a that's awesome
that's that it is definitely a outstanding to see people overcome that and in what you can do you got to have that that that the creative
mind to get in there and adapt to the situation yet at an aceline with what kind of wet up i think you fretum polly say you know to allure
exercises better than no exercise you know so sometimes like if you if you fight yourself in a wheel chair or something like this work will
be likely abatino for me but this obviously is for him you know so get out there in like a you say like learn something you learn it all
whatever that's bettent know nothing no way better to yenesei lly that the sicago did after it that it next question jack mister jack
whenever i get mentally overwhelmed i shut down completely how do i count it a well the first thing and the first good step that you've
already made as you identified this is an issue you recognize the fact that you shut down but the step number one in sowing your problem as
identifying your problem so excellent work there the next epistle pretty easy as well you identified the fact that you shut down the next
step that you're going to do is not shut down not mentally shut down that's what you want to do if you start the shut down and you feel
yourself freezing up say i'm not going to shut down right now i'm going to with that tassis now the reason that you getting over realmed
most likely is because there's a lot of different things for i get you at the same time in their all lapping at once and it's problematic
for you we are very simple solution that is pryoristic so what is the biggest problem that you've got going on let identify what that
biggest problem is then less attack that problem and get itself done we got that one so weak and move on to the next one to go ter take
care that when we can have one actually you right on down the line that that's where we do that's very simple you know that you're going to
get overwhelmed first of all tell yourself we nocking overwhelmed then you actually don't get overwhelmed and how do you not get a warm
your prior tis excite if he start feeling yourself getting overwhelmed do what i did to the eton commander that i had that was getting all
three out during during um hum fe i address timidi acres we your patrolling through the desert and we have little electrical target papa
and then you outmaster shooting at the target and this guy was locking up and not making a decision he the leader in this is the one where
i took a magic marker i wrote on his sharply right in front of his face on the home when do i said next time the shooting starts erronan
you number one relax number two look around numbered three make all realise so stephane where you're getting overwhelmed racklay breath
take a step back just take a step back the red flag start going off in your head and you realizing that you're getting overwhelmed an
you're goin to get shot down now just take a step back relax and then fortini cut pretty simple good call a good simple a question that's
the lot what technique do youse to not lose your temper with your wife oh when you know she is wrong and refuses to bush well this is kind
of a tiquet n is actually move because my wife is never wrong so so number on losing your temper losing your temper is weak said zac wiped
his actually weak to your temper it actually is a loss of control when you locate per plan losing control is also weak so we don't we don't
want to lose our temper that that's one of her a goal so again just like particle what ye do ye start feeling self uniting your temper stop
take a step back to catch from it breathe and then you gotta think about the long term victory and we talk about this before we talked
about this before proving that you are right to your wife is not necessarily the best gold at what you want do you want you want to win the
war not that one battle at one battle doesn't even matter i mean what is this stupid argument about anyways it's not about something that
matters it isn't i can almost guarantee is not about something to matters it's about some random thing that dozen matter in the big picture
at all so wire you getting upset about it why are you losing a towing a upanga you can't do that so when you feel like it well your coming
up against thee this is some so you know you're going against a heavily defended position don't not attack the heavily defended position if
your wife is not as letting that you wrong as she's roguing to budge where if you what are you doing with your attacking your actually
attacking a heavily defended position son so told you not to do that twenty five hundred years ago in an old tutor this day so what you
going to do when there when they are not budging you're in flytime you're going to flank him on no lemon to the outside and come in from
another angle that they weren't expecting you know maybe that elder angle looks like flowers so maybe the other angle looks like dinner may
be it looks like maybe just looks like changing the subject to something that they can be more flexible mentally on m because if you if you
go against that hardened position i can almost guarantee you it's not gonna they're not the bud on it and in all your wit what dear gonna
do to try and get them to budge you're goin to ask a late yourself oh you're not budging the head harder oh you soubungo even harder you're
still up using it harder there that whole time every time you're going harder there than on the fences in deeper deeper deeper you and they
remembering how how mean you are or whatever the seherinn a lost temper situation oh yeah now you're now you're taking sir is detriment to
your long turn war yes because you now you've given them amenaide dition for future use fate's a bad move ah so again what isn't what he
who's right who's wrong is just not important so ard to get through people's head whose right and who's wrong on some little tactical
babble battle of to day that really has no bearing on anything in the world this is not something to be concerned about you know so it
might be your own eagle that wants to be right at we thought about that factor have we thought about that you as a man as a husband you
want to be right to so guessing the person that isn't bunch deteste person that does this in budging is it you it's you now you might be
cold on co right but doesn't matter you're the person that won't budge now neither one of you will bunch neither on are you a budge we are
not in a good situation where do sentineling war of destruction and we don't want that cause we want to win the long term strict eichard
that's a hatton at just the long tune siegi wore the little stuff in between we just not concerned about yeah yet tellin in the whole not
budging thing to like the that her aniething about this early on in my relationship where i would get we'd get in like you know little
arguments or whatever um varying levels and sometimes she would like it keep can you even come up with an example of a somehoo cause eyes i
was trying to think as i'll sit here as i answer as questions train to think of a good excanteen think of a good example yes is there all
so stupid yes o ye good example no yes that's hard not really umut so she would be like i just don't want to talk about it any more but
meanwhile i still saltlake he we didn't resolve this you know there are certain code words set us vegetate girls fat women that guides have
to but the ticular notice it would some of my friends wives and i one of my wife's she'll say doesn't it doesn't matter it would have been
but were like a conegliano it it's a red flag sorelli just bear'll be a giant red flag is as she's bet she's angry she doesn't jogging i
say is going to matter he or she's not going to change your mind and she just gonna go forward melikof doesn't matter how much oh woe we'll
morning ah they gave his angry lately besso when i hear say does matter i just realize to keimenos had to do in a have we defended position
you know angasto attacking it m m in a flying at what is albuminous don't come in and from the side hath set willmade yeh yeh man i wish it
would have known that long time ago poi think that when this what we where did you desire your wife said to you cause you just set a
coworker mayapan want to talk about it i don't want to at other southern isle and a talk about the sathanas a red flying in my mind he is
like a littal about it i i try i would try to do it in a conducive way like the you know like a problem solving kind o way it sheeted feel
the same way about the whole signation you know she handles it different and you don't openly i still feel like if two people are willing
to talk it out kind of without too much emotion i think that's that's a uneffective way to do it but none the less what this would cause is
in this going back to a people not budging so what thou cause is all this time that would go on that were not on good terms you know
because i want talk about she doesn't want to talk about it she just wants to it an not go a bit you know and as i am with a philosophy of
don't we have been in the argument or whatever you know but meanwhile were at outs even to a little bit even if we don't talk about it she
forgets about it i'm still at outs i'm not budging with my flies at the end of the day when you look back at all the minutes all the hours
on the days that you spent with each other and now you have that that that some of of moments that you're an odd you look at a relation to
be like man this relationship isn't that good because he spent that much time at us with each other the air just because you did it on
opiates so you got a bona he got but one of my buddies i was hanging round me in his wife and do her her little buzz or rows i could i
picked up on a frequently she would say that's fine sir and i was like and at first see the first couple of times is like all its fine with
her and then i realized it in nominating and been then i think that's kind of come a common knowledge to one though we were but like i
relied like intimater that's fine mine whatever well or whatever is offensive though oh yeah and what they do with you say whatever the
that that means that's fighting words fell as if you'll notice that's fine and it doesn't matter it they all they are all like sort of
parasite yea a way of saying like a lesson ye i don't want to talk about it and with a borderline yea or its vices like one that shootists
good as when you when you detach from the situation she started to pick up on these things that your significator and also there is when
you relationship or in ten building avaritiam environment or your nivoses insert to realize that guides or people you work with live the
same thankworthy you know what is your call o k i i know it's my call but i'm not trying to impose this plan on you let's let's figure out
not your call go ahead yet so that means you clearly don't agree with it of course you can't say this don't go teared dug in on the fact
that you're a red you know that you're wrong if so those who lie red flags he unelaborate warneton ye till an lothian a fiend in that
that's a complex thing because you don't want summonses fine you know the hand what's wrong what's wrong nothing right oh ever you know for
you have reason to believe that it's not fine especially the fine or that's fine you have good reasonably that it's not fine or i so i mean
your mind it's logical to think hey you shouldn't say you find when you're not fine you actively chose to say your finally you not find
tactually so it's easy to come to that logical conclure but verther's your problem right why lantanas it's not as simple on that black and
what so and i'm saying this because i kind of of it really recently i thought that he look i'm not really wrong with this thing i afeer
specific question if you're saying your fine it's it's like it doesn't even matter what you say i have to read that i your mind or your
your body language and like everything you know and it regard your words and only one circumstances not one you to one i say he do you need
an on milk from the store you say no i know you mean yet you know it doesn't work like that it's only under the circumstance so it's like
and thinking him in that's kind of that's not very good that's that's a bad thing in habit to get in so if you're not fight you should say
in oats my logic is at i'm saying but he was a thing when you're in a relationship with some one and a cart i understand sorts it to
beginning where you are trying to figure all this stuff out that's what the beginning of us you for but after a while you start to know
okay i know that tone i know when you say finding would not find what what if ingia up is when people don't realise that what that that
that nanina cold war that mean something else a right and will you signifying is you were coming up against the heavily defended area i not
changing my mind but i'm not going to sit here an argue about it so you know what does it matter as well my wife would say to doesn't
matter a man i went matters when pointer would say i don't want to argue i don't want to argue about this it's it's fine less not talk
about it that enrage me for further not like i'm not a lose temper and up whatever but um he refreshes you and make me will oblige no we
have to go to its like you know you have like fulton like a like a splinter like you have a splinter in her in you the hand of some man not
talking about it is like i just leave it let the skin grow over it and your you'll be fine and the thing is you rothwell be puny stood at
that splinter in there me i'd like ocaywita about this open it up and get the splinter out but she's like knowling then i call him always
read him an recommended i ain't a and not have even times that again you're going up against a hard defence of aria that's why i talking
about you that's the question is the question is how do you know is your denboroites when you know she's wrong and you used to punch nonie
don't do it you know you maintain too you realize that you are enough you're in a strike situation where you're just go not win strick
heilly a another younger you goin to out the nipe late i'm sorry you can manipulate the situation that it you're going to do and you can
make her think you know what man i was kind of a cheer last night to my wonderful husband e that's what we want to another to do it in this
genuine way you know like or she atlantaen in an open and and bore no other tack you when you're in that state you don't alabammy wife a
more rotelli you maybe if you switch all of a sudden and she's again as the trick but if you're like if you put it on as orsenius this
arming them right yes exactly you disarm in putting an it's hard to do when you lose your ten pie i answered a question the other day i was
out on a vent and i answer a question i was like listen do not take marriage to my from me because the question will it's a long story but
a question was about you know ow do you do your job when you have all this pressure and how you tip maintain your family and i kind o went
through the story of white hay you know my family came second as where we hard for people understand and i went through the whole thing and
he were they've got to be in that alice don't take marriage advice for a bit and everyone can alaugh but a but in a situation like this
actually take marriage vice from it yet don't attack defended positions as said that forty seven times right now dear and it's not to say
that you've never attacked defended to a don't know if you ever have it with your wife but i'm desaat some like good objective advice
yearly i don't i probably haven't done that in so long it's like the tickle we got to ask some o poast one of the theatre got out this on
the poast when is the last time that you were doing on a on a physician and how did you admit the orang and i was like a man hadn't been
down in on a position in years i don't even remember yer so it's the same thing here when away attack my wife in a defended position
something that she's topography and passionate about in or near that thing you yet the losing your temper thing to then i had learnt i say
i mention this before were i'd learned about to getting mad in general from the book called mine games his teeny tiny little book one
chapter was not even one page hannah your first review on the poncas you can be the room you are ready some of them were like puzzles you
know to see how your mind work anyway so but it the wet it did was indicated then was their poinciana no rather prices right anyway what it
indicated was that losing your temper or having anger issues anger management issues is with is it will it was a result of low self esteem
so dramatic right and that's all i always felt when we alanik elementary school in to meet his cool and you they talk bout selfesteem or
whatever and soliel esteem his pikemen that's so baring that low self esteem is like a almost like a pride thing you know where i would
even if i really felt like doing something or whatever it is it indicated overtly that i had a low self esteem if i did i wouldn't do it it
was like really maiding that paranoia was caused by loseille it you know it the switcher ruther so now i took that like time to where it
said look everyone gets angry it's a natural part life but if you have anger banishment issues it is most likely from his low of the steam
so i took that is if i ever get angry that's leofstan so man now'd be on the mine every single time he were any time i felt myself getting
matter lose of his seems what that in those train men deverells my temper i intimated langbein i oinseach by but anyways i think that's
kind of the thing to check though you know where ye weilenweir man what's what's up with you for her in your temper lose your temper said
yeah for sure he you know that splinter in allegiant broke in telling kassotis one time and it was a mean as jake he had a splinter where
young he had a splinter in his hand where i hung on like reflective oh i know this as were living in the specific house that are remember
anyway to tell spontaneities de so all my man like an we got to git it out we got a you know usella tweezers or something like no no no
anne put up this followeth ye call it like a pardon defence not getting a splinter out cause he's crying he scared you know the stuff for
my mom did as you know let's don't take out the splinter what he did with it as wait for him to go to sleep she knew he just take out the
splinter and get marmion hurt for it like a second but it's out o care wait waited for him to go sleep like a little nap she goes in their
gent and just ticino so general grenach rles flanked on cheeringly flanked one she props to prop a mama charles had next veines please good
lord how do you balance loyalty to your work mates and a personal sense of honor with self interest when it comes to a career progression
so if this question is is as is giving the impression that that bengal to your brow and being boiled to your work mates and ann having
pride is the opposite of of career progression which is actually i understand without this coming from but it's actually does not have to
be true that this not have to be the way you think that you the way you get around this is no one you work hard that's the dyoor hard in
you do a good job not for promotion not for self interest but to help the team a compass the gold that's what you should be working hard
for that's what you should be doing a good job for an if you and i is something i'd said a bunch of times over the ursola in the poncas
before but i tell my god because we be we in some long term administrative psychological warfare in a community in it in the seal teams are
in our organization and i to look if we are doing the right thing for the right reason were going to win in the end and an i totally
believed that to be true now for instance i never really cared about rank or being promoted now that being said i actually did put in and
offer package so that i could become an officer now why do they do that i didn't do that out of greed or out of hunger for power i did it
because i had worked for a prior unless at all sir and he made our lives really good cause he was a really good leader i said you don't
what i'd like to make a bunch of the guys that i know make sixteen guys in the soup to make their lives better maybe i can do that so that
that sort of what led me to do it i didn't do it out of out of self interest in greed i did it to help my broken that then an i got
promoted i want i became an officer then i just busted my astute best job i could and again i was never concerned with being promoted but
in order to do a good job guess what i did i built relationships i took some hard jobs i fallieres i supported the chain of command i told
the party line why did i do those things wasn't cause i was trying to get the motors because i try to do a good job and the moratio ships i
had and the more respect i had from the chain of command the more power i had to help my gods he wasn't about powerful me it was about
power for the good of the platoon so i could accomplish it and and i knew that i believed in the broad mission that we are doing i knew
that good order and disappoint actually makes troops performed better i knew that and i knew that by following the rules by supporting the
chain of command i knew that tone the part i knew that those things would build trust in the chain of command and i knew that building
trust in the chained command and being viewed positively from up the chain of command meant that i would get more support from the chain a
command which once again would make it easier for my guide to do their job because i could get a more dear i could get them the aces of any
i could actually legitimately protest if something came down the pipe that i didn't agree with if i'd have trusted bill had goatish with my
senior a officers how can i go back to this and ilse be doing this they don't know me they don't trust me but when you build that trust
than you could have to more open and honest conversations which again is only done so that my poltoon can have any is your life so that
they could do their job better because i believe in the mission so everything that i was doing that i was doing to make my pothunter go at
things make my petunia make my patuone effective on the battle field all those things that i was doing i was doing to make that anne low
and behold when you're doing those things when you're busting your ass when you're trying to make life good for your petonia you potomao
effectively in efficiently accomplished its mission on the battle field well guess what these are all wind with them the high hats working
hard in this apportent cancan so i would get rank number one why not because i was trying to get promoted not for self interest it's
because i was trying to do a good job for me boys so about beamings if you care about doing a good job and the the ending things that will
help you do a good job again not for promotion enough recognition but the truly do a good job the end result is most likely gone a be
positive now the cavatinas is does that mean that you'll be the first person to get promoted no does it mean that you are guaranteed to get
promoted no some other guide that brown knows and took all the credit then deserve and stepped on a people's backs to kittie top he's
probably going to get from oohever as i tell it okay i will tell you that that will come back to montan eventually maybe not this year may
be not next year may be in five years people are going to see to that of venture and you who's doing no right things for the right reasons
you will win in the end endlesser if you're doing it just to get the promotion go that they're goin to tell you that mahaangano only is the
bosover one's going to smell it on you i talked about that earlier to night because if you were going to be if you fall it like if you
volunteered to be the admistad then it tenawas a total red flag with all for those guifette you don't want to be that guy you want to be
doing the right thing for the right reasons and that is that is how i in the long run you will get the recognition and the promotions and
the credit that you deserve because why wouldn't you you're busters do a great job you're going to get your gonnas eventually came in any
furnaces on doing the best job you can do that's the bed that's really the dietetics of promotions anyway in it or should be ideas it will
be custer's somebody that brown noses the boss yatha commoners to take these little missions are to do things to get the recognition that
he's there's the there's a guy that's doing that i and they can't get promoted and you got it except that and not siccome to it not submit
to it as you an't be that guy no long run the guide at bushes asked that takes care of his troops at toes the party line that does the
right things for right reason to is gone a wind in the end he you got to believe in that a man you know there's do that in jigtime times
though we talk about that too where they have the roof they are the wrong lines they disotto parnellian all water or they want the next
bill um for i want a chap that guy on a tape tyers the wrong reason we are folks that he enending who who are just in it to be the best
that they can be seem asking questions or going over some stuff you know on their own canting where they do they just want to learn as much
as they can and get good at as much as they can and in the long run those are going to be the the guides the shine ye and men i and i think
that i think the that's it's such a hugged and go for giguere that at work or whatever if in a year the guy who they can see what you're
doing in your kissing as for or like the guy okay to one of the most embarrassing things you can do in my opinion in juges after a
promotion you didn't get promoted and then you're a overtly unhappy about it and don't go on step further in say something of a chapdelaine
and he got his well odont ever do it don't do it he brainton do it yes that doesn't it doesn't bodwell patino could ever really live that
down etonnes sary it is shows her guts looking me a foison the wrong thing i focused on like wearing a belt rather than my skill you know
i'd rather get a belt and maybe not have the skill i rather that than have the skein may be not have the belt right now that's what you're
saying oh ye ye yet it in realities that any good jujitsu would rather have the skill and not have a bell right now by the way not have the
gout right now ye yether skill you get that you're goin leonore's part of this section i i could be a long time yet and you're an that's
okay oh unless you quit they need won't apoot then you have utenhove ossifraga also kept the fact of some guys can get promoted you to no
good tinged you tapped them before a good good that's panforte that up yet we got to get you that belles a pining i heard it we guthlaf the
gemara because he didn't get a belt he tyconius goniometer else he that's too bad i just heard him the story i wasn't there an not vainer
next question i lost we have more on the unknown were deodonato's been beaten he yet to be in a gunmetal wantin building when leading a
team do you feel that there is any benefit to ten building exercises or retreat well this is a e interesting question that actually he i
feel i'm surely qualified to answer because we we lay and i have a little business called at halantow re that's so we work with a lot of
different companies on a different a wide range of different categories sometimes we go in or for the business some of her going to do a
kiope where vise like they'll be having a big meeting and will go in do one kiotsaton our and we leave an were done but most the time were
doing more long range stuff or respond time with the company we go in but often times we do do some kind of situation where the company has
decided to do some kind of a leadership of side or a team building exercise to er a leadership retreat and we we mostly get involved with
the leadership although that does sometimes trickled down to where we're will do some work with all the frontlines so we constantly see
these these learchus and we speak and or lead them sometimes we run the whole thing and there definitely some outstanding events and we be
protested in led some outstanding of enewed with companies and i think on a most important things about these of sides is it he forces the
leadership team to detach from the day to day fire fights of what the business is no matter what the there's no business as were the so in
the sea swithering around not doing anything they know those companies don't exist at least that i've seen both you know your turn expand
your trying to grow you've got come competitors making mood so you're you're in the fight in you've got operational things that are
happening so you're in the fight so when you do these leadership of si thirties good that you get them to focus on some other development
an sum whatever issues there halfpennies where they can prove to their it gives them the opportunity to focus on those things in all so
gives them the opportunity to sell uses a team how they're doing and themselves as leaders how they're doing in and when i talk to people
about leadership and team work in the short falls and the pitfalls that exist in and then when i telher me talk about it they recognize
their own weaknesses it every time i get to the god man when you are talking about you know when you were talking about egoistical my
egocentrist you were talking about covering movement i don't think i told you talbot ownership they they see areas of their own weaknesses
and they see where they can improve an then when you get the whole team that's all learning that same information of all being that same
self assessment and then the whole beatership time gives a line behind the same leadership for incipies of old meritoit and covered move
and simple decentralise comment all things that i talk about that is extremely powerful he is extremely bonfil and we see really drastic
truands with the companies that we were retinas also it's awesome to see and then one one thing that we do when we were more in depth with
a company we do our own leadership of sighs where we do simulated combat and i know it sounds it sounds if if i wouldn't have done it so
many times i would be surprised that it is possible but we take either paint guns they bagonet guns and we teach them the basic shooting
principles and we teach in some basic small unit tactics and then we go perform mice have them perform missions and every time they got
eight guys they got ten guys they got twelve guys growls whatever in their group and they go in a sultanate come up with a plan they go out
with but one person in charge and that person as to lead a mission and they what they fear rise in the class room they now get to put to
the test and they learn those lessons very very clearly you know we we see guy that would be a billy strong beer and he was okay on the
imitated this run years when i'm in a do here's the way the plant colewater going to be this your insisture notes you see that micromanage
ment start and then as soon as they start the operation to everyone as expecting to get micromanage no one thinking on their own well so
now you get a decentralized a lack of decentralized command and everything go sideways and nobody does anything i'll be waiting to be told
what to do say so that's an example of the kind of things that people worn um so i with all that yes absolutely we you know i bent to and
we run some some pretty awesome gebild ing exercises and retreats and clear chipolata or that are great and we seegaws results from a wall
olaso sat through some of sides that are that are not that effective um you know you get situations were people don't open up or there's no
exchange the or you get these team building exercises that that some people set up in this some kind of physical or mental challenge and
all they might be hard and they might take some tea work to perform they don't break the paratime that the company is in so that on the
leading through that challenge whatever it is whether it a some kind of a peep sansome kind of physical training or some kind of a boat
race or something like that they'll lead to that challenge the way they always led the way the currently lead so nothing is learned and
nothing is gained and no leadership advancement as i made in all that done as actually always actually done is reinforced the badlesmeres
that they already as m so that's that's one of things that i've seen that can be problematicus why we've gone of ittienne go where we
really focus on let's do let's look at leadership and the team working together how what the leadership dynamics are on our weaknesses are
while we see where we are cover the friction where we see the team not working well the gather where we see the leaders not stepping up and
leading where we see the leaders eagles get in the way imason things that we uncover and find its its phenomena and it and really does make
it fun for us eh you know because every time you see and new leadership team you if it's like diagnosing a patient and you you look at the
problems that their haven they say oh you know what chiver here take this awful little bit and the next meyow you've got that patient up
and running and there winning well like a mechanic we got the car a therates i little leadership or not leashings button these the team
building retreats to sometimes it seems like whoever organized tom really wasn't focusing on results there disposing on our annual elinore
tree so they make it in like the bahamas and all these um you know these activities are like kind of fun you know that everyone said
onornamental thing or something yeah in form can be part of it in esther's bonding that happens there is given to know each other and
that's always positive no but the if you're i'm all about having fun a all about bonding but i even more about learning romeo about
improving the guide the people we work with the the guise in a girls that we were where i want them to be better of her rat's what i want
yes son and so i essure do i want them to get some keen challenges yes but like i said i don't want the disherited the paradise that there
already in the levarsi im with a hortation to do improve so let to actually break down on the end look and and and alive and diagnose what
the issues are and then left salvandos not always it's not only that these teams go in and there you know we'll get higher by companies
that are failing a fact most of the time we get hired by companies that are doing well that one i do better so when i say we dignotions
what the problem is it's not i it's not a problem where it's causing the company to failure in but it's a friction point where it is
holding the company back from relire in the back past the next level and going for a ben a really good company or even an outstanding
company to the best in class company so tikatika multi vitamin not a pain killer yes eveleth's not my another in the red that were a un of
the michael managing thing the anat's funny consuevit person that i've heard say that this were where you said tholthan ging and then all
of a sudden the people getting my croelean expect to get micromanage so they stopped thinking right somniferous yohanan allan a goes the
other way too if you come to me say a joohoo to do this and i go figured out m and you say he boscaswell
thisearfanedenliketheeav'nabovethasalliknow start my commanding like a how i drive like givin this lane and more or um you know just what
you are going too slow or too thick to fast whatever to allow toilet he is the thing that i am not goolahgool i don't think yes from seed
in her case that amathos and i agglestone that's what i do i shut down my brain and then so one time dat is riding with us and he was a now
he was actually i was micromanage in jade and he put it in these good terms which i thought were good he said either the that began or
hundred per cent cause he stopped thinking you know or don't be it at all he can't just start chiming in when you think on the ontario you
know otherwise yeah an a one immittere yelling that he hey you're going to slow i'm going to be a key how fast you a metagal go that fast
so if you're never getting on the map you goin ave to tell me every turn to make don't say hey you're going to make this right and then i
make the right thing you just sign off you know because you're you're antipatico in an exactly right man and i think he kinda goes on a
matically you know he got to put in a lot of merrier you knew that sarah never said anything to you an you on the car all me you know that
you have to have the route perhaps before you got in the vehicle we might go a little bit too slow but still men won't it's all me as far
as thinking gosh amansomi emanate or when you might commented don't expect them to disallow a sun star making you know creative decision
may jehoiada or for it to work the wamentation the last one jocko could you tell us any possible regrets or things you done differently
something you'd wished you'd learn sooner regrets things i could have done differently things i wish i learned suit of course there are
things i wish i learned sooner there's there's so much knowledge out there so much information so many ways to get better and we make
remakes so many mistakes when the wittepoort of our mistakes and often times the lesson is sitting there like fun of our face it's there to
be learned but we miss it and we don't pay attention to it or we think we know better until it punches his in the face in the most
important thing to learn is that we and so much to learn we all do and we can learn from the school and from people and from experience and
we won from life but you have to possess the information yesterday you have to accept it you have to open your mind you got free your mind
so that you can wear and make real progress in as far as regrets and things i wish i would a done differently of course insight insight is
twenty twenty and looking back of course who wouldn't want to take another go esometha and it proved on the first try my doing it again and
then why not do to gain and again and again and why not just do it over and over again until you have it perfect but the fact is you don't
get that chance you get one shot one shot at this gig right here life one life that's all you've gotten and regret in and of itself it's
worthless it does nothing for you in fact the only valuable thing in regret is the lesson you learned the knowledge that you being but
walking around filled with regret catching nothing so learned and move on don't let regret be you down don't be a slave to regret no let it
to you let it make you better let the fear of regret fur you to take action to day now to take action now to become a better person not
filled with regret but filled with knowledge filled with knowledge and shrank and power and filled with life and i think that's all i've
got for the night no regrets only now led and that's all what we are striving for on this part cast to gain knowledge so we can improve
ourselves and live better lives echo can you just go ahead and drops knowledge on a right now about how we can sport this pot cast she
boland or improve your life of a better life one way to you supplement your work out and your brain with on it solamente alpha brain trite
is a good one where your bars quill crew or eolinde big land on it dotcoms jack you temper sent off boom and prove your budget as well um
and if you want support ties before shopping on amazon dot com before you do that shopping em go to jack podcast up home or jocoseria could
one ammonia's pretty cool yes you're buying in any way as i know you love amazon cause i love that mazaca it is a square away system it is
that delivers things to your home in hours or days as in all you got to do so on help us out as you just gotta go the goodhearted ardfert
click on it and then boom they are not taking more money from you there taking there money and giving it they're taking their money and
giving it to support the jackals fill which is pretty impressive so that's much preciated yet setons duck tape or some the keep the
challenges remembering to go right as accaparate up comitissa ducat cueto of dottery mason i asked gatton yea i wifelkin go to amazon lo i
fed at once and it kind of stuck doctrinaires ogier actually see watch on garotting men duction go any where without any thing on in the
military recalling tape i in spelched and twenty mile on hours have but i never called it that one time yes but we call the riggers tape
yeh yeh got some black rest none the less um if you getting some or anything on amakosi trifon just remember to go to jocasta come first
quick in the mason lincoln booms automatic supporting podcast and we thank you for that i think julian um all your at jack store if you
like one the shirts god grain or a coffee monger sticker that's a good way to support his sir did your wanton for little bit new asita
little new yes the newest one looks a dear if you watch an unto is a onotawah on you to the front of the shirt it's a back on black shirt
nanina on the front it says now the darkness ye'll actually ironically if you're watching on you to be might not even built to see now the
darkness and less fan i mention this before this only made this one there's that added layer or it's dark the shortest for you is not to
show everyone who look at me look my cosier you know it's there and on the back i got some madness some darkness gospodina dark dark
tethered alone shiladitya you do the shirts right i mean so this must what did that like you we've talked about a lot of stuff why why did
you why did you go with the darkness why did you why was that i forget you that that was the main theme remembered like when you when you
started ateriatitsera started the main theme and still is a man then where he goes in till these dark books and in concepts and then every
time like even tim kennedy went we ask him all wore will on the questions was like a hog to you you know reconcile you know been happier
then than when you seen so much darkness and it actually intensifies your happiness because you can recognize the good stuff fil no the
darkness so you can see the light that kind of the phrase right so you can appreciate good things way more when you know bad things nilufer
thing really so you didn't make a shirt that said be happy the light is with us because you could have made that i guess he and an
inconsistent though with the whole field of many fine bottom line is if you surrounded by all the happiness it sort to face right at men
yet exactly so will i not make a happy shirt looks make a dark shirt a eyelashes future but i'm santorin now that are that where you were
feeling that's what i heletour a o propriate at those good i think he came out good man i digest or if you like it in other ones to
pennywise monaco to i think derwent your hand on it and anyway that you can see a whatever clay i fell even seen the live a alive one that
in the while but haven't seen travel i travel all time an i haven't seen it a true for yet just just represent you i can so luriottis it
yet i munenori never i'd never have taken a self but i think i might do self if i if i if i had the erstwhile good trooper out there is
representing hard corn an airport somewhere yet minster up when you suburbanity ever he can't it you i see them here the antenatal people
we know everybody gape i have seen one where i didn't know you know like i do it now that you know that m like the eaers though i knew him
i know him count but i didn't know like he got a shirt and so i want to be an indian apples or i wanted him he in philadelphia and he
walking down the street and see some guy is represent and hard quarante how to be awesome well i can attest that with the online stuff i've
seen the people representing they are representing article year ah anything else not that it if he if you like it i carbonat ride off well
as i was if you want to continue this conversation with us always questions we answered to night there for you god therefor mateer's there
from you also thank you for doing that we are all the interweb demon twitter echo charles is at echo charles and i am at jocelin corals on
the face book in instigant if you care that's where we are and we're trying to get better and you can join us there as we seek now edgitha
and get after it so when till next time this is echo in joco how
