this is jacopo cast number thirty one with others and me jocolino barnato simon watched three men concluding who tone hutson though into a
hut with a girl aged about seventeen or trousers were forcibly removed the girl was held down while she was violated sinson observed this
from the door fagan was also part of the girls or deal when they were finished the helpless captive was shot dead her face completely blown
away toresa bed several people with a bow knife and with seeing thy hoot raping a girl she was crying fighting and resisting him another
soldier held her down for simpson the crusheen was when he shot the woman and baby soon after entering the village i went to turn a lover
and there was a little baby with her that i had also killed the baby's face was half gone my mind just went the training came to me and i
just started killing old men women children waterbottles everything we were told to leave nothing standing we did what we were told we
guardless of weather they were sitiens they was the enemy period kill if you don't follow a direct order you can be shot yourself now what
am i supposed to do your damned if you do and your damned if you don't you didn't have to look for people to kill they were just there i
cut their throats cut off their hands cut out their tongue their hair scalped them i did it a lot of people were doing it and i just
followed i just lost all sense of direction i just started killing any kind of way i can kill it just came i didn't know i had it in me
after i killed the child my whole mind just went i just went and after you start it's very easy to keep on the hardest is a killed a first
time but once you kill then it becomes easier to kill the next person and the next one and the next one because i had no feeling no emotion
nothing i just killed i wasn't the only one that did it a lot of people in the company did it hung him up all types away as any type of
waited you could kill some one that's what they did that day amelie i was personally responsible for killing about twenty five people
personally i don't think beforehand any one thought we would kill so many people i mean we're talking about fortyfive hundred people we
almost wiped out the whole village a whole community i can't forget the magnitude of the number of people that we killed and how they were
killed killed in lots of ways you realize what it's like killing five hundred people in a matter of four or five hours but just like the
gas chambers what hitler did you line up fifty people women old men children and just moaned down and that's the way it was from twenty
five to fifty to one hundred just killed we rounded him up men a couple of guides just put the insistent on automatic and just mode him
down ludovine echo little well that was an excerpt from a book called four hours and me line by michael buildin and keen sim and when i was
propping for this i mentioned to a couple of people that i was going to do me i on the pot cast next and surprisingly a lot of people
didn't know what it was i and i thought everybody knew about me lie me i is a war crime he at aneroid and what makes it so hard to talk
about is that it was an atrocity and a war crime that was committed by american soldiers now of course there's people out there that like
the clean that you know that america is this evil imperialistic empire which i am telling you it is not not by any stretch america is at an
incurred able benevolent nation with a conscience and a soul that as a whole is good and have we done some things in the past that don't
reflect that reap solutely have but for the most part we have stood up for the week we have liberated the oppressed we defeated the nazis
we defeated the imperial japanese army we give aid and military sistance and education and money to less fortunate people all over the
world all the time we are a good nation filled with for the most part good people but not all good people and people inside of people
inside of humans there can be something very dark and sometimes that darkness can over ride the light and that is exactly what happened in
a small village in vietnam called me lie on march sixteenth nineteen sixty eight the zero seven fifteen in the morning a massacre in
atrocity the merger of hundreds and hundreds of old men women and children unarmed begging for mercy shot stabbed blown up raped tortured
killed murder and no i don't like talking about this dispetalled when it's americans that are admitting the sin when we talk about the
notes and germany we talk about the chechens and grade we talk about the japanese on the in the in the milesian jungle on the hot tusheroon
da i like that but this is a answerest ion comes it came into my mind do i do this do i talk about this can i talk about this in the bottom
line is not can i but we have to we have to cover this we have to talk about it we can't ignore it and we can't deny it we have to take
ownership of it to admit it the air it out and keep it in the front of our mind to ensure that we do everything we can to make sure nothing
like this ever happens again war is hell and me i is the night circle of hell the worst part and let's go there to make sure we remember
and start by looking at the path that led there in an order looked the path that led there to restore despite a little bit of broad
strategy because there's plenty of blame to go round and when you look at the broad strategy in a way it was laid out here's a little piece
on general work westmorland who is running running the strategy in vietnam general westmorland strategy of a trition also had an important
effect on our behavior our mission was not to win to rain or seize position positions the simply to kill the kill communis kill as many of
them as possible stack in up like cord wood victory was a high body count defeat a low hill reshower a matter of aristide the pressure on
unto commanders to produce as many corpses was intense and they in turn communicated it to their troops it's not surprising therefore that
some men acquired a contempt for human life and a predilection for taking it so that that's that's the that's the environment that you're
in the environment it yourn that to being encouraged to kill kill as many as possible that's coming from the top that's the prodestan not
to win this hill i kill then who you taunton's receiving this here is a little a little piece on charlie company which is the army unit
that this is based on and that that committed this atrocity we were kids eighteen nineteen years old i was twenty one years old at the time
i was on the oldest people around there among the common grunts most of them had never been away from home before they went to service and
they end up in viet nam made them because they thought they were going to do something courageous on behalf of their country so ionides and
in nowadays if you're young kid your thirteen fourteen sixteen eighteen you know guess what you might not have travelled round the world
but you've seen the world because you have television you haven't internet as you can see all these parts the world you can see all
different cultures and people well when you're from iowa in nineteen sixty seven to you you don't know anything about this or you get next
thing you know six months later your venom and here is a little bit of where you're going to get your attitude from back to the book to the
troops of charles company to american troops and general all vietnamese were dukes inkos and slopes souccour not find a vietnamese who were
their enemy soon struck out wildly at the vietnamese who were supposed to be their friends how can you tell the enemy or not simon said
they all look the same to which another mealie veteran added in the end every one in that country was the enemy in all wars it is common
for the enemy to be dehumanized put in vietnam american soldiers also demonised their allies charlie company had not been in vietnam long
before the pattern of brutality leading to me lie began their own losses and injuries hastened the process hatred fear races and revenge
turned to beatings torture rape motor all these offences were committed with imputed by individuals and groups of charlie company the weeks
before the massacre finally at me lie they discovered that having dehumanized the vietnamese they had also dehumanized themselves dugong a
see this escalation in it's just like we talked about with the with the russian soldiers and ingestion it starts when they don't shave and
then they don't clean their weapon of the ydoll stand watching in the next thing you don't they're not doing their duty there being over
run your nose a similar as the latin here all round lack of discipline but it's in the way that they treat the local populace and you know
i had one of my high school teachers was a was a vietnam veteran and when i was in high school the movie puttun came out m and d you can
tell actually you can tell that the movie potone the lot the book we did but to leader by jim macdona there's so many scenes in that book
that you can tell all of the north read that book and put some of those seas in the movie there's no doubt about it it is even a character
named bones in the in the book and in the movie well pulton also showed you know a very it portrayed the americans in a very rough light
yet many the situations and when i talked to my one of my teachers in high school that was in it was a vietnam that and he just said you
know the thing that they didn't show very well cause the show guys coming in and and really be people killing people burning villages and
what he said was you know jacale we would walk around a village and one for gus or hit a booby trap every day every other day and the
villagers are out then walking on the same trails but they are not getting blown up and so after weeks and then months of this happening of
me losing two guys three guys six guys getting blown up getting killed losing their legs losing their arms losing their lives and a
vietnamese villagers they're not hittin anything eventually in in armies may become guilty now when you have leadership that can explain
and restrain and control you can keep that stuff and told but when you have leadership that buys into that attitude you end up in a very
bad situation which is where we're headin heard in me lie now back to the strategy the aim of american strategy was simple to kill vicon in
such large numbers that they would not be replaced or could not be replaced but how is this to be achieved without at the same time killing
large numbers of civilians this was a problem to which no one on the american side ever discovered a satisfactory answer it was the biggest
failure of the war it was a failure magnified enormously by american strategic thinking for westmorland vietnam was a war of a triton a
meat grinder as they called it in a pentagon the object he explained was to believe the north to waken in the communist mind the notion
that they were draining their population to the point of national disaster for generations to come to achieve this goal and to win a in a
war of attrition americans had to kill the considers fashion than the communist and replaced them as the fits a great industrial power the
war was to be fought on an industrial scale westmoreland like pad before him intended to construct a killing machine so for noble as to be
irresistible it sheer size and power would pay arise the enemy in dismission so there you go once again the very clear what the goal was
from a stricken level kill as many as you can and this this kind of spells out how determined they were to do then back to the book from
the beginning of america involve involvement it become common practice for patrols to call for to re ordinarie if they received even sniper
fire from the village irrespective of whether civilians also sheltered there by the end of nineteen sixty six fighter bombers were making
up to four hundred such stories a day added to beef fifty two rats in the country this meant that around eight conned and twenty five tons
of bombs were delivered every day a figure that doubled by the tonnage of high explosive fired by fired off by artillery the solution in
vietnam general depleted of visiting emissary from the pentagon is more bombs more shells more napalm till the other side cracks and gives
up and that's what they got in nineteen fifty seven and article life magazine claimed that the cost of killing a single vehicle rilla was
four hundred thousand dollars which included the cost of seventy five bonds and a hundred and fifty artillery shells no nation in history
had waged a war with such little regard to expense only days before me lie robert mac the mara the retiring secretary of defense would
remind an audience gathered to record his farewell from the pentagon that more bombs had been dropped on vietnam than on the whole of
europe during the whole of world war two so that's just that's crazy especially for me for my perspective having havin been in a war in
iraq and having now a guy that fought afghanistan the this idea that they take sniper fire from a village and in call an air strikes on the
village is is something that would not happen that you that's white when people when people frame america as being this this power that
just goes and crushes and kills all these civilians i know for a fact it's not true yes obviously it happened in vietnam but we go through
great lengths almost sometimes i'm telling you abolsom times absurd lengths to protect the civilian populace in iraq in afghanistan i could
bring i could bring so many people on your on this program just just see but i could bring a anybody from all kinds of de every branch a
military to come here and say oh yeah hers we hear the situation my guys were pine down on the fire we try to get bombs dropped on this
building we know one would do it we couldn't do it we weren't allowed to do it and and that's that's the reality to day and you don't part
of that is the we've mature as a nation obviously we see that that that's a probable i mean i'm not incentives the way we should fight you
know some everg too fond one direction this was only sea too far in the other direction em in i in iraq i remember you mentioned something
about the the ah the enemy in iraq would you the civilian popular folk there's no doubt about it for latian valerian used used a kid as
shields van knew or rules of engagement they knew that if they stayed in building is that war close to a mass or were close to a hostile
that we wouldn't bob it that we wouldn't hate it with with armor so they were very smart about how they took advantage of our rules of
engagement and then we had to adjust our tactics so that there's no doubt the enemy figures out what your osteno and then they start to
press you in the seeing that rule engagement a trying take advantage of it to the best there ability do you think that that that kind of an
indicator that they care about their savilian less than you care about their of the that that is one hundred per cent accur of course i
mean the the alcaid insurgents and now the ice is in in iraq the don't care about civilian castes and all they don't care they delay don't
care they are own though the heron suessetani ye in the civilians to get something ever gets portrayed correctly the civilians don't want
is isangre this civilians didn't want out quite in charge they knew what that would lead to an geikie would you their children as shields i
mean i litely had snipers of mine that shot all hideous carrying machine guns in one hand and a baby in the other hand and luckily we had
really good snipers day so back to the book here we get to talk a little bit about the company the the company that this is about charlie
company and of a company is company soldiers generally round a hundred and fifty people and you'll have three so generally you'll have
three cocoons in their so you're putting be forty fifty maybe sixty people sometimes it's it's actually lot more flexible than people
realize sometimes in ararimu have five poons but generally three peons what they live so you know we're talking here probably about a
hundred and fifty guys in charlie company and they're guys at may lay out that cannagosta quick back ground of the different guise and
really what it ends up showing you as he is a cross section of america ah some some high light you know they got a guide named fred fred
widmer from just north of pittsburg you got a guy named kenneth hodges from dublin georgia um father's boy you got a guy from portland ore
in named gregg olson who is who's a mormon a devout mormon and and you know from a good family you got another guineahen from golf for
mississippi who was drawn up by his mam hobled in hard work school a church on sundays she you look it at a fairly normal crosssection
michael bonar came from a middle class catholic family from long island she got just the the troops are just a cross action and then you
get to one of the leaders in charleycoats of second pelton and his name was william law's cally lieutenant cally an he's got and up being
or the monster her so back to the book who was callyan the early seventies of small industry grew up trying to find the answer tolerat this
trade looked for a monster but all they found was a non entity a bland young man burdened it seemed with his much ordinary ness as any
single individual could bear and almost too much of a conventional and commonplace to retain what is necessary for human identity the press
collie to the press cally was just about as average an american as ever came out of the nondescript middle class streets of miami he could
be any young american he was the quiet american it was noted with astonishment that he had moved from a background which most would regard
as coming close to the american ideal elsewhere it was said that his life could have been lifted from the cover drawing of the old saturday
evening post is averageness had made him so invisible at one college he attended that all any one could remember about him was that he paid
his rent regularly the many who come through his life found no shred of devienne a single distinctive feature other than his height five
four five feet forenses he come from a stable family he bennet particularly popular or unpopular he had no particular talents and few if
any enthusiasms water scheme was the closest he ever got to violence throughout a long education he'd shown no aptitude for learning his
college career simply fizzled out and that's one of the things of even see this guguste is white veblen white bread of just plain just
plain and that's what they find about him now the company itself raysay back to the book charlecombe was very average so so charlicoats ly
reflex coy in the fact that carriconna horse pretty normal for a company of army soldiers and vietnam and investigation ordered by their
army chief isaphine teen seventy we revealed that eighty seven per cent of charlie companies enos were high school graduates nearly twenty
per cent above the armies norm most the man in charlie company were between eighteen or twenty two years old nearly half the company with
black the peers report concluded that there was little to distinguish charley company from other rifle companies the men were generally
representative of the typical cross section of american youth assigned to most combat units throughout the army they brought with them the
diverse traits prejudices and attitudes typical of the various regions of the country and segments of society from whence they came nor
mapple and wide important there remember that as we dive into this and is this story developed you conceese normal beat people do
completely demonic things in now we talk a little bit here about there in hawaii and their going through some training to prepare them for
the etnam back to the book what most trouble company veterans remember about the training was its unreality and how little it prepared them
for what they had to face in vietnam for fred witmer it seemed they had been preparing for world war two or corea collyshog they could go
to vietnam and the audemer kicking the door run in the hooch giving a good burst kill bornation said you can't have no type of training can
compare with what wars like none there is no such thing as prepared this for war we trained and we were so sighed up and they programme you
to kill and to go to vietnam you know but once you get there it's a different situation now i spent my last three years in the military
training guys for ward i have i'll tell you right now we trained guy's really well for war and the training that i received for paranoid a
great job and we improve upon that the more combat sperience we got the better we got a treating forbearing guys for war but you can see
how it even as you know how important the trading is and the training has got to be realistic to the situation your going to be put in and
clearly you know they then saying that this was like world war two and corporea well and more war to dry under vast differences between
what yer do with in i mean what work do you care your fighting against him enemy uniformed troops that are on the other side of a wine
better attacking you ride that's what that's what world were to agree was very much like for the most part another person in a different
uniform that you are going to fight and kill and here we just have something totally different people that are mixed in with the villages
there is no hero front line anywhere they are dressing the same sometimes they have a gun sometimes they don't it's it's an infinitely
challenging more that more challenging situation now here we go back to the book according to cowithe only lesson every g i learned was not
to trust anybody it was drummed into us be sharp on guard as soon as you think these people won't kill you that in combat you haven't
friends you have enemies over over again at osius we heard that and i told myself i'll act as if i'm never secure as if every one of
vietnam would do me in as if every one is bad michael bernardas also concerned curlytop ned did not match up to the high standards at a
order and disappoint he had learned at the soul military academy so this one of the soldiers he had gone through a a a military type high
school where they had a good discipline and he learned about the military and then when he got in he went on arbors so he was more the the
higher and soldier back to the book trained is a parish uticas disappointed to have been transferred to a run of the mill infantry company
bernhardt was unusual furuness man he was a military animal a stickler a forty and was happiest when things were being done by the book but
it was not this system that barathra bornhart she believed that good soldiers not only needed discipline but like it it was the lax
discipline charlicoats in the fact that all carted not always insist on der orders being carried our out that worried him in an argument
with calyste after arriving in a way he found a young lieutenant collonati and leadership qualities so radnors some chinks in the anoof
lieutenant cary and if you remember one hackworth said about about me i he talked about cally an he said that cow he had been a kick out or
failed he failed of her candies school three times and they just wanted hey when he'd more guys we have a better numbers getting through go
ahead and pass the guy you got a guy that lax weeshin and it is i mean is interesting the duck but how bland this guy is i mean somebody
that's that bland at a little have nothing no characteristics obviously he got wacomish characters swept has no characteristics m an now
you got the young soldiers looking at the guantanamo sn't have he doesn't have any leadership and this is a a visit part that i high
lighted because i think it's it's an interesting perspective of what it was like to go to vietnam back to the book we flew over on a tent
continental air lines plain fred witmar recalls it was a weird situation a civilian plain with a civilian stewardess and crew they were
flying both ways they were flying people out as well as in so they got to see bowen i remember getting off the plain and the steadiest
stood there crying as we unloaded they were more attuned to what we were getting into that we were that's pretty sure now they start
talking about what it's like there and what they're doing and there is a there's a province there that they their starting to concentrate
on a province in vietnam and some the problems that they have there in a province deemed correctly to be overwhelmingly sympathetic to
vehicles meant eliminating the countryside the villages were bombed burned down and pulverized sometimes villagers would be warned advanced
that their homes were about to be wiped off the face of the earth sometimes not it was common practice to shell or bomb any village from
which the u s soldiers had taken any fire even small arms without any warning at all the destruction was on an almost unimaginable scale so
again was a something that in the wars that i fought in that we would disaster to that it wasn't just like always took rifle fire from a
village bomb the whole thing that was not happening this was the reality behind westmorland's prediction in nineteen sixty five that the
war will bring about a moment of the casion for the peasant farmer he will have to choose if he stays a live american officials frequently
referred to this choice the choices ears one befooled on village as proclaimed if you refuse to let vicon use your villages and hamlets as
their battle field your homes and lives will be spared a million beef let leaf with a day were being dropped on quitting province granny
province at this time the whole exercise assumed that the largely illiterate peasants could actually read them from nineteen sixty five to
nineteen seventy two fifty billion leaflets were dropped over vietnam fifteen hundred each for every member of the population so that just
when you think about we opines leafless to tell people what to do and and most popular lot of the population is illiterate hagitators your
village well there's a piece of paper flying from the sky on one its ye back to the book to stay and be killed or to go joined thousands of
other refugees in the squalor of refugee camps or the mushrooming shanty towns around the towns and cities what kind of a choice was this
but for the americans the whole point of clearing an area of country side of its people was so that any one who remained must be vehical
these areas became free fires on anything that happened to some one who chose to remain in or turn to a free fires on was their own fault
they could expect the worst the belief that people had been given a chance to get out had made their choice made this strategy morally
workable in a free fire zone the pursuit of a high body count could perceed unincumbered by the need to discriminate between combatants and
civilians at all nowhere was this bribetaker carelessness of human life greater than inclined not no one was actually saying kill civilians
but no one strive to keep them alive because the killing of civilians came to be seated unavoidable less and less time was spent on seeing
how it could be avoided to american spokesmen the death or injury of non combatants was always accidental and inevitable tragedy of war and
therefore somehow uncorrectable melea you it doesn't take a genius to figure this out when you the americans are bombing your village and
they are killing you with your son your husband your wife whenever i mean i want no who sate you goin t be on you know it and we know we
know that the c were brutal to look at the end of ten commanded when the v c come in and murdered the in half the village or three quarters
of elligent burned down their hats and blow up all their all their hoches we know that the vic were capable and an evil but when our
strategy is he give a quick warning jopson leaflets tell me they stay there there vic and if not a we gave a chance so if the standard it
must be them charlie company spent december guarding bridges and practicing in the deserted village of duke foe the army called it in
country orientation and australian advisor was brought into instruct the company on how to distinguish between noncombatants vicon regulars
suspects and sympathisers he said it was very difficult so did other instructors from the south of vietnamese army they got the same story
from formal vet came the australian emphasized that you should be extremely leary of children maginative later medina is the company
commander of the company as three tons in it the overall in charge of the compensating medina now think about this not only you just
distinguishing between good and bad you got non combatants which are you know friendly to the inviolabler suspects and sympathizers and now
you've got the vietnamese soldiers who are from vietnam obviously there saying how hard it is to distinguish counten the vicomte captured
vicon vices or saying that it's very difficult to know who to so how is a kid from iowa going to be able to tell the difference we were
exposed to something that went far beyond the world as we knew it said fred widmer we had just left hawaii with all the hotels and night
clubs and bars and we wound up in vietnam where people went right out and shitten the right patty in the morning dropped their drawers
right along the trail at any time it was hard to consider people in the modern day and age living like they did i think it when again or
value of what is human life is calias always frustrated in his attempt to keep the children away from his men when they were guarding
bridges at duck fo all the men loved them gave the kids candy's cookies chewing gum everything he said later not me i hated them i was
afraid of the vietnamese kids so you know yet the ostralagus in illo bleary of the kids you got the the kid from iowa the normal american
grants you love the kid to get in esgaping he's giving him food plain with him it's all good meanwhile cally again you start seeing the
indicators of what's about to take place you got a guy that's a saying i had it them i hated to be it's hard to develop a hatred for for a
kid for a five year old now the baby come part of a unit that's called task force barker which is a multiple companies of which charlie
companies one of them and in this lieutenantcolonel lock the tala commander he is the head the commander of this task force and actually
his name is colonel frank parker they name the task force after him and they sent him up to this to this province now inside the fact the
book inside their fire bases men of ten men of the task force injuries much of the american world as could be flown in by helicopter they
received their mail american newspapers cold bears stakes ice cream cocacola and play boy magazine but all around them was the world of the
vehicle and i got another a another interesting thing from this book just to just to show the extent that they that they did this there's
there was forty ice cream plants built in vietnam to supply the troops with ice cream the and an each bed another figure that i read was
that each each person in vecilius vietnam used a a hundred pounds of supplies at day crazy now the gas may move into this new rodents
provence quan nigh and they start to encounter some combat and a very careful to say they're not encountering they're not really
encountering v c in or getting in a bunch of fire fight but they are getting in song and this is there there in their first fire fight in
the year we go back to the book of the man in their first fire fight were discovering things about each other and about themselves
gregorson recalled we were pinned down in a trench taking a lot of fire sergeant cowen was on one side one side of me putting up his helmet
to get some bulletholes in it almost like it was a musing on the other side there was this other guy just sobbing he come unglued call with
round like a dog just lost it the first button withdrew under cover of mass of artillery bombardment according to some of the men callias
totally lost he led them back towards the river as they broke cover the sniper started up again ran webber caligrapher ator took a shot
which shattered his radio set tore his kidney out he died a few monomers later charlie companies first killed in action his horrified
companions lifted him on to the hovering meateater a g i and shock blubbered and howled no one had known much about shock before if we got
hit much harder we would all go into shock calico his count of his court martial nearly three years later it was terrifying a terrifying
experience in later years caliasites that he'd been careless he had led his men into an exposed position so terrified fight and there
trying to break contact and carlyle him out in open area and gets one of his guides killed and then he asked a ruppa he got a fire fight
okay look howdado let's report back what's the body count cause a member the is all about killin is all about killing and so he passes up
the the body count and hear how he comes up with his body count as later how he arrived at a battoon called replied you just make an
estimate of the top your head there is no weight to really figure out exact body count as long eras high that's all they wanted i generally
knew that if i lost a troop i'd better come back with a body count of ten say i shot at least ten of the enemy which was pretty hard when
you're only fighting one sniper so you got these guys out the field and there reported hers making up a body count now think about what how
that with effect his house on the war effort because general westmonast morlands up there sataere goin to kill him until they can't take it
any more well guess how many people they killed right there is zero end't kill that sniper and yet there reporting that they killed ten
well you multiply that over the whole country and every unit that's out there that's making up these body count numbers and guess what
eventually westmoreland thinks we're doing a good job in killaraus but were not skinny and that an jim you up when you have that i even a
different type of scenario where were you you're getting a report on a certain level of progress and therefore allowed him the decision the
next decision on main or eager son is one present any any situation that you in if you've got your troopers and your subordinately ship
with a mind set that they would rather lie to you then tell you the truth about what's happened you're not you're never to be let make the
decisions as you're making her sisson's based on wise yea to the book frustration and anger and away at the company's a street a corner the
men stopped believing that charley calm men of the acomas afraid of charley company faith in medina the company commander was still high
altesse geis felt he pushed the company to hard galley was another matter a pinion on him was universally hostile according to one giasone
cally was in glory hungry person the kind of person who would have sacrificed all of us for his own personal advancement john snail a
squalid and third button called him a nervous excitable type who yell the lot i think it's important for you to know small talk told army
said that cary was so disliked by members that unit that they put a bounty on his head none of the men had any respect for him as a
military leader greg olson fought was incompetent i remember instances that we were lost one time at night every one knew where we lost but
tally wouldn't admit it so there you go you got a guy we talk of selim in it all what do you do to make him take you on the mistake if you
need help you say hey you know what i'm not sure we were on the map or not come do let me get litigation up here to a mass that he helped
me out with for our onthe we are but i said he just lies he doesn't admitted he doesn't own it and no one is going to have respect for back
to the book someone else thought colected like a small guy who had been pushed around a lot by bigger people before he joined the army now
that he had a forty headed no how to use it and he didn't listen to suggestions we i talk about this overtime if you're to leadership
position you need to listen to your people i'll pay down the chain in command as one of the main fingoes getting called out on gostherin
dosani ten to suggestions many commented that there was something about him that rupee the wrong way medina the company mander gave his
juneiana of tough time and ridiculed him in front of his men the captain called him lieutenant ship had regularly one go remembered that
tended the minimisation of him other recalled others were called that carries attempt to win favor with medina were frequently rebuffed
with a sarcastic listen sweetheart so now we have another situation where you have a subordinate that's not dunnaged job he's not being a
good leader people don't respect him and what is what is its superior don't undermining him in front of his troops instead of counts again
it at helpings of pontmain say hey it's okay to me we are an hey you need to take suggesting from your guidened he's calling them a
shithead lieutenant shithead undermining him all the time sir now you got you give for calling any remorse position now they continued to
patrol their starting to take some casualties and they start to go down the spiral back to the book charlie companies drift toward
brutality took very little time it began with beating up suspects in villages and quickly became more serious bernhard stayed aloof from
the process fred with mere did not they explain that never convention to us during our training and in the beginning we did what we thought
was right and just turned the prisoners over but it was kind of hard naster you've been there a while you started seeing learning finding
out what real experience is all about here you are fighting an enemy who doesn't follow the geneva convention but you have to abide by it
it's like being in a football team were you you are you after folderols to the letter and the other team can do whatever the hell they like
the voices of authority in the company the patonee and officers acknowledged that this executing prisoners was a proper way to behave who
was a grunt to disagree with it we supported it so they started to execute prisoners which is obviously against the geneva convention but
the way there lookin at it their seeing that the sergeant send that and a potomekes are like okay with it so the grunsel olga i guess
that's the way it's going to be an we'd mere goes on to say the first time i saw something really bad was the point at which we stopped
taking prisoners we'd been there about a month and a half or maybe two months there was one guyed had shot the prisoners instead of having
every one around and shoot them we walked them down towards the they would walk them down towards the beach or behind some sand boons and
shoot them a couple of shots and they were done as time went by things were done ears caught off mutilation one prisoner had his arms tied
straight out on a stick one woman was one was a woman and one was a man there was no question that these two were vicomte woman was working
as a nurse and we found them in a tone with all the medical supplies and we knew they were the enemy lit cigarettes were put inside the
elastic of the guise pants and we watched them dance around because they were burning his ass i think it was a bit of making him talk in a
bit of venting or for stations a bit of both i don't remember what happened to them whether they were turned over her shot the more it went
on the more you didn't trust to any one you didn't believe anybody because you didn't know who is who you didn't know who the enemy was as
we went on moran more presiders prisoners would be executed i would say it was a regular occurrence i did abuse some one a prisoner a papao
i found myself doing the same thing that had been going on all along i found myself caught up in it we caught his beard off that was an
insult a poppin with a beard is considered as the wise man and to cut off their bears a real sign of disrespect to them you found yourself
punching them around beating them up trying to get them to talk i never did hear any one with a rifle i have taken a knife to them i never
tortured any one death i think i probably saw people turchin death so you hear this guy using this verbage you find yourself punching them
around it's almost as if it's not it not emedeately detached you right we thought about being detach her he's detached from doing something
that he knows he shouldn't be doing yes seems like he comes back in kind acheck back in every once in a while i like being a kind of woke
up and found myself in doing this thing bornhart and outside her as usual watched the downward spiral it started with just plain prisoners
prisoners you thought when the enemy then you'd go on to prisoners who weren't the enemy and then the civilians because there was no
difference between the enemy and civilians it came to a point where a guy could kill anybody during an interrogation of one very village
harry stanley was standing only ten feet away while tally and another gay hubert colgrin tarogato old farmer lieutenant cole asked him
questions and then conger hit the old man in the mouth twice with his fist then carapus the old man into a well but the old man spread his
legs and arms and held on and didn't fall into the well then care had the old man in the stomach with his rifle stock the old man fell the
old man's feet fell into the well but he was holding on with his hands carterette man's fingers trying to make him fall into the well then
lieutenant colly shot the man when i am sixteen for some gees instance like these showed that the official attitude to brutality was
permissive what resulted was a moral vacuum a more toromon restraint and self control common decency became optional a matter of personal
inclination even those who refused to be drawn in were let left morely thrown off balance greg olson was in the village when croly and
carter threw the old man down the well i was in the village i remember seeing people butted in the head with rifles but he started losing
her sense of what's normal you don't give up your morals but you become a lot more tolerant we believe this behaviour was pretty common
place i didn't think we were doing anything different from any other unit you really do lose your sense not of right and wrong but your
degree of white right and wrong and michael bernhard who watched were was happening from the side lines with already viewed with some
mistrust by medina cally and others in the company when i saw american soldiers committing act could be called a crosses if someone else i
done them i began to think that maybe i just been too naive all my life that this is the way things really were little by little i began to
see that this group of men was getting out a control discipline was beginning to wear off without military discipline they were alone in
the country with no point of reference the things they had brought from their families and schools were far away and beginning to disappear
fred widmer felt thratement felt things going from bad to worse and felt himself drawn along with the tide if it ever could to me the
things were getting out a hand with ours questioning what i myself might be capable of doing i suppressed it it did creep up in my mind
because you still have those of values of what's right and waters wrong that you have been taught all your life i think the frustration got
to me but i also think i began to enjoy it that's what scary because at the time you find yourself in doing it i guess you could turn it
the superiority we had over them it's a strange feeling in retrospect you look back on it and wonder how you yourself could have done it
twenty years later when you look back at things that happened things that transpired things you did you say why why did they do that that
is not me something happened to me you reach a point over there where you snap that's a easy way to put it you finally snack somebody flick
a switch and you are completely different person there's a culture of violence of brutality with people all around you doing the same thing
continuing down the spiral letter to gonzales a member of second button saw rapes committed every time the company went through a village
one squad got one girl one lady then they told me go in there and i said no i won't so what i did is i went inside and she looked wheel bad
the only thing i can do for the lady is like i got the can ken and i wiped her she was awful for spiring i wiped her forehead i tried to
help her she got scared of me i was part of them i tried to tell her i don't have nothing to do with it i helped her to her feet i took her
to the well i got some water from the well then another squad heard about thirteen guys who did the thing with this woman and we're going
to try it out and i told them to leave her alone and then at that time i just walked off i said forget it i don't want to kill my own men i
tried to tell her get out of here go she was going to run but after thirteen guys got to her it's hard to walk there losing it there is no
leadership there losing it now they get into a they get they get in a minefield and they take some casualties in a mine field and here's a
medina's account of what happened his mind field we started sweeping the areas best we could with mind detectors taking pieces of torn a
paper marking the minds of we found we had one individual that we could not have accurate that was dead i took the medic that was with me
the futuman isom first petun and he and i moved the mind field to wear an individual as line he was split as if somebody had taken a clever
and right up from his crotch all the way up to his chest cavity i had never seen anything like it that looked so unreal in my entire life
the intestines the liver and the stomach and the blood just looked like plastic we took upon joan we spread it out and started and he and
the medic started to pick him up by the legs i reached underneath his arms to place him under the pontoon we set him on top of another mind
the concussion bloom my back i fell backward as i got up the murder the medic was starting to go to pieces i looked at him as if he had
stood behind the screen and somebody had taken a paint brush with red paint and splattered at through the scream he had below all over him
i grabbed him as he started to pass me and i shook him as at my god don't go to pieces on me you are the only man i i've got i have these
people that are hurt i hit him i slapped them i knocked him to the ground and i helped them to get back up and i saw on his religious metal
a piece of liver and i tried to get it off the individual before he seen it the individual was very shook up everybody was shaken the three
men were dead another twelve suffered ghastly injuries few could forget their own fear or the screams of the wounded or the gruesome task
of loading the man of a calicoes when you have been through a mine field and put the remains of your friends and body bags nothing shocks
you any more so that minefield colome three dead and twelve severely wounded in we talk about ideas a lot in her we talked about him with
jody doting medico got blown up by an it there's no there is no one to fight the bomb goes off in that's it who did this koudoum well let
me answer that question for these guides most of all they blamed the vietnamese not the vicolo they could not see or find but the
vietnamese of the villages who did not warn them of the mine fields and of the burycrats same thing my school teacher told me their
starting to apply the blame to these to be vetements lieutenant cole noticed the change in the mood of the men he had been on leave at the
time of the infant so he was in a round when this happened he had been only even to time to the incident and had returned the elze up side
in time to meet the helicopter's faring the dead and injured from now on the man in his bootoolgah gave candy to the feeneys children they
came across while on patrol in the villages instead callinice with some satisfaction they kicked everybody aside even the nicest sweet kids
he can hardly refrain from telling them well i told you so now they are starting to after that incident their starting to now assemble
information and intelligence for this raid that their planning in mei so in i think it's really important to take a look too where this
intelligence coming from it how the comet paints a very important part of the picture of what these guys are being told that to the book
and intelligence round up for march nineteen sixty eight prepared respectively some up the state of knowledge was this although santin
district remained relatively quiet during this period elements of the forty eighth and existing local force unit probably rone roamed the
district countryside the hills north and north west of me i area were probable base camps for elements in the forty eight fatalia and it
probably received supplies from the peninsula so the forty eight is n enemy unit an enemy of the talian and ocalea the work probable being
used have the probably in the area the villagers probably support them so that there isn't a clean being made from higher from above the
china command but you're going to hear that change so above the chain of command there's there's higher intelligence that make in his
claims that there's probable face there that they're probably working the area that they're probably getting some portent from the villages
well as this filters down i turned from probable to like definite there is a strange tidestream between what the army thought it knew about
the vehicle in what the task force fought it new army intelligence made only ten to tiflin by contrast rams deland for that man or crotach
were almost pontifical softest two intelligence guides at the task force level so does that make sense ego the the higher army above them
is telling em hay there's problemette guys are are basically certain senoosis these this is what the what this is if wattape ning factually
hum is that comitante imiteetions one of the real aides and it's also your contain as i go into this at both these guys aren't experienced
m so i'll get to it there was a kind of perverse desea brought the two overweight and middle aged american captains rams down cutacoo he in
cat wannest both were new boys to the real world of intelligence cessette zone both were inexperienced to both desperately eager to his
stablish a reputation ran as ella provided to intelligence a cutacoo to me lie operation and the the curious convergence of their views
irresistibly suggests that it was indeed randellite intelligence for the attack on me litel suggestions at the forty eighth local force
betimes up the four hundred strong that every one in the village was vhiconnich pavior and that at seven on saturday morning all bonafide
civilians would have left the village for the market all these views were shared by ramdown cuain excepted uncritically by task force
barker so think about that you got these guys saying there's four hundred up to four hundred enemy in the area that the village is all the
consipiring on a saturday every one that's are actual civilian will have left at seven o'clock in the morning for the market he can't make
that claim about any goop of civilians in the world that every one's going to do some of the same time impossible that you could you could
make that claim that the book athlete about intelligence indicating that no civilians would be left in the village at the time of the
attack ramsdell that the civilians went to market early in the morning because of the heat they testified the peers in a similar vein in
the civilian market in a villian population area there were several markets large markets where all the people would gather each day
because they had no refrigeration or anything like it with hindsight it appears naive even simple minded yet in nineteen sixty eight is
nugganoth rapatel insight along with the collar that every one who is not at the market with vicon was deemed unchallengeable right by
ramsdell considered him pacable by cruachan passed on on the menato the bitter man of charley company seeking revenge for their losses the
isis just this is horrible to harlinian i had such watsonia occur with me where it was early my first to point it to rack where we got a
will like a movie we would get maps he of of the city area and thereby a red axe on the target at an your bad guys in this building and i
remember one time we went out we hit the building with the red x on it and we didn't find anything or was a onerabel that we got out of
there turned out to be not the person we are looking for and as we did further analysis we realized that the building was the wrong
building in an after that i got very critical about okay chow hop at the red axe on this building the tell me who did that and why they did
it i want to know him out is going off of you put a red exorbitant mean anything to me mum i want to know who did that and i had another
situation where we went in in heaving you know where there were suspected baggy we had a telligence this scows a financier and had money
was given to the insurgents and so we went and captured him in search his house and you know bubbles door off so we we we caused intact to
his house and when we got back we after we talk to him we figured up this guy was not bad and as i pulled the string on what were this
intelligence came from that eventually led some to put a red act on his house and described the guy and who he was i found out that it was
actually he the guy on a business and he had fired one of his employes and when he fired one of his voyous well his employee went until the
american taischatrin disguise finding you know in searching little disgruntled so all you had to do was diggin and find a little bit more
about the information you figured out it was a disgruntled employee so guys out there in the field right now when you're always question
your intelligence nothing against the intelligence folks there going to do the best they can but they're not the ones that are going to get
the blood on their hands so question intelligence find out what the sources are find out where the information came from ask who drew that
red axe as who said there's not going to be any villagers in the in the no civilians in the village after seven o'clock in the morning as
those questions meanwhile the loss is these guarantied to take casualties so they took what was it three killed and twelve wounded and now
they got sergeant cocks killed by a booby trap they got a dice and lost both legs henderson blind it suffered growing injuries and loss and
almoner so their continuing to take casualties and on top of the castalies that they're taking years start to get an escalation of
behaviour of negative behavior in here is an example of that fact of the book of village or passing on a bicycle was beaten up of managed
to escape a woman working in the fields was shot when somebody shouted that she was carrying a weapon when the squad came closer the
discovered she was onarati alive they shudder again and kicked her body to a pulp somebody stole her ring they were now close to their base
and angry villagers stormed the camp and protest against the murder badinant hush it up no one was charged with any offence medina said
later that the woman had been discovered with a detonator still in her hand callicolone that medina was about to lose men just because they
kicked of vietnamese kids or killed the dam in a enwoven he had to keep a combat effective unit so now you've got clear cover up going on
by the chain in command he she had a debt naturalmente and it's very visible to see this downward spiral from a letter from gregorson who
like i said he was he the faithful mormon kid and he writes a letter to his dead back in the states dear dad how's everything with you i'm
still here on the bridge we leave saturday one about atuonans went out on a routine patrol to day i came across a hundred and fifty five
millimeter artillerymen that with boydan he killed one man blow the legs off two others and the injured to more and it all turned out a bad
day made even worse all their way back to it to daddy which is their name in their camp they saw a woman working in the fields they shot
and wounded her then they kicked her to death and empty their magazines in her head they slugged every little kid they came across wine
god's name is this half to happen these are see all seemingly normal guise some were friends of mine for a while they were wild like
animals it was murder and a ashamed of myself for not trying to do anything about it this isn't the first time dad i've seen it many times
before i don't know why i'm telling you this i guess i just want to get it all off my chest my faith and fellow man is all shot to hell i
just want my time to pass a estanco home i really believe as you do dad there's a cause behind all this and if it is god's will for me to
go i would rather do it here than home on a freeway saturday were going to be dropped by air in a enviest rong old i'm hoping i'll be able
to get out of here for a few days to go to a conference don't expect any letters from me for a while but please keep writing them i love
and miss and mom so much you are son gregg so gin highlighted in there but no malice of the guise and how their startled the clear the its
obvious to to redolent what's happening is wrong in unfortunately he's not stepping up and saying anything he's not bringing it to
attention any one he's letting it happen back to the book with his most recent losses charlie company was down to a hundred and five men
since arriving at vietnam three months before they had suffered twenty eight casualties including five killed three of them in action all
the casualties all the cats these come from minds burycrats and snipers they had never seen or encountered the enemy in any strength there
had been no heavy contact they were battle scarred without being battle hardened so you you can imagine again is what i but what my high
school teacher told me there there's ewing there taking these gasoline very similar dirac and afghanistan were i think it in iraq and was
seventy five per cent of the cachettes or from a decent so he not shoot at after an eighty blows up oftentimes is nothing south now with
those casualties with that view point their starting to prepare as i said for this this i sot on me lie in batteau no written record of the
briefing survives witnesses all agree on the general trust of cuttack contributions of the intelligence officer the forty eight left
battalion was dispersed throughout the area but the latest intelligence the assemble officers were told suggested that v c headquarters and
two companies totalling over two hundred fighting men were located in me life for the civilian popuation were all active sympathizers with
the v c by seven in the morning most non combatants would have left the village for the market so just to make that clear what word
expected their expecting to go in to me lie and find over two hundred fighting men and all active sympathizers with eve now they start to
ask some questions like olahan the appetas worse level back to the book what was to happen to the village itself task force officers left
the meeting with the clear and pression that barker had ordered the destruction of all houses dwellings and livestock in the meine miliaria
although there is some doubt as to whether this was a direct order or something that been assumed cetaceae barker saying that the village
was to be destroyed he wanted the are clean doubt he wandered at neutralized and he wanted a buildings knocked down he wanted to hooch's
burned he wanted the tunnels fill and he wanted the livestock and chickens run off killed or destroyed he wanted to neutralize the area
from adina also those well barkers clear and structions and what was to happen to the civilians there is nothing to suggest that barker
explicitly ordered them muger of ordinary people of me lie but the previous failures of the task force and then demand from or aggression
the intelligence picture of a community entirely controlled by the vicon the bland assumption that civilians would be gone to the market
the totally unjustified belief that innocent people had been warned to get out of the area in other words the entire scorched earth concept
of the operation planted neutralized the area drove irresistibly to the conclusion that here was a free fire zone in which even the people
were to be eliminated now that's so that the company commanders getting the brief from the battalion command of from a task force commander
that the impression that they get now we start to get into europe your chinese telephone game and he is now how does that get translated
down the chanaan even with the battalion commander talking to the company manners there it's not the super solid what the actual orders
were not it's not superior to day they said kill on an tilden is a kind of implied while maybe he said he wanted everyone destroyed what is
destroyed me so now we get to wear my dina is talking to his troops and his subordinate leadership the company commander meditated a shovel
from a quarter ton try learn to a map of me life for in the dirt at his feet as he described the coming engagement to morrow he told them
was charlie company's chance to get even medina related what he had learned about hers briefing earlier in the afternoon the vicomte forty
a vehicle battalion were in me lie with a strength of between two hundred and fifty and two hundred and eighty so actually he just
increased that number because the the report that he was given was two hundred holes saying between two fifty two eighty this meant that
charley company would be outnumbered more than jim duane but they were not to worry because helicopter gun ships would be on the american
side he told them to expect that hell of a good fight he told them that all innocent civilians would have gone to the market he jest
amplifying what he was told but what was going to happen to the village i told them we had permission colonel barker had received
permission that the village could be destroyed since it was a tecton hold to burn down the houses to kill all the live stock to cut any of
the crop that might feed the vs to cave the wells and destroyed the village and what was going to happen to the innocent civilians somebody
at the brief and as em do we kill women and children it was an astounding question it speaks volumes about the temper of the men but the
fact that such a question was indeed asked is not disputed where testimony is divided is what madened my reply to that question was no you
do not kill women and children you must use common sense if they have a weapon in our trying to engage you than you can shoot back but you
must use common sense but many of the men got a different message this is sergeant hodges right recollection of the briefing this was a
time for us to get even a time for us to settle the score a time for revenge when we can get revenge for our fallen comrades the order we
were given was to kill and destroy everything that was in the village it was to kill the pigs dropped them in the wealth pollute the water
supply kill cut down the banana trees burned the village burned the hutches as we went through it it was clearly explained that we were
that there were to be no prisoners that order was given the order that was given was to kill every one in the village somewhat as if that
meant the women and children and the order was every one in the village because those people in that village the women the kids the old men
were vice they were vehicleless or they were sympathetic to the vicon they were not sympathetic to the american americans it was quite
clear that no one was to be spared in that village so pretty clear what sergeant haggith ought to medina says no i didn't tell my tolmaeus
their common sense if for shoot nathusius em pages didn't hear that and back through book to sergeant hodges was not alone in his
interpretation of medea's briefing many senor enos left the meeting convinced that the order was to kill every one tapering bacon we were
to kill all the can and all the contempories in the village sergeant west it was a certain destroy mission we were to kill everything step
sergeant fagon kill every one sergeant cowan to kill everything that was in the village enlisted men to go implorin gonzales lord part mass
later testified that this is what they heard finneen remembered the question some one asked a respose to kill women and children and my den
replied kill everything that moves here stanley said captain moulded told us that the intelligence is established that melior was
completely enemy controlled i described the formations we were to use following day and told us to carry extra ammunition he ordered us to
kill everything in the village the tatius at talked about amongst ourselves that night because the order to kill everything in the village
was so one usual we all agreed that captain medina meant for us to kill every man woman and child in the village but not every one agreed
that medina had ordered every one in the village to be killed granadan whose foreboding letter to his father and been posted only two days
before has a completely different recollection of the brief they are clearly absolutely wasn't an order to go in and slaughter everybody in
that village and anybody that says so is a liar but diana said that any villagers were to be rounded up in air lifted the refugee camps
that was specifically addressed in the meeting if i thought i was going to get on a helicopter morning with clear orders that i was going
to slaughter every living breathing human being in that village i'm sure to god it would have been so appalling an unthinkable i mean i'm
not that stupid i know they couldn't afforded me to do something like that others too denied there was any explicit order it was like
medita'tion michael bernard said he didn't actually say to kill every man woman and child in me lie he stopped just short of saying that he
gave every other indication that that's what he expected whatever medina actually said there can be no doubt about the impression he made
to get the most of the men to her pride he offered satisfaction to grieving soldiers he offered a chance to strike back to better and
resent for man he offered an end to the frustration medina let slip the dogs of war melior was thrown in the path of their vindictiveness
and fury charlie company was going to get it refits revenge the task force would get its body count this time there would be no mistake so
that's where that the attitude that he these guys rollin the operation with and it is not the right attitude to have gone into the
situation because if tatshehte a figured this out yet the village that they're going into there is no battalion of the considers there's no
fighters at all and here they start their attack march sixteenth nineteen sixty eight seven fifteen in the morning out in the fields of
farmer frantically raised his hands by way of both greeting and i showed he had no weapon he was immediately felled by a burst from a
machine gun along with the gun ships almost every one in first and second patuone's was firing their weapons and now third paton was
joining in the moment of the admisisse volleys of fire were loosed off and the enemy fell wounded or dying it was apparent to bonhard as it
was to virtually everyone gathered there on the ground that they were receiving no return fire at all there was no incoming behold came
across a hot which had been raked with bullets scandie boold the sea discovered three children a woman with a flesh wound in her side and
old man squatting down hardly able to move he had been seriously wounded in both legs from six feet burkham's forty five caliber pistol and
pulled the trigger causing the top of the man's head to fly off it was a sight that would have forever be hatched in maples memory be cold
claim to shot the old man as an act of mercy harry stanley saw that the fleeing villagers we were offering no resistance his friend allan
boys who lived in new jersey only a couple of miles from naples came up behind him with a vietnamese farer aged between forty and fifty
years in custody i wore black pajamas and a sure hung open so that stanley could see his chest voice pushed the man forward to her standing
was standing beside the trail suddenly and for no reason boistab the man with the bayonet attached to the end of his rifle he fell to the
ground gasping for breath boys killed him and then grabbed another man being detained shot of in the neck and threw him into a well lobbing
them twenty six per need after him that's the way you've got to do it he told simpson robert leave the platoon met i joined in the frenzy
but confined his efforts to slaughtering animals he killed a cow that had been injured lee was from a farming community and didn't want to
see the best suffer up fun he and the pucoon sergeant i ecouen could see women and children being slain they were stunned by what was
happening all round them the further they went into the village the more bodies they found the continuater guy conti the men appeared to
all sight up when they landed the shooting once a began created almost a chain reaction he joined in without killing any one inside the
village his comrades appeared out of control families huddled together for safety in houses in yards and imbucare on to be loaned down with
automatic weapon fire or blown apart by fragmentation grenades women and children were pushed into bunkers and grenades thrown after them
at one point wandering off on his own contion a woman aged about twenty with a forty year old child he forced her to perform or all sex on
him while he held the gun at the child's head threatening to kill it half a dozen people from both britons and witnessed the stocky blond
haired second petonar from kansas city called gerrioed's become a sterical when troops from first between more walking a small group of
villagers back for screening rossow five was older than most tigrania sanding almost six feet tall and waincsotted red and thirty pounds he
made a surprise grabow amitie and demanded the weapon as a trade for his msee nine but wood was in having any don't turn them over to the
company rushits peeled to those gathered there kill them wood who is physically by far the smaller of the two men held tightly on to his
rifle rossitten snatched a hold of venations and sixteen turned and shot a vietnamese farmer the head would begin feeling sick at the side
the man's brain spilling on the ground as he turned away rossinist two more peasants in the head before handing the gun back to sinson in
the northern position of the village second poton had also run baserk employing the routine combattesse used by cally stephen brookman also
approached line of breast and three squads firing as they moved they came to dwellings and yelled out lie day and vietnamese for come here
the villagers at the villagers sheltering sheltering inside home made shelters or bunkers fragmentation grenades were tossed in side homes
were sprayed with automatic fire children aged six or seven came toward them with their hands outstretched saint chop chop they asked for
food and candy they had received from other american soldiers on the two previous visits to the village the soldiers skitten down after one
group of vietnamese were killed in front of a hut the first squad peter sergeant kenneth shield began telling his men that he didn't like
what they were doing but that they had to obey orders the villagers of the hollow together for safety but the americans poured fire into
them tearing their bodies of park one man firing a machine gun at random other using and sixteen on automatic bokadi operator deemed fields
witness were not a simpson shot a woman with a baby from a distance of about twenty five metres or an was shot almost completely off at the
wrist all that it held at all the helded on as a fragile piece of flesh she ran into a hot and some one yelled an order for her and the
baby to be killed max hutson the weapon squabber formed her machine gun team with florid right as soon as they passed the tree line they
were confronted less than thirty feet away by a middle aged woman climbing out of a tunnel using both hands she was an odd but they opened
fire and she fell back into the tunnel hoonawted took turns on the machine gun whenever they came across any lead i met they opened fire
killing them huts and could see people firing all around him the whole scene was one of chaos and confusion with people moving yelling and
shouting some of the troops were afraid they would be shot by their own men in the clearing in a clearing near a small couch a group of
fifteen feet to me had been gathered for women in their thirties three in their fifties three girls in their late teens and five children
ages between three and fourteen standing around were severe soldiers from different squads including hotel torreano consolarme one yelled
in any one's behind the vietnamese take cover because they were going to open fire a shot rang out on a bullet penetrated the head of a
young child being carried by its mother blowing out the back of its skull others began firing until the entire group was dead gonzales
could stand no more he turned away and vomited a few words were spoken until some one said let's move out a soldier stooping over a tunnel
yelped for the occupants to come out consolarme closer and could hear people responding as if they were about to comply well upon the
soldier to in a grenade and yelled fire in the whole telling every one to stand clear tally had been called twice that morning on the radio
by an anxious medina what is happening over there but dinadan demanded to know challenging the slow progress of the first platoon he wanted
call to get his men back on mine and keep moving this made the young putting commander nervous throughout his time with the company he had
frequently been made the butt of medina's jokes medina knew calli couldn't command the respect of his men now under pressure caircled that
large drops as civilians had gathered and were slowing the baton down never want to accept excuses medinatu kali simply to get rid of them
so when calicem across me low and continnerin and said take care of them his intention was clear it was his way of getting me denoise back
constitut nothing of the implications of collies request re reempy replied okay like many in the company he regarded the man as a joke and
resented cab the way callitris to suck up to the men one minute by calling them by their first names and in shouted and balded them the
next counties peomond er had absolutely no leadership of bility among the squatting vietnamese worked and of fifteen men with beards and
ten women women as well as a hand full of very elderly grey haired women who could hardly walk the rest were children of all ages from
babies up the early teens colly who is carrying a bandolier of ammunition on one shoulder said i thought i told you to take care of them
meno responded somewhat naively we are were watching over them no repose at cally i want them killed he moved over the wardances beside me
low we'll get all mine and fire into them continella other and backed off neither of them wanting a part in what was about to happen
toweling his temper beckoned them toward him come here come here come on we'll wind them up will kill them conticent for an excuse pointed
out that he was carrying international waste ammunition perhaps he could keep guard over by the tree line in case any one tried to get away
he suggested carry turned to meet no fire when i say fire conti stood behind him as coy and meet most standing side by side blazed away
they stood only ten feet from their hapless victims changing magazines from time to time the vietnamese screamed yelled and tried to get up
it was pure carnage as heads were shot off along with limbs the flesh your body parts were ripped to shreds meloidae twenty three fully
loaded magazines for his m sixteen in his pack when they had left dody he fired in a spring motion he noticed one man dressed in red fall
dead as he fired the rifle on automatic until the magazine was exhausted then he reloaded he switched a semi automatic fire and loaded the
third magazine after a minute or so meet low couldn't continue tears flooded down his cheeks he turned stuck his rifle and condeshend and
said you shoot them countie pushed the weapon back if they are going to be killed i nocendo it let him do it he said pointing a colly by
this time constituted sea only a few children were left standing mothers had thrown themselves on top of the young ones in the last
desperate bid to protect them from bullets raining down on them the children were trying to stand up calliope fire again killing them one
by one contestor at him finally when it appeared to be all over caricatured and said okay let's go suddenly some one yelled out that more
vietnamese five women and six children some distance away were making a break for the tree line tally burst out get them get them killed
them me lose face was flushed his eyes were still full of tears when he arrived with grease at the ditit and found calyste down we've got
another job to do he said looking up them about ten members of the paton were guarding forty to fifty feet ameses were crying and crawling
around james dursey i have set irish italian from brooklyn was looking at a man in white robes with a goatee beard whom he took to be a
buddhist monk praying over nail ole woman she was seriously ill and had been carried through the village on a narrow wooden platform which
the vietnamese used as a bed tally was now on his feet harry stanley appeared on the scene and tried to question the monk whose crying and
bowing as he tried to make himself understood kally could understand him breeze who attended vietnamese age classes in hawaii tried more
questions and got nowhere tally was getting more and more impatient where had the vehicle where were the weapons where were the envy a when
the man shook his head callitricke him in the mouth with his rifle but just then a child aged about two years and parted from its mother
managed to crawl up to the top of the ditch dirty watched horrified his cally picked up the child shoved it back down the slope and shot it
before returning to question the monk the villagers pleaded for the holy man's life stand we asked the bearded man the same questions in
vietnamese that cale was asking in english and effort to be fused the situation but the monk vainly replied that there were no nor feed to
be soldiers in the village there were no weapons the stanley translated these replies immediately tally grabbed the monk pulled and round
hurled him into the patty and opened fire with me glows and sixteen as the elderly mummasan lying prostrate prostrate tried to get up she
too was killed more vietnamese shepherded by soldiers were riding on the seen and caleinda and melon voice he wanted every one killed he
began pushing peasants into the irrigation channel others joined in using their rifle butts to shove wailing vietnamese down the sleep
steep slope some jumped in by themselves others sat down on the edge moaning and crying clearly aware that disaster was imminent it was a
pitiful sight when til the time all the firing stargard hubert carter had been kneeling beside dursey quietly playing with a couple of
children tersest incredulously i think colly wants them all killed carter said oh no he can send me to jail but i'm not going to kill
anybody said darcy beginning to move away and wondering what would happen to him for refusing to fire dirty was another one who liked to
play with the children earlier in the day he'd been devastated after he opened fire and killed some one running from the village it turned
out to be a woman carrying a baby and nurse was horrified in a shamed by what he had done all sinisine was really caught up about it a
woman standing next to robert may be showed him a bullet wound in her left arm he felt helpless there was nothing he could do for her
talischova the ditch and told maples load your machine gun and shoot these people mabel shook his head and replied o knockunder towered his
an sixteen or maples as if to shoot him then and there maplesap and believe when some of the other soldiers interposed to copetent him
cariaco seconds later he and me low began firing a machine gun opened up and one of the squad beaters tried to usher the man into line so
they could all fire simultaneously dursey stood completely frozen watching disbelievingly as the vietnamese tried frantically to hide under
one another mother's protecting babies screaming at dirty above the sound of the mixtec meadow continued pouring shells into the ditch
crying a sterical once more he stopped for a second wire you firing he pleaded with dirty fire why don't you fire the amuckers saw remnants
of shredded human beings hundreds of pieces of flesh and bone flying up in the air as the shallow of an was repeatedly sprayed with bullets
magazine after magazine was reloaded during the mass execution and as all this horrendous seeing is unfolding there is actually a a
fotografer there military fotografer in habile and he's taking pictures and he it was almost like he was just instinctively shooting he he
kind of detached himself then here's what he said i knew was something that shouldn't be happening but yet i was part of it i think i was
in a kind of a day from seeing all these shootings and not seeing any return fire yet the killing kept going on the americans were rounding
up the people and shooting them not taking any prisoners he was completely different to my concept of what war is all about i kept taking
pictures that was my job as a photographer to take pictures on normal reaction i have with a camera just picking up and keep on shooting
trying to capture what is happening around me i feel sometimes that the camera did take over during the operation i put it up to my eye
took a shock put it down nothing was composed nothing was pre thought just the normal reaction of a photographer i was part of it every one
who was there was part of it and that includes the general under colonel flying above in their helicopters there all part of it we all were
just one big group now as all this is is happening you've got the dena whose the again the company commander she sorta coming up from the
rear and he starting to assess what he seen back to the book will made might not have seen masetto's taking place the evidence of his own
eyes told him what everyone else could see that some kind of massacre had occurred in fact it was worse than a massacre to many of the
dears men were taking sword pleasure into disticha several became double veterans gi slang for the dubious honor of raping a woman and in
murdering her many women were raped and sought oise mutilated and had their virgines ripped open with knives or bay on that one woman was
killed when the muzzle of a rifle barrel was inserted into her vagina and the charger was pulled soldiers repeatedly stabbed their victims
cut off limbs sometimes beheaded them some were scalped others had their tongues caught out or their throats slit or both tommy lemonade
names placed their hands together and bowed agreed americans only be beaten with fists and tortured club with rifles and stab in the back
with bayonets martin fagin saw bodies which had been shot in the head at point blank range he could tell because the penetration of an
amitie round creators shock wave inside the skull forcing the brain completely out other victims were mutilated with the signature see
company or the shape of an ass pate carved into the chest fagin figured this had been done as a warning to the superstitious vietnamese it
was widely believed that they regarded the assets as a sign of bad luck troops from all three petuntur out wanton and mindless acts of
brutality the second paton were already amongst the most notorious rapes and charlie company even if tom commander joined in on occasions
rasave forced the woman to undress with the intention of having sex with all of them the faded strip he said he was going to shoot them he
singled out one woman telling her to boom boom him she became a sterical and the other women panicked yelling and screaming and begging for
mercy rushits to side it then let them have it he fired several rounds and killed them all in now we got hoboland he's the fotografer and
this is what he is witnessing just as soon as i turned away i heard firing i saw people drop they started falling on top of each other one
on top of another i just kept walking i did not pay attention to who did it by that time i knew with the score was it was an atrocity i
felt i wandered to do something to stop this as though as we were going through the village i asked him soldiers a why they more or less
shrugged her soldiers and kept on with the killing it was like they were fixed on one thing searching destroyed and that meant killing
civilians i noticed this one small boy had been shot in the foot part of the foot was torn off he was walking toward a group of bodies
looking for his mother i put up my camera up to my eye i'll go in take a photograph i didn't notice a gi down beside me with his impitent
rifle pointed at the child then suddenly i heard the crack and through the view finder i saw this child flipped over on top of the pile of
bodies the g i just stood up and walked away no remorse nothing the other soldiers had a cold reaction they were staring off into space
like it was an every day thing they felt they had to do it and they did it that was their job it was weird just a shrug of the shoulder no
emotional reaction now above this you had above this horror you had helicopter that were flying around there were some of them were
gunships some of them were there to pick people up drop people off some of them were commanded metal helicopters were some senor leadership
was flying round chin observe that the battles of took place and we do end up with tea with a real hero here a hero at the helicopter pilot
and his name is hugh clours thomson junior and ease finaud and i'll go to the book thomson mark several wounded people on the ground with
green smoke a signal that they needed help returning to the mean i area about nine a m after the first refueling thomson met noticed that
people who were previously injured were now dead there are boots of bodies as well as many dead water buffalo over the radio he worn the
gun ships to fire only when they could postively enemy target they had good visibility as they hovered sometimes only four feet five feet
off the ground gutterlane colburn in the doorway didn't want to look at the corpses out in the patty field beside a dyke two hundred meter
south of the village they watched the small group of soldiers approaching injured woman aged twenty thompsonite with smoke they were flying
close enough for colburn to look at her face as she lay half in and half out of the dike she made a feeble gesture with her hand and was
obviously in need of help thomson put the air craft into a standstill hoverly a few feet off the ground the high gunshield the ground
forces on the radio you have a wounded over where the bubble is hovering thomson in his crew watched his ninotte wearing a captain's bars
on his helmet came up to the woman prodidit his foot and then killed her those nalakuvera could hardly believe what they were seeing
minutes later over on the eastern side of the village they saw dozens of bodies in the air gation ditch movements from the ditch convinced
them there were people still alive not far away a group of impatient taking a cigarette brick sat around on the ground and relaxed taking
off their steel pots it was obvious there was no fire fight taking place so now what happens is is thompson is start to get he surely
totally disturbed i wat he seemed down there so he land the helicopter and gets out of the helicopter and he goes over and and talk to a
young impetrate a young after all sir came came up and tondinetto him about what was happening on the ground the officer said that was none
of his business because he was in charge of the ground troops several members of tales poconos thomsone intervention tallied gone to speak
with the bubble helicopter pilot stand the overheard colly telling sledge forward sledge afterward that the pilot had in liked what he was
taking place he don't like the way i run in the shell but i'm the boss here old son who wanted no part the executions at the erigation
ditch had moved a hundred and fifty meters out to patty field to set up a perimeter of the fence he saw the pilot angrily shaking his arms
and gesticulating frustrated thomson lifted off again in circle barrier a few minutes almost as soon as he took off his worst fears were
confirmed and drip reported the sergeant was now shooting the people in the ditch comben thinking about what the notes had done in the last
war marching people to a ditch and blowing them away furious with himself and everybody else he finally snapped he flew over the north east
corner of the village and spotted a group of about ten civilians and cuting children running towards a homemade bomb shelter pursuing them
or a group of from second pelton returning to the village from their murders expedition based on all gideon the village that morning it was
obvious to thomson would happen when the troops got the fleam civilians he landed his air craft between the villagers and the soldiers and
radioed the gunshops he needed help screaming to his credit he had to get the people out of the bunker he issued instructions that beat
bewildered colbert if the americans began shooting on the villagers thompson said colewater as machine gun all the americans open up on him
blowman thompson orged him colbertine his gun around to face the gees though he was unsure whether he would be able to open fire on his own
men concerned for their own safety collies sure it was a good idea out land in the middle of a combat on the pilot contented confronted the
lieutenant in charge stephen brooks he said he wanted to help get the peasants out of the bunker broke told him the only way to do that was
with hand burned tom should shouted that you had personally get them out and told the lieutenant to stay put with that he went across the
bone bunker and genially coaxed the civilians to come out communers in the gun ships overhead heard thomson announced the radio that an old
man was sitting in the path of the troops near the door of a small bomb shelter thomson's voice was choking with emotion he swore up
senites cursed and pleaded with the air ocracoke down and help rescue civilians one pilot initially cleared at the request and thompson
threatened that if the infantry opened fire on the civilians his machine gunner were turned his guns on the americans danny millions a war
officer on the low gunships realized the delicate nature of the drama unfolding below and knowing that thomson couldn't talk directly with
the ground troops radio dehightler the infantry to stop killing millions and blind livingston the another pilot landed their ships and flew
the vietnamese two men two women and five or six children four miles away to the safety of the road which ran west i mean is a dokaket any
more drama than that and avenal tompson teabathed i'll go to the book they arrived back at daddy at about eleven a m thompson got out of
the air craft and through his helmet on the ground he told his section leader wanted happened and when millions and livingstone landed
vacant formed it a group of them sought out their company commander major fred watty in the aviation sections operation than they told him
everything they had seen walkyre up the hill to the low seiling ten of the taclobo centration on the barker he in turn quickly got on the
radio to his executive officer major charles cow whom who was flying in a helicopter over the battles on calhoun was instructed to find out
what was happening in getatable there been allegation that civilians had been shot barker wanted assurance from the den that nothing of
this kind was happening the order went out to charley company to cease fire and they did and almost as quickly as it started it stopped and
i it shows you that this whole time when all this horror was taking place anybody could have stopped it had they stepped up and said
something and spoke now i might a been hard for some one that a junior and listed guy that heighteen years old that thinks he's carried out
the mission but any of those people believers position and even some of the folks at wornted position if your if you are there and you
start the same no this is a apician and you did do her some guys on the ground that resisted but no one was able to actest it and it is the
one of those botzaris when i when i when i hear that that all it took was that orders to find oka botocudos you the power of leadership and
they were a sponsibility of leadership now as this story goes forward the first thing that happens is a big cover and they talk about this
operation like it was just a great victory over the vic and in fact a message of going to the bourse a message of congratulations for the
pinkoatie or the operations called pitful was received from general westmoreland himself in a poacher that rigate commander described to me
i operation as having been an outstanding success the praise war of the role of unity eleven infatuate directly reflect our expert dindons
leadership and devotion to duty he wrote to the dina coping the memoora the quick response professionalism displayed during this action has
enhanced the brigades image in the eyes of higher commands so there you go within a few hours the armies parmachene was pumping out a cold
full image of daring due by the american troops the machicoulis issued later the same day from syon gave brief details the operation
announcing that american division forces had killed a hundred twenty eight enemy six miles north east of climbing city you s troops
surrounded red killantry eight and there's another headline that went out that said he if barker crushes enemy strong holds that added tude
king tino now barker the biting commander and being killed before he's killed his he releases his assessment of the operation and this is
what you start to you seek cover up retinal over this here's here's barkers official report this operation was well planned well executed
in successful friendly cantlets were light and the enemy suffered heavily on the operation as civilian poportion supporting the v c in the
area a number approximately two hundred this created a problem and population control and medical care of those civilians caught in the
fire of opposing forces however the infatuated on the ground and helicopis were able to resist civilians and leaving the area and in caring
for and or evacuating the wounded this lies just lies another another of peace barker was generly concert genuinely concerned that
civilians be protected in future operations and there is no way he could have known the dreadful atrocity being committed by charlie
company at the time it was happening but its clear he quickly became part of the covert he knew civilians had died and a lot of them now
the so so this starts to gain a little bit traction people set the talk about there's rumors of even a lesbia nice headlines come out and
the official report comes out but people started no about it and so they start sending charlie company in all kinds of crazy long term
operations out in the field and they start to feel like while good the book gies felt they were being sent out on in the hopes that they
all might be killed they tried to bury us out there witherbee remembered after me lie we went out in the field for three months straight we
never came back into the villages our trips to the base camps were few and far between they had a problem and doubt with us by trying to
hide out eidothee hoping we all get killed but we didn't so a guy i i said people are talking about it there's rumors about it and he's a
guinane ridenow or who checks in tetralani the inn starts her stories he starts here in story starts they start telling him they start
talking and it's why you can't ever cover anything up his white cover up never work never try and comprising up because it's goin to come
it's goin to come out it's gonna come out if you try and cover something up it's going to come out that's the way to work so this guy a
ride in our after hears enough and he talked to all these different people that are worn involved and they tell him what they did and what
went down and he can of gathers all that information and i we go back to the book ride and how you write a letter he writes a letter that
explains what he learned what he'd found out and here we go ride and how one posted the letter on april second nineteen sixty nine to you
doll and thirty prominent men in washington d c including president next on the secretary defence meldola the chairman of the joint she
susta edward kennedy bury gold water eugene mccarthy and william fore he sent the letters registered mail thinking that staff opening them
would be bound to take the comments from the content more seriously and here's a little exert from thee from the letter gentlemen it was in
late april nineteen sixty eight that i first heard of pinking happened there i received that first report with some scepticism but in the
following months i was to hear similar stories from such a wide variety of people that it became impossible for me to disbelieve that
something rather dark and bloody did indeed occur some time in march nineteen sixty eight in a village called pink ville in the republic of
vietnam so that's how the story breaks there start to investigate it within the penteconter to investigate his great this book is great
goes into a condition what that's like how that takes place the people that are running it and there's good honest solid you know army
leadership that as on a wagonward find out what happened and were gonerdo something about it so the cover up isn't throughout the chain of
command there's people that the trying put a stop to it now the other thing that turns very interesting on this is obviously when it hits
the public and want of the most shocking impact to the public to place on television and an you remember at this time and i don't know if
this was like for for you cause you a little young to me but when i was a kid we we had three t v channels you know there was no fifty
seven or a hundred and forty seven or one thousand t v channels there was no internet we didn't really to wasn't really radio shows any
more so if the family was going to do something at night at six o'clock at night or seven o'clock at night together after dinner there was
a good chance to rise down watch t v that you go back this nineteen sixty nine so it's even more folks than television and so on happens is
this story breaks on t v with an eater of view in all got the book with me those confessions television was for most americans clinically a
medium of entertainment me lose confession was truly an extraordinary departure from the vapid diet of soap operas comedy programs in
quizshows news however was important to american audiences walter cronky was a national institution melos interview was delivered virtually
without warning to an audience of millions of parents and children waiting excitedly for news of a polo twelve astronauts return from the
moon and the splash down into the pacific ocean so that's what that ever things that were going on all let's get the kids to watch the news
they will it find out about yea yea america back to the book instead their living rooms appeared the garish figure of a young man from
indiana me low brought to the audience a rachet about vietnam they would prefer not to have known he chillingly described lining up first
the first group of villagers and shooting them down expending four clips of ammunition in the killing there were seventeen bullets to a
clip which men wallace educed deduced sixty eight shots at the ditch execution sit me load he was ordered to fire single shots to conserve
ammunition wallace wandered an now why he did it that here is the interview why did i do it because i felt like i was ordered to do it and
it seemed like that at the time i felt like i was doing the right thing because i lost buddies i lost a damn good body bobby wilson and it
was all my conscience so after i done it i felt good but later on that day it was getting to me you're married right children to how the
boy is two and a half and the little girl is a year and a half well obviously let the question comes to mind the father of two little kids
like that how can you shoot babies i didn't have the little girl i just had the little boy at the time how do you shoot babies i don't know
it's just one of them things how many people would you imagine were killed back day i would say three seventy what did these civilians
these particular the women and children the old man what did they do what did they say to you were they weren't begging or anything no no
or right they were begging and saying no no and their mothers were hugging their children but they kept on firing well we kept on firing
they was waving their arms and begging did you ever dream about all this that went on and paintville yes i did and i still dream about it
what kind of dreams i see the women and children in my sleep some days some nights i can't sleep i just lay there thinking about it so
that's not exactly the friendly news that your spectantes about the apolomenon now this thing goes to trial and again you gotta get into
the book to see how all the breaks down but a couple of high lights hers ieutenant cally during the crier when how he how he testified on
what he did and is a good insight in his mind said here we go kitten a calli i was ordered to go in there and destroy the enemy that was my
job that day that was my mission i was given i did not sit down and think in terms of men women and children they were all classified the
same and that was the class of cation that we dealt with just as enemy soldiers i felt then and i still do that i acted as i was directed
and i carried out the orders that i was given and i do not feel long in doing so and you weep we get very used to the up the media i mean
we are to media circus nowadays because there's so much media there's social media there's cable media there's internet bedewed there's a
circus of media now and you get a lot i would say let you get out more distracted i mean new stories you're doing last that long but this
was this was a big new story and it was thrilly dividing the country in a way even more so than the countries already been divided by the
vietnam war but in a go to the book here to many americans cally was a hero and he believed that with the guilty verdict found guilty a
great injustice had been perpetrated upon the army and in vietnam they they gave an example here in vietnam that soldiers occasion had
hastily raised a defiant sign that said a troop first cave salutes william cally so you got people better saying hey what you know callias
carried it the right thing out there all top of that this was a good example of what the attitude of some americans were was at a a world
war two veteran wanting an army recruiting office in mobile alabama to make an extraordinary request he had flown bombing missions over
germany which had killed innocence civilians and wanted to be arrested for war crimes despite the an in another good example that somebody
sent a got a belly git a living billy goat and sent in the white house and he had up a jacket on and the jacket sent speeton it and this
this is this is pretty cool the response that the army and a government had to this colias not a scapegoat nor a poor lieutenant single
down to bear the entire burden of a difficult war declared a high level army memorandum circling amongst senor staff at the white house his
act stand alone in infamy among non atrocities for the u s forces in the war if calias let go or let off of a slap on the wrist the message
to all soldiers must read anything goes the implications for the army let alone the nation are incalculable but clearly intolerable so they
did a hold the line and recognized that that that this was not good and at the same time he still got these people that were saying that
looked a suficient and here's a hearse coat from the book take by way of example be following the american soldier in an officially
sanctioned laugh is a thing so ugly in dangerous that it would take a kipling to describe him not a description of me lay but the
observation of james h blanton lieutenant later to come later to become a judge on the behavior of troops in the philippine sixty years
before vietnam here's another comment about what that war was like the the war in the philippines are men have been relentless have killed
to exterminate men women and children prisoners and captives active insurgents and suspected people from lads of ten up an idea prevailing
that the philipino was little better than a dog and another comparison here from the book in the dakotas general william t come to servan
had written to general less elysian we must act with vindictive earn earnestness against the sioux even to the extermination men women and
children nothing else will reach the rue of the case those packet the indian wars there and then another one just a description that sort
of explains how all blares and this woman from world war two what kind of a war dissimiliar suppose we fought any ways we shot prisoners in
cold blood wiped out hospitals strafed light life boats killed their mistreated enemy civilians finished off the enemy wounded tossed the
dying into a hole with the dead and in the pacific boiled the flesh off enemy skulls to make table ornaments for sweethearts or cave their
bones in the letter openers that was written by an american war correspondent and wood el jones now where were those where those ideas
become so disturbing an and in war is help war is dark or as evil hall beltings happen and again when you have a lack of leadership things
get even worse and i can happen even to these apparently normal gives an here's michael donnarton about on it was like and what he thought
of people after he got home i had seen people who looked like everybody else normal people doing the trocious things and i really wasn't
sure how any one would have acted in the same situation i thought i knew human nature i thought that people were basically good in that
they couldn't do this i thought most of the values people held were pretty solid that when we defined things as good or bad that they were
good or bad and that we would know in something was really bad but i had seen that this was not the case i wasn't sure i could trust any
one again i wasn't sure i could ever get close to any one or confide in any one very closely because of what i see over there and going
back to the leadership peace and this is from the book what steps were taken to hold the run of beatings fast rate tortures and murder
which prodigally company down the road to me lie none who among the china command that found on its bottom long lieutenant william kelly
and rose through medina barker henderson and coster gave any kind of moral leader example that might have prevented the moral destruction
of the company no one in place of clear leadership there was paper leadership the rules of engagement numerous codes of conduct and all
other direct is all of which contained a loftiest intentions there was nothing wrong with these regulations in spirit they were a
recognisable expression of the american ideal at war a blue print for order in the midst of hell they simply never became part of the
soldiers reality because they weren't never seriously enforced and without emphatic enforcement they corresponded as much to the world of
the common grunt as road maps of mars that the total lack of leadership that lack of moral courage and as we closed this out it goes in the
book here and says once again the darker side of war has gone under ground mealies no longer a public burden or concern the burden of guilt
and a butors possibility have fallen on to the soldiers themselves ships that men of charlicoats to tell each other roles down hill and
well close out with the words from barnato simpson whose in his own little private hell with his memories of this as he sits shaking from
side to side in his chair alone in his house in jackson mississippi how can you forgive i can't forgive myself for the things even though i
know that it was something that i was told to do but how can i forget that or forgive it's easy for you to say well go ahead with your life
per how can you go ahead with your life when this is holding you back i can't put my mind to anything yes i'm ashamed i'm sorry i'm guilty
but i did it you know what else can i tell you it happened it happened in as we think about this book and and you should go and get this
book and you should read this book and you should experience this level of darkness in the world so that we can all remember to be vigilant
against this power of darkness which i suppose we have to admit that that darkness is in every man so lurking and weeding we for a moment
to strike out but we we need to kineth we need to counter that that evil with good and we do that with the power of leadership and you can
see in these situations where leaders led men to do things that they knew were wrong they knew they were wrong things that they didn't want
to do killing children as tears are streaming down their faces and if you can lead men to do things that they knew all wrong imagine the
power and the influence you have as a lever to lead people to do things that all right and that people know all right in the oroos and hugh
or leader a miled no matter what your station in life or your position or your rank you are a leader when you step up and lead you are a
leader and you can make a difference and you can have an impact of and you can affect the outcome of so many things in the world by
stepping up and leading away from the evil and away from the darkness and toward the light in a now that was a that a rough book man is a
rough potest and in my i said i was i was questioning whether to actually do this or not in an insert points when i was reading this
evistoke reading it i think and even when i was reading it just now all tapana for this reading i could i could hear a numbness in my voice
i can hear it as i'm talking about the killing and the gunning down and the a so much and i know it's going to be brutal i know people are
going to be in backed by this and maybe not have was going to make it through this and i understand that but we are it to ourselves to know
history and to know and understand evil and understand how quickly it can come about and i seditious and i no that if you are in a
leadership as his essarts steadings going side was you got to put a stop to them before they get out a hand before they turned into this
maybe at some point well look for some topics that are a little bit more i guess light hearted light hearted and but i say would only issue
with that is you are a topic that's light hearted you can find em anywhere you and go get him anywhere there's a there's a whole actuates a
whole section for if i cast that's called comedy right it's called comedy that that exists there is no section that says the darkness i
guess there is one it's called jocapa you on you about the darkness you are near about things that are going on the world that aren't good
this is it it would to people that are dead in reality an you now i know this this is not for everybody and that's okay that's okay you
know we're talking about heavy topic here in the reason were talking about the dark is cause we want to be enlightened we want to know
about these things i don't think we're going to time for you and a because i just talked about that book for a really long time um so what
will do is to acute for the next pot cast and for this one we'll let it stand on its own an i know it might be a rough pot cast i think
about wanting to hear more of them what if you do want to hear more he potass echo what can he's folks do to support the pop costs will as
they always directement sure the port the pod gasped but eenajest yourself with no emendation ah on onias the best up women ah the actual
supplements that i take jaculates on it dot coms lashed jocko you can get ten per cent off so for yourself physically and of financially in
that way oh i would recommend the what ye think well what's the number one you think cruel i think it tends on to you are a rank of four
mule meat grow all you a a alpha b i like ye and they're just in anyway so alarino for you brain make you think quicker makes you like it
eustace bring ease i got home over under and jadran after brain instant by the way m make you think ye emilien you search for words like in
your nowhen you're trying to think of a word sometimes yes yes i'll sombreroful like only to athletes a little bit closer he getting
actually can read all about it called it new tropical pharaoh good revering anyway a cell good for joints as one acuities that's why he's
so functional i would say relachement punched i like to or oh and warrior bars that's a new one night than a warrior bars that that's not
like some you know me they've been having watching etroites to but you know you have protein powder masseron for it worry you for that's a
that's a lutestring or watered about what's good black tar about perching powder and that a power fright for you get a protein bar that's a
thing that's been many fature right but on the horror the warrior arrowsick yeh so that makes it the little bit better in my mind yet i i
want to like food yet so so come canikin the direction of a beef jerky situation but even more in a looloo at it the thing in it runesten
sensitive from desire and worried bar and that is beef turkey dry worry a ar not dry as one de les you know and and i shrieked for like
high intensity kind o prolong stuff together into it wrestling mat can let elicroca all there you go shooting at put your performance you
will as oxygen better anyway really good but really good um also another way said portmonaie in the motto before you do your amazonian go
to jaffa cast a coming click on the amazon link what is that cost you that in costantin except for literally literally three seconds to you
in time three seconds and you support the pages up i like that and the one lilac may be like a one tenth of a celery may be of finger place
a long aetat lay a super easy we are asking people to donate money fer not a one be just as one's going to donate the money yes they're
gone they're goin to tell how i guess like collective yet good um so bold now you go that i guess the main thing is to to remember to do it
you know when you you're trying to get that dictates what got a make that time so he can ship that same day you know then you got a just an
maybe take some apparant that holt you remember aline anyway for or if you want us some jocasta like some cool shirts jocko store not
contain in you sir is that corrector yes we have a new sure that troopers sure touch it's got a name are we name he shirting were not got
you now there is as to name it i i this is some people don't go charles he is an artist right either artist and so that's why i he has to
day the fisher don't you you just have to name it because that makes you feel like it's a pineapple you just said the trooper sure as if at
the thin but he is the thing thoughtwise it with like with all the shirts it's not just like warm anacolutha er sure cause i think that
sounds cool it's like there's different ways not just a shirt with a saying on and like diseases all your latin just called the trooper
tusher it actually is it here he like were come and were in a right now if you're i am you want to you an you do you can check it out on
buttered colors that's a unique usually have to tell it to a wife tests something like that now but you can't protect it and this is why so
the people who signed up on on the the insiders group that you mallisori people that are in listed true peril the jackal partly right as of
food do that a wall o jock enjocko started come rain the front he just be email address and i don't sam that's not what it's for this let
us for this one of the things that it was for and the people who on the list not is where hey i got a new shirt design idea you know no i
don't know what colors really did what are the best colors and i know what collielike ye have all de black one of this but so what i did
was i i inteenal thevery body and said what or here's what he is the design is what kind of will look like what comerciale doing what
coleritos i so there's a there was a vote it was and put received this gaienthon senses as these three colors like a dark red o which i
actually turned out even better than i thought and i was in an enthusiastic about the red and the degree i support degree that way if you
had you never know it my atego tactical it is stefanos sake yes santoine good for normal situations or taxation that i i like decenther
just in casiang and to get after manannan of course to get the black but that was the consent is over all the green there is a charcoal had
a strong strong um you know but ah the as the green the red and the black butte mahaica check it out if one look at the details of it there
is a good anyway if you want to put the hat cast that way get a sure tis true sure isn't the only one but man i did a pretty and a pretty
fired up about it looks good i think anyway there's other ones on there too that are cool and a coffee mugs in stickers you down a likely
pathway to as are the ways and a for the people who have been in de an to say thank you be like not even doing it half way justice you
evenly is an everywhere for doing that and you know it you know what's weird you or talk about like howl o you could see that you go as you
the dark to to a brief three eight light right i actually just cause we just got down with that dark dark darkness of a book it just having
a conversation right now i'm so happy right in to be like here an talking and word were selling some old t shirts and drinking so much just
to be just in this situation i know that we have this goodness around us is a is really good so i think it is worth venturing into the dark
so you can appreciate the light he if you want to hear more of this kind of thing obviously got the poast you can also pick up a book
written by myself and my brother lay fain it's called extreme ownership you can buy the book we by the audio book which is actually lay and
i reading it so you get some more he information in there and not everything i talk about it is isn't that book renata it's the basic
principles to come babeesh that we put in the litany and one thing about the extreme that look extremely that it's good it's like dan this
is you see atoner one's different but me i felt like more than a dull after like a incorporates like that but here is the thing that you do
take away is the people around you will notice that you're a like better person to be around and i thought i was like pretty nice anyway
but you'll feel people like gravitating towards you more because like any a brace and even has varying levels of a brace of ness in that
even if it's just a teeny time a little bit in one is a but what that does it it it makes you work with people in a way less braceway so
people want to be around you ending con i would say that's that's a very good assessment and i'll tell you that i was felt especially when
i was in when i was in the military in the sultan's when when i was doing something people wanted to come with me when i oleah it was hold
good we all wanted to get after it together he asked that's probably an indicator of the principals in the book at work in my life yet you
know i but the some people am i mean i'm an only be us whatever where ill you'll have a little small little complex or a little something
little friction with somebody i confess i it may be at work or a atana home or whatever i would say it's it's pretty rare like i'm not like
if there is some frichtit came up between me and any one even my friend my wife or something it would stand out so much nowaday like you
would a out motation yes to become better person yet that in nectanebu like i say to such if you if you follow it if you were like than i
you know i value this and i'm going to it you actually incorporated as time goes on that's all it is where if you get friction or some
adversarial situation even if it's not yours and you're like bang i see that from a mile away you know and it sticks out so it's not any i
am in some people it's part of their everyday thing he don't do her rotations with yet good man is good like that wolferstein etched out
you get her on mason after you click for the website you know ah closing it up everybody if you want out talk to us more beyond that even
get us on the inner web estate charles i am at jack a willing that's on twitter the face booky and even have a little bit of the
instigating on if i actually actually answer most of the actually every single thing that comes on to enter i were always ponto i'm most
yankee that i for i don't know how long it's going to last an he'll getting pretty hard cartright now but i'm definitely reading everything
that's coming in and we appreciate all the feed back we give from you guys and and you guys bringing a little light to a world much
appreciated her and thanks for bringing that light to us and most of all thanks for going out there and getting after it in so until next
time this is echoing jacob out
