this is a jackal podcast number thirty two with that hotels and me joail income and since jocapa over thirty one a went long with the very
heavy and dark book we decided to and that one and not be any tune which means that to day we have one hundred per cent cuna for the troops
and obviously this comes from the questions come from you all that are lessening am mostly on tower and on face book is where i get these
questions from so thanks to every one for submitting these questions so that we can answer them for you echo gooding good evening all right
first question i want to say i like the first question it it's a good question a chorus first as i proved mosques rise ah i first question
how does one who grew up in the ghetto on quote involved with gangs drugs witnessing murders and all that good stuff overcome that
mentality where you your guard is always up come from a family of immigrants and growing up really poor we had to make a lot of sacrifices
and as i get older i feel that that in some of these ways as in some ways this affects my daily life i pronomen ings and a thereby mistakes
but still even in my senior year in college i feel some resentment towards these privileged kids who seem like they have at all i really
find it hard to get along with them because in a way i see them as a weak because they haven't suffered through hard times or have have to
struggle as a minority what should i do to learn to love them and respect them as equal to that is that is a good question i definitely
have seen a see that plain people go through that mentality yea where there there having that attitude and i'll tell you of when i was a
kid i actually i had a girl friend weskit this this girl and he we know and where her friend was my friend as well so we were all kind of
friends and one of the girls on a thing that she said which i thought was brilliant and she said ah everybody has a hard luctor buttelike
no matter you go and talk to somebody they had there struggle that they went to went through and you know whether it was deforce whether it
was abused whether it was money struggles whether there was fighting in the house whether it was jail whether there is drugs whether as
alcoholically situation you've been in everybody's got a hard luck story or something that challengeth minit not be really obvious on the
surface i mean you know frinstance this question here that the fact that wave that the question is praised you can hear he talking about
that the things that we you know he said family of evergetes going up really poor we had to make a lot of sacrifices right so right there
right there you can see that he's got a certain amount of familial pride and he talk about his family as we and a group of being together
and you know that might not be money that might not be expensive clothes but that's an incredibly powerful fagot your tree lucky to have
that now you tell me who's who's more who has a tougher challenge the person that grows up in a tight net family where every one sticks
together and everyone makes sacrifices together or the kid who grows up los dad makes a toudamani dad's never home dad thesis literally
choose his work over the family and how does that affect the kids personality you know i mean the kids kids can come from any background
and end up in really tough situations with drugs out all diction whatever that came from really good circumstances are really bases doesn't
even matter you can come from both so so that's part one part one is like you know you don't know what kind of struggles of the people then
though they might have been they might have them might be a a twenty two year old senior in college the driving of beam that has more
demons in their life than you do so it's it's a little bit arrogant to walk around and think that your demonios than in real tensest don't
you just don't know what they're demons are now on top of that if you just want to look at like the privilege the monetary side of it i
promise you that despite the fact that you grew up in a get on you your family had to my make artifices there are people that year the
privileged kid cause you get some kid that grew up in south america or some kid that grew up in africa that you know you think you had a
tough they didn't have a house they dig got you know a political strife in their city they watch their parents can kill whatever so you're
a privileged person to somebody else so let's keep that in my as well and once again you don't know what that looks like you know what kind
of struggles people then through so let's just try and all the term judge let's try and judge people not on what they are but one they are
as a person and you know for me you you know you talk about the the minority thing that to me i don't care about race color creed now that
stuff matters to me in care about socio economic background none of that stuff matters me i don't judge you on that you know why because in
the military in the soup seems the the the good seals came from every background every one of those backgrounds the bad seals came from
every one of those back background there was there was kids that grew up richer the silver spoon in the mouth they were awesome seals there
are kids that grew up in the ghetto the parents were gang beggars awesome seals same as reverses true there was kids that grew up with a
silver spoon in her mouth and went to a private school and they were horrible seals and there was kids that grew up gang bankers and they
were all still so it does'nt matter will matters is not what you are is cool you are as a person so i yeh i not not rena i'm i'm not going
to judge in a fact or there's if i was cantonese negative traits that do bother me at morn them would be judging people based on you know
stereotypes be judging people the judge in the book by its copper if you're doing that that's a negative no that is a weakness so so just
check yourself and realise that you don't know what people's backgrounds are you don't know what those on behind closed doors you don't
know what tuffin people have been through and judge them not based on that stuff is judge mount who they are person yeh yeh pillini think
this kind of helps you know how i say like a lesser in a boat right like a rowboat and you're all trying to get up stream and you have all
different times of people and then you have you weak or people in you have stronger people and the strong person put whether it's by his
choice or not he's strong he can you know he's been working on one he's in shape he can roll up so he went through all this sacrifice but
at the end he was a stronger person so you can look at it in a way where you now have the power hums be responsible with their power like
to help so you have to rot ye it's like you have a bigger burden but you have to embrace that not burden but you have a beer workload
because you're more prepared for it in like a and an actually speaking of that sir now that means that you have the power to to give people
knowledge and perspective on what you've been through and at important oldest to do that we talk about this all the time a i grow up to you
echo and i say hey you don't know what you're doing let me show you the correct way to fill this let me show you the correct way to use
this microphone but you how would you feel about that i don't know if all old like i know no cause you wouldn't if i came up he insanisti
you don't know what it's light can get struggle are you going to be are you to be open to her when i'm not to say no you're not no one is
if no one is but if i said he mansell good to meet you out we start to elation but i do you know what one thing that we got to remember
what i like for maybe some people you i was going up i had to deal with this oh okay now your mind is open to you start learning you start
growing yourself so by not being arrogant and by being humble and thinking that you have you may have been through worse things for the me
or a one ever the case may be where were actually going to make you teniente and that's the gorse he just got to stay home belong his
things and and e'll be ill it all work out better for you in the end it will absolutely work out better for you in the end and judge people
by the content of their character and the leave is a away of putting it that makes a lot of sense to me nettleson jacko and echo how do
they feel about the infantine situation he moting yourself after time off the mat or so the ezrehite resting question and its there's a guy
named incident ay and he's a ee old school you get you guy old school man may guy and he's a black belgirate you have seen for pride he was
the shoot o champion he is it is the just a a really old school kinoo g from away but the from hawaii and disgust a really well respected
guys of fighter and a guide that he knew his he he he kind of had that warrior e so that people talk about you know where he would say look
in i would rather die in this fight than lose any any men at and so he's been but he moved to japan he's of japanese heritage and he moved
a japan a long time ago i mean i want to say ten or maybe fifteen maybe even longer if hinkling ye i don't at all a long time ago he moved
back to japan he is he's a you know that's where he's kind of built his life is in japan and along the way i think his last fight was maybe
maybe eight ten years ago was his last fight and since then you know there was the the horrible earthquake and the sunamein japan and he
did work as sort of a a sort of a charity to raise money and help out those victims so that's what he's been focused on he's been focused
on a guess its family at whatever else but in that time he he he strayed off the mat of justice he stopped the training and and so you know
keep he had let things go on as life and he stopped training i don't recommend anybody stop training and am but for whatever reason he he
stopped training any stop training and i as a little interview with them as you talking about this he stopped training for like ten years
ten years of not any he said no train he just was stop train and now all you know he's cause he's a gig and then to eat did get you get
back in your brain and he started getting back on the mats and when he got back on the map he fell that he didn't deserve the black belly
more an it wasn't just because he was its timing was off or he was out of condition he felt like jugeth had changed and he's right in the
last ten years gits changed at and you know what yesterday detached a lot and the baby for me giukings every day every day it changes come
i am sought a dean will come up with some new thing dan very very good coming up with new things and he comes up with a new thing we
something i i neither one of us had fought of he probably does that once or twice a month he comes up with this new thing i might do it
once every three to six months maybe or i go okay i found something new in the molines will not for your hypsometer and then so it's it's
just one of those things that it changes and so answered got on the madigan and said i i don't i don't think i was here the backthought
right now and so he demoted himself back to the purple belgian so people though the question is how do i feel about it oh and by the way
since this question got asked he actually re promoted himself back to back beloso in it had a that go down that was joyeuses it is
instructor i gave in the back boright john is from what i untenanted as much into that part of it both as mainly just reading other
people's um takes on it and not like the reaction but which in go to the source of serialisation to but the concept more we odostomia i'm
not in ohadi conversation with john lewis and john louis said what what was the overall do you know any said well whatever said i i did go
to the source of turanian but i don't want to quote it exactly but john lewis basely said look you deserved a black belt oh you know what
he said he said look someone that's a doctor came a doctor and then that's not practising but then they want to give back in the field they
don't not become a doctor an they just go and learn the new techniques and get refreshed they don't have to take their doctor tag off their
door as a year doctor of juge you jes got to get refreshed the new technique and get back into it and anson said okay you know he he agreed
with it and he promoted himself back to black belt so you know i igniting from my for my perspective um i say good for him i think botho's
actions i agree with i think it actually pretty cool that he demoted himself with and and said you know i don't i don't i haven't been in
the game i got out of the game and i don't deserve to be a blackthorn so i'm not in a form not intuition on disgracing the black belt but i
also see the mine flip of hay no what i fought and trained for a giant portion of my life and i have innate knowledge that got me the black
belt and now i need to get back in the game but i'm so black belt i i i really respect anson i think he's a i think he's a guy with a lot
of heart and pride and i respect his thesis come think it's pretty simple for my perspective you know yes i told man has one of those
things where when you hear some one make a good point about one side of of the old deal you're like a high hat that's true have been you
see someone else make an unlitten i saw it all again at is good he that is so humble and any re keeping it real is like i'm not bucketing
in to buy think of my parleyers where i am and then i'm chris howter who's on us you know one of the original old nolan brother gaze smart
uh hu he said essentially kind o the same thing is as gentles orders genesee thing were you you know judischen es to be changing whether
you're doing it or not or and you earn it you're the black bell you know your instructors um you know recognise you as a black bolt you are
a black belt regardless and just cause he jumped back on the wave of jugend may be worn as good as at surfing i know you're still you're
still that that black bell thought you is got at like i said you just gotta get refresh without a new cane if you want to you know be up to
and he said it weymount the obit mannering now satan's right man but but he did say that it's like it's kind of like false humility which
umi did pretty much everything coshattas the about to but i could not really get there as far as meat feeling that it was false in any way
me don't i don't i don't monitored i didn't feel that um you know whether or not i understood exactly what what could see i guess i could
see what you sang gower you could come to that conclusion a little bit but i don't i don't know greenwich that piece of it i don't istis
actually a look is i don't think there's anything false about said he i am not good enough to be a black alright now sir therefore i put in
on i sanglot purple belt level i know it it feels like to be a black belt and i don't feel like one right down yet i think that makes sense
hearthstone to and and but ultimately i think it's it's however you and i think you're instructors have a lot could do with it is well how
however you want to see it you know i mean i cause vere's a lot to be said for some one who will do that cause a lot of guys they get their
black felt in their ganeienthon sometimes do it if they get the brownhaired clean to happen till metimes but it shouldn't happen at all but
gus get their black belt and and stop training ratio you guys like that but you know suits like he genteel and i'm not saying they chose to
hating it i he had a serious word about that the thing that makes that surprising is that it takes a lot of dedication to get your back
bell and you only when you have that much edication as if you actually enjoy train you gian if you don't enjoy training togethuh
aiguiletted why would you stop training that doesn't make sense to me it's kinelike the thessal talk about going through shiltren and they
say oh do you really he if some of you just wait if you they think if you you can make it through you don't want to make it through but
truly anterieure then guess what year you probably not going to make it through it to saving with jesuit you don't really enjoy it if
you're doing it just for the black belt it's kind of it's kind of hard to do it just revackeration i i if you're going to go through seal
training just to get your seal tried and and just a claim a i'm a navy seal if that's the only reason that you're doing it to ardfert get
through right so till i would imagine anywhere out guess that it wasn't their only reason but list to say either those big reason to begin
with or it just over time that started to be the the ruin you know you don't i mean people can fall in and out of that mind set in that
trap you know where it's like i just want that that belt on a walk around and be known as a black one whatever and then that minit starts
to just creep in their mind and it becomes like a major part of it think you so it's like danewort sic so in frustration comes then and i
left that one of the kind actings about no gee in the idea that and and everyone does belle now with no geimells if no gemman i support
giving dull with no guinigi never wear again it isn't need a belt but you do say all this guy's a black belt but one thing that it is cool
about no key and a kind of especially during the ah during the rogue years of no geere it wasn't a thing yet and we are just do it and
there were eyes at the time that were only didn't you start of training on the new gaye they were guides that only trained no gee so it was
really a real thing of that thettale didn't matter corentin exist and then it was just how good are you where do you fall out on the totem
pole of i can tap you you can't tap me but this guy can tap me and i you know what meanes that would there as something pretty cool about
that he's belts for me have never been a goal or anything am really to me to me i just want to be better at that the jugeth i mean but
regardless that is the part of it for a lot o yer lay for some people thinking so i think it that way o thinkin i think i think he can be
like that thou'lt a black top incitingly now you get to focus on my career you i'm a plisint it would on the other for thing about this is
i don't stop training yogii don't just stop cold turkey man that's not good even if you can only train a couple of times a week or one even
if you train once a week men ran what's week you know just to keep your head in a game keep your de atlean see the new move you can see
where things are developing may be that old night your desire to get back on the man more but don't stop training you know an even on the
days when you don't want to liane day when you don't want to train o train that day ye ye don't ye an we'll train that day what it does to
a big part of it it is it keeps your body and to wit that you ditmore from him on general moechus that's what one of the things that
insensed where you was my body wasn't moving the same i wasn't moving and this is one thing to be like okami older unless mobile negative
fugitive osaient at the the but gisaient a certain kind of movement that he lops just kind of naturally great when you rolling all ye and
if you lose that ten years i could see you lose that so like dang my hippecat is rey labored for right now and i tessa's hard to do when it
so easy to do normally you know so you know i can i can understand see that or m but yet a disrelishing you're doing like any you know
where you find a also is people that or in business that whatever a wotever level they advanced out of they they then let's say it's a they
they move out of a technical position and they move up to management position don't just walk away completely from the technical side like
just go go do it once a week go get in the game make sure they still understand so that you stay so that you sosta in the game and you
don't lose you wake up because you are a blackdeath above into management position you are a black doll that technical side and they so
potential for you so when you walk away from it on when you move up don't just walk away completely stay in the game go do you know if
you're in the military just because you got promoted to whatever a company commander on or staff guy on the italian though to say will
never get a go in the kill house again no no no going to kill out even if you can only do it once every week or or a o'may once a month you
just get to go and and keep your head in the game you've got it to that so you stay fresh you stay like you said he keep that mental game
there whereas if you just walk away you and who would have guys that were senior to me come out go through the wocation with us maybe they
come out and go to the kill house with us for a day they didn't know what they were doing they didn't know what they were doing part of his
cause they walked away for two long but even when they didn't know what they were doing he was still like a man good for him for coming out
you know it wasn't like you said old look at him he doesn't know i don't respect him now exactly actually the opposite is true you say a
man propose the boss o you for coming out and you getting after it with the boys for a day the he has no denewit maybe we can help him i
and you they had that mentally the whole time coats pretty it's a lot easier to maintain us gelenite it you so all you have to do your a
black goat and get on the mat once a week you know just just get in there and rolls of people on up but am i back to intended the way i did
i even been dig it that he did it and then i really took some purview and the like i may be didn't look at it this voisin open minded
baritone in back in winthorpe's inattractive supplied tondertontonk in hutlike hay in slides yes sir you know that's kind of wherwell came
from any and went back to back both in that again help but respect you know most situation a what is it is like a whole sight not to aiwan
if you go like um u who gave you your buckhart nor deem mustering so you say you would eat took ten years off you came back and rowth deed
or only moike bro i i am your instructor in taking your belt i'm giving you all purple do doubt be one but but like is that is that
policemen as far as i kin you do that or what it does like to i i don't know but that would be very cool to see that halpine just even just
all you i do nat an old school stories and old scolists cursivae this is awesome so a back in the day the back in the day i was a blue belt
of dewas i think he was a blue belt too he might have been a purple belt and there was another person i was a bluebell on the time my wife
your wife was a loabes and she was good she billy good athlete home your wife no you do know she was i imposed judicatae wahgoo so you
don't we all good we were trying with hobanob's no fools great instructor and and we were at the academy one day and there is a a guy from
out a tone right and he is a percibal so you know papa bell you know you figure that guy's good but his back in a day you disinherit made
ninety so probably in ninety he ninety six and so the sky comes in from out a town and you know there wasn't not many dedicators intendete
was like two right it was that it was fabiola they got at it at the time so any way to sky comes any kind of a piece probably thirty five
years old is probably a hundred and fifty pounds probabat so you know where owing in edward little bit like okay i gasparo um but there's
that attitude of the guys no othe guy knows what he's doing so i into them but in watching them in longwidge doing our thing in its kind of
open not period and and obodas rolled with my wife and so my wife you know she's good she is but she's a the rolling and he gets her in a
choke he gets her in a wernicke and she buries her chin like a white belt of like a like a defence you know on a very much answers noctem
he chokes her face like i'm talking legit gets after it at her fan she starts crying and and i papotla and he had aeneas i'm just like a
inserer scream on reinen i then ah you'll she gets up and he left go and he's kind like oh sorry baboon for looks at me goes and the guyed
notice my wife fabro's jocolino and i go okay so i even i i was like okana's masham but i didn't intentionally like a soul him i just
smashed him i mean i i crushed him and submitted him but i didn't like break his arm and but i smashed him and i was doing a lot of mean
stomach at the at the time saw as i just driving no gipsie an early version of the park bensonians neck and it smashed him and um and then
i get done and i worout pretty good and fabulous like now i will row with you and father yo tore him up and ah was like cracking or bars on
him and choking him and smashing him and then the guys like the guys like broken down in fotestas not a purple belt and i can't remember he
took his purple belt but he kicked him out they sat on ever come back here and you're not a purple and he i think he took his peration a
purple about no you he easels said i've won the member in saying as i this girl's been trading here for two to half years she's never been
here she's never had her problem you come in here and he does girl you're not a proper what you're doing give you a probable so that was a
cool emotion yes he a fabulation school you delithea hearteneth yeh diventato though he asked it is a different tiraient i think i
unknowable we need to see more demotions and together ounainetai may be may be atoast rted on the one myself right now ye so alight that's
also but yet he man old school you giovane but it's kind of interesting though right because that kind of falls the thing in the same way
like in the same line as is is that acceptable for a professor to do mother student at the lost the step or once you earn that that black
alter that brent whatever the belt is once you earn it i like you paid those does jed fialar if a foretasting i i don't know i think i
think i might be wrong the in terms of the way people view it but i think demotion is is kind o cool i think i think more demotions the
tappen by oh you haven't been come in the gym for two years cold get give me a round bout you don't have a day man sorry you know yes no
one's ever going to come to my academy i know will be when i i say that that could be the case if the reins like if you are if you this
highly competitive the philosophy type team or where you if you got in the turning you have to represent in that as the culture real
ringing like that then yet but you know judiciality know you can take ten years off to divisin a part of you or whatever and you are worded
this belt through your daimios and lahaina like now got a worry about all my time and effort ye towser people off than they you on a
contrast back as i don't get demoded eye exact how we got to do dioritic the but like i said if there was a job that you had to basically
it's like if you have a job to do as a brownell you have to represent it in a like in a in a company or something you can't see the
director of sales get that job in ten a your performance socks you know you can't hear you remit so because you have a job to do but like i
said you did is not really a job where i don't know i mean when you are a brown out in a school you have to go and help train the other
people that's part of your job brier death if the show up and train with me right yer sure kate let ye if you're violating some eliatic or
something like that then i mean even then you don't really take away the bell take away their whole ye get out of hearing of but i think so
so the bottom in us although i think de motions would be cool i don't think it's probably going to happen and i think that the i think
that's tradition cause although i do believe i think the motion got i also do like some of the traditional aspects of dedican one of the
teasal aspects of it when you get about a belted it you put all that time hillfort all that knowledge he keep him belphoebe only by her
that the here's the thing i think that that interesting about your ponies at the gym i will shout out things like like a takeable a
probable you do in contenson alakas but out from them do it we are orellana's as i like that i like the that's part of our fun culture were
emergencies or if you roessle um i'll do this with like my friends or what is there a brown belt and i in it you know same deltanet em and
you get em like conies or with a new move or something that's refashioning you take their bolt and say like you don't deserve that right
now nowhere going to broaching but i think that that's kind o what's in her mind anyway so let's say i rose in he's a brown up in his
getting smashed or whatever i might like purple altheas one i wanted the lungs about your gate is that the bell it connelly mean anything
the right an if you're a black out you come in here dismasted by a blue belt fell no one sitting there thinking while he's a backed alters
and an now there's some wrong with him you electly out no no black ballery sat'st one of the best things not you get you is the truth is on
the map so daggetts you don't need to get to mote it right you're meroeitic is a demotion you're not finora right so like i'd like you goes
back to atlanta where you put in all that time concretely the belt is based on specific things and those things if you've done those things
you've taken the time is one of em the knowledge the you know understanding of all this all basically all all that the bell is based on
room that doesn't really go way you put in that time you have that delage you don't all right i think i oscariana you felt for her maybe
i'll take your will i bring it it is going to be about a forty five second break in a pocasset now rohalt next question did horse roesel
what do i say to some one i've trained and later claims the person claims that a certain thing was not covered in the training ah in
addition of questibus ly excuses obviously excuses this is a theory pre common question of how do you handle be situations in our actually
been luckenough in my life to run a lot of training and to one difference tuitions mostly in the military and of absolutely had this
happened and there is one thing that i do when this happens penical guess what it is i take ownership of it if so tegot if somebody comes
to me and says oh you supposed to train us on aces and you didn't and i know that i did and it was in the curriculum and we covered it i
said i don't say no i trained unitatis no i said okay let's get a train then on or got to do the lad here it is on the red the curriculum
of show to you can because here's the thing as a trainer it's not just your job in a hat i tell my guys when i ran training the guys that
would lead instructor contry i say listen to it isn't your job just to run the training just to provide the training it is your job to
insure that the training is adsorbed death that's the difference that's a big difference between philosophies of training i my go and i'm
training some one is to make sure that the training is of sorbed into the mind otherwise go watch a you to pity cause a you too bitiou can
see the same instruction but no i needed seek you out and say okay where where did you miss it where to and also where did i fail in my
training if i covered it why don't you remember it i mean it didn't cover well enough at didn't teach you well enough and i think that you
you then you record em you get him up to speed at some point they're going to realize that you did trim i mean if they truly forgot or even
if they didn't forget but they're jist placing the blame on you they're going to realize that you know they're going to know that you know
that you train them when they when you reflect on the same information and do to gain so honkity simple answer ah when some one is zen you
haven't trained them take responsibility for it take ownership for it and say okay look the more did you train on it my my pologies i'm
here to train you a remake that i traumes that you absorb it yet to go i think that your way of training should be done or performed with
kids as well like parents with their kids you know how it cause you know the kid the kids misbehaving and the vernice on the way does that
i told him not to pictorially yeah i know you probably told him or you went through the motions of telling them or whatever but men you get
a you get trained make sure that absorbed you know absolutely still in always kind to think of it besantine of a really think of it this
way where if you kedisen it's something you did or didn't of course so you can't really sit there and be like oh blaming the catfisio
whatever shore ye you know your your right i wonder isn't it weird that you can have families where one kitano to go go to high school and
do well and do great oneadatote great college and go to and go be a doctor any other kid can become a heron at acton you isn't that strange
it is interesting but i and i think a time ago i would talk to you about this like long time you how do we blame the parents and lo that's
a thing that's the asano at i'm saying i'm not seeing blame the parents and not say that because because that would that if your blame in
eothen fenessy why then you do that i blame me if you have the not easy for the so many different dynamic to every kids experience so you
know how in a dishonest ion kind of a firmer corectly kind o started when you were like a i have you know for kids or whatever and there
just different dear eserman i said never had kids by the way so that you aren't really uninitiate you you didn't you don't really care
about that at all not to say you did was anyway i said am i said okay yiing complicated so the keesar different yeah but they're not just
different like that's not it not he unharnessed if fully so consider every kid starting point is different so you can't expect everyone
every kids ending point to be the same even though they go through the same experience true just being the second born year starting on as
a completely different human being frejus being two years one year five years younger than your older brother that all those minor very old
and up creating some major manfreys of course oh at seater ain points in development they're gonna have kind of the same needs but in a
different environment so the way that you fulfilled those same knees with the first kid or going to look different for them being
translated with the second kid and the third kid and the for you know a dread harden shouldstna slight adaptations to what you did to the
second kid and the first and i keep a handle of all those dynamics is is hard to that's why it's languido only that it's not exact science
we are in in the way kids react way people such as wordin just almonds or what i am on people he'll because you get different people that
you hire at different times of different people that join patomime times an they have a different attitude to you you how to adjust but the
the bottom litis the thing that remains constant through all this is that if you're trying to importing on people you need to take
responsibility not just for showing them the knowledge but there making sure that they absorbed the knowledge and the primary methodology
of doing that is by explaining to people whither doing what they're doing and why you are telling them this in a way this accursio if like
you said you tell your kid don't have a temper tantrum in then you never explained to him here's a while you don't want to veterani you're
doing this you can hurt yourself he could hurt other people you're in to do things at regret you can bite break something in the house i
can't control you i can't bring you anywhere if you're going to act like this it means we can't go out and have fussy got explain why me
and once you explain why then people have a better chance allieri the information but yes you as a trainer parent leader teacher has a
responsibility not just to impart knowledge but to insure that the knowledge is absorbed yeah he ran completely of course like i said it's
for painting it's not like just that easy you know no parenting is very difficult ershi situation is really a lot like plankroad it
emendated iffinger no but yeah there you go so next question jack yes in the salten you let all male teams aniles difference in business or
in the business world with mixed gender or female team these first fall in the military they work with women there is a whatsomeber women
that are intelligisti there's women in a inteso of the legist support units that go out in the field sometimes so definitely works with
women in the military and in the civilian sector with the witahoo kinds of women all kinds of women in every level from taos on down to
front line troopers and hears the deal for me it's no factor no factor to me what's a factor to me is can they do their job to the haven
open mind are they humble do they treat people with the respects of the kind of things that i'm judging it's like what we talked about
earlier i'm judging but i'm not judging based on what they are judging on who there and who there are a person so that's the i i see no
real difference the leadership the way that you lead dozen change in my opinion from the from the women of senile ershi positions to the
men of sengalese the way they lead is successful because the way they lead not because their malorme and i know some of the stereotypes
that that you might see out there um like like like fontenette than women or or men or or women are more emotional than men that discarnate
and if you see i've seen at least when you get to a leadership position i've definitely seen women that were watfords in terms of hey we
got to make this move for the company here's oedon they execute it and i've seen men that were away to emotionalities sodina and brunettes
they are just play more motion than the stereotypical woman might be so that's why just then to forecast am i look at a person i whether to
matter woman of looking at there the content of their character for the second time all say that to day and milkman when we start talking a
combat um there's some physical differences that make that make a definite impacting about on tim kennedy if you want to hear him we talk
about that because ye will you get into some physical things men are stronger than women answer there's a there's some physical limitations
there but in terms of leadership capabilities in the sistine civilian sector there is the ai'm not i'm not a not worried about men and
women diaconorum new once there then or there are new as forinstance who like one you hear a some i'll get asked you no ameima on a
atargatis guise ah you know how shlapey do cause they they might not like working for a fire for a girl redresseth friar that back ye by
one might work it for a guy either or for younger guy or for a guy that got moved from another department there is a tisane thing the same
thing so what are you going to do it he sank the iwesten listen with a tesapan open mind at what you're going to do rugilas male female
whatever they just you older younger doesn't matter you want it the being a good leader the principles don't change that's all there is to
it an ye good ye use in as the insecure guy geddington led or or or or a girl calling shot or whatever will affect them but like i said if
pay if there leadership principles are sound de doesn't end or make in the right call it fell a be obvious and that like that guy's messieu
or you know like he's he's a acting at it insecurity or not acting up out of insecurity is going to be obvious the leadership part of one
is that sound it you're goin as excess destitoote no factor to me yes sex question to magathuren a female leaders at of worked with on the
poast e the fate prom with that is they're no different than the male leaders of work were sumpserat there some some one would listen as
natal you don't know how hard it is when axman no i i but that's what i'm saying that they'll good female leaders have worketh have been
like all yatagan be sometimes a problem because i'm a woman in her or i do in the gate he thagaste next all be work with a different client
and then it's a man and he goes well you know i had to do with excidio i met again as every one dealing with ax for everyone's got some
factor that they're trying to overcome you know and i just a good leader will find a way around that factor or find a way to mitigate that
factor and a bad lermont and will then use that factor as an excuse rather than just as an advantage so noisee difference between taking
ownership of these problems santordo want here the issue okay i'm on on at imitate care of it in an find a way around it instead of saying
oh i'm younger i'm older an a woman a oman trying to lead these antinoe you're a human leading another human being and so step up and lead
figure out what the issues are in overcome them eh jack i've taken a lot of inspiration from your fill the loss the of good how do you fly
this without setoning to pollyanna's it i see the right answer polyannaish is a charm and it actually comes from a from a novel from
considher nineteen hundred but it it ah the name of the novel as pollyanna was probably and in the book has this really super positive
attitude and its almost so positive that it it overwhelms it kinahane people's attitudes in the town but there is a pejorative meaning of
this word which is what this gushalina and it is that is when when some one is a soloiste that they that they frigebat reality of a
situation you know handsome's that's that can be absolutely problematic and that is not what i'm telling anybody to do in fact the the
let's let's not mistake the the good philosophy as one that negate reality that is totally office no one atoned fact the very first thing
you have to do is accept reality that's the first then you got to do egoalik at what's happening you got a assassinates the reality of it
and then you say okay good now instead of dwelling on the negatives and what's going to go bad and watch wrong you deal with them but then
you look at okinawa re we goin to do possibilists going to come out of this and that's that's altists definitely not denying or being
delusion all about the situation by any stretch but it is also not being woes me in all this happened and now all my god everything's going
home be i'm doomed now that's necessitate i'm talking about obviously i'm not talking about that it's also not like it okay everything's
wonderful um no that's why the term is good and not wonderful for i how not then everything's wonderful but good looking at what we
infinito this ordinaire out of this olegon to make happen now m because i'm in a deal with reality imitate reality and going to accept
reality you then there's some people that you know like the the self help loose at a like no i'm just not going to accept that i it's not
going to happen and i maybe your own reality i'm going to be so positive that i'm going to get that million dollars to morrow no no
actually you're not going to get that million dollars to morrow you are in have to work when you have to work for a long time if you have
to work hard on apostate focus on your gold and then you'll be to million dollars to feel strong you are a new assayes so that it deliriate
except reality then finally good on it and move on one looks the cool video by the way that you naymelie the video a due i think is a you
fishing for a compliment abitibi people watched the video yes it interesting to because you made that video and you made another video were
as discipline compromisable person i like the wearisome from video better but the good video it is strikes quarter people it the a cause i
think i think it cause it will fly so universally to negativity in a world by ochateguins are happened right in fact i get so much feedback
of people that literally say you don't thank you for introducing me to that idea that for losophy because it changed my attitude and now
when things go wrong i say good now would have in to do about it right so i at that's why that video is is quite popular in that and the
unbelievable editing that was done wattster ye sir yet and it it does seem like a real um like personal like deeply personal thing like the
case it is like more um it's not this like sensational ization of it and as it's real kind a kind of dark whatever and like i said like the
negative part of his lycoides more it's the pain killer to that amatorian you know redingote meaning of her european like if you have a
problem you you give just in nature when when you're going along what are your brain is is evolved to to recognize problems and if
something it is in a problem it'll start to stilted out is just how you bring once so in life when you have problems that's what's always
on the radar now you have this little personal like tool that talking you of how i you with his problems nice you know i mean to oh so that
it's it's kind of that like the discipline where does this link come from its kinahan's more starts to going to the multiramified it's like
this not a big problem i'm goin otricoli it as a problem i need more discipline and now but it's not really the fuge from but it does help
you know canting so psychodrama interesting but i like to discipline yet next question coach joe what are you thought i wonder who was that
mean at you do to get rotating so must be a mulewasawasa someone from like the jimmying you on a known to address me as cotemporary if you
come to my genitorial me coach and if we had a cowed to you maybe that's why you can maybe just know him a bit belton think as to be called
coachable or it could be like one like chief you know a bit a chief with a coach i've heard coach in fact i don't mind colleen that regard
when i only a round botolph no mile you know to what a what i sit on them weareth a i only know i don't mind oh you are my baas yes or due
when a girl says do but i actually i used to joke in use look eyes if you don't feel comfortable calling me senator instructor or a coach
you can just call me master ouonab the realities discomodated some caloocon is you know certain guide be like that ye a year here ogni
don't like a hare to people i don't say i don't call me coach i descried to that i'm ogni don't care what people call me to be honest with
with you well i but yet the the gay called he is weird waseche kept calling on her the there's a testifie a handful people that call me
coach abeyd n't real know what my name is helena to go back on a question like tolderton though seacock what are your thoughts on dealing
with old age when getting physically stronger and faster ain't got to happen well i i don't know i don't know laser that questions about
age because it's not happening to me a moceto i mean wait is it that that it ain't goin to happen any more i don't know because i i
continuing to train in continuing to do it i do it that people tell me that well when you hit thirty and then i had all yet thirty five
than yet forty now it's when you get forty five now in here an when it's fifty so um ye i don't know i i just know that i'm disconto keep
getting after it on i keep getting stronger on the keegan faster we keep getting better and if i can't beat my record well the now close in
again how close can i get to the record and i have the i've talked about this before is like i was think about cayan how if you don't fight
decay it starts to just you notice it slow and it's it's it's like moving like the hour hand like you don't see it happening and i think
that's why i can why a lot of aging happens because people don't notice that a happening is it'll pay attention to it so what happens is
they don't hold the line then although i am like i track my work out o not octavo it am not like a psycho like you know ah i did it in
fourteen minutes and thirty two seconds and then end in i refer back to it now but i know that general trend and i know where the numbers
are and i know where they should be and i know that i i need to always keep those in mind you know how many poles cannot do how much can i
squat how much you know just those dis those numbers i keep my mind i think what that does that i do that so white can hold of the line
beanlike i said i think age sneak don't think age of salt you i i think it's sneak upon you and the way it sneaks up on you is a mist rap
there and a and a slower laugh over here and a mist workout over there ain't you you just boom as a sun little sages chipping away at you
it's just chipaway it doesn't either actually doesn't want you to go as he has an want that's why it doesn't hit you all at once i
disgustingly and then you fast forward fifteen years a heureuse guy you were because those chaps have cetaceae in all your strength to wait
if taking your flexibility waitemata done a donor on you so that's why i like i said i don't know what okay goin to be able to hold the
same records went in fifty nine i we got some older guys like you know gordon i goanese four batangas gorge i tell godhaven going legit
black belt and any acheslant was not ledaean changement in art an so i'm just a very i try and to stay self forward i think i try and
prevent the cutting of corners and i try maintain the daily discipline and all things that are trying do because when you start cuttin
those corners is when i think it adds up over fifteen years and you wake up and you're not the person that you remembered that you were and
your other person you want to be so you got to maintain and hold that line as long a you can and i'm always actually detrained new things
too like trying to figure out something else that's new some other technique have never done before some exercise i haven't got a biometer
piece of exercise gercei something cool on the interesting the i had can't do that how that fourteen year old drilling that i can't do that
i want to learn how to do that and ah so that's that i think you got fightin ye ye that that did not the good analogy the hour hand on
where you can't you get we watch it all day you can't see move no but look away from one second but not one second but you you know you
look away for a little while you look back and boom that in not wright upon you and and that's ramona's how you really slip to tell it a
salt you as far as age and nearly goes where if you if you stop for a while and you try to come back i if you stop for ten years on and you
try to come back that hour had moved a lottinville so as you weren't fighting it is could you can hold that our line and you can and you
could fiamma you can't stop it theseus that so all ye don't got to keep your ireton that dannemarie moving at all and sure you know like i
said and when you're ninety and you've been looking at that hour handsome twenty five then yet you no be like all i remember that on it
twenty five men waver here now i'm way over here fitness wiser whatever and works i can squat less or whatever of course you know
hartington's the man ever inevitability but just like i said yet you you do stay on that that discipline in a nollingen you're going to
hold that you know to good do not go gentle into that good light ye free regains the dying of the life and with that the you know this kind
of balanced all things don't keep crignelle just be red lighting their work out postherity to maintain that no anointing to be careful
about that a man cause it's just like a race car you can't not the race car in the rent eh you got a yotting back to the shop sometimes i
gwineter got to be part of the routine yet and i can only i'm young pretty good that's another thing is it a more you work out the more you
trained the more the the the better you know your own body yes and you know you walk up to the gemstones like what was it yesterday yes
yesterday and i felt like a superman by i was just superstrong i was due one of my work of strong i was as technical i just felt great you
know and i'd say there's some days that i go in the geminian you know i got a stretch i got a light ticinesi day and and then there's some
days ristorante any day bombay ways of isinglass oregon across this thing sir but a part of that again because i see that he's got to make
sure that you're not cutting corners goomade sure that you're not taking your eye off the hour enemies and let nothing you up a get one
open you cause you been lazy it so that's why going assassine a lot of work out i have you know i have some days some hers reifenstein is
sundays where i feel like a like horrible and i have a lot of one like loweston or something yea some days were i feel like ah i'm
schoolhouse the motions but going through the motions is okay eh it's okay to go in there and go through the motions to kayanere not break
any records going in there and going to the motions is generally a thousand times better than the not doing anything ye ye and that that's
act i been red line at all times is the is the easy way to get knocked right out of the game telyatin jured hegelein my solitary getting
older you know maybe a risaldar next question twenty god what are your favourite pot cast in a way ashanee dropping his oakum these anybody
that listen to me there's a couple of poastmaster and are really obvious and they're like the big the big pot casts um you got while
tempers boom right you got joe roggenbom the got sam harris boom um and you got hard corihor would then garland stand he's got another one
that's called common sense and a the those those all those ah arrey really good pocosan um i'm i've been listening upon cast from many many
years now before listening upon castles cool olesnica guly drew up listening to radio shows if talked about that before but i i have an i
forget i actually i cannot remember how i got into podcast i do not remember how i got into pocasset anyway is whenever i got in the
podcast those of the kind ones that i listen to an oi sample a lot of other pocasset sometimes i'll search for certain topics and i'll just
listen to a random pot cast um one of the but there's one more the only one that i have that like not on the man a sight and if i in
peoples of you is a pot casalle margarid and it's by a giniral cooper and i can't recommend that that poncaser enough its outstanding it is
an outstanding pages and darrel cooper or even know i like eust this underground guy i think he's a ceasin the navy but he that's not he's
not any more he's he doesn't do it it's not like a profession for him but i should be he he should be it's it's a great pot gas so check
out margravate it's also a he's an twitter under marymass is his call sin but he's got like a hundred and forty two follows a no one knows
that no one knows about anacaona it was somebody on twitter and i don't forget who it was it was somebody on twitter that told me about
margarethe it out and when people tell her check on our matchett and if he is soon as you opened it you know you're going to be gonnarea
realize why it's so good um really detailed really very good historical research and it's a great pot cast and those the nanna came a
really pickpoles guy too like a really i need somebody to get a need so many suberintented par cast for me to like it i try all i try to
boastall the time and i don't get a lot of repeat customers myself like i don't repeat a lot mum because i just i just yea it needs to be
really really solid that is for me to let for me to tremebant hours worth of my time i that's that's got to be a heavy investment yes and
it's got to be something that's worth my while and that's why those that i mentioned when he gave a indecently fan if there's any others
that i might have missed but i don't think as far as like master lee good ones that i can recommend across the board um those who them any
know others altoons in all casionally listen to but um and those are all kind of like the pot the the the popular ones that come out duncan
has got a good pontassieve talks to rock and roll like dig now on the only cause i really did down cajoles ah the band as well the
margerain at that like what kind of the format with awaiteth cast its sick no similar heard forestry in him it's darrel compotting about
and that one the i i think it's going to be his it's about the the israeli palace and in conflict it goes all the way back to the beginning
and talks to you about what it is and what it about and it's it's really good so those are the main part cast that i listened to em again
you got a and e i did it just a big investment of time i and especially cause i don't have a commute so i don't drive anywhere so and i'm
in and i can't i can't do anything mentally and do upon cast at the same time right and listen to pocasse i can't read and listen to a
pocasset work the only thing i can do is drive and do your harkinin that's like actually what i have a big project to do with a house i
love the second get at all caught up on pacas and whatever so yes but ah you know what that is you all girls can to do that you know i was
not aware that yes though of this thought is the thought where girls can be said he they i don't want to be dismissive an call it
multitudine because it's it goes it's more deep and moentilan do things that require me like attention taking do more than one human then
well i can't i would be impressed by a girl that could listen to a legit pot cast and read a book and get like the full value at a both of
eyes so how girls brains are wired they can do that a lot metamicosis from fit but as this though it's kinda interesting and i used to do
solheim to massive girls guys have a different spacial awareness yes erastus one of the tests that was done on is like a amasite i don't
know if the numbers but it was a custom to full of guise classon full of girls and they run all these steps whose different as the anoas
you have to draw a bicycle that's it hum so a bicycle is this kind of in a way can of his unique thing when you dry and you have to know
where this goes because that effect you know the petals got affect the chain that affects it was if proved or indicated special werness it
so of the experiment all the guys could do it you know to be an artist some by a look amazing but they were working you don't have to be an
artist and it does matter for a bike ride or to so all the guys could do it you know another girls can't no none i not yes so and i've done
this experiment and it if you're going to do this superinduce tly didn't don't be like hey here's a bite copy this light don't don't cheat
on it really if you really want to get it but tell ask a girl any girl woman no matter what age draw a working bicycle they can't do it i
have yet to come across the grille i'll do it on that night when the other but as the tide others and yet as he gits pretty most guys will
do it yes it's weird but any way it's just just how some the brains are different well to the front stuff for me it is very difficult to
actually engage in a book and reading um all writing while unlistening to someone else talk about something intellectual reciever
challenging for me oh yes fully that to get the full value i mean i can do it but if a both efforts are half as an don't get anything out
of him well yet did you doorplaces you listen to that imagined strangely it's the same thing if epomata made on em are you you have you not
some are made all you but that a antoines cut like you said scarcity of resort at ricres arched being time but none that actually even
though the ones i do listen to i don't is desbach cause i don't drive as much and hum i don't do as much ardor any more oh except for that
london real one the one that you are on your head and i have actually like he's on my balaenidae it is really unsubscribed to it you i do
know exacta parasites only you to i i think it's like he takes shoddyopolis note iteesan that's the thing like a lot of times people will
like penbryn rose with yondare ye okay such a good suggestion he get some corpel on this on a shelf yet it really really i mean put real
simply than interview the randellites aeliani thirst is most just interview all temperses actual absolutely and invest you have dorian
whose kind of like converse height of an interview but it's more of like with their distant as comes in so there is like all these little
difference subtleties that are that makes them different but there it takes all of skelty interviewed people good a and this the the london
real talapoosie he's good dantelike otiose their like printcess a borderer body's interesting and now even if the subject isn't your thing
okay but the guys he uses for those subjects are a pretty solid then that's a good one if an i i really do i i i really like poncasar tend
you can get so much information out of em and i love the audiophone i i just it's just great when you can we condision unless an that's
always what i've said for for for this boast but i wanted to be something with people sit down and kind of put their enfans on in a okay
i'm generated pleases play three two and here it comes eendian it like wood on a cue and obviously cut a dozen have that same level of
impact as if i'm going to read something oothai wrote or something that somebody else wrote that's a very important subject matter that
were in a break down then that sort of that's that's what i like yet this these umfaans are cool because it is like of course were just
having a conversation about this stuff but it's there's a third person in the room as well he irique tion ecouter question but sores one
thing i onersti with when you're listening to when you listening to any of these podcast that i talked about your basically a third person
in the room sitting here listening to the conversation and actually when i was on sampayo your brother drove up with me and he was in the
room lizounofs kind of its guttering but you when you're listening to the juragan and actually wanting its pretty cool is i benidin it over
you said hartonian up on the ocifers um i've gasometers tions with with um with thin garland and i might end up being on common sense some
point but i would to with the other three with the alberoni know those guys i know i know manso wen i may when i'm listening to parashino
feel like i'm kind o in the room with a aryanism the one a like answer antaean whatever so ah yes it's the anti think everybody think even
people that never met jeroen but they live at all the stock as they think they are there with it so when i when i went midicine with your
own play pool with him and i i went up that sudoer and and would you go for with alcor something ah i went with ye for hell from carwe yes
it first in stuff um yes till that time i went up i asked them had to you in counterpose who basically feel like made no you like
personally and they'll just roll into a conversation a few like you in he said averting everything i arises at even amabaean that now are
and i when i meet some one that goes he menelstein poncas hey and netlik talkin about will you you of what was going on was echoing
balearian about me like like we're brossais pretty cool causeway you are the haitien for a long time i don't i was thinking about this um
so like hard core history the the one pot cast that is called blue print from eden if you have an listen to it just pop and go listnois
awesome but that thing is it's five episodes for about four hours each seethen hours in when you get done with it an you you feel like you
pretty tight with dan carlington hours of and then wonder is doing the mouth why last week and we couldn't get at thirty to cast and her
basically two hours each in like a capite hours sixty hours worth of worth of conversation with you and me and so absolutely people start
feeling like you know a oh yeah i know i know what jocasta about this or say about this and and and there basically in the room here and
otagaidane element it was a goin to make that even more so with us because these are there these are your question he there wattiers you
don't and it on i do converse with them all the interweb too as soople are like oh i no i bethusian and sometimes it's not enough to get on
the poast all the say ye don't do that you know don't see that that's not smart or yet no it sundial execute you know stuff like that ye
the nature of the bet ye get your pot cast on sin spread the word and and by the way thanks to thank him and joe up those guys brought me
on before i had a pangasinan when the book was an ow i was basically no human being knew i was if you weren't like in the direct like if
you weren't in this helpeth pa and debonair that part cast and in we connected on threatened come be a man dianalike awesome so and in
samaris so any recicourt mon and and spread no ortoli bit i think i mereston is well that's actually one of the one of the few that that
embower talking before you um did a piastre like all be weird you just talking which ateethin on about it wouldn't be that weird really
boivin about like even the last poncasar we do where i just read the book of a for ours in my life oh you didn't say much redound you said
enough to maybe get me through some some some spots where you got a question or a baby at it make something clear but um you know i think
that's i think i could do it but you know i i i i don't i don't know why i would yet see why rather just enterable yet over all mespilus
with with the cunatai think sometimes you'll go into things that doesn't apply to everyone's common not antony now may be only military
guzzler only vex me not so i don't you know there's no sulfonal the luxury of being your love whether you what is this towhitting about
what is our tesmiquitate sensei but yes sam marshes good though where he just doesn't solo i do actualities from the long term of her yes
to the one with the scot reach from malapad one yet you i like the temperantiae got a couple with him joshua's ginrally ah his geginya
world champion chess guy ollinaris ing attitood stuff ye makes me feel like a theosopher out there about things you arabelle the art of
learning anyway that's a that's a really good one the jelyotte so much of what joe oinjure always forthestait there he and its weird like a
pretty much would joe i listen to the people if i know the person that has got on there and i don't listen to a otocoris right cause i
ontied don't make me laugh that's the weird noteth the good thing about your oliness many other fremiet of interest you know is a comedian
as you just gunmaker in what he does only ewell is he makes people talk and he you know ofterdingen some criticism for the old eccles got
like a a a a religious guy on there and he doesn't believe in religion but he let that person talk about religion and won't like jump on em
and getting their face and say no but that's horrible makes a cool is like he's just trying to learn man he's not trying to confront people
run he's just trying to learn and i think that i think all those people do that furthest part hum the people that are interested in
learning and their their trying to figure stuff out themselves and so as think it's cooled that joe rogue is not given somebody's face
about something i believe in not body doesn't disagree with people some on ye they so that's that listens sapotas in in you know the other
thing about this he is like we're putting out one part cast a week and that i don't even know of that sustainable um only because of time a
menehoult of time that it takes to prepare a podcast be inmeaning is pretty easy for easton a bunch of books that already read artemonites
track him open to most as books i went well red i mean about face already had that thing outlined did i lighted if um last hundred yards
are in the bunch of those beginning books were already done and it wasn't until like the until every one on twitters started tell me
hateros book and now mutineered in books up ever seen before and i got a read the book and when i do i read it and i go through an
highlighted asked me this question to a coutera so i read the book i go through a high like the whole thing of what i think is a baffled
what i think is important but then once you read it you can't jest it does doesn't amities don't pick it up and redlight apart in order
because that does no ways make sense and also does know is have the it doesn't make people think doesn't make me think about when i want to
think about just have the inn back that i wanted to have so i want to have a high lighted than i have to go through and fuss all high light
you know let's say a high light half the book well then you not going to read half the book said the goat go it and figure out what really
is important and then from man i get organized it in the way that the time line that i'm actually going to read it allowed and then make
notes about the wotever comments i have about an asamra it because that so that sort why i'm doing it because i want to come in about what
i'm reading because otherwise people go by the book i then read the book yourself but i'm trying to give my perspective on some of it and
so that's challenging and um in in the other weird thing is like i i've met i i meet people on tanical time ago o vence and and speak and
companies at mortonian i want of time to people that are there that are totally in of the poncas verity even caught up there they're not
caught up and pocketholes caught up in a migraineuse behind because i i i do love a wine i i'm i'm only on twenty six right now and so some
of it think well maybe people are just were just turning out at such a high rate but then there's some people that i've talked to as as i
think about let monimia he distorting talk to some of the some of the people that i work with and people that listen to forces that are
into it and i say like only my cedon to a once every two weeks at an eighth like i just sit smack men face to lontano no you don't i think
it be you know you but sometimes they also feel that if i had more time now be able to do better job like maybe that's something i need to
wear as well um anything about i called court history all that guided carlin is he just makes people he tortures people make it wait yea
and it made you wait and wait and wait and um so i don't know maybe we may be we need to go to one or two each maybe i just need to suck it
up and just keep doing out of a mabouya the wit the one thing that's good about all these other potass is that as you ortingo listness one
thing else true or you go back and read less yes yes i know he will see it i'm sure we might get some feed back on that one yes soleful
think if you out there think you'd be okay with us on every two weeks ye or i should get a ruin your life and yet as he probably takes
fifteen to twenty hours now i must slow reader um i must slow readers a inbreeding a book it's it's i read at the same pace that i talk now
when i'm on the poast i'm talking a little bit slower than i normally talk but when i'm reading i'm reading about the pace of speaking ran
about now this is just a normal and what's good about it and i learn is in college when i read and i'm reading at this pace i remembered
just about everything that i read he if i read fast all tim farson speed reading i done remm retain the same amount and so i read slow i
absorbed in thinking about it or making some notes so to get through a book takes ten fifteen hours or so then you get through with that
now you got to go back through it again in desire what the actual the actual squire sighing that you're going to read it said owlet marking
up the book and i'm going back and reading the page number some habitat out that takes a few hours three hours and so by that is all said
none o your talking about twenty hours fifteen to twenty hours to perhaps and i seeing we every single like today or yesterday i got done
propping for this potestate at some peeping for the the the four hours mile as soon as i got on i lilting i would sit up on my bookshelf in
a startling okewood at coming next if i was a reading it now yahyay but that's the the jacope ness yea you know hipperperpotamusses also
it's because when like i said earlier when somebody presses play on the pot as i want them to i want them to getting a piece of waldemar
i'm not going to turn at something that's just that's just crap i would rather not do it at all i rather shut down an take a six month
break or a life long break and never do it again at the start turnin it out from the reason regorged that real quiet i know i tony know why
you know i did that because i have to maintain that attitude alike the like i'm not doing this do this because i will want to do it ye orti
mean i unitas i wanted to it an if i don't want to do it that i'm not men and do it and dies i mean like i said i like to it i like to hit
play on a pond cast and be like oaths is it just like sitting down to listen to great music or anything like that that in a pot cast for me
is like that is like reading a great book as i watching a great move it sitting down pressing playing going okay this is goin to have
impact on me and so i want to turn something out like that i don't want to turn up the second rate stuff i want to turn out something legit
you know and if i can i failed to do that that i'm not going to do it umlass now i'm seeing if i was failed to do it but i was trying my
hardest okay i might continue cousinage make em but if i was failing to do it because i wasn't putting the effort into it that i'm knocking
to do it because that's i think i think that my personal expectations and the expectations that people have when they press play they wanta
get something good they want to get some alloweth want to learn something they want to they want to enter into the game whereas if they
start present play and they hear garbage then on a another that and on don't want to be that that's not my gig my gig is going hard putting
out hard and putting out something that that people want to listen to because it helps him not doing it just to do it does not my think ye
and if you thirling in that regard reconseleing from a mile away man yeh yeh i'll tell you what the one thing i have realized when i first
started i thought oh well i don't know you know how there's only so many books you know that i could actually do cause i'm i'm thinking
books that had impact on me real egidiac yes but wasn't some huge lift it soon as i started going down the path now i realize that there's
a literally i could i could no i'm not going to be able to do in my life time on a book i want to do yet you know what i mean yahnundasis
in other people to make suggestions selling what you penless the dive true for other sending me two or three books and said a checkout
might my amazon bill click through to jacobists the amazon we got a going on casata moneys from me he casimiro all time with somebody says
he jecisti don't have time to play around you know i do i just order it i don't like through order at all amazonian i literally literally
getting a new book shelf in my house because i've got some ready books piling up and yet that to me what's good about it i love this
gunnoono sing i told this early on cause early on you said he you know it was a three weeks into it you like annalaka up the pace and i
said you know what i like this grind i want to be a acota want to have the pedal down and you know what i want to be goin hard and i think
the people that listen to the pot cast all people that are going hard in their perspective lives they're going to their their working hard
there making things happen there being aggressive and that's wot i'm doin here that's what we're doing here and so i think that's why it
resents with some people you and there's some people that are listened to this that now that they can step it up a little bit you know and
that also is a good thing i don't think there's tony people that are like jocko getter did it together you need to get your game on they
know in bringing my aging right i i'm bringing my age and and people know that but the day that i can't bring my a game then cup of things
may be simulated or what i need more time cause i won't turn up crap o i don't do it any more or we do it whenever but the iditer i like a
dead line i learn a lot from the podcast from from getting ready for a cause gothmen i read a book so you got a little bit by listening to
an hour of metallician a book i absorbed it i high lighted i outlined it i research it i looked up and i look up oh that general he sounds
like an interesting only to do a real quick fact jecte is a thing in the hind the scenes unteel about him oh you know an there's a pone
thirled to this i'm vigano homes an i didn't know didn't understand and review in them so all these little things that benoitons i mean
distiches as be a full time job if i don't know you know and by the way the whole time that i'm doing this i got a business you know with
life that were traveling and work in companies i got other books in the hopper than a writing currently and i have to spend time doing that
which i'm super pumped out those as well but like those that takes time so ye gang he but began you know what bring it on brain on bringing
out a oningegun in there to answer your twitteration of one deliver or some pot cast yet for i and make it happen some people to togetter
in red line and we encouraged the red line resolootin about eredine the standby speaking of red lining next question leans discuss how
discipline equal freedom can in should apply to one's financial life than from all stuprations ly if you want to be financially free you
gonna have financial dispone that's just the way it is so here's it's it's just simple not easy save your money tom that's number one don't
buy an ex here's one don't bind expensive car until you on a piece of property that's the basic rule yep if you're driving of mercedes um
asked class from two thousand and fifteenth is that a good one that when so very good one diverged one but it's also hundred and twenty
thousand dollars but if you're living if your renting throng move sell that thing and by these property a car is a depreciating asset of
properties of oberinspector asset to try and put your money into your preciating assets spend less than you earn to stay off the credit
cards on investment in something i like to infest money in mein things that i'm going to do that's what i want to do here i i want invest
money and things that i know and understand what better do i know an understand an then things that i'm doing a polo know or things that
i'm involved with so that's a time you want to you want to get your money taking care of you want you want to have financial freedom you
got a just have the financial discipline that's that's all the rest to it and work cart you know or cart making happen but you're your
major gains you know most people don't become rich by the salary right they become baby way the one their wealth they gained their wealth
through bigger things like fine properties you know we got out you just do player at the at the academy a girl and you don't a year ago she
was kind of talking to me about a well you know get on she just got married and by a bar and we start i got it you you you know a soul with
us think about moving i got this conde and i was like we start talking about buying property and go she disclosed one like a four for unit
property in santiago and the day she got the keys she was making four hundred dollars a month she went from paying nineteen hundred dollars
a month a more did the day she made she got the keys of sunda she ran at that place out she got three unities living of capias unit and she
got those things run it out and now she's making for him dollars a month so that's a that the death of what twenty three hundred dollars a
month in a back i that's impressive ye andy took her year they get done but she did it and now i said i she's a consolation like that's got
sartain so say i for your next popery like the market's going to take down turn you got to be ready if it doesn't if it does but you got to
be ready to make the next move so start saving your only to pain a thing down sir saving your money or saving the next down payment that's
where you're a well gets establishes in these long term stripes that you make and man they know i'm no financial expert but you have to be
a financial expert to notice save your money to spend less than you are m and n property to me is a good thing to invest in it does go up
and down you know and there's a lot of people that got crushed in the in the market down turn and two thousand seven and two thousand eight
and i was in the military so i was buying houses and i didn't even know that the market down turned it didn't matter to me because i had
steady job and i just bought those properties just to just to have properties i wasn't by an to slip in a solemn all that no sick in some
some time in the future some man can be pay me rent in the conomy pocket as i like a good plan to me yes in not making any more real state
by the beach right oh so so yet i'm not a financial genius talked to somebody that is smart talked to somebody that understands finances
but save your money spend less on you are don't be renting if don't be renting a place if your bintingala is asked crass or seven series or
arrange over by lois utopia little thing i i little thing don't not just discomfited little something get in there it is sartin ye an i
liked this invest in yourself ye because an investing yourself that's a such a broad term an such a and accenting started to become like a
little like a cliche catch freezers but if you really think about that you yeah you investing your say you don't go by you know so i use to
work in the night club in straight so i m an i'm now i'm looking with my mind set now looking back at the people i used to do with is to be
seen people come in there every week end and spend a lot of money out of know maybe some of them are already a richer or but i know that if
that's what you're spending your money on your going out and essentially just fit drinks from buying night clothes no essential assorted
delineating in back like thinking back five years ago i spent all your money not all your mine but you said at a bunch of money on the rank
and what i give literally nothing at shalford's you thesis gonna mess you up and in one way dornudo something you regret or whatever
potential so think of that same five years and be like dan what if i started these two things that in my you know prediction is going to
help me inside here and let say you did not find your age and you did it on oneven practise it like an hour a day whatever it is even just
intruding your knowledge on the economy or something on a anything anything that improves your knowledge five years later you could you can
be essentially an expert at it absolutely none now just consider now what is it that you should have got into chilianian interest emprey
cool to you you afficeretur out on whatever but if you can make it something that you can anticipate in five years if goldie you're if
you're talking about financial stuff its gonna help you make money didn't didn't do that do that hang don't and i i i harunabad i think it
kind o deserves it because you don't learn much reality t v and yet you lost like that hour humani you spent that hour and really you could
hankee watcher in a taif you want but just spend that one hour doing something that you anticipate if you are really good at ewold help you
financially do that thing for what our and there like a one day's going to come you're going to think back with coelestem way i'm thinking
back of the five years ago i mean my case is monpipeau just the same way i'm thinking back of those people at the night club industry same
wanting in back about that during a bethinking back yourself in believing i'm so happy i got into that you know there and there's all kinds
of things you could to go i mean i look at the money i wasted over the years in the barn it's ridiculous you know bein young see you out
get after it with the boys thursday friday saturday and the sunday that's how we used to roll you that's how were you to roll and it was
just a we show up i'm the richest guy in the world yet i have all the money that i ever need and i can buy whatever i want that's what
every you knight was a so not wise don't do that yet and i'll even all go out have them front it's cool you can still rinding think of that
ye think of what you're doing right now and you cause for these people in for these people all talking about back wonnerin like livin in
tree they are really technically they are committed to spending their money committed to it decenting to every single week for years you're
committed to it such justice quantos hours ye or take me be temper centimo ney that you're spending or twenty five per cent all of it
whatever and put in something that you anticipate yet in any other thing is i mean investing yourself as i actually build something
actually build a little company you know makes something that's what it that's what i was meant you've got another perspective which is
also very viable and makes just as much sense i was literally talking about you know from your respective owe you like the cars cool figure
had to make a cool retorted at your house you know and then see he get that thing produce and then over really good maybe we start running
for echoless to that that is an influent only not only were you possibly end up with a for some kind of a product that sells but you'll
have run something you've had fun you create something for the world if you landales as that you learn about building it gentinetta and be
worth while as well so there's no this this i'm not saying this um with regard to that year gonophs protected you can get rich i aknowin to
happen not going to happen but can you use that to build knowledge can you use that to get gain experience that will then compound with
other things in your life and eventually make you financially free because you had that discipline absolutely and yes he next question does
micromanage ever er well yes and and more importantly does it work yes sometimes it works and more importantly sometimes you have to
micromanage um so you get somebody that isn't good at their job doesn't do a good job doesn't show up doesn't run things right of course
you know how you fix him you get in to micromanage will first will you cept to mission failure see out get in here micromanage we want your
done micro managing or or once you got them up to speed then you can stop micromanage this is this is totally good to go and evif you ask
life or you know the other person command is at work for me or my sister to mars at work for me if when we we made gotten men when they met
me i was micromanage master because i'm in their grill ay this you got do this now come here with it no and won't give in fact but then as
soon as i see that they get it of course that it's like okay you got this you got this and minuteman antage and barely manage and let them
run with it and so that's that's absolutely micro management is sometimes it's a necessity and by the way if you're getting micromanage
that's a little bit of a red flag sure you might have somebody that's control free that is a compulsive micro manager in that socks for you
also made of somebody that doesn't trust you yet it's so how do you build up their trust is if i hiding from them know it by being open be
in like a bosses romeo you actually send them more information than the toeen want you show them how responsible you are you show them what
a handle you have on the situation and that's all you can help overcome the micro manager but if some one is not being with the supposed to
in their failing or there there let you down than ye you got to get in their grill in micromanage the other time that annatoo said this is
when your men during some one that can also be viewed as micromanage ment cause now i'm sitting side by side on my breathing down your neck
a little bit and that might be viewed as micromanage ment but again sometimes it's necessary if you don't know the ropes yet i got a sure
you ropes i mean to go to sit by you make sure you know um teaching so if your teaching somebody so something in a work in vironment that
and also be beweisenden it actually is cause you say hay put this over here put that over here wait back off let me do this none of you
don't how to do it i got to show you how to opechankano do it so there's that and in the netting and then sometimes you've got to show
people how to do it and i'm told that long story in her one time where i just said hey you sit and watch how i there run the squad and i
ran the squaw and got fired up and told people where to go and move down a line and the tuncan her looked in said okay i can do that and as
soon as he saw one time he got it so that's sometimes micro management is okay the thing is you don't want to get the stuck in the run of
my cremonae so if i meant to you if i teach you if i instruct you if i show you the way doesn't mean stay there and keep my groaning
because you're not doing your job you shouldn't have the capability or the capacity to micromanage to my command everybody that works for
you if you have that ability you're not doing your job gerolio in up the china command you're not looking out your troopers your
subordinate leadership should be stepping up and leading and you should expect that of them and if you have to my romame it should be a
chore that you don't like doing and when you get in there and you might romance for certain out of time then you say okay you've got this
you you know i'm i'm stepping back i then you got a step back because no one likes to be my croatie so won't you get people up to speed
step back let him run let you lead her lead me yes sense people will like to micromanage or the feel compelled to it they can fall in that
trap were where i loosyanny commanding that pay off of all years he was a angering it but instead of understanding to the full scope of
things were all he getting it now it i need to i don't need to manage as much they'll be like they'll still start chasing that pay off of
them getting it with their little micromanage be you know so that like castelene tapaatea people now that you mention some people
micromanage because they're ego but they will want to they want to exercise they want to do two things exercise their power over the person
or or show off their knowledge in the person so those two or just such a pain the esuch a pain but you know what would you do okay cool i'm
goin to work harder in an be head of you i'm going to get better at this or organ a move on ye then that showing off knowledge think not
that that it italie a menenius on it seems like all cats thoughout do that and in each probably see it from a malleable to the in everyday
life poets a compelling thing to want a show people your your here some one telling you some man that you already know and you just want to
tell em priority i don't i know you know but you don't have to explain it to me one really when you really kind asearch your own feelings
as it's not that there wasting your time it's kind o that you just want to let him know that i have that note worry about you know i mean
for i see that all its time i feel that all the time scuttleton terrebat i think that's that's a real compelling like wanton desire you
know to to show he already know that or look how much i know o ye people definitely like that it's a makes me feel good and look at what i
know you'll last question jacko focus in a battle is easy hoiee focus in a long war i e long terminals on that that grace can definitely be
true ein be pretty easy to focus on the battle that's right in front o your face in when you're doing that sometimes you can track of the
the long term goal but i want to have that that long term go so imbedded in my mind that i never would sit of ever and this little tasks
and projects and short turning gold a you tack o they need the lead toward that stricker winning the long warm and we get very canuin
instant gratification we want results now we want the short cut to the winners poem in some times you know when we don't get that short
term glory that we want we who sick of those long term goals and you you look up and in six weeks or in six months or in six years and
you've made no progonus none you never moved he you might even be further from your goal then you were why why did you let that happen
because you lost sight of that long turnagain it some point asked you lose sight a goal and years of gone by you think yourself maybe i
can't maybe i can't do it thence you give up and you let it fadaises ye settle for mediocrity you settle for average you settle for oh well
but no one no don't do that in bed that long term goiner mind burnet into your soul think about it and write about and talk about it and
hanging up on your wall but most important do something about it you something about it every day every day do something that moves you
toward that goal that keeps the gold on live and in sight and in focus however however small or insignificant that step my seen take it do
it to that little ice make it happen because that gold isn't going to achieve its self it all on you and i think that oliveto the night
which means sangrado echo falls to an we have the import important fact that if you're into supplements these suplement that we on the
speak for you for second we recommend its on its suplement specifically creil for joints and and shrine for what is it to you it met come
performance yet it in it in a nut shell citable down it's it it helps you uliae consumption which is a good thing yes performer much so and
yes it does work as any one who's ever taken ah and anna what were you bart that's a good antonine and by the way if you if you do get
these items that go to help you to all be helping us dear on the pot caspye and you'll get helped discount wife if you will honedale
jocatore off anishinape good on you know there's a lot of good stuff on there supplements uman re about em you read about the quality its
soederhamn on theirs well yeah get yourself thomsonian less jacko tempers of all supplements um or before you do aveano if you shot an
amazon which i think we all do before that before got to elizondo good jackal podcast come and then click on them as on link like a little
affiliating you look that he can support so jacopo that a beautiful i easy easy to really easy trust me a fenian cockle story dot com
that's where if you if you like she you know shirts in apparel in regard to his pocassett speaking a which if you didn't already know we of
the troop or one his kind of new the new stock if you're on out in a yet that's a fact said jackal tocaste shirt yes you know where there's
no doubt what that teachers yes cause i not as jacktars yet i don't know he true and you know there's a ane put layers the tribute these
different layers on the the apparent just o jock buck you know till his little some more to it right right so they are not going to say
what it is for this one but there's another layer to it so if you want yet jocatore a comet went to look at it and to use value it it he
like it going getting that's a good way to support the parkas very much so orpheline i disciplinal freedom nolan which we talks about to
what is the what is sort of the de most popular of the teachers it goes in waves from so i say generally speaking this senecal freedom gave
the usneoides ye an i make sense because again like vestimenta yeah and and that's not it seems like all its kind of intriguing as of a
thing like the dust winerooms kind of counter intuitive but when you really think about it a at's kine imparting a are good things that to
live by outofitnow the less so maybe that's why and enough and i am the good one is kind of cool m i think tha's more festive you know but
ye there a few onnecessar and some mugs as well as thought but yet if you go in there jocatore accomplice i said oh and you which are one
you like go yet not one have go with it preciate the sport you well you can also support the coast by by witness upon me into a wand see
agitate charles and i am a jack a willing that's on twerton the face bookie and even on instare i primarily respond on the twitter of you
who have a question but i do look at the other ones as well ah so fantasting that way at thanks for down loading tankerous subscribing
thanks for spreading the word but most of all thanks for staying folkstone long term goals that you have those dreams that got in for
keeping those in mind as you go out there and get after it and so until next time miss echo in joco out
