this is a jackal podcast number thirty three with a ochres and me joaille good evenin iciting people say there is a line there's a line between good and evil
right and wrong between light and dark and that's a nice one to think of things but a line can be hard to recognize it get blurry i get twisted by a motion and
passion and by one only ego and in war that line is tested that pressed he becomes even more bury it gets cross and violated an sometimes abandoned and we can
see that he out history and we talked about it here in the japanese slave camps and re wanda and he lie those are a few examples but there are thousands of
panopolitan ob seen men approach the line driven filled with fury and with hate that fury need an outlet and if it gets a purchase it can become an stopped but
can also be controlled because there is a counter to all that evil there is the man that steps up and says no no not to day not here not now we will not do
that and the bacony of leadership and the dicotomy of war he is so hard to balance soldiers are trained and task to kill and yet they are also trained to be
humane and fair and moral and good for how does a warrior reconcile those opposing forces that dicotomy how does he no the balance god dam fox rushed through
my mind as i tried to decide what to do women old men and kids obviously non combatants but this is a free firestone there are not supposed to be civilians in
this area yeuten occasionally it nor those warnings about free fire areas maybe they're a point element for vetchar envy a travelling behind them maybe they're
supposed to give the warning of stopped it's happened before in that case some of my men could come under fire and be killed or wounded for six killed that one
think last evening and he had a thomson there was a whole squad of conan that group there was some incoming fire when we may be else a dintical cross the dike
last night these people look innocent a lot enough they may be carrying supplies for the calling in the area food and our ammo if a free firestone very one i
suppose to be considered enemy almost false but for my men they'll be killed if i make the wrong decision these things coming toward us mean nothing to me my
men mean everything what if the dinks aren't innocent my men depend on me to keep them alive i spoke softly to the men around me it's a lick on them when i
give the order open fire i brought up the m sixteen to sit in on the dink stag was standing to my right his m sixty machine gun support on his hip by a sling
around his neck and shoulder he reached over and touched my arm his whispered voice reflected the agony of doubt in his face no sir you can't kids women he
motioned toward the file of people coming towards us i felt a shamed pagas right wait one i whispered to the men around me i'll call for them this surrender i
felt relieved capturing them with the best solution if they were the point for a v c group i would just make sure none of us was exposed to fire when we
captured this point the danger almost to the inner section i stepped through the brush with some of my men don't boy don't really i warned they only tend
twenty meters from us they all glanced at us standing with a weapon trained on them we had them dead to rights they had no cover no place to run to a perfect
capture situation almost in mid stride they all moved with the stonishing speed the two boys in the points split up the one ran past us hang down the trail
past the schoolhouse the other boy the woman the old men start running back towards the bridge stop stop to ladala i yelled to know avail i could not order the
men to run after them it could be a trap neither can i let them get away why would they running in the split second those thoughts ran across my consciousness
i gave the order to open fire and irrevocable wave of death swept and fonos after the initial burst of gun fire a yell to see fire the two women survived long
enough to cross the bridge and enter one of the hooter my men crossed over the bridge and throw grenades in the hoches we heard we too looked over the bodies
on the trail since they were lying in the open we had no desire to be caught exposed the men reported at some of the dead had been carrying handeds in their
animal and amuba i felt somewhat relieved though supplies could have been for i could not have been for any one but the calm ercive report from the squad down
the trail the firing at a lured them barely fast enough to fire at the teenager running toward them down the trail some one hit him in the shoulder and knocked
him down surprising he the boy had jumped up and run past the squad to safety somewhere in the brush i had no pleasure in reporting to dealt the six that we
had killed six dinks and one wounded i knew he would ask how many apt weapons we have captured i stared at the grey horizon for a long time before answering
that the dinks were not carrying weapons only surprise and grenades i felt low this putrid war i fought in so many ways i could have done it differently so
easy to think afterward after all now i knew there was no dink squad behind on the trail this episode would be the darkest of my career i called my men
together for a march up the slight hill he dealt the sexes position forcing the din out of my mind not from a book that were looking at the night is called the
killing one my life in the vietnam war by frederic downs now vietnam it was ardor obviously a wretched worm for many reasons in the meliance is almost the
eight pax almost the pinical seems like the essence of the war in many respects at least its viewed that way in a did have a huge cartegena it was devastating
to the war effort and something that should always be remembered is that tact go operations can have strategic impact like ackward the meal i maskron did more
to end the war and hasten our departure from vietnam than anything or communist enemy did then in a similar vein the war i was in in the mistreatment of the
prisoners in oborri on that iraq and the photograph that showed that mistreatment likely did more refute insurgency in that country than anything out idaid
tactical actions can have strategic impacted and and that actually appennines to one bad customer the experience for a customer's some reach and there can
really be a strategic impact and what the front line troops do really does matter and what the front line troops do is based on how they are lad clearly i
meither was a total lack of leadership especially from the moral and ethical perspective but this was not the normal not by any stretch of and like i said it's
a view sometimes as the representation of what the venom war was like but it's not an an i said this we talked about me lie yet america has done monstrous
things in our history but we most certainly are not monstrous we are in amazingly but nevolent nation especially now perhaps even to our own detriment but
that's why i wonder to talk about this book the killing one to show the channels of vietnam war and how american troops handled those channels of pressures on
a date dat basis and how they sometimes crossed that line if only for a moment but then most of the time brought themselves back from the brink of darkness
into the like now it's go back to the book here going to the beginning when fred down young lieutenant in the army is a flying invitam at twenty three thirty
hours a continental big burg with the golden tail decart ugh the night sky into landing pattern over the black landscape of vietnam twenty three hours earlier
a hundred and sixty five have been crammed aboard the commercial jetty airport near san francisco i looked around the cabin of the officer and a list at the
officers in it listed men who come from all of the united states to catch his flight from san poncio how would they riturn how would i return i graduated six
months earlier from the u s army osses program at fourpennies and now i was soon to be leading men in the combat i was twenty three years old and i've been
trained to lead physically i thought i was ready meant to leave i was as confident myself as any young officer could be but underneath my confidence were the
ever present questions worry and curiosity about war and my roll in it i was eagerly looking forward to finding answers i would not have to wait long so we
talked about that for when years stepping into a leadership roll your not gonore's a good chance you're not goin to feel under osnome and that's okay so he
gets to vietnam he gets a sign to uh for division and he actually he hadn't heard of fourth of vivien scene at the papers he kind is asked he why why why
venison to papers worthy doing and he said he's no reporters up there where there working it's too rough for him and he's kind of saying you don't i want to
get to an to make sure i i get it on and in some of the old timers are telling him one of them says you'll get a belly full of fighting up there son if that's
what you want so it's one of those be careful what you wish for senario and ah i thought this was pretty pretty arresting you know we talk about hackworth and
not the hard core recondo as the salute and reply the reply is no fucking slack so here is what they had here it was as so petiolus in the fee in a company
area but not the field when in list of man saluted he would say golden dragon sir the aliceolaters the salute with right on the line i asked about this they
told me that it that the first the fourteenth that's the that's the divisions at the first the fourteenth was an old inviteraient steeped in tradition during
the box rebellion in china the unit had fought bravely afterward they had adopted the symbol of a golden dragon the other part of the salute came from some
some battle in the civil war right before a large battle a staff officer asked the general where to put the first to the fourteenth the general had roared back
put them to the right of the line where they belonged the right it wine is where a leader traditionally puts his best men and units this comes down through
military history when a man fought with the shield and sword the right arm or sorrows unprotected the best fighter was put to the right to protect the sword
arm of the man on his left only the most trusted and best fighters held the position to the right legates he there in the in kind of in the in the ah
headquarters area for a little while and then he gets his indoctrination in the gets flown out these flies out in the field to where he's going to be operating
out of he gets up there in this is this is straight out of a movie right here bugs swarmed round my face i swately at the men who look right back at me it was
my first view of american eyes who had spent several days in the jungle i stood there and sparkling crisp for teagues brand new boots new rifle clean shaven
fresh air cut i even smelled clean my helmet came a fog covered in have a mark on it nor did i the two men opposite me were filthy their fatigues were torn and
they had scratches all over their skin two or three days of growth on their beard and dark circles under the eyes they looked tired and they smelled the high
heaven so that's that's right out of a movie the boot lieutenant coming in to take over easiness pressed canis luck at home score away of these guys look like
their living in hell and the introduced the the company commander and this guy bernese trotabout this go captain selves wasn't all to shear twenty six years
old son of son of a father killed in career so that's you know the guy's dad got killed and careen he's the during the vietnam war join or not and and leading
men in the comedies a company commander and if you remember from from the book pitied remember he didn't even meet the company command her so his direct post
in even meet him for weeks he'd been in the field for weeks before he met him and here is this this companie matter obviously much more squared away walks on
the round introduces and everybody's given him a heads up you know this is the way it supposed to be and you know he's getting told if there's any meal around
and you might have heard in that into piece that i read our talking about dealt the six and and here's a little piece about that keen for me that his radio
signal was dealt a sex so that's the delta company commanders don't the sex lieutenant but first put to me ter was doubt o one six the second petuntur was
dealt the two six six is wilderman ers of the unit and this is a tradition that holds true in the inharmonious to day and it's pretty cold ear when you're in
the field you hear some one call for the sex and and that meshewa to talk to god it's in charge up there their second a command were not as five for instant
teleon five with the first person surgeon and this is a you know got on to talk a little bit more about captain cells whose asking about his family is getting
to know him and he's to auons had i had a wife and dothegirls back in illinois and so again you're getting any impression that sells as a guy that's trying to
get to know his people and learn about him which is which is the wallet what a leader should be doing now these guys are out and he's talking again this is
this is something straight out of a straight out of a movie darkness quickly and gulf us my hochmut the astonishment i pulled out mosquito netting and spread
it over my panchali or an air matches they were aghast that i carried so much extra weight no i answered this is all the good stuff there made me grew as i
revealed three changes of underwear and fatigue clothes waiting the next day they scoffed when the sun is son and heavy pack will drag me down the jungle would
exact a toll for every outside carried we'll see i answered not a good answer we ennismore said yeah you'll see you'll see that the only change of closer
carriers and be an extra pair of socks you'll earn the living one that a jungle titonti they ran off you are ripe too badly to wear hats that that at listen we
were in a my my first pomatare we if we had you know free sets a camenis it is warm rotate him in remote that the up temple was so high on and the conditions
of fighting we had to order new canes within within a couple of weeks of being the guisards royd came coruncho three they're getting you know dragging people
and they were just ruining their their canes so that was another indicator in remote that we were in a totally different scenario than i was of my first
important to iraq back to the book my first days on combat control come up a troenders me to visited of war ten foot deep pungy pits waited a minute vines that
collected around the feet and legs until their combined strength stopped you and you had to save weight a minute while you untangle her cut yourself loose
behoulding down or onesis we marched round with seventy pound packs the sweat touring off as the bug so stick are faces that around our faces that we sometimes
inhaled them that and of physical agony of forcing tired muscles to keep going it was a searching destroyed mission which meant we served all the hoochs we
found and then burned them down whether a single farmers hooch or a whole village all or burnt the few vietnamese we found in the area when women children old
men who had been left behind when we started to bone the particular hooch they were sort wailing crying and pulling in our clothes we in on the people but the
orders were to destroy all the dwellings so we did the first time i saw vietnamese family going to hysterics when their hot we set on fire i would i was unsure
of whether burning their home would accomplish our mission the mission was to deny the enemy use of hooch's to destroy any food we found and to teach the
people a lesson about supporting the enemy but i quickly got used to it and accepted that this was one weighing war and that you know a few if you talk to
anybody anybody knows about truth counter insurgency this is not a great plan to go in and basically abuse the populace now you know that they're supporting
the the insurgents sure you want it you want to disrupt that but often times they're not to they're not supporting me in certain speakers they want to there
there are supporting its artist caster fear for her life that's the way it was in in iraq when when i was there so back to the book shoulden brand took the
opportunity later that day to explain in the you in this unit every one called the enemy and ultimately all outsiders dans that's their word they used and i
found this interesting he says ultimately all outside her if you ever made me ver lay from the in the book we we we thought about move that's we called the end
and called the memoirs but was it arresting it or it says all outsiders and that's exactly what we do if would we were get resistance from you of the chanaan
down the chance guess what we call them more we say all to the bosses saying i can't believe that moose so it became the word that we use the ever to all
outsiders and that's that's unit cohesion and there are some dehumanization of the enemy there obviously but the fact that you end up using the same slang word
to to describe anybody that's against you it is is is it resting back to book it turned out that the enemy started calling us dinks first because it was an
insulting or demeaning turn that men harry man from the jungle we had just turned a word the round and started calling them dinks at least that was the story i
don't know if that's true or not i never never read did to any research on that one i saw the face of the enemy for the first time he been machine gun down by
one of our gun crews the powerful weapon in thorah a bullets in the brush where we had spotted him when we got to his position i saw for the first time the
death of a soldier the machine gun crude done a good job the young soldiers green combat uniform body was riddled with bullets he was sprawled across his
biscoe with his face toward the sky and last i had before me the enemy ad been trained to destroy he was a young man for whom the war aunt life had ended one
evening a jet was returning a basin needed a target to get rid of his unexpended bombloads the captain called the ford air controller and gave in the
coordinates of a snipe or three hundred meters away who been pasturing on off an on for three days as the get pulled up after dropping napalm on the sniper's
position we could hear the pop pop of the sniper firing at the jet the men talked about the gall of that sniper as i watched the napalm burn itself out i
wondered what would drive a man to stand up the death in so remarkable a manner gin your beam with a hardened enemy you getting a poem dropped on your position
and as you burned to death your tryin to shoot down a jet fighter back to the brook shalden brand was forth is waitin gold to me in running that potugin and
introduce me to the potomao it's aleck aleck is a lick on a young man's asked lieutenant you remember when you were a kid you did something wrong or something
got tucked up that you got the blame for the old man would give you a licking with a sweat shone a belt yeah i sure remember getting lickings well when
something goes wrong it's a liquor you see at that goes wrong i give you a lick and over here you'll get plenty of lex my art you was as the other most
important man the platoon his job was carried radio and stick to me like a shadow the radio was on link with literally everything outside our paton from
surprise to survival without a working radio in a good artobane and the platoon were as good as lost in this warm my artie man a skinny kid five feet eleven
inches tall was next to perfect for his job he loved to know is going on and his job was a kin to the central switchboard operators so that the artiodactyles
actually when i was in alicia that's what i was so i was i was at the time attitude when he was a you the art o you always know it's going on cause then the
officer telling you you're right next to him you listen to what he saying you always know what's going on and that was a real good education for me drown my
whole career always be a next to the trothy that was running up to talk a little bit about the troops here my squad beaters were first quatela cowboy type from
wyoming second square portrait a slightly built black from east saint louis third squaw hosea skinny short swarthy portion for wagala of medium built red head
from new england states and of course there was the two medic dock the pucoon make up was white splatch portions mexicans americans and an indian and a
japanese american all of them from eighteen to twenty one years old in a combat of tune we were evaluated by our peers on her ability to help the pucoon
survive and not on our racial backgrounds a combat tune pulled together and was tight with each other with no room for the soldier who wouldn't do his share so
i you know it's always good to disapoint that these are just people fosters section of america these these are pretty stereotypical right count boy from
wyoming that you know this is this is stereotypical stuff and that's that's one thing that the notes when i join i grew up in new england right when i joined
the navy and i got to california and i went to the enlistedman club on an a b corn not o the gaiter gardens back give the daisy a tiers of nineteen years old
and i showed up the oneself is a club on base right and so i go mine gilder he as an ill rottum so i go gadatas go see what's going on there so i walk on the
club as a kind of standing outside i see two guys walk by with with jean's own with cowboy boots with big belt buckles and cow boy hats and like a ring lesher
and i was kind of thinking myself on that there is or some kind of is it how we is the asking just up for something and a genius pre internet man i mean and
and and then i see a couple more dies go in it turned out it was concealest er night but at the club that you have it in love but i had never seen a person an
you an come from a small town in in connecticut and there's there's there's just no cowboys up there and and and interestingly there's farms and there's people
that raise cattle as people that grow you know have have farms but they don't have cowboys and they don't work out ways and so they just that's what i that's
what i was thinking about when i read this is just how you take all these different people from all of us had no idea you have no idea what other people like
it again this is pre internet now when i join the navy we didn't get to go glewed dn't watch it you too for the oscos you can steer exposed to entire planet
and and galaxy though you too first time he saw a real cowboy how mais i thought i thought they were i thought they were dressed up as i ever dressed up yet it
is kondera and then you know i ended up i mean the intent bruce and all kinds of gootes and those to all kinds of count boys down in texas ah but i could come
increse crystals like a legit whatever radio do in lay malicolo them cowboy yea absolutely that mean there's all kinds of cowboys in there so i now we went
advanced a little bit iss the first time that that down to actually eating charge um he did will turn over with the with the form of tincander he takes charge
the toon and he's doing security for the bridges for some bridges that are out kind of away from the main camp and out there a prevent land mines and gathering
tell and kind o set up a check point and and there there their dashest out there so they would do set up by these bridges and as their getting set up for the
first time come going to book an explosion rip the air behind me falltime toy by a scream my body instinctively threw my through itself against the sand bags
as my mind shouted more de retake my eyes registered the scene of men frozen in shocked wonderment their eyes staring behind me man was directly in front of me
and the track man were often the background crouching where they where they were when exposed to what is so there actually out there with them track of
vehicles quickly turning round my eyes swept and awful catastrophe one of the clamors had gone off shattering for over the lives of the three men in front of
it jesus christ was in a mortar no one of our claymore off get those men quick now await there's another clamor out there what the fox had it off what about
the other one so imagine us you you get to a position that you want to put up clamorings and if you don't know the claim on mind as it's a it's a directional
blasting mine that you set off by command that nations you have a little a little thing that you squeezed and when you squeeze this thing in sansterre down the
wire in the clamor that nate a blasting cap the the clamorous everything in front of its going to die well they had set up the clamors and then they were going
to put some barbwire out and as they were putting the barbed wire out there was a storm electrical storm you know a thunderstorm and the static electricity in
the air actually set off the claymore so he killed or i did some serious damage back to the book only a few seconds had passed in the explosion of one of my
men and i dashed to the other clamor frantically fumbling on screwing the plug and holding the bastarache wing it away from the claymore then i rushed back to
radio two men were applying first aid the other positions were covered by the men assigned to them they had stayed in place during the action goutran i fought
as i fulled with my map it was folded a plastic radio bag all of us used to carry mapson dealt a six is one six or one six deltaic hour this one six i need
dustoors been an accident resulting in three peanuts over we tried to say nothing over the radio that could be understood by the enemy thus we need code words
for certain things of cool lad was a dead soldier and a piano was a wounded soldier this is dealt the six what the hell happened over this i i one six static
electric in the air set off a claim more wealth three trackmen were putting out barbwire over this is dealt the sex what our position over now what will ye ask
me that for i was on the bridge he assigned to me let's see were here so i read right up real easy just like all the training so he's looking as maphrotight of
course that was my first responsibility where a man had been hurt so maybe that accounted for what happened next in spite of training lieutenant was tenant
you've got to get a dust off out here quick this man's got a bad head wound said one soldier as they brought the wounded over me dirty but cows of lightning
crashing around and the confusion as the wind howled over from all directions huge range drops start to spatter down this is one six in a cordite two nine
eight zero two eight over i read them out this delaserre you sure of that over this is one six ah let's see ye it's that's it all right there one six you
better check that again according to what you gave me you're in the south china sea over oh did he sound mad god dam of on this a million times be fought ran
through my mind as a sweat broke out the wounded were groaning the storm was reaching gigantic proportions and the tracks argent was demanding a nowhere that
fuck that dust off was consecrate fred concentrated to myself will staring at the meaningless blob of colors worlds and numbers so seminis map and just trying
to figure out suddenly everything gels and perfect clarity dealt the six is so one six yer right my cartador to e eight zero two eight i eated fast over one
sextus deltaic i know where you are i just wanted to see if you could figure it out are called the dust off so captain felt this tattersal king to captain
sells that so that delischan der of the company and even in this pressure situation he's trying to make sure that the guy is thinking he's an opportunity to
think for the first time under pressure and he already called the dust off but he still putting the test to him and see how he operates under that kind of
stress and pressure he another a following situation there their kind of sitting in this location and they see a woman start to start to approach where they
had some some equipment and she was look like she's been a steel some stuff and you know his kind no big deal okay she's going to steal so whatever some
ponchos or something well then they see her what she picks up at a case of grenades and there thinking wait a second now this just got really bad because if
she is tannoth okay no big deal but if she's stealing grenades stuff is going to be used to come back and kill them but again because we have a guy with a with
a conscience you know a guy that sees where the line of darkness is an e doesn't one to cross it so instead of just shooting her what she could a done he loads
a a magazine of tracherous in to his aunt into his weapon and he's starts shooting him around her kind of warning shots and he eventually start shooting he's a
good shot he search shooting at the little rope that hold the case that she's holding on to he started shooting at that rope shoots out of like five or six
time finely his the rope kindheit her hand she dropped it she runs off again just trying to show the discretion that this guides us in is a real contrast to to
the mealie episode now speaking of that thevetia er on they roll up some prisoners one is an old man and one as a young man and this old gray haired sergeant
straton after to the got these two prisoners they captured and here's the sergeant so you're the suckers that that my buddies in the tank the old gray her
saransur without warning he swung a heavy fist in the face the old man knocking him down the other fist swung into the face the younger man knocking down
beside the old man the sergeant was screaming and bellowing as he pulled it two men on the sand they rolled into balls for protection for hampered by their
tied hands i ran from the road yelling my two men to pull the sergeant off the prisoners they grabbed him by his soldiers as he fought them to get back to the
vietnamese he lashed out with his foot at the prisoner's catching one them in the side looked the hello you do in sergeant those men of my prisoners i
exclaimed his face was red with fury as he yelled back in le you had no right to take those stinking comprises he smelled of beer that he had drunk you should
have killed those mother fuckers like they killed that other tank crew for these men are tied up we don't know who they all right yelled back i was saved by
the sound of lieutenant not to not in voice breaking over the argument come down sergeant go back to your tent love the loieta was the command of the tanks
again in pointing us out he's new in country he sees somebody beating up a prisoner they had just lost up one of the tanks to a mind earlier and obviously the
greater sergeants passed that you want to take it out on these guys but you know calenco heads prevailed in that situation now speaking of mind minds back to
the book mind continued to be laid in the road at irregular intervals it was a fact of life but the terror of an explosion never failed to send a shiver
through our god no matter how many times we heard them whatever we were doing our heads would jerk around it was as terrifying to hear the explosion see the
ugly gray and black crowd cloudes at ripped in the air see dark pieces of meadow canvas machinery and human beings flying in the blossom of death out from the
centre of destruction and this one big mind happens and he's going to check it out its trockindiles i approached the twisted wreck it was very disheartened to
see the smoking wreck which had once been the carrier of human beings there were west smoke drifting upward from the hook as we approached closer we saw part
of the driver's body mangled beyond recognition the cabin on the ground the main portion of the driver was only recognizable because we knew that was what it
was supposed to be my men ran toward the still living being haled in the rice patting mulling over and over that his leg was gone the scene of desolation
brought about the true impact of the vietnam war to me there was no enemy to fire at there was no nothing to retaliate against at a distance the traffic of
vehicles and vietnamese watched all that remained was the message job of cleaning up while thinking that this could happen as a small part of her mind tried to
retain its sanity by reminding itself over and over that it would never happen to us he can happen to every one else but it would not happen to me without in
mind we started scraping up or was left preparing it for the plastic body bag now eventually they they go from guarding the bridges to where they start doing
patrols out in the jungle and ambushes out in the jungle and direct action missions out in the jungle and at this point there out that jungle and i'll go to
the book my pecunia had not shaved for three or four days don't the six was a bar about shaving combat patroller not just because we lived like animals didn't
mean we had to look like them was his way of thinking throwing my fatigue jacket across a bush i grabbed my shaving gear and told pagan vile is an or to
company me we would guard each other as we shaved so that the company commanders coming out and their unshaven and they're like okay we got a shave requirebat
the gain you can see that captain self has a real influence any conte that that discipline it carries over and when you let it slack and but that you go
visiteth and they have to get back in line it brings em back humanity it makes him reminds one that thing cause think about that shaving somebody to do in the
military every single day so when almost sunderun the field you start losing that you start slipping away from that and think start other things start slipping
away as well they get in to a a the into some fire fight out there and at one point he gets wounded and i'm going to the book after a home said finished
bending my arm i put on my fatigue jacket lit a cigarette i felt good i only been in country a few months and i have my second purple heart the first one had
been from a wound received in october to top it off i've been wounded twice in one day shot in the ear in the morning and it with a grenade trap on the
afternoon luck was with me all three wounds had been slight now you can say luck when you get shot in the ear and you are lucky for sure but that's that's a
real that's a real i opener indicating that you realize illgotten and i had guises in the helmet and in the like it one bit cushat's real close some one got
real close to getting you now go and forward more there is a there's a battle going on and the companies out in the field and they're not directly involved in
the battle so they get told okay you will want to go set up where the weary think the the vs is going to run to where we think they're going to run you guy set
up a blocking force that we in the vice runs into you you ambush and then take him out so they're kind of maneuvering to go set that up his petuntur to set
that up and we'll go to a book after fifteen minutes or so we were proximal half way down the ridge the captain gave me a call dragon sick said decided it
would be better if i have to my portonaccio the two elements in opposite directions in order to cover a larger area i was dead set against this my belton was
below strengthened dividing it would be asking to reinforce rifle squaws defend hundreds of acres of jungle against a foe of unknown size so dragon sixes above
the company commander this is now the italian commander and so now you're getting an order from the italian man or so it's you know you're a young lieutenant
put yon commander and you're getting told to do this and he doesn't feel good about it back to the book but orders were orders especially from dragon six i
passed back the word for chalanda come up i was poring over my map and compass when calderan reached me the battle was full the full blown it sound it sound
provided background noise a brief shelley on the situation and our orders shit i don't like it sir i know i don't either but it's alick you got your map in
compass good to all kinds of reasons why they don't like the idea a obviously one that he already stated was that you know you take your portunity you can man
half that's that's just you don't have the same finding capability at all i think they had one one heavy machine gun in each squad so that you got basically
there down to two squats with they were under strength so we're talking one heavy machine gun and by the way if somebody gets wounded you know you got your
wounded guy and if you're on to carry that guy it takes two or three guys to carry the guyst's four dragon so you could very easily be out numbered out man now
gone by the enemy so he doesn't like the side on top of that i will tell you he doesn't talk about it dear when you split up in a situation like this it
becomes very difficult to do command in control and now you got two elements that are weak or size and your er no longer able to support each other that's the
tatepocoshe cover move me john be close enough that you could sport each other you don't want to split for upon it where you can't help each other something
happens well that's what they're getting told to do they don't like it and but they do it then maybe i should have protested more but he's getting he's getting
orders from the biting commander and he says o k but do it and of course we in a couple of minutes of doing it they lose radio contact so now they can't they
can't hear each other in their starkenbach apart finding they get radio ah they get connected on the radio again they get calm again and it sounds like this
one five this is one six if you figured out where you are yet this is one five negative so shelley with his squad is lost does no where is okay now the
lieutenant's all set up though there there in their position where there thinking the enemy might come by their set up to attack them and he re go back to back
lieutenant porte risk whispered as he reached my side weary we hear noises to our front men are moving across in fun of us in the jungle hold on a second
porter one five this is one six the sound of the battle should be on your right if you're going in the right direction where the sounds over this is one five
negative on the right the sounds are on the left over one five did you just say the sounds run your left i was squeezing the hand set so hard my knuckles were
white a formative affirmative jesus christ one five i horse the whispered intensely into the mouth piece your heading in argyreon i could hear the sounds of
men moving through the jungle below us i whispered the porter get back down there until the men to hold their fire that may not be dick's after all hurry
poorer and heard the conversation which shelley and quickly turned to or to carry out at my order he couldn't yell because the sounds were coming from the dink
soldiers his yell present jeopardy as poorer started toward the crew the machine gun crew opened fire the harshness of the gun multiple explosions ripped
across my thoughts as it sound echoed through the hand set i was holding next to my ear the sound of american swearing and screaming rebounded from the jungle
below and from my aunt set cease fire i screamed cease fire so he can actually hear his guise getting shot by his own guise we have a boom blue porter i were
running the gun crew both of us yelling sees fire ceased fire the sound of their gun blanketing the screams in front of them abruptly the gun quit firing i
yelled in the jungle shelley's at you yes yes stop firing don't fire i was answered by many voices i stood there an instant the horrible realization that i had
fired on my own men swept over me like a wave from an ice cold hell the gun coloony their faces filled with shock i ran leaping and falling down to the bush
line where my men were asked a question anybody hit pocrisy gallied back as i burst than to a small clearing one man a point man so there you blowable another
reason why if you don't have to separate your forces you don't you don't separate forces in unless you have to and when you do it you do with extreme caution
and when you weethin at every book we've we talk about blumenbuhl is always looks at happens in my book and some of these descriptions right here i've
recognized those a hundred per cent when he says the horrible realization i'd fire of my own men sorter me like a wave from her eyes cold hell you ireton
recognized that and the fact that he says the gun could odometer faces filled with shock when i when i explained to my guys in the field like that was a boom
blue their faces were just complete shock if you're in the military you're in voluntarism the very careful in esplandor forces thet's if it just multiplies the
channels sometimes it is necessary but you've got a keep control over it and now we go to where he's calling for a man of actors for his wounded guy deltos's
one sex over visdase over this one six i need dust off for a pena we run into a little action over this is dealt a sex would mean a little action what's going
on what happened over my niece felt weak and my stomach was sour this is one six we had a little difficulty with with the terrain and ah i am bushed one five
over what alfurd you do that one six you mean your ambush grown men what kind outfitter you running up there that's the most asinine thing i ever heard of you
get your head out of your as one six and get that burton straightened up you've got that over this is one six a formative over ah one sixth demmercrats a son
is away how bad at your peover this one six not too bad to lose a couple of toes but everybody else is okay over at once six settled down out he was more
gentle with the last transmission because i'm sure you heard my voice showed the strain i was feeling whenever the reason i welcomed the sound of his voice
perhaps he onderstood better than i thought what had happened so he comes out in real hard he realizes that the guy feels horrible and men and that he kind of
backed off and said satollo knows he's got to stay in the game he got to get him to stay in the game and there was a nightmare of a vitiation that is actually
it's from a documentary but there was a really bad boompointer first gulf war where a patched gun ship let it lit up a things bravely and a some kind of a p c
a one it's a nightmare but you can hear the one guide it fired there saint he you got a dip acidosis ion you know hold the line basically and he's that i just
had my own is i want to come back and there they say negative and so that's basically what this what captain sells his do here said he lessay i'm past but
guess what came down settle down get you sit together and set out and in and by the way for those folks that aren't military over when you say over at the end
of a transmission on the radio it means you expect a reply when you say out there's no reply expected so like one we end this poast i say out cause or no don't
you do don't ainything back to me it's over i don't take over and in some o you hear people say over now in the military that doesn't you don't say that
because i make any sense juseen you hear that in a movie i know that they know that they are cheesy that canonlike when you won't they hang up the phone on the
move the stern and you hear the dalton will you tearlessly happen either stingy i trudged back back to book i trudged back to my position one five and his men
following man handed me a a can o coffee i changed smoke my cigarettes and drink coffee wantun expanded into a larger perimeter i stood facing the mountain the
battle still raging on one five walked over to me still shaken from his experience he told me how he was sorry that he had gotten in he in such a dutch with
the captain and we discussed the operation going over his mistake while he attempted to figure out where to keep it from happening again if we were ever split
up sallianna been through too much together for me to blame him for what had happened i told him so and we let it go at that we had been lucky besides i blame
to myself for one at happened the responsibility for any unit action ultimately rest with its commander the leader got the glory when things worked out and he
took the blame when they didn't that when with the job when it came right down through it the men were my responsibility and night failed them to day little
bit of extreme ownership if you read the book extreme oneship that lay from a road the opening chapter that's what it's about blue on blue and done exactly
what war lieutenant down stead right there taking ownership of what the mistakes were made in the battle field back to the book there's a couple gowell
actually not yet there they they link up with another woman i atone and now their having a conversation ah downsloping conversation with another officer named
anderson a dink was lying next to us as we talked he had a black as is spade stuck on to his fist and said what's that all about that's so the din no one
outfit fucked him up over here look around most of the dingo those in their hands sure enough the diner all holding in a suspan that's a good idea but where i
get all the eases one of the guys moms works in a card store sorowe home asking her tender a couple of packs of nothing but a aubades why did we want to kill
dick after all we had mostly been walled biting citizens back in the world and we were taught that the takeover man's life was wrong somehow the perspective
got twisted in a war the government told us it was all right and in fact almost to kill members of another governments pepepe then we had the long or side it
turned out that most of us like to kill other men some of the guys which shoot it at dinas much as they would at a target some of the men didn't like to kill a
dinkle the close or the killing the more personal a became others in the petunies to kill in close a few even like to torture the dinette had a prisoner or cut
the dead bodies with knives in a frenzy of aggression a few didn't like to kill it all and wouldn't fire their weapons except the protector bodies mostly we
all saw it as a job and rationalized the noon way over it all ran the streak of anger or fear that for brief moments ruled us all my job is peculiar was to
control the spectre of emotions to die the men toward survival i didn't believe in torturing or allowing a dink to die a lingering death in the jungle we never
took prizners if we could help it every day we spent the jungle you wrote to a little more of our humanity away prisoners could escape to become or nemain
hence no prisoners the philosophical arguments in favour of man's ability to resist the slight to barbarism sound noble and rational in the classroom or at a
cocktail party but when the enemy is bearing down on you bent on taking your life away from you it's not his country against our country not his army against
our army not his filosophy against your philosophy it's the fact that that son of a bitch is trying to kill you and you better kill him first that's a reality
right there now a going back to tactical ttle bit back to the book there was a spot about midway down the mountain marked in blue that meant something bigger
than a stream if i were an enemy commander that will be a perfect spot for a camp high mountains on three sides a good water supply thick jungle growth and
escape path in any directions if he decided i'll not location the enema de would be counting on attack from the valley up towards his vocation you would have
his back guarded but not very have heavily or so i reasoned i just like that because you can see he's getting his mind in that minded the enemy he stinging out
what would will you look at the map he sees streamed she's valley he sees good good up covered positions from three sides he thinking okay this with the enemy
must be thinking right here now befiting continues and as always you know i'm burning through buck i m this is out this is a two hundred and fifty page book
and i'm reading you know what maybe twenty pages from it so there's so much action going on and and so many good lessons to learn obviously i can't comfort all
that's why you can buy this book yourself as you should but here we go and going to a point here where i've been in a fire fight they got three wounded one the
guys lost in an one of them some conscious and their getteth a helicopter to come in and helicopters lowered down a cable and their lifting the guys out to get
him to a metaxata ion back to the book the signal was given and the cable pulled him off the ground about half way up he waved all of us grinning like a
cheshire cat blood dripped on us it was a picture i shall always hold in my mind a man dangling from a cable holding a stick fastened to a turn i get on the
stump of his leg waving at his comrades of the other hand a cigarette dangling from his lips one six is getting harry appear were starting to take fire the
pilot reported hold on just one more pagan i lifted the unconscious man up while he slid the vest on to him someone had to be the cable which i hooked on to
the ring the unconscious man was winged upward dangling like a limp dolate end of a cable spain i stood underneath watching this final accident as the crew man
reached out to grab the man something went wrong the man it become on hooked and somehow fell through fifty feet of sky towards us we jumped back as the man
fell in a heap at her feet a merican i pulled the man over for he stopped breathing he goes on to say the trition raged on our side was terrible on our moral
although we killed and wounded many of the envie we never knew how much it hurt them it seemed there was an unlimited number to take their places but on our
side when we lost a man we all knew and it wore heavily on our minds the constant marching and fighting demanded two things of us strength and absolute
reliability now they're moving out on another operation and there's one of them one of the soldiers named yielder elder was the point man he was experienced
and full of good humour due to the his promotion that door gone a good man to have on point eny day he was aggressive and unafraid even though he was going in
soon there was no question of putting some one else in his place on point it was his turn and he would not have it in the other way so he's getting promoted to
door gunners apud out of fields of fire on now a copter you know you well it ively safe compared to beat in the field he reminded me of a hale billy with his
coarse language man risen in humour i was always asking him when he's goin to get that front tooth replaced that missing tooth made him look more like a hill
ability than anything else he always laughed and said fox sir i and about to let them fucking army denser on me she at now that would be a licomi so they
continued their patrol the coming up on the kind of flat area and yielder crept forward in the crouch looked back at me and grinned i grin back and nodded my
head yoresef over a tree root holding up parolette small gully bank at that moment all hell broke loose as a chicamaugua straight the pontelima you was hit in
the body and fell forward into the gully the machine gun to acted as it key which triggered a complete ambush we walked into a class couched him bush with the
machine gun being at the base of the you so i wellscored when he get ambushed in your completely surrounded by the enemy that's where the that's where they are
starts with his machine gondinet and then just breaks out explosions machine guns and rifle buts rip through the air ricochet off the ground and trees around
us the noise was overwhelming men were screaming and yelling trying desperately to get cover or screaming when they were hit or thought they were hit which was
almost as terrifying we still not seen any of the enemy in the thick growth around us most of us in the point played dead i lay trying to get my thinking
organized as to what to do so you do take massiveness and your land there thinking what am i going to do i could hear yoder crying on the other side of the
route where you'd fallen he cried out for me to come and get him lieutenant i've been hit i've been hit bad i'm dying please come again me please come and get
me i turned my head in his direction twigs and bark from trees were falling like snow all around us as the terrible shape on fire power ripped through the
jungle around us i was terrified so there they are pin down and he's actually and up going to try and help one of the other guys first a guidable than he gets
the bell under covering fire and he says bell was able was able to help me but couldn't see anything he limped and crawled i pushed and swore as we
continuously fell in our flight back up the hill as i pulled him up the hill one of my feet was shot up from from underneath me i been shot in the heel one of
the bullets knocking off a piece of my boot heel and then and the force it knocked me down i got up again and felt a tremendous blow of my hip knocking me down
and he had again i thought finding i got belebed her rock dock was there and started working on him i lay on my back looking up at the sky through the jungle
canopy not believing it actually made it down there and back yonder was still down there and although i had witnessed the bullets hitting him i didn't want to
leave i had to be absolutely sure he was dead i would never forgive myself to i pulled back and he was still alive i was ready to call artillery in all our
position if we were over run that's like the old permit the old timid game over move were going to be overrun by the enemy okay here we yocol call all ordnance
on my position drop but luckily the fire subsides the one of the other pocuna come to their help and now that of the patuecos up in the enemy's pretty much
gone in it stop shooting we all stood up a couple of my men and i ran down to where three sixes point were standing over yonder i leaped over the edge of the
gully and stopped at younger's body kneeling down i turned his body over he had died with his head lying down hill his face was a dark blue from the blood
which grave pulled into the down hill portion of his body there was a much blood on his body but numerous bullet holes were cut into fate covering his stomach
and chest his eyes were closed i looked at him for a moment my fogs running back to her many conversations in the past once we had discussed whether we would
go to the aid of one o one fellow soldiers if he was in trouble i told him i would always respond to one of my men if they needed help he had replied it would
be a licomi wondered if he had known that i tried to get to him he was the first man under my command but die i looked up the sea some of my petonar six of the
two standing over a dick body in the gully three six otanethi betune and i had an indian in my petun they drew their knives and slashed the enemy's body and
frustration this was the only dead dinkman could find one lousy dink for all that pain and suffering at least we could take our hate out on that son of a bitch
they had also taken one prisoner as well the the other pucuna hencore starts thinking back the book this is it i thought i'd been wounded four times in battle
i had done my job captain sells had asked after my third wound if i wanted to be sent back and you will retreads was due that all it took with tones to get you
out of the field surely forward let me live with myself what was i trying to prove but i answered my own question the men depend on me it's my job to keep them
alive by giving them a good leadership and looking after them they need me ye but shet what did i oysel i awide and two little girls who needed me the ten
thousand dollars in insurance monty wouldn't do them much good were i did my duty i i was still shaking i couldn't go through this again reluctantly almost
against my will i started walking toward the captain captain this for you asked once if i want to go out of the field if i'd been wounded a third time he
turned and looked into my face yes well i think i mean would you think i was letting you and my men down if i did i stammered no i wouldn't you've done your
job i could get you a job did you a good job with us too that's the man telligence back in the rear i i think i want out i don't know if i can do this in maybe
i can't cut it that's nonsense you're loafin officer and the men will understand but you think about it okay i will let me think a little bit of confidence
returned at his words i handed yours things to him i wandered back to the pack thinking i should find you terbacky bell it stood up and was coming toward me
would he saw that blind folded dink in one motion he swung his fist in the dinka he hit him again and again knocking the surprise in down in a burst of fury
bellestre kicking him he was obvious bell was going to kill him the other men and i stood smoking and watching we were going to let bell kill the dink bell had
the right captain sailed and ran over to us pushing me out of the way and pulling bell off the dick here what's this what's going on we are not going to have
this in my company this man the prisoner we've had it down what are you doing just standing there i looked at him in surprise bell was killing his mother facer
what's wrong with that i retorted you know god damn well with the matter with that lieutenant this man is defenceless and our prisoner now let's get this
prisoner back to the old lee i wanted the dink dead but the captain was right so you you can see there obviously captain sells as he has a great head on his
shoulders and there something else that play the other thing that that play is that by function of the way the battle went down and by function of being one
rank above the potencies that are in the fire fights guess what he is de facto he detached he's detached he didn't i mean bells the guy was pinned down also
killed right he's the guy that the motional and guess who pulled him out restaient yonder that was doubts so these guys are emotional there there will they
were till the sky they cash it him he's vice but kill him and captain sells is detached because he wasn't in that fire fight he wasn't directly there so easy
with the maintain enough mental detachment to to make a a hard decision but also hold the line and this is something that you know when we go through the
minister this could have happened to over and over get discount happen to any anywhere along the way some and said hey what are you doing right there stop we
don't do that and that's exactly what sells does and i think another thing that's that's important from a leadership perspective also what before i go to that
point you noticed that when he's having a person conversation with the tendons culered he but when he's screwing up and he needs to kinda put him in his place
he loaned down on on top of that from the leadership perspective from captain sells perspective he's got a always remember that what what is happening that
they are emotional that they did just lose their body they he's got he kin just you know be so on the street narrow that goes on on the corporal he could call
recomember hey you used the prisoner you you know maquiritan he doesn't do that because he understands their perspective then that's why you know in to out
this book sells really impresses me as a as he very squared away good solid leader as does down i mean down obviously right here he is emotional and he's lost
it a eeacus the line right but all it takes his self just tell him get back over your buddy you cross the line come back and he says the captain was right so
that's all it took just a little snap just to get him to past little bit from emotions and it moved moveare the darkness back to the book i walked over to the
bodies the oders eyes were partially shut and i leaned down to push them clothes not that it didn't good but for some reason i thought it was better that way
rested there with one hand on my aching cap smoking and thinking yooris all muddy from the numerous time she'd been dropped in the mud and it was a trickle of
blood at the base of his throat this is the way it will always end i thought men being killed in the jungle other men dragging your bodies out putting them on
choppers and the rest of us going back to the fighting when they left on the chopper it was as if they had never been man's beginning and manned and would
always be attended by only a few those that bore a man birth and those that bore him at death the only important thing was on he did in between good or bad or
indifferent he would touch those around him in some way and then be gone i wondered if a salute would be in order not necessarily in the military sense but a
salute from one who had known him and who would never forget him i decided it was and i raised my hand to my forehead in a farewell now the birds coming into
pick him up as after gives that final salute to elder smoke was popped and a large chopper slungein towards us for landing the doors were pushed back in i saw
that door gunderode side facing me looking around anxiously searching for the ominous for the only present enemy good man i thought not trusting a god damn
thing even with an american infantry company surrounding the yells that lilas love that he is no rising that this door goners coming in the heleconia take him
up and instead of this guy cut in corners and be like all his ancarig on his doroun being fired him in to lack know this guys in the game opens the door
doesn't what is he said you says i not trusting a god damned thing leaving with an american intuetor any on the else many thoughts were corscastle my mind
above everything else ran the thought that i could not abandon my men i felt the shame that i had asked captain sells to pull me out a feeler or when i was
still shaken what would the men think if they found out i was doing such a thing worse what would i think of myself now they continued to operations and
eventually they get they they get pulled out of the fields on this for the final time on helicopter back to the book the machine carried it away i looked over
my men sprawled along besides of the chopper they had removed the magazines from the weapons before boarding and now were holding them close to their bodies
the men were dirty and unshaven their clothes and various stages of disrepair jungle boots worn and torn with cloth of mud between the cleats there were dark
rings under their eyes and their faces were drawn and tired some of those faces were new men set out throw places the faces that started the operation and were
raced we had experienced the worst of life and the most challenging we had survived the pocono back was not the pocoon i had brought out now there on yet
another operation of the goban they get reset and their out on another operation doing a patrol and if going back to the book about five meters past the gaetan
turned to me and waved me for all clear sir let's go rude i passed through the gate my right hand grasped my am sixteen my left held my cigarette i was humming
the blue tail fly as i meant tally ticked off the positions around the saddle where i would set my men i noticed the time zero seven forty five hours my foot
slip backwards a fraction of an inch hitting the trigger mechanism of a mine i never heard the explosion black powder and dire flew by me my irdosholames for
into the air i threw my own in front of me in a reflex motion to balance myself my eyes registered the holloa breadly white jagged bone sticking out of the
stump of arm above when my left elbow had been ragged bloody flesh rounded the splintered bone my mind cursed as utter helplessness and disrepair a enditer
overwhelmed me another part of my body coolly calculated what it caused the explosion it had been a land mine but what kind would blow off my arm at cademy
legs of course it had to be a bouncing betty a mind that flies up to out of the ground after being trip and exposed a waste high that would do it my amitie had
been in my right hand the rifle was shattered my hand was mangled i stared in halle and what remained of my right arm the flesh had been ripped away exposing
two bones in my white form from rest to the elbow the bones looked like two white glistening narrow rods buried in rabbonim thinking my god my god my god i
felt told the feet of my life as i landed on my feet five yards from where the mind explode exploded after landing i staggered forward two or three steps and
then collapsed my legs wouldn't work the mind had gone off about six inches from my left hip from the way down my body was mutilated and torn were large chunks
of flesh muscles blood vessels and nerves had been ripped away by the hot exploded shrapnel my botts were blown away the back of my legs were ripped to the
bone down to my heels i rolled over on my back being careful to keep my stump and right or outlabored sand my body was sending so many pains sales to my brain
that had overloaded like an electrical circuit it caused me to feel a racing humming numbers i lifted my head to view a sen from hell i watched a couple of men
run by me to the wounded point man they would only glance at my at me side whereas i lay there holding my bloody stump in the air they seemed nervous some of
my men ran toward me then turned suddenly away at the sight of my torn body they stood near me but hesitated to come to close as if the movement through the
air would make it worse paasma to turn side was a little bit so he could pull my gear off there were tears is not atma's eyes as he worked over me with a grunt
he pulled the belt out from under me is there anything i can do for you stag asked yes on over there and pick up my arm and bring it back to me i don't want to
leave it in this stinking village i told im arlete my squaw beaters to take care of the other men dock they need you i looked up maramy squared readers were
standing in a rough line along my right side i asked he was hurt i was feeling weaker and weaker it was so god dam cold as my body fought for life my fought
ran to my man and my petunies i was cheating them by leaving them when they needed me most when i joined a petunias their leader they had taught me the wateaus
in combat a second lieutenant who was new in country and they were old timers eighteen nineteen twenty but old to the ways of combat and death as i gained
experience and confidences a leader i became an old timer having to make decisions that put me in the position i was in now wounded and maimed facing death my
men were still up there looking at me despair on their faces their invulnerable leader had been brought down marly yes sir i want you to your men to get the
decuplating i want him dead get him we will want six don't you worry about that they looked at each other then back at me the gray haze the day was strong i
pushed it back to look beyond my men it was colder now and harder to see i was thinking of my grandma downs in her farm of the woods and fields of indiana i
love so much if only i could walk them one more time comonly twenty three years old and in dying what a waste there are so many things i had meant to do and
say but i hadn't now i will never get the chance so tobbely although he thought he was going to die he lived he losses arm he ah ended up with a wet severe
wounds got discharged from the army and you know it's one of the things in the story he had actually got the picked up for a for a pilot program to he's going
to be a a pilot in the army esista become a pilot on obviously that was gone because he didn't have an arm any more ah lollyby to save his other arm but you
know severe woman real long rehab and eventually he insofan back to college and here we go back to the book in the fall of nineteen sixty eight as i stopped at
a traffic light on my walk to class across the campus of the university of denver a man stepped up to me and said high without waiting for my reply to his
greeting he pointed to the hook sticking out of my left sleeve did that in vietnam i said yeah up near timkin one cor sir you write as the man walked away i
stood rooted to confused with her shame and anger to react ten years of past the hershman anger still fluter me with the memory but one thing i am certain none
of the men i knew who served a vietnam deserved to die robe made either physically or mentally i think it is necessary now to give the etnam to give another
view of the etnam that of the day to day life of an infantry man all the ground i have always been asked what i thought about the etnam but never when it was
like to fight in vietnam this is the way it was for as the pucoon of delta one sex in any afterward he talks about why he wrote this book in writing the
killing one i had two goals i wanted future young infantry leutenant and non commissioned officers to learn from my experiences both good and bad some actions
i took as a combat officer it worked out well and some it not the time had come to deal with both perhaps some would learn for my mistakes especially the
lessons that combat especially the lesson that combat does not now by the book i also wanted to show future generations that the american soldier in vietnam
was a good soldier at nineteen seventy eight the anti war anti military feeling in the united states was pervasive in the newspapers on television among
writers and movies and in colleges i'd started college in at the university of denver in the fall nineteen sixty eight while i was still on active duty in the
military the students for a democratic society the weather men and other anti war groups on campus targeted any one in the military as fair game for their anti
war stance such hostility was not pleasant for me or atherina bettering it was hard to be denigrate for serving your country many veterans have never admitted
to many veterans never admitted they were in the service for many years after vietnam angry at the anti war faction i wanted to set the record straight by
proving that the men i served with had fought and died with honour then here are the man that died and made the ultimate sacrifice for freedom i unfortnet in
arms from delta company first the talon of the fourteenth infantry third brigade fourth infantry division p down old lawrence glover p norman charles kissing
her picrate waned seating spect for dredyth mas iding speck for charles errand edwin dahoman pic james garret miller speck for james strong yielder t william
henry hart speck for steven richard anderson spectful louis charles nelson seconderont william twite ordway p c paul james miller spector whose cortez p
charles peter tories cond retinent john s martin so fred down second lieutenant asked us to do two things in this book first learned from his experiences the
mistakes the lessons and nat is what we do here we read and we study and we think and we learn then the second thing he asked is that we remember the man who
fought and died with honour and that's something that we need to do and we should continue to do each and every day remember and that is one thing about this
parcas that is a has a lot of meaning to me is the fact that people are listening to it and the memory of these types of men and the chalenge that they faced
it will be remembered they will be remembered always so once again the book is called the killing on my life in the vietnam war by frederick downs it's it's a
fantastic read it's a fantastic book it's a fantastic dedication in an iteration incredible gaboon honorine's men that false ardenin very unpopular war and by
the book and read it you will you absolutely get a lot out of it alethea i believe a we can move on to the next sector of this pot task and again um if nothing
else is delivered through this pot gast you know let's let it be these couple things these couple ideas of learning lessons from other people's experiences and
remembering other people sacrifices that's definitely one of the driving forces be behind my wall to do this potest in wardrop you in the poast echo give me
out of your please me out of the situation of the net i'm in that zert now am i need to send up a red star cluster you know that is so one military when you
need to help it's a red star lester to it's a flare you pop up and at it in remenyi couldn't communicate with anybody and you need some help yes says my red
star cluster at the jump in and say hey jocasta king to the pot cases how we can upon it you know so i talk about that while i'd go get over here and get
myself on her control before i start smashing thing as yet let us in and reinforce it is aport acland and our poncaser while supporting yourself with
supplementation by a good idea go to on it dot com lashed jocko so on it has like the supplement then we take supplementing moor your joints crill boom sumter
performance hard stuff you know across it to get our trying to go hard you know hard corn in the paint oh yes sundeck won't um also if you do your shopping it
amazon which i think we all do um good click through our website eve a little blank there ah you know you can support it that way that's a super easy way i got
to do is remember to do it before you shop and that is helpful yeah very much so we also have a new tool cause i can i can you make the remembering part a
little bit easier yes so when you know you figure he i've got to remember to go to the web side before i shot on amazon sometimes i'm in a hurry whatever now
maybe i'm thinking about other stuff i'm not thinking about jock's podcast every single day all day i got a biomins cleaner some docther an his away so ye it
helps your member and or makes you not have to remember in was this pittle to called the true or tool on jouait thanks the brady for the one rational little
thing it's like this the small little thing is precelly co click of there's there's a little income follette so you quick on the thing it asks you if you want
it you click yes puts a little i can there on your browser and it basically directly to into the a filiation link a automatically turning out a think yet don't
and that's that's a really you easy way to support the forces you and the the it doesn't cost you anything he asks amazonian sings to me like man can afford to
kick a little bit to the pot cast silver here a right yea and a nellut it's does serve its purpose because you don't have as you know like amazon there the
other a good company provides good stuff good service and all that and they're trying to get the word out and you know the big partner with people who who can
get the word out yet there's people that are going to all you know what i want to support the po cast so i will buy this and said a buying it through some
other website they're going to go to the the the store the kind of support something that they enjoy or something that they'd get value out of hopefully from
the sponges yet that's ossaroo we preciate it and it makes it like it's kind of this little tooth kind of cool because it kind of makes an official you know
like you you're i mean if you're one of the people that that listen to this and he britta with us and stuff it's a it is a cool way to kind o beat more part of
the the cruautes like it when i put my nuttonby he onomatopoeia yes i i charles singin a dig at sosei some really cool to you now have to it's safe it's not
like this i just put it on if you don't want it on there any more the whatever even right cricket right click and it cause you a little video that a shot so go
on the jacopo cash you too channel and echo charles me the video aveesed and shartland on how to do this all the gentry sitting but he times really easy you
are not playing around with the instruction of idea i think ah that was very impressive pinny the way subscribe do me a favour truebere to thee you two channel
that the jackal pocassett that way when echo because i'm dining i've been to hacking on echo to make little out take un athelbert ions and videos and he is
like well you know where we got some subscribers but maybe you know we had some more maybe i'd be more windeatt achilles disolit le bit hasn't so we could get
some out take videos some other other interesting videos i wanted to do a little previded of what it was like on or getting set up because we have little
ritual that we go through and were making some some severe you know some bringin out fabroni and we have his all that i be pretty cool you shall little video
in his life well you know maybe i won't matame rain no i actually am imitates subscribed to the out that oteseonteo paaschen on dit subscribed yes yes i think
it's etourneau and also what god at that is when you do that then you get little emails at say not like gives genentaha jacopo castellated or new video i get
those and a realistic yea cool now i can watch the video and even that thought okay give unci you are after off but yet that's a good end i have em remember
that that one to children's book idea i had yet you pretty forget cause now you need to remind i got a lot of ineetiative that i had that on vidonati yeah that
be funny ye so ye no possum of some things you got a distant so i have a certain standerton not talking to you i can talk on the people that a listning to it
now i mean you're here to sargol you to butenop got understand that there's a certain expectation in my mind of what the pot cast is and what is supposed to be
so when something happens that's not quite there i'm like you know what i don't really you know i don't want to talk about that on the poast but this is like a
frinstance before we hit record we were cording but before we go before i open the shell were talking about something right well we talked myself and as a man
so conversations are in want he minutes half an hour we're talking about real stuck were talking about legit thinks but we haven't even introduced the pocasset
so that goes in the scrappie and out some of the scamandrian while they might not be in march marching step with luck the pot cast is it does perhaps i have a
have a life that it could live and ceratodi people in a certain way to stuff that people might be interested it so that could be you two down to you know you
do just proanthrope ple get a little taste of other things around the poast which i think people would dick yes the that makes sense so like you know if you
free of it i let no calls free your mind i i i you you polly right in the van you fig why sir freyer could you know it if you listen to it on i to be like my
magnesian watch economical rat to each other you know i listened to a one and i got a look at him too you don't have a lot o people might not be interested in
her some really there's a moment for you on what i do is i well i watch certain moments of the podcast on you to ye like when i know i was feeling intense
about something i go and see what it she with that looks like see like okay what is that look like when i'm feeling that does it look like there it look like
from the outside what i felt i slowly inside cause even to day i was getting pretty fired up like i mean you're talking about heroes and young man man eighteen
nineteen twenty years old that said o k this unpopular i'll go fight it i'll go fight it you know i'll go rest my life i'll go out there in the jungle and live
in you know i was i was up out this week in the field right camping i i i kept putting in cots on to enter i alincourt cause i was like i can't call the field
but you know it wasn't the comfort of a house right it was in it it was in was no bugs and ants and and i'm like thinking myself you know this is nothing and i
was thinking about two or two the forgot hiantem er the bugs were just a eatinghouse olive and you know you just you just can't you can't compare so these guys
that that just stepped up fought ages one of i just want to always you that i got a think we'll get me fired up so when i go back to the videos some of
ikomar's i look in my grawle assessment and i wonder if you know cause went on feeling that way i'm like okay got a attachable because you started to do little
befanden him a targeting like really amoton al about something and so i got i got a red flag goes up in her to you to back off a little bit here we don't have
the added the vainemunden till so i got a just back off and some one a going to see what is that look like this it lookin you tell why my looking you know so
that's the kind of thing that i like to go back and look at the you too videos and say you know what is is what i look like ye ye yes ye this alien disallow of
million you to tetimararoa ly not to you know captaining oudewater for who care any sinner to because the interesting thing about these you use the word
capitalized sprite in the fact of the matter is we aren't really capitalized in one but this one and i keep getting told by a variety of different people what
could do to you to do what that right there to cap it a is i meant it just kept it is not for us to help i i know it everybody you know i little initial will
you want a does we want to maximize the effort if we put in here on a match masipele get most out of it yet not what that's that's what i know that what you
meant i know you didn't mean like less on a cash weicos were doing it for the passion of doing it that's all i'm sitting here for sitting here so i can tell so
i can tell this story right here about these guys you know and i know the i know i i hear from all kinds of cats i here from my my seal bodies that are still
in that of listening to it that are asking me who is taxing me questions i don't have an what's going on with us ay what would you done definitely your hay to
those are my buddy had in our getting ready to do pulverises right now and i get to exanimis and tarter things from guys that were guided her act duty the
rancor and and the army so i know that we're getting a word out there and that's what that's a said there for yes yes and in you make the point with you know
there's a lot of people who don't watch the video of cotton they i i don't watch pocket video right i'm going i will win you know it the reason potassic you
can be doing something else is you have to dedicate you have to dedicate your all your senses to it you will have to dedicate two of them your ears and your
brain but you don't have to be to get your eyes you know to be nakaras to sit down charanas something you can walk around you can do your work you can drive to
do you got to do ye but i think the short little you to countries go a jack this out this is on jockie discussing a kid's book that echo was talking about or
that he leatherette i tepping i mean it it seems to think of the lot of people apparently don't i mean don't or surprise that i looked different than i sound
of her again oh yeah they think you're skinny white hipster or is that the latin comatae i am at heart maybe you are at heart your distracted maybe you
identify as a skinny white histor me though you are a a you undred and twenty on an atouni don't i don't identify myself by my physical characters i like i
don't it's what's in my heart and my mind be content of your caretakester say oh i think that you too bidicott oleosi have a lot to men so many out takes a lot
o o i m done sometimes a got out tickets and a past he the prey from when we are feeling commercials in stuff already those are good a right onything else
jockey you in donator did you talk about that yes potatoribus pamerait me up on to ready then you like a you should set up or we got out the sponsors sat up a
tachometer that would call patriotical donate to the fog cast certain and i just said he man good bye t shirt you know that's supports is just as well and you
get it to shirt and just that a good way to sports poayem merchant despising dear yes the the jocatore it's a good un teecher's cosmos tickers though he can
cool em one of my friends sought to jacob stickers in the while in a way an day ye barataria and to have you wanted tenderhearted vacant at an yestereven and
he cupola on him good meal so now we get to those questions from the inn webs first question chaco is a minimal amount of competent defensive ability self
defense side the most overlooked essential stabilizer of young male psyche so this course is actually is actually came across the inter webs as a as a
statement and a pinion and i i kind of rephrase that just a little bit to make it into a question but it actually came across some of his aunt look he believes
this person read at that no one hold a fight you know competent defensive it defensive ability i call that knowing counterfeit is it he thinks it the most
essential stabilizer of a young male site i agree with this statement i think that the completely agree i think that learning how to fight and knowing how to
fight give you you real confidence and security not just in the form of being scarpia as a in in opposition to it in security i because when you know what a
fight all of a sudden you don't have anything to prove any more if anne we this change is soon eyes you know i wish i would have gone out to fight and much we
follow with time when i was kit we folletto fight so what we have to prove that we know how to fight if we actually knew it to fight we will not have pronatti
so i i absolutely agree with and that's why i've constantly trying to get people ah to get in dyeing your kids in it to give her that your thirteen year old
boy you're ten year old boy give him in the digito you'll go up to i mean you're grown too because you're girls going to use it for the fensham girls don't
have the constant tension of fighting that guys have it is parlow we are when i shake some one's hand i don't care what kind of mood i'm in i am thinking about
taking them down i am thinking about one of em do to infight it doesn't matter a meaning santaclaus i'm thinking about doing a double like i'm thinking about
what what is waited of calling for her that's what i'm doing and guise do that guys do that and it's real and i especially in the environment i grew up in the
soul pages i mean iverybody's got that constant like cast to it la evaluate valuation you so well if you don't know how to fight there's only one way to figure
out where you are and that is to fight and so you and up doing stupid things stupid things to prove your your manhood and it use that word but yet i doing
stupid things to prove your manhood so my recommendation um is why i totally agree with this statement i think it is a huge stabilizer of of your personality
and and you psyche as a man so keep get those kids to learn to get they're going to understand things you understand violescent it cause you know you've got
choked out you know it's happened you know that that is a horrible feeling it's a whale of feeling with another human being can't control you a hundred per
cent you know what physically it doesn't matter how smart you are any more i'm sorry it doesn't matter because matter it doesn't matter how smart you are any
more when you are getting completely physically dominated by some one it doesn't matter that you're smarter than them at that time is nothing you can do about
it leave give you what i caletto a spelling bee i can not in health you're you you're under their control and that's all avarice feeling and i think it's a you
know and i felt that you all akitu know i got bully to like everybody everybody gets bully that sort of certain point to you shall to high school your thirteen
years old i was their out of the young whatever how i at work when you are born out of as before ambrose i was a young scrawny kid and adding get bully do some
crazy extent but you get picked on you get picked on you get in the little scuffles and you get thrown around by a kid that's that reach puberty when you was
nine and ease now you know six feet two twenty and i'm shown up at school thirteen years old way and a buck forty five you gonna get you're going to get
physically controlled and it's not fun and so i didn't know houtii i'll try to figure it out and it was no no one no how fit back that unless you are boxer
maybe arrest lor oh but yes so definitely the auge piece help you with i think i think kids had no hot a fight argentinos less street fights teredo a lot less
stupid things to prove themselves and because i guess what they already have the essential timolai listic characteristic of physical domination and that goes a
long way yet i and me tough others before i am back to the the girls thing getting your girl into it you know how when you get into any kind of physical
situation even if you are in a crowd and some of their shoving some one out not even you and pull him you feel the force of somebody or some one is just all
like on you or even if someone like annotates yours on the like that it's like this kind of imposed physical situation and when you're in to deduct that every
day or a reet you to that real quick and in fact you get real comfortable with it but as a girl you're not trying to like infight now you know i know you just
somethin fights and be to guy usially what it's for for girls it's more for knowing how to function knowing where to be were not to be because then if you
don't know you just simply don't know and on no load also being totally right in an alto being inoculated to thee the tisica count yet when it happen so well
to a on us an can't win i mean not as a fight on their go watch you too yes here's all kinds of doss girls is it working over guidons fight ye whose one
particular where his girls just to try it on walked just choke it crushing this kit yet will the men the the truth is if you learn you giantism of those uses
some one does it the the chance of the person knowing to disowning the fight is very very very high yes even if you are a girl still applies to you the course
the girl had a physical diffinis cause asilomar weaker whatever but like i said juiciest this huge jump in you know ability is for a sight go and you know some
one else he from a pure self defence perspective if you a lot of times let's say a girl's not able to physically let's say she's a hundred pounds an she's a
guittar to that two hundred pounds she might not be able to put him safe might not be able to finish him but she may abble to survive even the guy off for a
minute and thirty seconds instead of two seconds looked instead of for second onstead of eight seconds so that's where it takes for some one to hear for some
one to see so every second counts and if you now gogetter and to you i it's it's wery hard to subdue somebody that knows some digito don't know anything you
are going to have a hard time getting control them they're going to there going to be an easy your stronger than them you will be able to get a hold of the may
be eventually if they're a lot small ron wek estate you but it's going to be a fight and a lot of blood on you relators when in self defense it tuition if the
girl puts up a decent fight the guys knockane other you know he ireli at his not looking for that is all looking for a fight he looking for something else you
know it so the fight began he backs off so he absolutely ouplis for for girls as well and as a just a certain level of confidence youngness that you my son's
had a couple of little scuffles a couple o that i've witnessed too where ah you know he just was like not trying to not try in have a tom until some one just
grabs him and his obviously going to do tindosoe hing to hem in the apperson given launch you know her like a perfect judicature going to get you know how art
as it did you to to something that doesn't know any judices do you see it kid five through the air hit the ground to see my son you know just a god like
there's no god passing because of personal notes very laisseront and then want you mount the first has no idea what's happening and and they're completely
controlled in the gonpos the sleep that's it fetida as that yet hope funny how you this is the kind of the part that i forget actually every once in awhile
where ye how you brought up when you shake soon's hand you're always thinking about it whatever so that's that's not named that's why that's why it's almost
like if you don't know juitler or for real fighting something any out there and this not many but i can will just say if you don't know you did so you might
fall into this trap by thinking well you know i might you know you never know he's not on all the time or he might not be ready for this or you know all
surprising with the like disponibilite this and bill they won't give it its due credit it to but the thing is when you learn you just a breath's all you're
thinking about is you're like hollaker here one hundred percent of the time you you can be laying in you in your bed with your wife and she'll be like hey give
me hunting your like under under hook there yet the whole time so you can't really to surprise the dyehouse judicio surprise him as super heart like i got a d
from the heat an even if he did for me in her as you know what to do for me in a sootlike know him or something really hard enough at one punch not i you
haven't any i rather a notorious with the wench will be an so ye be that's so funny because them that that is how it is even as like a like a high level die
you're still like it's always on your mind like it's like your walking around with this big powerful like gun or something in it you're like okay who wants to
get shot not that you want to shoot people specifically but it's like this radar that's nicolay once i get up cinating cause you're just raised ready and are
you disrated to you every plant me a mastery it's so instinctive now at this point me as just part every movement that you make all is thinking about that and
you are you your ransom body that doesn't know dicelike maybe let seem to anile i've had that of fortuitous to infer a while it all and i mean if tony years so
they have no idea what you just esterote different pass and on his and they like grabo you as if it was the old days and our have a tussle and we had a year
it's just it's just a four second you know spirit crushing manoeuver of death yea and your happy to do it to you cause as an adult like you do i think anywhere
passed twenty six twenty seven years old it's hard to get away with the giant a wrestling match in public or you know somewhere out in that to the master
string is my new my mountain but there it and i think i speak for more than more people didn't just myself but eat there's a party of mind that kind of hoped
it it happens just with your friend in ours something that just seanchan for vestra you don't want ironically back to the power where saying ah miss panhard to
surprise that you just got ironically the easiest time to surprise the jogies on the mat if you are another juggie what you do is you play like all were
disponed light right now and then you go hard you know so you can release surprise them in the like in public you got to like you got a learned just go on a
matelote make them pietola dan surprised and you know i think that's part of it is you become more aware or your heart will you what you've been talking about
the past come on this is awareness and when you have to go to in your brain then and it's true with boxing too and and moti when you have that stuff in your
brain then you can't help but be aware of what's happened on you because it's in there and it's like knowing that the colour of the table is brown like you you
know what that person's body position is you're looking and seeing that there stands off balance your seeing an under hook exposed you in so you can't help you
can't take it away so your where is coals are aware of what problems can occur like ripe he start you know if you're a girl and you say oh it a second now i'm
back into a corner where i can't get out i don't like this feeling if he comes increases your awareness as a human matey or were of your surroundings there's
so many benefits yeah it's kinda ridiculous yet i get you can have almost like one level up from that or weariness that you're talking about because they are
you saying it's part of that even if you don't know how to fight it's still kind of on your mind you know you like all guys have that can so learn value as
such of the guys close to our host to you do you are you know whether the eight sides whatever whatever the scenario even like if you're a scholar and no one
else to scholasticall walks in wood as he valuation for the thuds naturally else smart gogata to oh so as the digest naturally you're gonna have even more it's
like you know what the color brown is or whatever but just instinctually you're always looking for breton that's kind of what it's like so now you when you're
doing these evaluations satan appen anyway you're jugement is right there at the front ready the whole time yet indenting treibt that's not to be confused with
like your gressie in one to fight that's the weird seeing is like you don't want to actually fight with people because you don't feel the need to like all i
got a a a gavedites where the whole conversation started off and also you not feel like need to prove anything but i literally like of the roman agentfit of
this condeetioned you know right ignored my tee shirt disguises is really no i i fight every sin go day i don't need i don't i don't care about this guy it
does it to second thing when i got cuffy knee on a pavement and he's praying a writ my my sure and ask him to be a pain that i got to do with the cops if they
show up siesta big pit whereas if you don't fight and you have that opportunity may be let the thing inside you you don't know it the pay of of the fight right
if you don't know or or if you're just insecurely off of the fight and awfully winning is bigger than all the detriment that you got it i macoupin guys um well
we reverses before the war started ain't no sir gaures will he do it you're drinking your outina's youalls him pralinee and a you know before you go rehef you
feel like fighting to night come find me decus if you want to fight come fine me an we'll all be good when you know we will fight and it's all good you won't
get trouble you will can rest if you will get hurt it's all go you'll give him some even tell for you not going to get troubled a long though he northmen you
get that kind of trouble you have trouble in your situation and you in your positioning was going to isoles so yet better to fight him on yourself than the
fight against the outsiders who are going to so you polonio and stab you in the throw whatever right you don't do that stay out of the street fight not worth
it i i i agree with it too though not in your greed it is the stabilizer i'll be lookit is it you don't know you don't even know how much you don't know roweny
to get a lot of people that had started draining gogetter gindares and with the babel come on twitter or on on the face bookend and say you know um they
started training to do oh my god i can't believe i i need to train this all the time i can't believe i got control is a alsamit ing as eliza's homely but some
as they think he would i say humbling they actually mean humiliating cause they you've asked a weird thing when you're walking around on the earth without the
knowledge you've got it to look at other people you think you what this kind knows you get too i heard the kindest doesn't matter i'm that an i'm a letter'll
just hit him in the neck or of an evening with the stronger he's not got to get my house he get in get my auto over there it is not going to work i just put my
own back and he on the mat you go o my lord i have no control over the situation the guide effortlessly making me submit over and over and over again that when
the reality is the reality it doesn't even the first time you talk cause in the first time you tap you go oh i'm i'm going to i'll just i won't do that single
movement again i won't stick my head over there okay so into jar more yes and then he can your football and he canonicate again he get rid so he all out an
lose lose lose lose lose lose lose and then you go after usually for me it's a three to five times with some of his never change it is to be for three to five
times well before they realized it etive cause you know when you tap a guy once as never trained before a comes at you so hard in his mind he thinks on this
time with one in a gin and then we can come closer you realize it so ye get on the mat man and learn learn the gyp you please cover the over or please cover
overcoming the frustrations of beginning toga and as i come from a fifty four year old by the way but not quitting good good for him ah that's awesome glad
your picking up the gifford years old a okay so how do you the frustrations of beginning to do any is absolute if you've belong inset it's viciously
frustrating because of everything we just talk about and you think oh i'll just do this i'll scold at alternate pon my honour and they'll be able to win you're
not going to win you are going to lose you're going to lose over and over and over again the people that are smaller than you weaker than you not as tough as
you literally not as tough as you are not a stuff as you are you get to has a faction of of nuts to lacco that wore straight nursin no offensive nerves out
there but you know people that are not physically active and in some for some reason they fall into jessome point and in the end elongata get this there not
tough but they'll know it enow rose and i'll finish you so that to those the people got to lose two so and it's a sad long long slow journey that takes a long
time now that being said i if you train for a month and some one's trains euro that journeys not that long you mean that guy he you you will beat that guy i
mean you know again you take two people one of them knows to get you for a month and one of them doesn't that is going to win i mean you know basic way same
way an exam you know he can have somebody that's completely wet but in six months you're beaten anybody that's untrained for your right ninety five per cent of
maybe or ninety nine percent people that are tributt but as far as i like you think you show up and didn't six months you can be beating a blue belt halfyear
yes he now happened a beating of propontis not happen you you're not going to you're not going to catch a urbabele you don't in in your first two or three
years um i'll less you got to somebody that does eyeless at you ye yelled course in the gandiva jeff gore a hill you will lettle put him in all cut me he does
it in obsedit i met a morsel he left all kinds of crashings happened to ye can not happen of course but as far as legitimately ye taking some one bound ye it's
not going to happen suits that's all that's what i'm saying is a long slow journey especially to because everyone's all that bus we start up is before even on
the bus getting better so that bluebell that started that you started six months behind a year behind so he's a boor a year behind him he's not stopping
getting better so as you start to pursue his game his game as he falling and changing approving huguenot going to get there and then on top of that when you do
learn something new it takes time to incorporate in our games of i taught you echone move to night as it hey hers is cosier this new set up for the armor and
we dried it ten times and you went now and started to apply that it would make your game worse because you be trying to apply a move that you don't know a
hundred per cent yet like you got some good solid moves that you do and those are you know those work really well so when you start incorporating this new moon
you don't know it well you don't nockett altogether so you're going to fail out at a hundred times it's not going to work a hundred times before you get and i
the way every time you try it on me i got on top and then i smashed you in that suit your your sacrificing in it in every time i you actually going backwards a
little bit before you can go forward so that's problematic and that's very very frustrating occasionally you might learn something that like a really imposer
game dramatically almost insane that happens from time to time some wolsey put amonition here or he you know well one of the case may be but generally when you
incorporate something to his con takest you're gonna get intruse duranty a little entreasure goin to get big injuries you're going to be sore you're going to
enseest you will be frustrated so how do you count her all that you discontinuance it you've got to brace all all rose thinks you got any joy old bows things
and i hate to be clever to got to enjoy that journey you got on the joy getting that thou by somebody that's not a be amazed by that you say dan how did that
just happen that is impressive you ah you know say hey collar car my face i got you know split the isle ponoko takes ages cars you know it he just got to go
don't do don't look at all that stuff is negative look at it as you know it's like you don't rush to the end o the rush to the end don't we rush to get there
take your time and enjoy the sight that you're going to go for all so i said as before selecting partners carefully especially like your fifty four years old
you don't want to be wrong the twenty year old steroid freak that's going white out trying to kill you you want to be wrong with a cool mellow pumple that's
wants to do you ditto and in an train um and find me o desate room remember that gito should be fun it should be all the other things all those prostrate all
those challenges all those things all that humiliation and humid and getting humbled but she'll be a good time you shave for one doing you just you i know i do
ye the like of the game right you know how in a town for a couple of days men and i came back and have been jury that i figure figured out too for the wagon my
jack to finger it took me a whole little while too oh i get the right get the right after radisson it properly and protected but it's but to night a train at
home so as possagno the mat just say yes yes that that is how we're that's all these all the jump parts that come with it or quite unquote jump you know like
the the the varnished that i got choked out a war that's all part of the game seems obvious right yet it's all part of the game but be happy that that's the
game here in you know i mean judeeas i mean if you don't do you just do the would be kind krinovitsin basically all it is you go if you go to class you go in
you you may or it out were up you learn em a move whether his mission moved just a move you learn a move to move three moves something for moves and then you
cut to rollin straight up you as a fighting no strikes that's it your fighting no strikes if you whatever moves you know go ahead and do him while in real life
against this nyoda's it if you don't know any that's your first day and you learn one to three moods out for a day you better try to do those motes and that's
it so o course you know two three moons that you learned one by the way and you oleson who even if you still away up or whatever he knows those loose and then
you know three four more and his practice some in you know in real tier whatever praise going to get you you know is just how it works but keeping might in the
more you go the more you do the moveor move learn the more you practise on andrai that that you get at em and you know let's go ahead and just apply to a life
swell cause you got you such a great matterful polite what ever you re doing whatever go your trying to achieve if you letting those frustrations we hit those
also if you'll letting them control you and get you down that's the wrong attitude you know look at it as a learning opportunity to look at is something that's
good to happening look at it is as a chance for you to try something new look at it as the journey that your shrine to let ye in redeat anything that's easy to
achieve you don't have me out schools will at not worth it right that's not of his not get a get the full satisfaction that you want out of that so in life as
in juicoot get frustrated embrace those challenges because those are what is making this goal or while ye man and telling you when you let see you oh well back
to hit um of waiting frustrations with sisily um it does how you sing tranparent that doesn't make a big difference because sometimes every one's wall like i
be i've heard of a people were they their scheduled doesn't allow them to catch like the beginner class for ample so like have no choice i got to do this more
intermediate or advent class so there the only white belt and the next you know guy even close with him in yavan blue bill so that's going to be a steep
learning curves can be tough cause it's how are you to practice your moving the while ever you want get to work your often yes rely but here he is kind of the
good thing you get to work your decent you don't want you to do it she opportunity to exercise take your offence whether you you get another class or ways just
comes but just take longer whatever but you no good you defensive i actually so from training with deane for so many years youthhood some position said i
bundleton positions and you know for instance his mount is the outstanding he's in putty dismount when it any body else that of ever trained within my life as
mounted with exceptionless of else he ingrate i felt like all not being this is not you know this is no hortatory right and not on a not that worry about trip
degraded people are trained with fort but that is a grebenskoi mouth and on top of that dean condones my escape so whereas if i roll with a random other really
good you know all of class black belt they might not know the particulars of my escape den actually does know these any good at and he's good at it so so
you're right in that tomore you tripple that are better than you your your defense is going to be cometary good cause like wi you mount me i mean you got a
good solid mount but i'm not i'm like iliga cool may alone and all inshore with with no real threats keep tellin an the reared i mean i'm sure to say where
you've got de mountain you mean my mouth because i don't have a great mount my mount is nothing compared the nothing yes yes fully yet and that's obsolete true
and at the same time no so if you fall in and i want say it's like a small cuts pretty big chance where you if you enter i begin a class to is going to get me
a guy who's just as much of a geldrian that's where you can really flourish because you're you can practise moves your new move which i mean for lack about tom
here jump moves you not jump people i will say this though whoever you rotherhithe worse now the same as you are but now you're going to get a lot out of it of
a all three for is you should roll with all three though such be i am a tendency to want a usually row with guys that are men you know like good and and i
should spend more n i do i mean i definitely with everybody that we got it at yearner body but i always prefer of course i guess i should say of course did
there are people that are like white belt under that want to go out there and be bullies i'm not like i'd rather get believed right i want to get a onafiel the
way want to get after it you know if ah but you definitely get benefit from training with people that are better than you worse than you and the same as you
cause you practice one of them your practicing defence one of them your practin pure off is and some one that's equal than you you assaraci your set up and and
your proches near ootacamund and you often to be fenced that same time so it's all good brow yet that's basically the concept or row yes it after it consider
that scenario browten you talking from the ideal standpoint roope dead it and you see as you worse than you are you know not as good as you em for i begin a
that's not really option but worse than you guys that's not observin or luttrell and all so hers on the flower as overcoming the fresh rations or whatever it
is a good situation where you can get in with guns just as beginner as you and i hope that they hang around as after a certain amount of time those guys who
aren't as new or or iron i could see where it could become frustrating if you were of a guy you sameela guide that you have to work late and you can only go to
the advanced class and almost une think you get to is just getting crashes like an i can't learn this real noisiest an gets in to to understand but yet as
that's a good point to keep in mind that if you are in an such a way on it's okay you're going to you're going to when you eventually get the roll with people
that are more your skill evil you will be ah you'll be that much better off yeah yeah for sure and an lets the first thing you tap some one out with a move
that you learned o celebrated that did go yes that's a good to good time even necesse jackal how do you balance hidea of checking the eagle while in an
interview scenario where you need to talk about yourself okay so good good cousin i i would say in that situation in its something that it's not just an
interview situation or you're going to need to do that i mean you are dealing with your your superiors you know throughout the course of your career whatever
that may be your costly interacting with people you can you're going to want a making impression ah so i i think one of the best wastes instead of you speaking
about why you're so awesome just state facts of what say accomplishments and let them speak for themselves in other words you know you wouldn't want to say ah
you i am the best project manager in the entire world right that's not that's sounds ego centric the only said you say ah you i got this are at a thirty eight
million dollar project got it done on time under budget i had a schedule and when he got on without when they moved me to another project i was off track and
we got that one uh back on schedule and back on tracks well so that that's the kind of experience that i've had and i had above the ring out here to this
company right seguro dire not you know there's a hint of hay this we did i can get some stuff done but you're not saying a lesson i am better than the people
you currently have so you should hire me because i'm the best you don't have any that um and you know it so so ye just did think about it you know before you
go in how what what experience that you have represents the good qualities that you have said then you can say if they say you will how are you at meeting time
lines you don't say i am perfect i ever late don't you just sit you say you say well you know as far as meeting time on here's a bunch of projects that i got
completed on time the only one that i missed was one that we had to row back as whatever that we are actually shown a little bit more humility your saying
hayes would happen you'll be logical about it and you'll speak to to that i actually got a good question that's similar to this one um about what's the best
way to in you people to see if they can be in aleshine this is really hard this is really hard cause it's really hard to interviews and working i work with all
kinds of different companies and in everybody always as you know he with the best way interview and man i interviewed this guy and he seemed so greater i
entered this woman and she seemed incredible in her her paper looked gray you know she looked right on paper and we hired ran she said disaster or hesitate
saster whatever the case made me because because there was people that are very good interview or trying to insole that can either you well they have the gift
the gab they can they can be as the way through anything i make themselves sound good so i can be really hard to identify some one's a good is actually going
to be fit for a leeringly any position so one of the things that that i was tell people to do is it when you go to these when you want to ask intercessions
asked them in narbas questions and say okay here's what's going on you've got these three people in your department and one of the people has come to you and
said that they think there might be something easygoing on it with the other to what actions do you take and any to have a snarer belt out that you can
actually talk through and see where they go and see what their mind set is and see what they're going to develop as a plan and see how they would actually
punifanga way of figuring out how people think and then i even that's not a guarantee cause it's people lacking kin navigate those sicofante as well son you
know one thing you can do is higher people on the little bit of a child basis and that can be difficult from situations what people are walking away from one
job into another jobation to do it on the ninety day child basis we do have that opportunity to good thing to do as well hum but he so going back to the first
question about keeping your egoish in an interview like i said be content a potatoe and let the facts of your experience speak for you or your ability rather
than beating your own chest yes this almost like of incorrectness you you the tense if you're talking is self up you just used simply state the fact that that
you just say the fact don'ter opinion about it or i do aerialistics what i did and you know when we turn this project around we got it on chandrakant all by
gettin that testifico that the type of experience that i have in those situations right just like how you sang like even if someone had got like in a word to
be the best whatever salsinger that right fellsides whatever of the ear and then a like to say that in a factual way would be i was recognized as the best guy
noraita of fame on the best guyarre my award to to prove it you know so like you sing the fact that you were recognized in you here not so much the fattoria of
doit stick to the facts oranjestraat fact is oh yes sure next question uh how do you say humble when you know you have better skill set then others you see
humble with all that you accomplished all this is just what like in general just throw it i humbly how to stay on to when you know you have better skill satan
others and any sand that i seem humble with all that aucassin is would is actually it forneret read that like it's not the i'm sure that for for the due is
asking his question he thinking i accomplish all the stuff in it's not i don't feel that way like first of all there's always somebody that's better than you
that's a i guarantee it there's some one that's done more than you there's some one can't better experience or someone commimorate anne if you are truly the
master of some thing at whatever one thing you are a true master of there's goin to be people that are a lot better at other things than you so you might be
the master of one particular thing but are you you have to respect the fact that people are going to be masters and other things or better neames if your super
strong that's great let's you run american if you're super flexible awesome how much can you dead last tavere if you're smart that that's great your smart
academically let's check out your common sense and see where all that's at you so so you eeyou gonna be good at one thing but you're goin to have failed in
other areas you have weaknesses nother areas and so you just have to keep that in checking our ontell you like i i recognize why i've been successful you know
for one thing been surrounded with great people for ther been lucky in certain situations that i've been in certain times indian going back to to little bit
it's a good example because just because i can beat some one in jugeait doesn't mean that i'm a better person yet doth he does in me that i'm a better person i
i what it means basically is that i happened to get into this random fringe sport before they did and i spent more time on the matinee that's what it means it
doesn't make me bedford i say what it goes with her if you smif you feel like your smallgunn it's probably because you've had the opportunity to study a
subject or you've had a bunch of education or something you you've dolento some subject to that might make you seem martorana they applied themselves in that
particular chess what they were finnees or something else so ye stay egotist humble with that and also when we calderino for you you i am smarter than this
person we'll guess what there's something still something that they're better than you and what is it you you might be smarter them guess what maybe we fogy we
talk about early or where i'm smart as i could be guess what this first can physically take me down and dominate me and that's horrible were there better at
wotever better athletically or some people are odahmin with their hands or in her so many different things to you can be skill that and if you start thinking
that yourself that you that you're better than other people you're going to have the shoebeaten in the long run you wanna stay home just stay alive because
life will humbre humbly you life is hard and if you're pushing hard and your driving hard and you trying to achieve a lot you're not always going to win a
don't care who you are you your home will isonna be hard so mad so many people that are successful they've got some hard luck stories along the way of things
that they had to push through and over come in order get their they got humble and if you're waning every single time then you're you're not gosain the step
those of so you don't appreciate the the kind of comment but um man it's not hard to be humble when an you'll as take it may be some one in it you'll people
always think oh oh he's a navy see whatever um you know there's a lot o yielded more bad as in me the gun more to ployments that have got after more than me
and i know that that that that's awesome i mean good good for them i i you know they got after it good um so i don't feel like oh i didn't more than everybody
no there's no one might that there's no one like that even the even ah you mighty short in who want with seal at one a mentone awesome guy of you know just to
dust o you know is a geyser hero but if if you know he gets interviewed a watch a bunch of interview her own talk he's like you know he's at all you know you
you you got the metal ones is not mine my god you know he's the guides i was with represents all so there's a guy like whose in to be if he's any one a world
that needs to that could not be humble maybe it's like short but guess what might be thorton he's as humble as they come because you know what he also has been
humbled by combat because he realises things that he tried to do that he didn't get done there's five he tried to save it he couldn't save so you're gone that
there's no doubt if you living the right wife you're going to be humbled by it and there's always always always going to be somebody that's better than you
that something you so just stay humpleby way what does being contigit you anyways what is that turn you into the what we at tokohat is what is over compensate
you start cutting corners you start back ominous ridiculous so you got to stay home you got to stay hungry if you if you want to stay in the game and believe
me you want to stay in the game on the tuesday in the game did he think that like and i i can't i mean i don't know it may be this is where this even the
question is coming from em but if you know on your insecurely dislike everything is a competition like just in life it's it's like a good beyond just what
you're in to it is like you saw in padenie suleit makes me mad it makes you uneasier whatever it's like this insecurity kind of thing so when you do it so if
you look at everything is just this big life compete like i got a beat that guy got to be better than them so when you are better than in em it's like you're
still looking at his gas is competition like a you know like you are not all my level so you don't do them to be treated it's kind o like you it may be this is
the good enough may be not but like an judiciare if you roll with a white belt you don't go hard you don't get satisfaction whatever so in the yogi competition
are reaour not giving them the respect you're not going all out like you would you know you're not respecting his all arbar you don't evory smash you no
satisfaction in a whatever it's in that specific competition setting but if you're just an insecure person where you think that all life is like just one big
competition we you got a smash that person yet and if you are not worthy of my smashing its like i don't even treat you like you should be on the mass with an
sangbur me i'm indeed think that maybe that's where some of that comes from like if if you're having trouble like being on blesbuck is better than you in life
yet is not be just had a undisturbed from instinct but there's also a a there's that conomy there too because men i like to wind like like new down about it i
like to win it in the decanters that i also don't literally don't care like if i could beat on my cacawee i tolkeith better and what it's not i don't feel this
despair because i lost losing actually animation i e as opposed to getting angry and the worst thing that happens is people decided nociones rise there
knocking in the game of life because they didn't win or they don't feel like they can wince they go eye you know what i'm just goin a imson to back off onjust
knocking a participating i'll get in the game is it in the game a tie so maybe it comes from not understanding what that means when you win in stuff i
guideline like the foot like the back of the fighting situation where the about you know being a secure part of the mail from downing a relay if you know that
you've achieved the field have these skills to win people you know who who don't have your skill set you don't want to fight them you're just like whatever but
let's say like you you have a better skill set yet you're still going your hornaby your skeel said you know you're not humble about it it's it's like comes
from me be on enough for imagery neewa no doubt there can be some insecurity that charge is that makes people super competitive beyond a healthy comparitive
like in light like i'm just in life you know no matter what which again there's people that are that way myself included and but again that i canoes don't
think you'll like to no no i i i i i know i am willin the old wiener escalandre ember the logo the upright and monopostiac twin or two a jacal made the
original ashalorn logo love like an temerarie a you know this is the logos something like this and then basically he but you didn't care that it was junk no no
but i all i wanta do is get you the eye door competing with me what you drew and i do but like it like a someone is competing in everything in life like if you
draw something and i dress something you like i want to make my bed or none moonite as she i wanted to win with the idea not with the skill to the idea in a
war i wonder when the door not the short turn battles i cookin draw this thing better that the the war was who comes up with the strategic victory which the
eye come and the symbol for a long front is the one that i drew i liked it that sir yes i didn't care that it looked like joan because i'm not i was dadeneye
funny did on power point with like a like a crane looks like a crime could i didn't want to take what time will i know i know it that thing with take you
fifteen minutes to make on your what is it a i ill illustration an unlike them might a ben don't be madame that one probably the first lolita made maybe they
they oleanders mayo tankerton next washin what do you do when you have two extreme ownership believers that have to go against each other o sound like a big
challenging questions but it actually shouldn't be because if you think about this if you truly think about this tishoo be an issue and here's why go against
each other against each other so what of the gulf or aveste people on the same team on a sumitta right there on the same team so tharon the same team and we
want a wind we have the same goals we want a wind but we will work together cause if the goal is to win and we both want a wind why would we be going against
each other we are not taping taking actual asheous adopting ideas but we have to say long term goal imitate oneship the echo we got a comitaretur doing
saveable that sit down we figure the satisfied with won't be best less take the markletonian and we're going to figure out a real solution because we're taking
ownership of it so what's the little woodstreet that gittin the system here in screting at the to eteoneous burn and i will say this italy the ideal extreme
ownership can be very poorly in very incorrectly interpreted as micromanage an egomania meaning like amglezi own nesties mine right were not that's not what
extreme ownership is at all it's you you go on everything but you don't anyone the intrinsic need did do everything right cause you own it's like onlight in a
oneness in onliness along the way and only responsibility of mission achievement it doesn't mean that you own each individual step and you have commachio
extreme ownership that's my groanest what you know excutioners is about leadership and decent chaliced than using indirect action make tings happening only the
outcome so that's that's why when you if you have two people that were truly a bow but he i'm gonna own this i'm to umea the attitudes you and i have the
abjections we're not going to fight over anything because we have the same long term go and if it's you come up with a better idea of how to get there amos oh
echo awesome job that's a great way we're going to get to where we want to go we on that outcome were going to make a happen boom i'm going to support you the
only time it's going to be a problem as if i have an ego and then you haven't etowee both have an egisse and and usually one person with a begetteth inflames
other people's he huaranca if i say heigho i got a great plan for out to tisheet execute on my way the little bit eagle coming out as a cause now your ego was
down blandishment to be a near way and we were the second just right there now we got a thing it now yet some conconino know we're now we're working against
speech of her instead of working together so that is ah that is absolutely problematic and i guess to say tippitt in a nut shell the wife give you using the
principle of extreme ownership the most important thing need to take his trim ownership of is your own ego can't put that thing in check yet tis like the
extreme ownership for owning it is more is essentially take responsibility like at all costs cinating for more like that the bad stuff that happened oh i
ondott in that's a pitiful youantee three because absolutely if you and i do something great together and i was the leader i don't go yes that's right i was
the imensa hey first of all and this is mostly on echoed most of work he did altoun that's what i'm goin to say i'm not going to say no inismid but when
something goes wrong obviously i don't say no once fault not as a hay as is my fallin should have done double check on the audio before he started to focalise
ah you know we wanted to make sure that thing was reporting right i don't an no echo drop the ball yeah i don't do that in him i said he should i elchee so
that's if you truly have two people that have real ownership and they put the regos and check this is literally not an issue right so they yet this is an even
a question for that right because they don't go against each other that there's no way each other and so watteaus that you as a person that's really put your
ego and check in your exercising shimosa one of the chances that you work with another person that is exactly it with the same mind set taking on a ship but no
ego what one of the chances that there actually pretty slim this is not easy to do this i semple mightiest so that means you will have to be even more practice
in helping adapt to their eagleson's happening in when echo's he we need to do this my way of tepantitlan take a look at it absolutely you've always come up
with great plans but take a look at the war what this one is here and all of a sudden i've disentitle bit your feeling good about it you like all yatsuho go
listen to me cause that's a great that's exactly what i want you to think i xactly what i want you to think so you're going to have work to do you gonna have
work to do that rasselas what this would it is it's a challenge it's work but well you have the basic principles not nation take basically a the fundamental
principles they are going to work well for you and win they're not working well for you don't get mad at the other person in blame very go look at your own
egos you can adjust it at gap in manoeuver and get that person disarmed and you can finkman then you're going to win at eteinte ting ththat i'll this question
is like that i get seems like when like when i first read out of the case so that's a good question you know there when there and it is but in a different way
because this question is the sensely what it does is it like what i call it like a strainer or whatever it like it shiftit fifth siostra in out the guy who's
not doing extreme ownership seats if they are both ecrasent if they're going to get each other that means there's some extremes not be in practice is a
wernerian but we're going to wean find out you know isinga soothing if they was going against each other all maybe they prohibit you know were always geyan
person you will not always father to usually me one person that he is god it bad that understands it and it's going to be working in this guise just so good
and so smooth and so tactical and ever going to win and that other person that's a that's right you don't i will when i cause i got extreme ownership going on
and i took on a capitation isastrea the real leader is a absolutely man you did a great job with that in me while he knows he just met his manipulated and
flanked him and made it happen to the best of the best of footenote in the train going tatooer atauto he disabled jocko can you talk about fear of failure and
how to overcome it fer a failure though obviously fear of failure in can keep you from taking rest and i can leave you to sit here paralyzed into not taking
any action at all and obviously that's bad but i don't actually want you to overcome the fear of failure i want i want you to be afraid of failure here a
failure is good fear of failure will keep you up at night planning and reversing and going over contingencies fear of failure will keep you training hard it'll
stop you from cutting corners fierce fear of failure will keep you working and thinking and striving and relentlessly trying to be more prepared for battle so
i want you be afraid of family i fear father but more important i want you to be horrified i want you to be terrified of sitting on your ass and doing nothing
that is what i want you to be afraid of of waking up in six days or six weeks or six years or sixty years in being no color your goal you've made no progress
that is the horror that is the nightmare that is what you need to be truly afraid of being stagnant so get up and go take the rest take the gamble take the
first step take action in don't let another day slip by her i think that's all i've got for the night and if you got something out of the pocasse want to hear
some more well then maybe you should go at and support the poast and echo how can the troop result there besseford the pot cast well one of the lordly initial
way is to support yourself at the same time and that is to supplement oh on it on asbenouees oh you know it's one thing to say they have the best supplements
because i like em but they have ferote uplike to legendre all the stuff about it it straight up the best anyway youantee sent off there so sapoteae as well so
you sporting pages yourself and your wallet temper eno on it come lashed jonesia also if you an passels o can do the amazon click through that you go to one of
lepidosteum or jacketed store is a ammonian the top now we have been in national or there mavrone swell like the hoover seas or onoatoa what about this because
it's i it's a long story but you gollaher narrow verses can have the bingawast rted the ones that people have actually acome in all i he were here in the uce
wanted you know be down with the thing or whatever and yet so so i did those and so those are up on both website as well thanks for hitting me up with that by
the way a overseeur oasis fulisade and also penates b the new trooper to of eleanore it's a cool little too thanks again brady for the one i teach and you
gitten by the way bourneless like this to you disclination to it in things called a called true joppites roberto croisaient switched on the thing you just
dislike you clean thing if you want a click on the thing it shows up a little i can jockied and you can even hide that if you don't want it on your browser
whatever you just hide it if you don't want it there but it looks i think it's kind of cool to up there whatever anyway it helps you go to eight makes you go
out as an it helps it colotarion link soon have to go through the website anymore does a mylor you so think'st me now ah also we in all course subscribe to a
tunstan you too i think we're going to pummote value in you to put some eustace on there i think i like that i like where you're coming from yes this
hypothesis to you to general now ecole so we know that you are out there and you're going to receive these things that acquistato yeah and then all
sutherlander yeh a few like shirayoshi and was dockstadter out come drackleton dot com all so cool kshir i still i think that i still as yet to see one in the
wild and not some one i know so i'm looking forward to see in that somewhere in the world somewhere called finer i am thoroughly enjoying the pictures that
people said yes there alone sees funny that the the heather grey right to it grey so i that's the kind of shirt like you do let olate colors they get real um
like dark if you swainmote and they'll be like picture who are i don't even know why i think it was funny but it's interesting because the other one is
tarkaratna to dark gray so they'll be like an i got my dismay and i see the bottle like looks like a stripe on my great what that's weird hobliging is or ohias
ripe on the bottom you're sure but it's not the charcoal gray one it's a you know they felt never getting after it and many casino getting after his very much
so anyway i don't know what it not those faitusi looks funny not funny like a laughing one but it's interesting it looks like a shirt and it's a oppequan son
you know jostard out come there is some other shirts on there if you like em coffeeman and stick her alansone stick also eve she you like the bongas and you
want more this information there's a book that i wrote with a marotay fabrics called extreme oder ship you order it i am mason or he can get any more books or
sold it available in a hat covered did soon ardio forman the arafura lay and i actually read so get some of that if you want to talk to echinidoe find us only
into webs at twitter echoes at echo charles and i am at joaille were also on the face bookends of that instigate i got a snap chat thing i signed up for it or
whatever had i done it a thing wait yet yet i got explore that but man the social media stuff takes a time and and i can't if you want me fighting on to water
that's the best way asked you questions on to ither et me up on twitter that's the most common thing that i use ah i do i do checkfallen i re everything that
has ever been sent to me overedit not have responded to it cause i can't literally can't respond to every single thing that could send to me ah would i what's
nice about a anteater can just hit that i like it and you know to the people know like oh he read it cool in face book i read it but there's nothing to press
to say i read your thing so um maybe i should figure somehow like that but any way i wet your toad until you get back to people and stuff with its cool because
this some people i you can tell it's not them it's like there their social media ouranois just out what i where i just was there was very limited internet
sara's able to get like a tweet in the morning a couple of two each out in the morning but when i go to start aunt responding it was you know taking three
minutes to get a look at the twiformed so i'm backed up right now for like five days four days behind or something like a five days behind actually of the
thieves that like the ear like back up it means like the oryou know your engagement and it's good seauen then i was reading and i i do reiterant me some
monster almost if i read it i might not respond to it directly but i might well i have had a day actually one on one too but i am rememberance a day where i
wasn't going to go to jugeant going to go isothermes there what otonabee i wasn't in a go he shall we call that weakness is by callalou as none the less um
when you see pictures of i saw pionono said the name o thou the specific person in a a picture first taleggio and i'm like you know you get that feeling one
like let's say you weren't at jiguani took a pitcher of me on the mat saying fool in here without jock i'll do that every one while to like my friends or i'm
here without jockey kind a like you have this feeling an i wish i was there right now just to whatever i kind of got that feeling that we are competitive
messieurs i may lorleian to be there with you maybe maybe a little bit but oh by the way a aanyone this um you know like gozelius you at the jammer went on
right and to to me i to you on a guy showed up going i was on a town yet and you know i i i say that days like i gotobeds typically and whatever so just hit me
up whether being to enter whatever if you are in town and go he did and cause the that's the reason that significant one of the manresa what i said to will as
you from a arizona so ere time the a b i ythan showed out rolled money yet so cause a lot of people in life i'm not saying just on twittering in life they
always will be like he all you do you see how my combinate me or all roll or whatever and i would say it good ninety five to night in person time they don't
they don't come yet will not a time he hit and you up from love placart er than the way he then there on a even talking about like before the pockets and stuff
i'm saying like your friends you know oh i shorewater you know he he you too much come check it out so cool you know and they never avessero before a a a b a b
a m wise eies i ask it he he's the ah yet he was like a three straight light beltisten like than we is now out atwood i sky you know all your escopetas thanks
for coming yes yes um yes and an obviously shangie a shout out we are about him soldiers to day but i want to give a sanction the police out there i hear a
lock from three officers all over the country and thanks to you guys for doing your duty to keep a safe same thing on the fire fighters of actually hearn a lot
from five tis all kinds of fightier and all you guys are protecting so the home front obviously much appreciated and then course the military folks out there
especially those that are deployed right now taking the fight to the enemy be gressie and crush the moyen you get home and finally to all the wolf the jackal
poast troopers out there thank you further support across the board with all this we appreciate it and what we really you preciate more than anything is you
out there in your life taking ownership of you world and getting after it so until next time this is echo and joel out
