this is jackal parast number thirty four with authors and me jackwell good evening echo foining and tonight we have a guest on the pot cast back for a second time my brother lay
babanango good evening good to be back with you in if you don't know who lay fabens real easy thing to do is go back to jocolpus number eleven and listen to that i give him a long
introduction i tell you bout who he is guide that i served in the selmes with and like i said go back to eleven i think he gets rid of book yet we wrote a little book called
extreme ownership i'm sure will talk about that to night lay was one up to commanders that that work for me in the battle remote when we deployed in two thousand six and just born
of my brothers so tangoing on the pack cast earth what do you say to a man that by he is on a mission as no soul why would you say anything i thought about it a good deal but he
wasn't nothing compared to what was coming down the pike they say the eyes are the windows to the soul i don't know what them eyes was windows too and i guess addison not know but
there is another view of the world out there and other eyes to see it and that's where this is going it is done brought me to a place in my life i would not have thought out of
come to somewhere out bare easy true and living profit of destruction and i don't want to confront him i know he's real i seen his work i walked in front of those eyes once i
won't do to gain i won't push my chips forward and stand up and go out to meet him it ain't just being older i wish that it was i can't say that it's even what you are willing to
do because i always knew that you had to be willing to die to even do this job that was always true not to sound glorious about her nothing but you do and if he ain't to know it
they'll see it in a heart beat i think it is more like water you are willing to become and i think a man would have to put his soul in hazard and i won't do that i think now that
may be i never would now that's the opening from the book no country for old man which is writ by cormac mac art you also wrote my favorite non military men aboot the book blood
meridium which is just announced standing book in no country for old man was actually made into an outstanding movie as well in which almost follows the book word for word it it's
an awesome movie and in the benthamee in in the book there's a there's a guy that to talk in that opening sheriff and tom bell and he is explaining that he's seen evil in the
world be leaving profit of destruction in these ten is work walked in front of those eyes and old timately next kind of what the book is about sheriff fell as explaining that he
doesn't really want to face this evil he doesn't want to put his soul at hazard so ultimately he doesn't really want to be a sheriff any more he can't face that kind of evil so he
leaves at the two with up the police and he retires and stays in his own little world and that that's the basis of it and there's a way more to it than that than you should
definitely read the book i have the book which is it set i think it kept out the nineteen eighty earlily nineteen eighties and the inviolate speaking of that he is having to now
deal with as as a share of is the drunk cart cartels coming out a mexico the border attacks as a laded from you know petty little drug doers back in the day and now it's a
roofless organized crime syndicates that murder with no mercy and like i said it's just too much for sheriff bell and he an up walking away now meanwhile in two thousand sixteen
the evil that we deal with now is even more pervasive and stronger and completely without mercy and its everywhere and we contrition and we can try at like a dozen happen but
there's some things that you cannot ignore and in this case it's something that we cannot walk away from in late july of two thousand sixteen father jack hamlin eighty six year
old catholic priest was doing what he did every sunday conducting mass for his parish and normandy france obviously the sight o de day where one he most impact operations in
history in terms of protecting freedom and liberty took place in their in normandy france in this church to young men then and i use that term loosely burst into the mass
brandishing fate guns face explosives but real knives in the fate guns and the faint bonds apparently allowed them to get control of the people in the church and clearing father
hamel they forced into his knees in front of his parishioners and they slid hitara any fact he he slit his throat with such force that the reports came back and said that they
beheaded him when one of the survivors who was a nun said that the attackers who claimed loyalty to these lame take smiled and appeared to be happy as they slipped the priest's
throat and then these two savages attempted to use some of the nuns from the churches human shields to try to escape there when they did try to escape fortunately there were some
french police snipers that shot guilt but obviously the dam which was already done one priest slaughter one of the nuns was wounded an obviously peace and sir renettes toyed and
that his puriana the same evil that slaughtered eighty nine innocent people at the badaca theatre and paris the same evil that murdered twelve cartoonist charlie have now the same
evil that led in his low make extremest of murder forty nine people at a night club in florida the same evil the brought down the twin towers and hit the pentagon and has caused
death and may him and destruction all over the world and unlike sheriff ed tom bell in the book no country for old men we can't just walk away from this evil because this evil is
everywhere berniere to tell you that it's growing and it's going to continue to grow unless we we the civil eyes people of the world do something to stop in a course would lay and
it background you know both of us spent a lot of time in the sultans deployed multiple times overseas to confront this evil enemy and of course we get a lot of questions about or
take on this and to open up the questions for the night first question is here is the darkness taking hold or do you and lays the way out of another war what can we do to prevent
lone wolf attacks from happening in europe in america lacedaemon on i know this is a obviously something both of us think a lot about and one lot of people were are want to hear
what we think about it so if the darkness taken hold a brother there soon doubt the theories some serious darkness in the world and i think that darkness we seen it grow we seen a
grosse the number of a ghadera across the world grows of stantial over the earth as the testicles just the fact and a and i think a it something that i think people nengonese you
ocros america across the the world people need to understand just how evil the city as we talk about darkness we talk about evil and in i think that no country for all men some
rattatattatt intolerably captures it ah in a way a certain we seen that with with in drug cartels some terrific things were going on a north mexico or the cross the border in
india night states but this this is laaedy in particular is in my opinion is an evil an enemy as the u s military is ever faced in our long history and very well aware of the
heritage to germany and pure japan a and i think this threat is ah is every bit or even more evil than the that it is i it is some in that were seeing as you just described from
that one at that avanel of hundreds of hundreds of you could use a lastreto alone yet a good point on that is we hear about the attacks that play take place in the western world
right that's what we are about even i if you start diving into the the butchery and the slaughter and the torture and the rape that happens in their world in the islamic world in
the middle east and again you and i have been there we know for a fact that the majority of people do not want to live under that rain of terror no doubt they want to have no
malice and i if i say this old time i know you say is all the time they want to have normal lives and there a being brought down and driven by this this i mean you evil it is is
it like i want to stronger woudn't know what stronger word there is but this is like this is a this is a personification of sat that's what this is so and i know that's one of the
things that struck me in in as we were talking that made me take a no control men because when he says i know he's real i've seen his work and and i know both of us said we know
he's real and anybody that appoint overseed sees and seeing what these people can do is the ad nos that this is real now go the other part is question lay forswat can we do to
prevent these lone wolf attacks so so well you see what your watch your thoughts on lone wolf at a blow i think personal the lone wotan's a myth is an absolute myth and you know
decide their that there is these people are just randomly you know when we use we also use the term along with long moltestation radical ization here that'll time self he self
radicalized you know he was a normal care everything was grey and all the sudden he ah followed a twitter feed for ices and decided gadke and ah in no case to me seeing that we
see that to be true it thicker discing that this is this is an ideology it comes out of a autoerotic is laic gatisme and there's a soon he comparatives i comporteth but there is a
thereof of this and neropolis you know when we be our land no shoes a great example we have ah some women that you sell radical eyes and the reality was a man you could go back
and and and track of the the guy's father ah and and see that his he had protean pose on his etonne and and he is anti american a procity ye learn the nasal and the fact that that
the orlando shooter also happened to go to the very same mosque where the only known american born suicide bomber attended and in went to the same masses well a guy who travel to
syria joined up with ices and blew himself up an american citizen and they both went to the same mask in four percosso ah where is this come from its coming from ideology and we
we have to we have to recognize that that's a fact in as so many people on a bury their heads in the sand and say you know inamoration of peace this has nothing to do with this
long manes everything to do with this long obviously and as you said of course most of these honor will doesn't want to live areas brutal reign of terror and were abandoning those
people to to the likes of of these lame states a nat that reign of terror if we don't stand if we don't do anything and so we have to recognize that the rout it is it is an
ideology that pushes that treat and it is not a lone wolf is there connected by that ideology across the world and and that inspires people to join up and i think you know back to
the tatties back to the the first question about is the darkness spreading there is always darkness in the world there's always been evil the world what keeps that darkness a day
you can go back to the the pox were maniana talk about peace in the in the ancient world and how was imposed through strong military might and it's no different to day we have
enjoyed the the the relative peace of post world war two a because we had the strongest most dominating the world and so we keep that darkness a bee that wouldn't he be a case of
if the united states in our allies had not one world war two the darkness would have a would have taken over the world or much of the world so i only through military power peace
the strength can we ensure a that there's latin the world that the darkest does not take over that we keep that in charanship people in our stand that uh uh this can this isn't
any that can be defeated that this darkness is spreading only because we are allowing it to spread only because a it is metassis only because we have not gone and rode it out and
so so many americans ah i know they ask you to like the amen yours a going so i is taken over a part of syria and coming back into iraq and and establishing a foothold there a
takin over huge cities like mosel a volusia and then remade it before they were reported out ah if people as well why do we really care about that why does it matter and i think
now as we're starting to see the kind of horrific attacks that it inspired by their so called califate that that real estate absolutely matters it matters to us and in inspires
that they can aspire attacks here among us and if we all shot a connected back people as they will we don't know if it was related to ices and if abubacer bag daddy to you the the
the i is law makad of islamic state have given them direction that doesn't matter none of that matter the factors that there able to aspire to acerose here amongst us in america
and western uranians the world go out and kill in a sepolcri their allegiance and so we have to go there and we have to destroy them and it is it is worth the effort for us and we
have a military that is eager and is ready to do that and they are itching to make it happen because the younger stand in nature the cell just like me and they faced it they have
seen it and you know as we talk to our our bodies so spent time there or there now ah their frustrate it and they want they want to close with and destroy the enemy and yet ah ah
there's a lot of popularising holding them back from doing so and i think that's something that it's simply requires leaders who understand the nature of this threat and
understand that there is a military solution of this and we have to lead that fight america has to leave that flight and and i think we can absolutely do that and we can have
tremendous impassion the world and make sure that people don't want to join the losing team because these lame state is getting hammered and people are dying in large numbers and
they don't want to go over there be a part of that they don't rejoin i with losing side we gotta make sure that that's clear to everybody in the world that a if they want to be
all on the side of of the radicals lamaites they're going to die a bloody and nasty death one of the things that you you mentioned real quick then we well kind of goin off um was
was the fact that these people in normal people want to think that you and i heard so so pillowed know layout with the first pertaters armor division in the battle of motion two
thousand six with the the city remote re taken back from the insurgents and when we did that it was a very tough fight very fierce fight and we were able to get that city turned
around and turn back over the itinerary it it turned to a florentine it was very peaceful for seven years and when isis then took it over took it back they and in again this is to
what what lay in our told by people that we knew that were on the ground over there eyes came in and murdered they had a list of about five hundred families and they went in and
murdered every person family these were his as a list of family families of whom some were in the family had or tifficult on forces work with the iraqi government been against to
this form of radical islam so ices came in and murdered five hundred families which to me it should tell everybody out there that this is an enemy that we must address we must
face and we must destroy i was i think what people don't understand either is that those same people who are all not that listeniss brought in they were screaming and begging for
our help they wanted american truths on the ground to help them they don't want to live under that brutal of there they want us there they want us to be all push push that any
back and give them the chance to live their lives in relative freedom and pieces gerty the there's a great disagreed on on the vice news that shows prior to isis come aback in her
made it's it's it's very difficult for me to watch me be difficult for you why to because it's exactly showing exactly what you're saying but going around their interviewing
people and a guy to do any interviews as some kind of i think he's not raumer can cause speaks arabic and he sees conversing with people there shone sometimes but everybody is
tokio he sang well what you what are you going to do it looks like isaical and there's a war we we want the americans back we want them to come here and more than help us and they
got the governor of remote and there they show him on the phone and he's talking in the isis whoever his superiors and he said we need the american out here there getting to
clothe the ices of getting to close weniger can support we need them and that's that's the thing that so many people miss in america is the fact that the normal people in these
countries they do not want to live under this countrie and they but they are the its hard for them to defend themselves against it and so that's where america the benevolent
nation that we are can provide this sort of pieces to bility there and it's going to be hard and i say is all the time right if you're going to go to war people are going to die
americans are going to die innocent civilians are going to die but look at what the alternative is the alternative is you have this disgusting despicable ideology getting a
foothold in the world and it is absolutely disgusting and it should not be stood for him and i think people in our sand to win atalking about destroying the islamic caliphate as
they as they call emselves and how that real estate alone them owning that realestate inspires those attached it doesn't take in a giant ground invasions with hundreds of
thousands of troops in order in order to feed the sentiment it it takes a few thousand american troops ah to to go and and generate momentum to beat them back partner with folks
on the ground like light on bareshanks at we worked with back in the day and he was forces work with for the embarking and there their asking for help we need to parteiling the
the the present of egypt and a king the king of jordan who have talked about how this is a civil war with the islam and they don't they don't want to subscribe to that do or live
on her that kind of brute rein they they want to lead the fight against it we got help them we got a support him and we need a team up with looks like that it is we must do it and
if if we don't do it you're gonna see the darkness continued to spread until we actually do some on about it so many people want to say well let's let others over there lead the
fight ah that's kind of like westender you'll say you know what uh the natyeral boccanera is that's that's their problem where are they coming next exactly all right that's as an
estateful folks buona next question here jacala how do you know if you terminated to early i wanted to remove the toxicity before damage the team when do you know it's time to
fire some one so bulletin to a a little little change in pace here go in from the darkness of the islam estate into something a lot more positive which his people run in
businesses and i could you clarify that is terminated as the differences and i read you stopchase this is a good question any in it something we hear a lot an we got a ton o
questions when i bought this out so what do you know what time the fire somebody we get to questions you just said and if this was always the most difficult thing it is incredibly
difficult even for you know people who feel like their super super tough eaters are strong leaders in the celts who went through all our training and and and if proven of selves
on the battle field it's hard to fire people it's always to full to for people is hard to have those stuck conversations we folks and so ah we've to we talk about this that the
right on fire somebody is when you don't feel bad about it and what i mean by that i don't mean just because you co blurted but that you actually ah but that you you actually have
taken every step to mentor and train and provide resources and and no help that person achieve the perfomance that you need them to achieve in order composeetion and you've given
every chance succeed and once you you you should be able coffehouse exhausted all options and then you shore not going to feel bad by because you you detain so much time in ever
and they shouldn't even they should do not have gone to be upset about it not that the men necessary love you or thank you for firing them but so often you see people that are
literally relieved when we work with commende see this happen we see people that are relieved because they are in a position where they just there overwhelmed there's massive
pressure on them and they knew there are the it was beyond their capability and they just didn't want to say i can't do this and so when they got either fire or just transition to
a different role it was they were relieved in the said thinkin and i i really was that was really eating at me that i i didn't feel able an i hed fell i knew i was letting the
team down ah and that's almost always the case every one while you get the torture genius us just can't take direction or won't listen an who's never going to see never got to i
see that i'd apothetae toitoi yet the only other thing i says or laying out the real crystal clear expectations of where you need to be he if this will you this where need to be
and if you don't get there this is gonna happen and that's why you said it shouldn't be a surprise it should be he i knew exactly what the expectations were i knew exactly what
was required to me and i knew exactly was going to happen if i didn't meet those expectations requirements so that's how you know and the only other thing he is we sometimes in
its tonal we build a relationship with our people and so sometimes that relationship gets strong to the point where you might value that relationship more than you value the
performance of the team than that is not a gesitain do you have to look out for whole team in if i say all this guy's not doing his job but he's my broomlee him on i'm letting
down the whole team so that it another little element that ye have to pay attention to you it is to care not person met coach put em into position where they can't see sometimes
be more good at something and you got a moventis where they can you can take advantage of their strength instead of putting the spot with their weaknesses are going to be totally
exposed that's how you take care of someone so that's what you got to do before your fire somebody one thing too that i learned from you and and in the navy a journatier was when
you had those tough conversations he got righted down yet the right it down and that's something that i i i thought was very powerful because so often even in silenuse leaders who
would say we'll just lead her screw up you know this boteman er his chief got an issue with wendte's causing the you know he's dangerous or he making bad decision to resumption or
ah he's you know he's he's not getting his unit were it where they need to be and and and when he do call him in and tighten him off and he'd have that conversation behind close
doors when the the person is at present and like right on with coleman let's tighten em up you come in they sit down and here you are face to face with that person as you just had
a closer conversation to how to emily were and how they really need you know we're going to wear a squirm away and now face to face a conversation goes like this will you do
ontario you don't a prego over all there's a couple of things when you to work out here there but all may be not he and i i think that's a that that doesn't help any way that's
the false cerlean is a disaster and an it's something that we talk about all the time there are business i'm sure you mention that on the poast tho you know many times of four but
when you write it down you have it front you so you have to have a tough conversation and you give them a copy so they have it with them as well and then i can take that and
understand where they need to be and when they need it be there and ah and that force due to have the stuff conversations it's it's it's absolutely a game changer and makes you
makes you dress that and then again a false curting is hexastyle then when you at the fire some one and the like way you do it i was doing a good job so obviously you failed as a
litter in another another good thing you can do to soften the blow with this stuff when you're when you're delivering the heavy news is your saying lesson i wrote this down i
complutensian you why am i do not cause i think you can do it i want to do it i'm investing in you this is not my weight to make you feel bad this is my way to make you get better
i want you to do better so here's what i here which got a do for me here is in plain english do you understand this bullet point do you understand this ballpoint do you understand
this bullet point that's the best possible thing you can do and and you got to make out an them understand that because otherwise they'll walk out rooms and all he's picking on me
doesn't like me no one now the opposite is true if i didn't like you i would just find you i want you to perform i meant during you i'm coaching you can i want you do better i'm
giving you this list to you know exactly what you have to do to win so don't take the wrong way my brother just get in the game and get this stuff done he dthink cause i remember
you saying this good evening echo got in i remember sayin this to to jerome you elect you re like when you don't feel bad how do not you put in those exact words rats basically
the message exactly the latent feel bad about a year both no you know sold do think that there is a difference between like the fealty as for example because he can't just or a
assuming he can't just replace the guy so it's like it it's vietato invest as much as you possibly can in alien moral and this you'll tims i thought i obedient there not different
there the same so initially world every company no work worth doesn't matter what we completes there there's no immediate replacement for somebody that knows the skill set for a
software ingineer is there a great girating come on the door no is there a great well the way to come to north no is it it just no matter what these things are there's not a
perfect replace the cominitteemen thing that you'll see too have a ready replacement ready to come in so of course you've got a person you've gone through the agony of finding a
move gone through the agony of recruiting a yo'got oh the agony of bringing him an board issuing them their dear getting them their computer letting them understand the the the
culture of the company a done i inventory invested so much you don't want to just fire the person who wanted work out and so that wit's import no neither military and civilian you
got a you make those investments of the thebes outcome is to have them succeed that's always the best outcome and so that's why you've got to be a great ventureth a great
meliorated about this before moaning to run out but some people are allergic to the word to mentor and some people are lost work coach gets some of heneage problem and i go he lay
welcome the too i'm going to go and enter you you don't what i mean i don't make me a solo he said then he thank you know tateens them that implies of sedaseer that implies that i
know more than you do and you know less than men and i'm the big guide that's going to help you little go so so some of that direct kind of coaching is not the right answer but
you know clearly will you get to a point where some is goin to fire you need do so direct coaching so that's why we're right now i'll get it done correctly and one one more for on
that which is a great a great question that killin that's the easiest haifa back and we see that leotade of it we saw the military and we see it throughout in companies and in
order as if we work with now often times its people that well this person is a good enough an to filomena almost most the time that's notecase most the time that they just had to
be led they need to be let i need to have the mission better explained than they to have you know the training and he'd have better resource in a to have meant to ship a just as
jack was talking about and so it that's that's an easy fall back of butits no it's an excuse and it's the opposite of his tremors and really only the case of that tortured genius
rithet that that we wrote about to the person that just cannot take any derection a matter how ah how valid or or or positive a needed or they can't take any criticism they won't
set except any responsibility that if they have it all figured out the world just can't see the genius and what they do you know that's kind of how they look at things that's the
only time that you really have the fire that the postage you have you and the the thing didn't say you hit like four points you want one of the best places to start is some one
not doing what he supposed to do in it explained to them why they're doing it what this is why at once to do this one then they can absorb it they understand what the deep mission
is they understand kind the commanders intent so we never someone's not doing this and you know what i must go let break out a story right now said denis i got a seven year old
daughter he she can't ride a bike yet right that's not good you should be riding bikepital as for so she can't ride a bike young no not to soerine's become a thing become an issue
right so the other day and we're going on a big camp in trip and it's going to be necessity to be able to ride the bike so the other day i started tangit got to work under
bickering some aconite shoes on give ready rush and she immediately goes to pensive i don't know i don't want to run and by i can't run a by come back to her and i started getting
right you know now listen gitshee on i went that route like an ighinn i lucidity for another road and i just thought myself after two direct orders with no explanation of why and
i said hastily another on your bike round then he tell you why because when we go camping almost everywhere going to be going is going to be on the bike and specially when time to
bike ride to go get nightcry regina have to ride bikes to get ice cream and and so all i want to make sure that year eble to come with us when we go to get ice cream no i mean i
want to have to bring it back for you when you come with us and you could see i just completely to change attack and she said you know okay let let me get my shoes on and in
lethe's example with a seven year old right and a first small the first note there is that i teteboxti completely with down the wrong road and was a whisterical in the father and
i know you do what i tell you so wrong approach a hundred per cent of the time you went savouriness i went back and says he here's why when you an i older bunch o the things you
know it's really good this howard in a due get around the siyou can get round the beach'll these six and change routine it littlecare in a minute i wish i would have videotape
whole fincas we could oppose it it ill ye the would have been a good little case study yer langton with the ace coney that wouldn't you say back to the the high the higher in and
people you know you don't have disseminating in the wings to get hired to to feel that position remember umtakati case on most of the time where if you fire some one is a good
just replace them right all that work in sofya a re higher somebody beat you're wasting time and resources to do that and you go just be investing more you and can always want
your your team to succeed and sometimes people take it you for we do get ome on that just wants to see you mister knocking firmly so there's always a balance in all his annotator
but yes that is true so do you make the exception if let's say you not let's say hey i'm i i i hired this an you wait you wait a rooted have a die in a waiting in the wink out i
know my neighbor now course nay a one to see you on a vest less in this cycas we got discouraged to go when oh you you you won't invest lass you're not invest anything if you got
some one that's goin t come in and do the job in this person can't make it happen has failed renoncerent get rid of him he jack does good times yea all right you weel jacanas
explained how you first met and worked together in the second part is how do you say stato disciplined every day so lay beating jacko good times how the house if we just on his
love and but an pagasaean but oh it was a a it was a good time i checked in at i checked her steatite back in the spring of the gals and five and oh i'll taken over is the putting
in for chardon and i see i see the hate the name of the board jaconite kind a hurt his name around people cut now was and but i didn't i didn't know much i didn't know much about
joceline but our chief tony but we also talked about it was just a complete bad as somezing or your incredible combat leader and he he said a jocose to go i ejaculate you ought is
like right on a lookinger met jacket a titicaca was the animal's aid so i did you ever still busy kind of run around and and try to turn over those duties here a very busy job
difficult job i'm but ah but importantest and ah so when jacopone showed up fifteen the first time i remercions it was it we had a morning formation so we all we all go to their
armoring lesionist nd in formation out back of the team and everyone musters up and and do i just heard look at a jocalder smile on his face just as scow to smile was to ever if i
don't think he smiled for the first two months i have but i guotto month more tory when i meet people for sailin and so esistito is in his look as he said i'm jocose just staring
through us like you wanted to murder us and and you know shaken her an it was me and then our other his eltondale and ahaie knew each other well me in the dell to matter and you
know we are we are not letanies looked at nazionale a canary to a yet isacker by but what i didn't realize the later until after we were to get a gain me a copy of the book about
place which we talked about many eudaemon on the poast um and his tremendously inferential book i know on new surname in a amargin ration about faced by a caltahcota i realized
that that's what he did what he checked in and took over and his unit which he renewed the hard corand actually he said i didn't smile at anybody for self oversex week or if like
the first first occupant so there i like eminance i go to mont wait didn't get it from a worth or was the head on a member i probably did i ripped off so much stuff in accord i
definitely re off like we we need we read him that stood tasting it which was called brave reading him it bruiser that a complete repose at work self tutuila work her yes i always
have at eve i met im wot you meet me i'm goin to be stand offish i'm not i'm not a big you know i don't open on i'm just not saintly like yet a little say you didn't mean like
that ye rollerism leafers two years that he knew you ate the others something to tell me any though he is when you take over position like that in he will be em an in ladinos you
don't know you're getting you don't know anything about him you have guys that you are gone after put trust and faith in to to lead guys and combat and it's it's a very lassata it
and and i knew that with you guys you guys with a potion commander you've got ronnie all the battle field every day you got going to be leadin guys and combat the most there's
going to be so much pressure on you guys there was going to be violent or was going to be war and so i bought it to and and now a chance you're going fighter you know i don't want
to be friends with you yet i wanted to make sure you made it for certain wickets and then obviously the more i got to know you and actually there was the this time you know i
wasn't a i guess the word is i wasn't as mature as i am right now so i was talking to one of the one of the senior officers at the team and they were thinking about maybe
switching guys around or moving a tunes around and now this dubbest you guys had i ad got no you guys you and the deltoid er and realized that you guys warranty who i wanted to be
with me in combat exactly the type of guise that i knew wouldn't never back down would go forward and would kick ass and i knew that but this guy says to me he says hayowentha of
out maybe moving some of tocandeiras were payable and i said no i the two guys i got argaeus in keeping and the like well you know do they have the qualities that you want you
know for a and i said they as the two qualities he set the qualities i said i only need two qualities they need to be able to listen which means their humble and they need to be
tough then that's what those guys are because i dishonoring of crap she's got her always just take it we will not last as long we were all trained to jesuits well five hundred
every never notion it was it we had a secession you know jocko a mentorian us and i'm sure he was thrust out at a performance initially because he had a lot more spirited than the
theme or the delicate in and yet he spent the time to train him mentorian get us to war we needed to be by the time we deployed you'll do the botfield and remote unleashed us on
the battle field to illetterato and and even unknownness at winapie or or a system within commanders in our betonies and our leading pationate leaders wonata were out out leading
their own on it some about field and so ah he yet aftens faith and drowsiness and we we certainly built that benanas alcornyne jacko's leshi to you bruiser thanks to a colonel
david hackworth ennou know everybody should know that it's late for it or are the mouth pieces right now for a bunch of bad as eyes that all stepped up and when we are going
through train crush it we were overseas crossed it were there two to tubipora a from a big unit and all those guys you know were just get after it and we put the weep at them all
in a wednesday people we five people from tasting the bruise of it did didn't make the cup and we tried we did the things we're sposed to do we meant or we helped him along and at
the end of the day they won't ready and so we got rid of him so when we went overseas we were a we were ready rockminister bonanno down the land that's i think that's something
that people you know miss and we talk about that all the time that you know that makes a tenebit less and we brought out for the mid was at your ships a most important thing about
leaders had every level and so ye why we had an extraordinary task in it was because we had those leaders every level i stepped up now just me not just yao ire or squares and
charge of eight guys or fire temeritate four guys that two men shoot or bar down in the front line sooperstitious on his theseion in and lead and go after the and you in when you
think about actually as i'm i'm sitting on thinking about culinary haven't thought about this too much about but process of going from i don't know these two guys i don't trust
these two guys that's the main piece of it right i don't trust these two guys because i don't know them and so how do you build that trust and ah in somebody asked me that the
other day and and just it a really good point of how he built trustee and a writhe best way i think to build trust is to give trust so i said you don't have to alatta you run this
operation you know it is you run the straining operation i trust that you can do now when i give him that trust he's looking me saying shaking himself at his cotrone this goso
were building the trustees if i say late i'll run this you just you just follow me you just get in the back seat you josephine i that's where ye were not building trust and if we
were on the play i'd act my donaldite we got apominations had built any trust and i'll tell you one more thing as i was sitting here thinking we did everything together i've had
no denyin we worked out we did you get you and this is you me that the other to command the other death do of the debt to grate with everything together i mean you guys will live
together if and and we all lived in the same neighborhood we served together we lifted together everything was together we deep red together and that is how you get this bond and
this mass of amount of trust where i look at you and now i won't have to say a word you know the deal i know the deal and we go forward one thing i was thinking about two is ah
this is some mania think brought you brought to the table a as you were you know training of and venturing as a pendant me with us to ed building building that cost as as we are
going to all this train neget ready for combat of poet you know if you come in i say you talk about before like i am amicitiae to you obviously that makes people and when when you
actually say you know when you sent to me like like you got the arikaras and then i'm prestation where i know jocko's got a bunch experience in this you know this this particular
direct action in a rage you just come back from iraq and had a bunch experienced have any spirits in the lot few side her operations ah you know benazet and had it on danny you no
direct action a raised like that so ah here here we are getting getting i'm getting thrust into it i'm in charge i've got make some calls its homely so what is that made me do it
makes so like a jackal think about this it wouldn't you do your contenting in her what do you think the soit opens up the conversation of like hay ah i be looking for mentorship
i'm looking for training rather than i got her all figured out so even had i thought that initially you don't at that point when you don't have experiened know what you don't know
there's on when you pop ye what a situation that there it's beyond their comfort zone it's the outside of you know there there real knowledge as did they look off in their looking
to you for help there's looking to you for god it is a good point and actually somebody somebody point we were working a company the other day on the east coast and we are going
through something and and and and we were to you are describing me cold uncle men to eye and again i hate to use that word but but when you describe it you said he jackasses me
this and then he asked me this and then he asked me this and what i was doing was saying he lay for why you do in that right there in latine this is what i thought and i said okay
well what would you do then if this happened and lay said oh that's a good point and so instead of me saying lay don't do that do you do this right here i indite i was asking
questions and letting him find the answer and also the other point is fereal is i wasn't just asking the question like so that i could guide him down the perfect as i legitimately
asking him like bilyou do that right then because maybe he's got an idea in his asthetical be positive i ah i can ocotal to that example to set was it that was in the kill house
the wearer into the colossal those in onoko's you got a ah you've got a room and hallways ah in in a building and the oftentimes had ballistea or we can set live fire in there a
sending swateness inanimate in the world but it's if it's you work on your close quaromes skills or see you see where you you interodoos and you were your work an gether said team
clear in these hall halls and rooms and moving through it a a a target building in a train of arm and often they can change him and move the move the hallways around or change
doorway so to it mixes it up every time you can't really get you stool you know doing it one where or the other and and ah and so i've been told as an officer my job was to stand
on the back and just take the report so ah that's what i did and ah the report being how any bouniol of been shot how mahaseer to have many seals been winded they had to haverford
i've got the little quarter back a sieve all my arm with a grease pencil and i'm meaning to back to of an a joke the question alaske me was hey lafe a whalery as if it wasn't
condescending it was you know the tone really matter necissitee why are you in the back and ah he was very curious about why why was the battle was a owata my taswell reason for
that in it i looked in lassiter's what i was told to do and some one who had told me that didn't really have any real ah experience all on on a real belfield it so will you offer
us in a back and so ah so i thought i'm not dressily do that that's what i'm going to do and that's that's where i was so glassified the bad i'll pretty do falls i'm a pretty deal
egressive leader and i was like a of my job is to stand on the back and take this report i mean to do it better than anybody watch this and when jack asked me is i warrington i
was like cause that's where i tought it was posed to be and then he asked me hypatias i do you know what's going on up in the form of the train right now i've got i've got fifteen
guys spread out through it through the building there a different room itself and i was like i have no idea was going on in the train of throat and an sainteville a question for
as i will how can you how can you leave new haven you leave this team how can you be the command i control for your team if if you don't know what's going on at front i was in i
mean it was just like bomongo like i have to i have to be in a position where i know where you know where i need to be and that was it showed me that i was i was not only was i
wrong and in where i was i i was failing as a leader and failing my team if i couldn't asserted them in hot too so the proper position for me was forward somewhere in the middle
generally at i can move around i didn't want to get so far forward that i'm getting sucked into every room clearance or getting in a gun fight and held the hall way cause i got to
be all to stand back and see you see what's going on but not so far in the back at a don't know what's goin on up front so ah that he never need to tell me that again it was i
knew where i needed to be understood that it made sense to me in a thin if you want a that's a great example of being able to success meant to repel so they understand you know to
ask them the question in a way that the meaning fortaine sending it's not you know i know everything ah you know it why are you doing that but ah to our don't do this but but
actually as me the questions and i did not leimanns lie bogos off nobody over nestell me to again yet i feel like that i like feterita component the tone i consate same exact
question but you say it in all these different to so like like what are you in a haglike you always see his like water you thinking there on that thing or that one of that went
down as the post to all who you think king will like that kind of thing that's common willanous don and i think the factories there is that i recognize a truly recognized that i
could be earning something in there my residense i and ortel you what lay document combat is homely and i in our bentonians combat where i did not have control it and i did not do
good and i look at those situations and i don't know if that's going to happen again in what win'ter situation to my mind is not sit there saying i know everything cause i know i
don't so where i'm as moses questions i am legitimately asking you the question paco will why did you will you think when you when you splice this thing together what were you
thinking when you when you when you posted this thing on that video what's the purpose of that you know what and i actually want to know im so let's lie i'm not saying echo why
the hole did you post that you know what i mean that is i i generally i genuinely and not in not over confident and i don't think i know everything and how that was one of the
biggest less or all in addition of the leadership must support then on a banfield the one of the other big lessons are was humility and that you know it that time i had depotoir
before so was of one paton wonder or once wonder exactly and you you pump chonita and you really feel that that that happens when you have we ave to pay i been overseas and you
done you come out orations get them in your bill and yet you don't even realise what it feels like to be verwelket have things that are out of your fatal take to have the enemy
flank her or do something that you had he foreseen i think those just sustained combinations for almost seven months in romany today and in day out of intense gun battles was
something that it was humbling and i think that was one of the biggest lessons are we are able come back and pass on to others was his well do you think you got a figured out you
haven't really done anything to yea and the the other thing that happens and this is this is actually to exactly to our point somebody goes over six and they they did do some
combineetion and they don't get challenge they don't get tested they any actually falsely increases their conference and we see this in the business world to like you have an you
have a company that came out of the gate and that they just time things right they were ahead of the colne and old son there done fantastic and they think they can make no
mistakes and their not humble so their success there's success actually makes them get erronan and i must real obvious i mean look at wrong rose right round arouses thought the
hay i'm good to go on going to beat all these people and that that that arrogance will bite you and so i i think we saw that in inveterato verses do do a cot on cote combat
clement let get some experience but it wasn't like or care sustained combat operations and so the tathagata l it would be a negative in almost be better not to have any experience
almost probably better have some experience but you definitely so it some my ponies or whether you are in combat when you're going in a combat with you be in combat with your
business whether you're no sport just because you had some success don't start cuttin corners don't let don't get arrogant i mean is it common sense off but we still see it all
the time yet when you in the mix ye it's you just used is compelled to do it like a winning yes says i don't need to train any harder on now i don't eternam good to go it's like
that guy running the mile you know the guy who's running a mile right he's beating everyone who's waiting but then you got the guy whose head some adversity through the fore
lapidate and you turn in it on and the guaranties like on cruising in the guasos same tiny bet's why he was easy to the under dog is it it's you can just take advantage of h o
olaveson erence of arrogance of a someone who just dusante's like were using like i'd gone to iraq we don't we done a bunch of operations but i'll tell you in my mind i i didn't
feel like i'd been taste knew in a lot i felt like hey i we still got a rat's why we always thought worksite worst thing can happen with the how bad can dis get that's what i was
always looking at and still look at and when i went when we were on a train were held on tradenor where i was looking at what we want i want the training be art of the combat you
know so keep your ego in check people and we we talk to larborad all the time and i just had a conversation of a leader a not too long but oh how yes tell me everything done good
how he simple man or self we talked about his bees rocking roles presles his teams going great in like okay well were can t go bad where could it go back you don't wear what it
what are you what did you miss what rest did you you are you not taking a proper that what's that workcase that can happen i think good for you are going to be doing that all the
time never goin to be satisfied always think it would would it i missed there's always a little butterflies there and i think when you're when you're at opinion got it all figured
out what man could possibly happen were going to cross the enemy watch it's got to go back for you all right moving on to the next question i'll tell you though what's easy but
pentuer dog is that not much is expected idea so even if you fail it ironside whatever it doesn't throw up any kind of red flat does move the needle but when you do good it moves
the needle cause no one expects much addy yet being the under dog is the easier position less pressure he at can be seen now a ah for sure next question at her ego jacala what
once the crisis started in ben gaze was a cure after actial you know this is semented to there's a so most discussion obviously would he the heated in a political debate in of
election season and now a lot o set about the gouty and ah i think what bothered me so much about that as he answers yes of course a cure is racoare show ben set up and ready to
go in the event that this happened it so the issue with this is it with a godwit a big deal and wide important is a particular for those of us in the military m is because when
you s military personnel are or employes of the u s government anyway are agin harms way and their calling for help leaders real leaders are going to step up and get that help to
them and make it happen and i think in a what eh whether or not a cure which is a quick quinteroon force are talkin about sindarina inforce it may be it's marines may be soldiers
may special operations for assistars support better support coat closer support which could have got in there certainly a you know what with matter of flag of ours an it's those
things would probably have made as you sit for so that that battle field with a save the lives of of ti woods who is on our team mating went gendereth team mate um and those the
two sat up arminians was of lower lives including that the master christian oh i don't know i don't know that it would have saved saved their lives in it no one could say that but
that's not what leaders are asking themselves on the they don't know the outcome in the out o true good leader is going to is going to win bad things are happening is going to sit
halpine resolved this how can we help us gatti think that the hard thing would you look at this scenario is for everything that we've seen and understand about what happened in
the way of my gaze as when the call came in that yous forces our under attack the immediate response was how can we test this have alcohol we have when we make this better
flusticated ache spent it yet exactly the so half we do that well we live a had to be looks that was the the party line the time loved livia had to be a big wind we liberated live
live you know us forces when it airpower liberated libya from the you know evil dictator a more marked aiotheta to be of vitrifaction say that elkader groups of taking over that
the threat levels there of so we have to put a pen on this so let less act we can't say that that there's a threat let's come up with a story about the video and how the video and
flame do you know a hatred against america and and and and blatant and so that was the crisis response and no one ever said sin every asset we have to help those yes and you know
there there's all these the you know the the the paper work and the permission had required to enter nother countries or space belitsum if someone if the president if at the very
top as yet you secraft there now they're going to get their now and what is what is luvagod for us i mean particularity a nation that's not i mean it they've got chamseen at out
on post you know post revolution so ah it was it's a travesty i think it's a real stain on our on american honor that when you as true were in harm's way calling for help a
america did not sin elth so a couple of things for my perspective number wanted it you kind o touched on this the preparation was awful there's all kinds of documents showing that
these guys had felt the threat and lizart knew the threat was real and did not get the support that they wanted down there that's just step number one so from the beginning never
mind once this once once what is it was question once the crisis started the crisis shouldn't ave started you should be pro active you should be agressive in your continueing you
should be aggressive in your security measures you should be aggressive against a known and quantifiable threat all the time so so there is number one there's the first failure
then the second failure you already said i'm an tell you what you got american troops in harm way harm's way we are going to do everything possible to get there now and you know
what how long is that crisis going to last you don't know you don't know how long a crisis gondalas so if the crisis starts and i know it's going on i'm sending help and i'm
sending the first the first hole i get up in usedter and i sees i can establish more help on the scent them too and if the crisis is over and then and the embassies overrun in
twenty minutes of work too late okay we get our best if the crisis last six hours and up the the patriotic heroes that stood the line and fought held those guys for five hours or
seven hours long enough to get support there then guess what we win everyone's alive and we did our job so it was just a a disaster across the board and a like you said a real a
real not only a stain on on american presence in the world to have an ambassador of citing ambassador murdered but a reaction to it was completely it was it was a travesty and not
to mention of course the loss of a serialist that stood up and held the line leaving without the support the benedet from the country at that time which is part forets i'll i'll
back as down a little bit take a little breath throw you a soft ball from the from the true result there and i and his acteon might be soft all lay in onour passion about this
what's the best barbecue in texas that he does refight word try dear atevelde their favors there that's for sure you know what to day we are going to talk about you know politics
re talk about religion were going to firstly from him there asked my barbecue out of no man but you subjection i wanted to iteration on on you to much toinette wrong mareyuma know
any two taconite the barberry serious others so down about that i a isaacer ainly a passion now there in texas that it's the it's a big deal but i gotta go with them i got to go
as compositor ice where is that i know it and lenox the eriginal amattered a couple on open up and altineri now but ah it is it's all some you walk in that place you get a just a
big plasher and there's this giant smokers around he go up and uses i want that piece of brisket i want those goods i want that sauce age and you just take it and you want it and
then you just get after it chopping you pilot like i'm in it i know that now the one venerate a jot javis not of the net of for those out there the listening god he is a very very
much garoora the spongin it's competitor but then lanoe's right down all right next carson is there water practice is back to leachit is her way to practise the hard conversations
i'm not known for my delicate fanes well i'm glad you're not known you delicate finesses neither i i generally i'm a pretty direct eye and a immadiate of ludi think by nature a
betasseled you know i learn from from joe relies you know you always you always use duguery and in alba the direct approach a particularly yellows as a as a as a white but wonder
myself and will you change a genoese you're going for the three moons that you know people know it's comin and it's very easy to defend red so if you can if you can set up like
i'm going to this but enamor something else in it that indirect approach ah generally generally is more sport secess what you just talked about that with the ice cream round the
bicycle nor your daughter so i'm to think that's so there's so many samples that were received and no often that direct approach o my way o with the wages dozenth job not i think
is their widderers hear conversations one hundred per cent there is and so many people think they're above were hearses roll play those are those are things that are critical to
steal perforce in the battle i think a lot of people don't realize that we actually we will we do work were hearses and walk through before every single operation and we try to
manchettee itinerating in the desert we might even have like you know we might lay out rocks are put tea on the ground so it it amendebeli we if we eat there not actual building
to use for training facilities or are a a an we hatter ones stand together in their sticks in we know whose hat on the helicopter here and and these gatemen the second helicopter
their those attains that in low people in the dark of night when its crazy and chaotic to go to the right place do what their supposed to do everything as simple as unloading from
a vehicle just we we would practise that we hearee had to see we had this giant truck that we use when when he itheas are a getting really bad in a rack a nitial ly um he he
offered for riding in the back on benches in in the back of a hum by command open bed like a truck truppa and then the idee threat the rod above a sergint so dangerous that we had
to put guide him side armor and so ah that makes a volume esercitare guys your aboulhassen back so ah so we had to take this giant who all the man truck and we would do the we
nicknamed it so it was our truck and it was a it was a big gun five ton truck and you know flat bed rock and and they'd i don't know if previous seals are of the army of done it a
rare but we well did these a quadrant steel plates around it and then we had a den we had the sandbags in the bottom of it so that was like our that was our protection and most of
the sand bags were like torn up because both on in and out and so you just sitting on sand said you got blown up it would not have provided a whole lot of it protection from me
but if you give one nothing saying to gettin out a truck is is substantial we ye got twenty guys sitting about in that rough yet and there are you in with some of our guides i
raybold ers that were with us are jones and you got open swing open his giant have you a quarter antee doors in the back and then he got put a ladder out and every one's got to
climb down the ladder that takes him time and just what aunt ran at me can turn into three stooges real quiet no doubt is even just now have that get injured oh we've had guyfaul
off a truck like that and dissonances and literally have to get sent home about more important if it if it takes three minutes or four minutes to do something that that's through
of for minute that you don't have guns pointing in every direction and its critical so we had to practise at and practicarian a towe could do it in less thirty seconds and and
then with we have two different as all forces got an make sure o salt one side up on the left aerostation of the right saunterin those things that you we have to practise that
over and over n over again and it seems really juvenile esens very elementary but i if you do if you took the time he practise that performance your perforce so much better we
askalege out of the dark a night the caoinan unknown area and worried about him bad guys and were they are and always think happened to make it shut people went to the place and
nee to go so havenites tions practicing it sitting down with some one who understands how that person might respond for a tough conversation roll play maybe you know the theater
they tried different scenarios where their their really is to sofala scenario difficult serenade if the worst case enerves case in her so the more you do that the better it is and
this is something jochanaan bit is with comes we work with is rillation if you tease just to say well used to up you re fire you but if it's this is a good guy he messed up you
got to try to get him on board to use this plan or you have to talk him down from doing this out and on it he did something out in town that his making a company with that wait
whatever it is ah and you have to talk to them in that role plays critical and it makes you better and enables you to perform better ah and so yes you have to do that you hears
you three or four interatomic some one to onighira place an aria they get better even literally see them get better pretty a pretty cool we have pretty good getting in and out of
the big sad nice all right next question there was recent news about combative in the silts what was the evolution towards me to this sitientes a whole plethora of various
tamanend combat type things when i when i first came in there was something called scars and i eat said for scientific something something something something but it was a it sort
of looked like a comfort as he is very um i see i think it was faced on one sand so right now which is a martial art anyway so that was kind of what when i showed up there then we
kind of more towards something a little bit more modern and then we more towards something else and so we were constantly kinda looking and searching for something that was
efficient we ended up going with this one this one contractor for several years and you know so use this this one contract of her several years and then eventually aspectable once
the war started in we had guys on a regular basis doing hand to hand combat against the enemy in front felicita understand went on what happened if we go into a building and
there's people in there that don't have weapons well you can't just gone him all down you have to get control of him if there military imals you probably got a coffinet get him
down to the ground you got a control em now they're the whole of variety of things it can happen the guy can be alarmed but literally combative you know he can square up and say
okay it's an live see that and people might be surprised to hear it that a de flashed do that we know you got a gang of big tug seals there they're going to beget a butcher down
what will had multiple like knock imply oh you're not going to put me down and ah it doesn't use to go to well for miss that's that's antepast you can and you go down the
spectator some of the just is scared in your frozen with fear so but but you're yelling at them to get down and arabic which is you know your arabic not gray you're young at them
they're scared they freeze so now we he you can't do sanangelo of you've got i get them to the ground get the patrol you continued clarence then there's people that are going to
see any oleway down to some one that is you know you stay see they see you they put their hands up they lay down that's great that's easy so as we started getting into these
snares on a regular basis we we realize that the the system that had been taught was ineffective and nat's were also luckily we had a bunch of guys in silphium at work into
dugommier sting and even mean general and so that kind of came in and started people sarsenett you just do this and this will actually get a person under control as you told a
good story a to me to day when we were talking about cogitat that adelantado that's a good little of explanation of where we were and where we were we got ter the maist tone we
went through that that training uh and uh that was our prisoner hanly training so that took us what we did and and ah that's what we we would practise handling prisoners and
searching them and put on megunova so eletot do it this is you know well when we start going against rollers i remember one in particular an we're going against a werter in the
kill house and were moving through and in a course we were this isn't life bare going its role pleasure there shooting backey with sim unition which is a paint round through our
racial weapon as great training cause then you have then your daffodil people you have to actually wrestle with people you actually have to engage targeteer their shooting back
and you outstanding training and we we've talked about that before but but ah it is one of his it rose so out to me was our mere one on particular it one of the rollers was of a
pretty large guy i mean these probosis four or six five like two hutten fifty pound a big guy and me and in this got wasn't a seal he wasn't a seasoners menelaus bothering come up
be a role great you know help to which training um and so you know a small ropiest down of your own who hold them and and oh it'll get get a search on and ah me and in no other
one of our guides to is a big a big guy is guard vigorous my leg seals but a large large man very strong guy and we grabbed the catwater try to give em the groan he's not being
for plant he is bein he's resistance it's hard on this this is difficult for me in this other guy we're not we're not small gusndhe were were strong gower were getting his
scattered gratines not operated were having a hard to have keep him down by another one of our guide who was actually lots smaller as he's probably a hundred and eighty pound on
two hundred pounds and and the other silvestrina probably two hundred thirty pounds a anaesthedist is other seal comes up an he's like a hundred eighty pound guy he's
strangergoing of that epenesen all time you know it is a grace canayan had had it was one of the well oronte first guy i knew who who who was pre prescience and and ah he he just
as this this big guide the onnoth roll players restaurant the gutters made and a knock oprating were rest round with him he comes up there gissey gets an get to new on him goes
like new youngstown the gattey can't do anything and you know here's this one hundred any pound guy completely controlling this large guyot of us couldn't do before and is like i
needed sarcasms and if just a it was just a realtor control i can control this gunmen need me on some get his arms gunoving a masanabu when we deerfoot him he he he comes in now
it now he's out of his rollerskates pretty cool and then i think he actually probably started than some mugitibus he he he realized it just how fected was for a guy who really
understood by the control to be able to just get a new yardham down you know and and be able to control me vernou he was at ossetian restingly that's so most that's why most of us
start the head happened to you your like wawawawawa like your ehoesaces you you you know he looks so much small than me and he just mahabhashya that is so that was you know and
that that case are you just described happened but like you know every day in the seal team somebody else that bad news some jettenwald have that sneap en in eventually the the
the correct answer rises up and people say he look this is working this is not working and so that's how we ended up with uh with moral and mamas approach because it's not just
pure dugento the you everything it's mo ti it's boxing it's it's you know weapons retention pieces to it it's hittin people learning how to hit the bull with your gun what we call
muzzles strike which is again this is one of those things where we kind o would keep me told the dilecte muzzles strike would would distilleries gondai ely in passing me instantly
and knock people out and the fact matter isn't i don't i know lay for i ve seen i don't even know how many we move mull strikes over and over and over again and it just that the
amount i don't even think i ever saw an actual knock out i've been use some damage and her at cuteron face open it makes a bleak everywhere in its complete nightmarelike a medical
and it's the intestated thing whereas somebody that knows a little bit of momaya go in to get control these people and take down and it's dino factor so that's what i nupkins over
and it's definitely a good thing a positive thing it's been it's been collator gaetano carry all with program next question how do you deal with anger and flared tempers in
yourself or your tea lay some hadn't turned that won over to you i got like a rintesano experienced than he in weather he and living in temperatures is and i thought i bendire eye
be the anadale address of gin and h and that's good there's a lot of good in that there is also some bad when you lose your temper when you you know you lose your cool one you
know would you get a motion about base we access of you don't make a decision and so you we we always taught our arguist the most important quality they can have is a combat or it
is to remain calm and make good decisions under chaos and pressure so ah that doesn't happen when you lose your temper so ah you know what when i i look back on that yet the thing
about it too as we do lose your temper about stuff and it's am i can give you number inaros we were it happen where it if gushed do it people was thinks like seals are always
focused all the time you and it's life and just for you guys out there and we talk up business as they say it don't sound like it's life and justly you know so it's not reliving
as for my gods bow i get down to state focus guess what am people lose discipline right people lose this one there's not leaders that are holding at those standards and and
pushing hard in a mere one time of particulars we were patrolled back to our common alost and now we've been a long operation it was a foot into a danger seria and ah we captured
a bunch of prisoners and we had to we had a walk and back on foot because they they were so many it threats in the area a attire finally met it with some brady fighting because
smaller tank on the army that came down we loaded him up in that and and and they took they took him back from there but so were walking back a patrolling back and were almost you
know where were still a few hundred yards back away from this common at was boring enemy territory and i could see that some of guyser start not be useful like looking down their
weapons and dropping security in these things and am and i was infuriated by that i was told in true by that and it was because i i knew what was at stake that looking for if we
are not distant all the way back until we're inside that wire of the of the from the combat outposts we could take fire any moment and if we are not watching you know at that very
second we could shout it people might be kilties or probability of wind that far flight of a brigade of so was a big deal on an a but i i definitely lost my cool the hot when i
came back i was juanitas fired up at people and like her this is wise to port and in looking back on that i like that that's not the best way to do that right the best way to do
that is to say um what i mean for scioto to keep security for mine and he keeps a curt certainly while while it's happening ah but getting back and send is hers why we got to keep
the jury i know we're only you know coupe of yours from the commentator recognized their enemy first here and they're going to hit selectest it ah i just cause it hasn't happened
to us before you know even how he done this dose time does not mean that it won't happen to us the next time and we can't we this is important think about how you would feel if
somebody got killed when you were supposed to be old securos they were cross the street and you are benito you interesting house that example i almost feel that you showing
leitner at that point was a positive thing like you want to make a perfect bear everybody and the way you get their attention because it's not like you lose your temper all the
time he is by you don't get him angry and the people go oh then he is he's he doesn't lose temporary often here he is superfaetation alliteration to probe it's not a promoting i
had really really angry oases one of the same where eight it would have been more effective for me the two be stern yet and and not back out for that in an the least and not treat
it lightly on in there i'm not saying it at all but i think just to luisito yell and scream and now thinks it is never the best witherinest is true if you if you completely lose
in your young istromenti it's it's it's not a good that even now your absurd it was important and and i i i wanted that a dress it was like it just wasn't the best with it a said
he looking back on the now one time in partakers ah i could think ah when you are to make some changes dromero oh yeah that's right that's right i i get reverted bout this last
bigelow we ah i was ready to cancel the of jacomina was like him what what about this you may be wide look at it from this direct white langeais may be betraying on this round and
not go across this marinier's a choke point and they might be read these and the road i was like we've been looking at for hours as i now he's changing it ten minutes prior like
gastulian jackal he could go he cut a was his cool me cause i just lost my cool and i i've been a believing hours at this and i was frustrated i was ready get get to see of lances
all the people were requirements in the levels of of a proves that we need and running around to a infix always things and and ah he actually just looked at it was an we don't
need to cancel up niigata be fit and an youse asked me some questions at her is it is what i'm saying take this and i wanted to know i care here's ieyes i hear you don't really
uncle i ratatoesk okay how an you take a change here like i was like two minutes like were we have a minuetto no problem looked don't need to cancel the operation of a no we don't
ye hear in an like i said i d seen portant to maintain your your cool and the way i do that is by being detached talk about all the time and that situation when you got all fire
up at me i was like it like ogyu don't laseivious than i i didn't think massetti up because he's immature or causes doesn't kick a trussel i thought myself having no hat didn't
work on this all day he's he's got a blood pressure on him there's a lot of frustration when you're doing his plans and doing all the paper work i understand what he's coming from
let me give him some space let him venta little bit and then lets reapproaching that's how i'm coming at the situation so how you handle it delaserre because and you blow back up
in the assoiation him and reaction are right then i get mad where yoongster though we have it your minutely closer latinship we wild to careful beyond yet a he would have an a big
deal in it or even if even if you had up saying like in oesterle's would do look you're going to do it this way and that illimani you and i'm i'm all piovano you came in and
trumet way what happened in some goes wrong on the operation teniate you to do is wrong as to this and it then then you have a prethiouth best in that you did it as situation was
you actually just smiled and laughed at me like just dayyan avoids a big hat cridit laugh at him like he was a little lernae'an you know he knows me and he knows exactly where i
was coming from like the hay i know it's a thing winona's the perfect way to destitution which which made me desclaux and may be realized it yet it they told sense and then we
execute him no problem to that's a deal with a tall you deal with so when some one gets mad you despeate when you feel yourself get a span up detach when if you got spinolas your
cool a i've said this before in the poast printers and copy machines they they don't like me and onontake them and so every time an shet up office space till his face
thilanottines and economising they don't ever do what i wanted to do and so i get picked angry at them so i was i lose my mind a little bit but no i don't i don't was like
apporter you know doesn't doesn't do me a lot of good and usually the usually doesn't help situation you know doesn't help you solve the problem and and my mind is always our had
i get the thing off they never help yourself a promethea o tell of if you like me and and you lose your cool you got to be at a practice at you got to rehearse that you had to
make sure that your detaching and ah not losing your cool so that you can get the job on em with that's that's what it's all about and the delton command her to do ye go on a
little bit a rageing then can you know one day the delton commander is going to be out of the military and he's coming right on this pocasse knows that he fired up but ah you know
he's my my other brother and that's going to be a good time but you know he would get some bragging and i'd have to i'd have to laugh back him down a little bit and say broke me
there i fired up right out where were ye to win and i and help you and he go i know but dare sockatoo all right next on it his is of a pretty a pretty heavy subject actually
jackanape fault on cops being in bushed what should police departments do be doing to prepare a specially with no command support for training iesis in american lanforre me roll
in battling this terrorism we've been training act of shooter lots of these are this is actually a conglomeration of a few questions but the the basic question is fosco pen
ambushed what should police department be doing to train for that prepare for it and in how civilians pinatate and what consilia do to help maetaer shooting that took place in
texas heretic heretic stuff and no certainly we left up families and those laws in our prayers and then the entire youthe entire police force and owls in batanuni uncross the
country a worthy folios lost their brothers ah i think i first of all a we have tremendous respect for long forcement for ah you know the boys in blue and endow but whether police
departments you know sheriff depones federal enforcement in a the day protect a home front and we have to have that we have to have that we have to have we have to be nation loss
and and ah without that we've got complete lawlessness and so ah i i think america's need do show appreciation for their police the parents and for their law force and officers
whean do that enough we got to think those those cloaks i think god is far as there it this is just another example in were talking about these vitalianus this is another camp
just as we talk about that first question darkness right the evil that's in the world there are some evil people that celebrate the eve with liceret thing um and ah i think ah you
know there's just no no justification for for the canaric stuff that we seen olearus's on plisoler and ah so i think place me the start i oared seen of the arsenic place that are
getting they're getting along on it for the forces that didn't have a a lot of mad on but maybe they have access to homer couldn't get to them quickly they're goin t eat have his
long us where if some one targeting with a rifle and all you have a pistol it's not good for you that it isn't wooster don't know anything about guns and like echo the difference
between having a rightful and a pistol is night and day i mean let let us bring it down a pistol you're good shot with a pistol may be if you are great shallops l maybe you're
getting out what what fifty tyard you're a good shot with a rifle and your out to eight hundred yards if pretty easily now on top of that you got a pistol you can sabiston will
stop when it hits something you know eatinghouse times piston stop when they hit regular windows on cars ah ah a high power rifles going to rip through the doors a cars no problem
you're going to be so there is a there is a massive massive difference between being out in the street with a pistol and being out mistreat with a rifle so luckily there's well
not luckily but they are starting to arm the police for the scenarios with that our going to get in aramante first time first patrol i went on in iraq in an humedean we hit we we
hit a a steel head jog right to little offishals that americans put out i don't know if they'd left the teretha presoom some driving along alone boom we hit one of emyvale and i
thought to myself i do it in idea and about to die but our vehicle gets jacked up were like proppin everyone poured out in the street and like took up security but everyone's out
there with a little enforce in it and you feel even if you know we we want machinegun satan we never went out again without you know to the heavy machine guns pahom because we
wanted to be ready to rock in roll as at the same fear going to get rolling out with just a pistol so that's number one number two these the police permitted got to start looking
at tactics and urban combat tactics and how to handle these situations how to cover move primarily how to cover and move it always is shocking to me when i see the the when i see
people not using these cover with when when there is gone fight or potential gun fight or even if there is not that's one thing in remodeler walking on street or on our walk down
street your moving cover cover and if you're a police officer less at least be near a cover so if shooting starts as you can get and cover we when i see all rest happening actual
rest happing to try to stir trying to get some one to stop and the police officers are standing out in the open to try and tell some one to stop don't stand out the open stand
behind cover now there's a there's a complexity there because you want be personators op to be able to clearly identify that you're please officer right but let's make the error
on the side of being behind cover so if that person does draw a gun you can be able to react them from a place of conversait you're the difference between stand behind cover and
standing out in the open to it some one start shooting at you all if you got comprato that's literally go go beast do all they have to hit a tiny tiny little target of whatever is
exposed to you you'll party your head whereas if you stand in the open or goneto so i think i think those tactics needs to start me looking at lady sartain look in at the
individual tactics of doing a rest and then may need i start looking at the larger group tactics when you have other one you know you got your partner at her have you operate
together how do you cover move together what's the best way to react to these snares and then furthermore when another group went when other police show up how do you then quickly
organized into elements that can operate together like a military unit and unless gonna make some people scared but like that's the theissian be scared of it when you're a gun
fight you need to use tactics gun fighting tactics and those come from the military so they should be able to operate in pairs they should be all operating elements and and grow
into you get to a point where you can handle the situations and that's going to take a lot of training and that's going to take money and as contact it i'll talk to as some of my
friends that are police officers and a man for going i just met we really good guy really front fired up to get to play of course and he said the amount of training that they get
is very very minimum so for example a regular police officer they actually don't often times they don't harm designated time for training they don't have time to say okay you're
going to work forty hours this week for of those hours are going to be training and and that's completely wrong you should have mandatory real good training for one for training
and that's what lay foppery where shooting live or seminatione or paint all round at each other so you're getting used to those stressful situation sotto swear off for the guy
three you square off logy on time and he's got simulation and you stand out in the open and don't get cover and he pulled out a gun and shoot you three times in the face with with
some lesion and then let on you go again you're may be a hansom come it's going to happen and as that's what we want people to do get you at interesting about that is you we were
is a real emphasis on live fire when i first came in and into the saltees and a lot of the instructors that were put in so training had not had an eat real experience yet any
wheel commensurate ah it so we still have those folks that were saying we were going to focus on live fire because that the more port than that's better training and the reality
of it not its actually worse turned to go your doing what paper targets now and it's it simpliciter there armed as that there's a weapon their haneth y're not shoot them don't
choose them to geather to go not so a watoon to be able to operate with life fire on netta's great so much better to operata is a rower now you going to room you like the guyon
you can't see him he trashiest osioteeti it is is he may be he isn't armed but if he's bumbrusher you ah and all in infraspinous yelling along a bar and and a running at you he's
probably a high soideman threat so as he's in smoke he gives smoke to how it's a youse think police pocones it as to get my time for trying but i got to put this realities in
there too and and and in our our place alserstrasse got many many friends here in the law for men um some of formals at work with have gone gone that round now and ah there in
very difficulties all time it it's one of a hartist a close course home is our social tells i don't gain it don't gave it meaning and i talked about with a kill house it you can
change the walls and maneuver when you're thinking in your mind i know what i'm going to see when i entered this room that's what you generate and so it's a it's a difficult thing
you got a maties to get really emu your heart rates go on in your life if a year you know you cause its pressure all you got instructors there and you won't let you make your shot
and they could decisions and but i give new guy when you have done that before you goin to it the first time and oh so it's if you're game in it and your few already envisioning
what you're going to see that's how you racontent member the i shot a target in the starlight babinot and there's no it's it's a there's nothing in the guy's hand there's no and i
i i thought i saw a weapon elementar gate and i saw him i i hammered the target you know it was round and ah i look at hollooed the drivers a hotel in jungcal i leap embasicoetan
abyss but that that kind of thinking really get to you so umanly he only learned that when you eat you only realize how easily that can happen when it happens to you entraining
when they change those things around us so that you go in there and it's a dallas different in your moving a different direction in the thereon a it causes us canisius litwa
you're talking about easy you want to train for the unexpected that's what you are and happened and of things that you see and combattere at comprato watch you to by satisified
about the subject go watch you to an wants ye the crazy things that people do outline world and you got to be prepared for all those things in how do you prepare you got to learn
to think it onendin quickly i was talking of one of our guantan your bruises the other day and i into a morass name obviously but he's wore on one of my favorite guys who did that
deployment with us came back in i think it was either as next to pimentade went to afghanistan and did a lot of credible stuff and afghanistan and again i put him through training
for that so i was on a training in it was just great guide stepped up and i i said hey ma'am what was it ad i didn't fight now the neston i said what was you know what was the
difference between what you know you're deponderate where you gotten a bunch of gun fights and got after it compared to what it was like to remote and he said you know that the
biggest difference was he in afghanistan when things are happening there there usually at a distance you know you're in your looking out of a cross a valley you're looking down a
ridge line you're looking you know you you you can observe and you can go to time to think and you can get some conference thing okay i think that's where they are in tacente look
you can pop your head out you could assess at the anytus looked at me he said he an remade you had to make a decision now is saratoga because that that you don't you don't there's
no distance the person is across the street the person is two buildings away and you as a leader or even out a leader as a shooter you've got to make a sirih now the efat the
leaves not goin to say what to do you can agathoclas the street you you not to wait for the leaders dawant do you got a no hat to do you've got to act and and that intensely of
urban combat combat any genesis like wood on when we talk about the cheswardine those guys that's what was so stressful thellusson learn with his adante aeronometer ment these
guys need to be cycle out of the urban comment in virata's the ide threat because tesniere cause the inventress ure having made pisition now they should be psychologians and here
we were on putty out the field for six straight months to toneroe pologize lay fallow gilwaters eyes dam carelove it but so so that a native and that's what these cops are dealing
with that's the police oleron with is they got to get practice and rehearse making his decisions now cushat's what they have to do so now what key do to buy yourself an extra
quarter second and extra half a second well don't stand out in the open creates and distance why are you approaching the person ask your so why what me if i were is this guy's got
a run for me if he's runs was going to happen asociated less threat so you can you can make those decisions iothera piece of this citizen of the america why think we actually need
to teach in high school in night's grade freshman classes i think there needs to be a class called how to get arrested by the police and they tell you what you should do when you
get pulled over by the police or you get told to get down by the police or you get told to get away from the wall by the police you know what you do it do it you do it that's what
you do you show him your hands you get your hands out of your pockets you put your hands in the air and you know what part of that class should be is the students that are going
through the class get to be the cop and get to you immunising get to feel what it's like to know they not know actually do not know when you pull this guy over it is he what's it
going to do to you and i watched the video give day they did a great job somebody succored me in on the internet on you too it was um watch im another horrible police brutalities
as a some kind of title like that and i'm watching it and this this gun natica so carteratic stop in the guescard is being totally compliant and on like oh god i can't believe
this cops going to do anything to this guy can look at this guy he's getting his license like you was asked to i'm like a ii could be all watch case is like another shooting it
was the title another shooting another death because i i always think those sins are horrible watch on watching waiting for this copitolo has gone or see quick moving about his
going on shoot the guy and the guys just being complaint and nice and um reaches in a to grab something craves waller whatever pulled out a gun a shegogue's got shot the coyote
toronto caught me by surprise so when you gadgeting arrested and we need to edge of cake the citizens of america on a howl to get arrested and i think that would be very helpful
instead of protesting the copse for shooting people they should say okay what can we do we tatsutahime of this what can we do as citizens to do a better job of getting arrested
you know the compliant show your hands that is the tanagrians important to understand the pressure that got that police are under and and he just so everybody knows some of those
videos that i watch i know for a horable and the police were at a takin shots that have made me made my stomach turn because they'd been a nightmare the iary describe one of these
on the podcast but that one where i saw the guy with the head forms on an hooden couldn't hear what the cop with saying reached the to his pocket to turn off his eponine copre you
know what was the constantin he was standing out in the wide open eneide open of a seven eleven parking lot so he has no cover no concealment he's yelling at this guy the guy
turns round once thoust off his eye pon whereas listen to music circinate compensators and the call was you know gadou so i onderstand the anger at police when police make bad
shots but less figure out not less let's let we just talk about this let's not be temperamental about it let's not es rage let's that's not consoled with rome what is going to
solve protistic a step back let's analyze what we can do as citizens to desolate all these situations men that good idea at the above let the you know in your high ericapeus cool
but let the citizen no how it feels to be the cop cause really that's all you see cause the copas all this power you know and all this stuff but they don't know i think when they
see that kind of stuff they don't know because because of the hat you motions a gettin voteen they see it so if they understand that's like a to waste street to facilitate that
learning process so when you thomasine elakaten thing thous one of like a normal thing in one of the revelation in fodor to people go through this tarleton and oldest kind of part
of a or culture you know where as a citizen we know were well aware of what copstone and all this stuff because we've been through it and we understand we just told me understand
that would make the whole landscape of covers es sit in or cops working along side with susan's you would stick out like a sore thumb when someone will suspicious the aga of the
wise people would be just yet i know xavas do id be black clockwork routine and and myself i've done zelenin over iraq and i no one if i can walk up the cars it so with those
people are looking like and and so when i when i can pull her butter consistant happened me a lot but you know speed i've got but i for speeding i'm sorry sis circlet you all got
bold over im you know to go to any isitnofrit at yeolo know just just hands a very slow movements i don't really want to make their job as easy as possible and easy as possible
because i know there are stressed you know he's officer how you doing sargon a little fast you don't wouldbe want for me ye mortomley and all that not to men of course they're
going to there on ether going to be pullico make a decision in and and maybe go fer the top or maybe there you know there they lost her cool for some other issue or they or they
got a call on an often he and this is gower's going or talk about his earlier was if they get a call like i saw an arm gyrofish scription someone he's looking for their array
seeing us a threat so he having that you know if you feel like you're not getting and believing this is this is always the commissionate s well ah amabutu a white boys you can get
as you know a blond headed a peal skin guy a i've been mistreated by the beliefs tsorshay it win now when that was happenin i got shells on the ground or little short rilston jane
into my my scollan where i was being a compliant i i didn't lose my cool bookcase wood is that game i i i'm not going to resist a resoom just goin to i'm in i got i got sucked it
up god i can now you know if you are a complaint about my rice can do that you know he was a has been a nuclear iasion girl you liseron guy back in the day but ah ah and i
provider to be rough but if as it was one of the safeties not the time to companion about you you cooperate with the police you want to file a complaint later you can do that yet
and that typically in up to be off i mean agathonides but that typically becomes the best discourse because at the time if the if a copper whoever whoever i used to be a poster so
it's on a way lower level it's kind of the same thing overboots day iciting hometon me out of this the barn futilely but am if if you start taking it right men in there where you
know you are losing a temper or something like that making the the the job difficult like to like you said like that's not going to your not going to recapture your right at that
time like if you think you're right are being violated you're not going to you're not going to get your rights back at that time those the ones artemonium say some worse than that
you have a rocky cop that doesn't know what he's doing that well and he for whatever reason decides he gonna take that shock on off safe right or he decided on to put the finger
on the trigger and now you start geryon and moving and all of a sudden you got an accidental discharge into your head but so it elyata's not real beneficial in it unification
before it gets to that i think about just the person who's going to make the decision to either resist or put up a fight about their rights a you know or this officer being a
porter having a power to or whatever just think about that persons decision making right rather as opposed to were going to let this happen macrocerae folly regardless of your
power trooper regardless of the rights that you violated whatever and then if i believe that my right arvilla ed to pursue it later like that i was an because if you choose to
pursue it right then and there mugenyama work out an you'll ashdown seething about this he doesn't need to be like a high school education finette great but like what can we do in
immediate the the the government the police she'd get together some making videos of saint hey here's a going on here on the copstone's comink and watch this life you know that
plenty of body camps now you can to hear what the constant and here's what like the outsides ting all the white guy up in northern california a little bit ago and he you know they
showed him reaching for reaching behind him after he's being combated walking towards people so it would be cabagos free that frame and say this is what a police officers thinking
right now when you're doing this he thinking does this guy have a gun here's the report that i got her the situation i'm in on that will think about what you are doing and do the
right say if you're getting told to get down yet now throated your hands show your hands and i think we got a start educating we are sort training are alice better they deserve it
we owe that to them so that they know how to work as an individual to use cover as perseus come to move as elements to discover move and then we we put them in the stressful
realistic environments that are changing all the time that they learnt to learn how to think now and then on the civilian side are civilians needs to be educated as well on how to
get arrested how to comply what it feels like to be on the other side yes m and i then like i said i think that does create this kind of this over all understanding of the process
like a mimbers it auto be a bouncer and you know it's like check i d say check ideas and when someone has a faked usually you can tell him there behaviour and i'm not saying i can
tell a gas under any derwater if there be avenoo saying that but if there's some suspicion whatever his behaviors gonates more of the tale you know but there is this kind of
standard standard operating kind of wit when you present your ideas so your idea you be quiet and you just kindsa there sileno at your face the bouncer i'm to sanna's what
typically what people do automatically but when people do other things it sticks up you know so like i said i think like i your saying if there is this understanding i know how it
is to be the copin how to get arrested they'll do that ill create this pattern like i said where when they are acting suspicious it won't be huge just kind of generalisations
little stick out way more exactly dianalike heard that lay next garcon mataika or paynterites is open abubacer cause we used to have a quite a big debate about this in february
back in the day and now jacova me oardom because i grew up in the the metallica black albuminoid jocint even consider real metallica ah he was doing old school right arrived
alighting hillabee for for me if there twenty i sushitna or the annonarian these guys are going to the vietnam war and there there listening to um um crosby stills in nash right
there listening to the grateful dead i mean a large porcupine was were going to war listened to metallica killooleet had areas pretty good i guess say to ah i think pantyreos
metallica and i got to say that ah cowboys from hell is roberts rocks on of alta rogat i'm a i actually i actually really like the early metallica and in i thought that pentegoet
er after that aumeniers vulgarly of porsslanese up and went harder hold your mateward as it is opposed him at altho got softer so dicebat an when i got to feel team one there was
a big staroste in the gym and he had a glass case in front of it they'd tedwell did like a rod into the case where you couldn't open it you you could you couldn't open the case
and it was lockshen the first five to you remember the old days they had the the sidedish gers there was in this is a five disks seachange the first five macallister in there and
they could not be removed in that of you at magyarorszagon a day monster done all right i'd like to hear what you both think regarding the death of buds train ease in the past few
months yet leasowes ben all over the news am ar budges basic on the war demolition seal trennahan is that is the basic seal training program that's a biplane that we all go
through a that a that we graduate from it's a that twenty seven wee programmers ah it's got a seventy eighty per cent of tritonidis why they consider some edomite training in the
world its tough training and a need to be tough orning ah because we expect so to be performed a very eleve on very dangerous battle fields across the glove and a lot of highly
dinnaire situations so we got keepened side one thing that's a misleading is ah there was you know there sangloter three deaths happened in a short peroti you know if you want
back as it buanatti athlow true it wasn't two of those two of the three detectably didn't happen in training and so a people need our senators what were the three death so there
was there was a a one one death actually happened in train there was a death of a student had drowned in the pool i going to an evolution um and ah the instructor you know were
there they try to resuscitate him got him to hospital but they couldn't bring back he was going so that's that is a training death that's that's the one trange the two others that
happened was um a student that quit training dropped he dropped on request as we call it which is again you most of the students had go there this is intembeni head ah in de most
people quit most people quip that the seventy eight per cent of triterite means most of us for walking way so ah the ringing the bell and and and dropping on request which is
unique the program so ah horble situation but to this individual ah the student we hoeppen that was wait heavily on him that he cut his dream go to bas um and on liberty a meaning
meeting he got he quit and then you went out was under supervision any more went in to down down sandie went to hotel jumped off the twenty second floor killed himself which is
horrible which is why we'll do that that was not a training death no even though he is attachement the time and there's certainly i'm sure they are taken some substantial steps
too may be so try to monitor gods ate bit more way can't you can't put you can't what will horrible and tragic and they're going to try to do it takin'est that you can't put
gusinje for six weeks after they git in the e you can't be with him twenty four seven o ah i'm so i think it's hard to hold you'll the sitter responsible or training onresponsible
for for that deventer one that happened was a another guy who had whoaing a student who had quit training while on liberty got a god drain and crashed his car and was gianforte's
i think it was a grim yet well you know what i think you just kind of explain these bars you know want war one of his train get turning guests shooting happen it's alboin happens
he wootees there's been other drownings in the past often times there's some kind of a some kind of a medical issue that the person had i don't know what the results of this guys
all tops a year are but the guy that killed himself this was one thing i found in arresting a tolerant guides one of my buddies at that works over their still i saw pishrogue kill
himself and do look like a star you know he tentacula of pinches of millamont looked like a almost like a professional for torah of a of a guy you know he was using de player and
he was kind to rastadt and i mentioned this to true to my buddy tetontuaga that a man at a look what a start what's going on and my body said a joco there all studs so when i went
through training no one knew about the silts it week there wasn't as big giant you know we didn't have this huge um publicity that we have now and so if you want to go to
selthorir have search out wasn't just goaties weren't going to just land on your horse that you had a figure out and go for it and so there's there wasn't a lot of her you know is
all kinds of knuckled don't through training and he said he said when you looked down the line and you look at you he talked to these kids they're the captain of the team there
the the plash treasure of the high school there their studs and so it's no it's no different with the skin be kit was a stud and i i think and in actually reading some articles
about him he is this was his life longer he had told everybody i'm going to be a seal ominous elonna be a seal and i think he quit on winds day or say in dodonian know when he
quit but he quit on all week and since he told everybody that the he's going to do you know that would sap the stress was too much to bear to go back to everybody and say he added
make it and i sat alone to be clear man that these are horrible it's horrible at sousoulito young men who was fired to be seals and whether they're killed an auto accident ah you
know dragon driving or not i or you know a suicide this is hard and we won't try to prevent that on sure i i know that the artressi is doing everything they can try to mittau
again you can't lock these guys up they are you can't be at some point they have to be released to be on liberty that they eat we can't be with him twenty four seven so you know
you can count argue you can talk to folks and what's a shame about you know the the ah the the suicide is a midsommer guides we serve with godlike morally and might want to or
both had wit buds rang out a got some maturity went to the fleet in a work hard to get ready to come back came back knocked that turning out of the park and look gronau so it is
so that's just that that's a horrible trashy definitely at but i think what's important oonderstand is your for the actual training death this stuff is there's a lot of
proticipate it's very it's very what when i was instructed disonesti isalle you don't know lay for as in instructor at but i was never instructed at buds belave work there you
worked till weeks i did and so would you don't realize when you're going through as the student it just seems like me him his guys are you know put you valesii these difficult
things well it's very controls it's very controlled and there's the you know there am there's a lot of supervision and there's a lot of different safety checks and medical check
and all those sangster happen all the time ah that are going on behind the scenes of the students don't even realize so um you know it doesn't mean every instructor always behaved
away the ship a most was gaseosa professionals there is there are levels of leadership that are there to ah insure that they they perform the folwell do withey should do and in
almost every case that you know that's the case of those ashantee or donnot standing i think the the the important thing here too is the understand that those standards have got
to be high and and their people lotoides to seal teams we've had a lot of pressure on the trional rly with the push to open up all a special operations to an infantry units too to
women this is this is unifiers ration and ah i are secretary the navy ray may possess men all over this and an imposing that and wants to see on the graduate from the silencing
that's pretty he's pretty open about that and so ah um this is i think the danger here in the concern i have is that tell you something like this but politicians who don't know
what what a god what makes a good seal you know they they liked they like the like o think they do but they don't they have no idea what they hodgson they don't understand how
it's difficult combats you know people as is sometimes jackeroo questions like till i egolator we don't talk about mons seever body went on businesses and and listen bud is a
kickin the nuts if it is a good training program ah there's some stuff as hard certainly other some stuff that one is hard as i thought was to was going to be or should have been
but turn a utiangue gallegan and difficult in but it's a string process and it did to to weed out the guys that we don't believe how the characteristic ere one and it will then
mister seet on about of the lot of that is just to will to succeed to so imperieuse really difficult challenges it is critical at those standards are maniacs combat is so much
hard physically harder than draineth rodya you said attorney we find that they have to will there is also a level of physical toughness that you have to have it there just this
and and where as if it ileoumai about the actual ability to your for your body to withstand were in para and that's one keep on oyouki the eighty percent attrition rate not all
those people are people that quit people that can't stand the cold thing physically can't handle the cold to people that physically can't handle the the stress on your shoulders
on your neck on your back on your knees on your ankles etesiai arcarnanian article as read by two female marines that war in afghanistan that i kind o come put out of outpost
where they were for all practical purposes along side the man marines in a field and vironment and they both wrote said women should not be doing us and by the way they were both
they were both really awesome marines who had been like a cocoateria athletes they were they were stuffs and they desiderate didn't have our bodies didn't hold up as one of the
many things you know you do said i when your combats not it's not in not a sport you don't get the gold to the training room afterwards and get an ice bath in a massage you don't
and if something happens they don't blow the west and come out on the field and let the train or one on you and then pull you off and put a subsitute but don't happen on the
battle for you at neroweg classes either yet there's no weight classes for sure it's some so ye they they need to maintain the standards and they need to make hindhead i think we
we cannot allow that to slip and i gossiper to do in their utmost to make sure that that happens the other thing people need understand too when you're student on to this at for
men as is my dream and guess what when every time i'm going to medaea check your our hell week which they do you know ever every day you're you're getting shacked every morning in
their taking your temperature in there you know there there tentage your esplandian sure that death you don't have to monaro you won't have some other you know ah dangerous
physical a medical condition um your sweated out your sweat it out because you know you i'm not going to quit this training but what if something i can't control habits would if i
get in the moniet fled my lungs what if i get sick or something happens or is some infection on my leg right breaking me on my ankle i mean the thing happened agustin you end up
you can get rolled out of training may be it's just compositions at your doing your utmost to make it through his medical checks and people in onerstand that the the students or
trying to get under the radarman make it happen and will often push their injuries amesa friend of ours made all the way through his hell week with a broken ankle you running on
it i just when gottesdienst ob he was being togoyama yale that we want to stilts i but but on the other hand instructor state has a difficult job because they have to make sure
that those guys are hurting themselves and i actually talked to hieta to some pokeshawit go in with titania is so medical condition that they you know they weren't yet they were
failing their navy physical is avery difficult physical exam yet totae you know medical exam and ah the said you know what a i just need a water for this and you know they just
give me this and and i i i had to inextenuable when they told me that is it listen there was wavers are there to protect you they are there to protect you to make sure that you
don't get killed in training or an and the protective team that you know what will be relying on you and your carriage piece of ear and or covering moving that you don't go down
so we your coverings exactly so you know it's not about you it's about the mission and and so you know unfortunately this is when you're talking about these these unity just not
everybody can derivate that listen out of a play highschool as a lame back in full back i'm five ten you know two hundred pounds ah i'll i'll i would have loved to play in the
inevit big enough or strong enough or fast enough to play in the invasion the the inflames are not going to benefit the i'm playing a back erful back on their teams they're going
to be weaker dare not going to be as good a son ah that's just a reality that rap we got to keep us standardization pressure oh i think is is a very dangerous thing and an all
oakes for you know we've we were lucky we have some great leaders better leading that training that are going to keep those tanderini's and how important that is unfortunate i it
takes one weekly you know to go to go in there and now ah folds fold to the political pressure and as standards drive and the world is he that darkness continues to spread
particularly with that that conversation that we open this with as darkness spreads who have to world we need our seal teams and special operators and empetre uniter at the
highest level possible to go and in beathach wood and destroyed that enemy indeed speaking of destroying the enemy next question is how do you deal with rules of engagement are
they necessary if they inhabit you this is a question we had all the time and people want to talk about rules an engagement you know at every one there's always complete caticom
back of the bouillotte sustained and these are different wars or fighting these are counter and service war and oftentimes people use the term to villian casualties ah in a way of
that i that you know they're talking about innocent of billions but what they don't realise there that every one refiting is sagila none of them are uniformed members of of
unapposite watery they blend in the populous they act like their normal people they hide amongst the people off sometimes used them as human shields and then their shooting at you
and during our pigs are rare but shame on tetuan they maestis a very changing environment um but the rose gagement really don't change in the russian are pretty clear and ah there
you observe of a hostile act bad gissing at your shooting at frondless hostile intent meaning that and that's work becomes a little more grey arose okay was this was that person
acting in a manner that at a reasonable certainty and so ah it's it's a judgment cold up to a oftentime that fell in and does resent don't change their in her always the same i
think what changes is only the iseter leaders changed and their some leaders that are willing to delicate that down to the lowest level troopers trust in their guides trained them
make it make them understand oh just how important it is to make sure ah you know that that ah that there offered it within that rosignano know not a accidently engaging some
innocent person and causidicade damage that it may do so ah and there some readers that won't tell agatha and keep it tight and and one really scrutinized osorkon the coal i think
a best way of foros w this was exenterated anterstond how you our troops are put in a tough position because we know that anything we do in to day's world with social media with
news you know new cycles could be absolute frontage headline nose ah intinerary and and those can have massive catiat on on the entire re you know s strategetic a mission so this
is ah this is something we have to deal with regularly and an if a guy thought i know he ethothia some one digging in the road and there were no de layer and and he decided to
pull the trigger on on some one he thought was idolater and it turns out if not we can investigate that we a becomes a big deal and ed that shooter or art ussurie men who do
gordian who engaged a is potentially looking at going to prison for a informing like that too it's a big deal if they bilateral engagement one of the ways that a joadai job of
this and and you know one of our four principles or laws of combat that we talk about is simple and one of the ways that he did this for as was you all this lawyer speed go
horison certain postal ten and all these things he would stand up before he rolled out the gate every time every sing operation and say if you have to pull the trigger you better
make sure the guy you're killing is bad simple every one understood that and it we had total fatatus in our guys to do that and i'm so proud of that at that day were able to
execute with tremendous discipline and an minimising it in a way that other units couldn't you know it in the way we did that so am i think a rule him engagement or necessary
people have to understand them and it's really whether not a installing a down is entirely up to a leader yet you can see the yoke to the situation that led up to me lie which we
did a couple poncas go that the rule of a gagement were that the weight that they were brief they wasn't he mate people that your killing a bad it was every one in this area
hostile everyone has been warned if there that to leave so every one you see is either vicon or beacon stant pizer killed them and there's some scrutiny about whether they had
killed them or not because that cast that was a pretty simple carasage but you know the difference in that the way of the rules we gave me or brief or definitely a a a a cause one
of the causes for the meliaceae in its sawrul situation rules of engagement all right next question probably pretty quick but how often would guide take shots in their body or
little helmet all the time this happen all the time and not when we were in that urban combat in all its sustained combat day after day after day both felt for us and charted it
in and in in our arrogance to dealt to the end it was offered on the other side a city it was just did this happened regularly on the we had guy ah you who all betrothal back you
know and then you know the calabash out there is a water lad around the back you were the back pack and got the well house to you can you can drink water on one on the move guys
no no water is back back realized later round with through it on her you talking inches away you know from his back we had some mouthful guy shot in the plates of front plate back
plate had got at one of our guy peinture roof top hornig gun fight and take take to all of a sudden call it fell like some o punchiana and acompanado below the roof and kataginu
wonder what's happened takes off his hellish helmet raises men shot in his night vision mount a which meant that that round came in directly you know it at his face had hid his
hit is nigher mount of rick'sha up had it hit just you know millimeters lower iterating his head off so that happened all the time and ananias joking you were this many times i
will wet we put on that on up park or homes i walk in the delstanche kim a jack on it now you know what what we what happened out there i would going on you know what's what's
happening you know ah now you other other of when you get reloaded for things that think about walking as offsetting first thing i will genya it was god is a frog man god to
frohman's looking out for us i don't know how we made one of that with a losing guys or you know this was so many close calls ah and it was just so a constant thing all the time
where your body armor where are you mtyelle on always had gas on her and you do you talk about this apaches before but my first appointment we would have guns that would wear body
armour that was like like six sections by six minestrone little body armour nobody at an end in remodeling those kind of gun fights every osiander place that's a thiebout's
weren't caught their hemerocalis before we got there after we got there so no monogamy own up i i somebody or a gonoessa some of the argues they would have the full they look like
almost like night scratch for daddratted the callers the arms leaves the side safety they were a cover of good on him cause they were a you know taking real rest out there so you
you know joy medicines on her who we had a little conversation about body erminated now and expect to be in a certain spot they weren't there and that body or her homotones
sitters did i wish that would add so where your body on the weemen all the time next one late be true epeian your father's work here in texas would you ever consider career
politics who pesita there's a just a servitor stand sat my dad is a a a u scores men now i he's a freshman he was congressman from a texas district thirty six and salesas and a
avery proud he retired after a career as a as a small town dennistoun business a salipartiano army and are for army army and air force better and now he was fed up with washington
and didn't like the options that he saw a etheke who going to be running for that seat and he said you know what i'm doing my hat the ring i gonna go there i'm trying to make a
difference and i we need more people like that in washington dad if my dad is there time make a difference and only to make it a yucara out a career in a care about ben there for
decades and decades and decades you know he's a hesertate and he rather fishing and you know the strangite would but a year of it your country cares about the country and he was
sacrificing to be there of an calianum damn proud of the job that he's doing unstuffing what i consider a career politics ah i can't imagine it sing to be more miserable than that
though you know what on the other hand when i look at our nation just as my dad he adainst i'll call to do that to step up to lead you know if a we don't do it who's going to do
it so somebody has got to step off somebody's got to lead in a thing when you look at the direction of our country right now and he put the the political climate and in all this
going on in annesley cle ah would i do that maybe i just might be able to be talked into it ah well we shall see what about you jocko get some weapon the we got we got the
boberchie sprague to a colony at go curnihan i would be running as if i was to run for political office i would run as a dictator and is a premure of of america and that's what
i've done i do leave where can bring back ome roman rule shichimen at me you nachoak take over i'll know if i have the stomach for politics i i really don't like the political
renato much and not sure something i would ever ever have the desire to do you know i guess datnia's where i said maybe when i was seventy years old um ye people people tasmetu
know like e you were present who will would you do you know we boutecon with the raw you know in their development of necare weapons or china getting you know it making big move
in the south china sea or rush pushing the envelope and a hand and a kind of fomenter noses as an offer of told metif i repress that i would immediately anomite jackall in
icecream to fit we would change secretary to fester the previous title secretary of war and uh i think those problem as would would disappear mediately um i think it if i was
president ere'd be very smyetany would be pretty simple my policy would be kicks atawina organ equitare economic plan jocko kick as a whit your a wiolution over here in the middle
east oh there oh yaharigans forty a kick as he what about the drug problem an we got comminations oh that the drug carteloise all that so that that's my ballylee it said this wi
probably wouldn't be the best all tisane kind like beat the empty yessum it next question can't you give us details of the master loosed know where do in event in san diego
california lay batheian you know what echochee may be good to be there as a side line he's going to be signing the siren cutting hideous and ah what you in avet october twenty one
youneverse first and what it is it is a deep died in the combat leadership what come at leashes all about how to apply combat leadership to your business to your life powie out
there lead and win the reason were doing this is as you know waternomee doing this his gig for past five years working with a bunch diffeeculties we wrote the book stream
ownership it's very popular and we got a lot of request and we've you know we we we usen't a lot of demand people want come a work with a bunch different companies with canalways
do it we've actually had a raise our prices to what we could kind of slow down a little bit slow down the demand but when we're doing that it means worout lot of people out you
know and i'm a alaman that a people they now on sport to work to man so how can we get something where were regele can come maybe they don't have maybe the company isn't support
bringing us out of stokeses to come out well have it you sent you or three to critical leaders out there we spend a day and a half giddep walking or if through the things that
we've learned go and face to face with people in explaining explaining things to them how to do with it i this is not one of the things is not going to be this is not going to be
a a field good seminar this is going to be hay were here to pump you up and that that's not what we're doing here here to educate her or talk about the ship organette s goin t be
great to have a bunch people in learchus then we can talk to the welcoming that we can learn from situations at they been in you know we get we wore i put out that you come back
on a poast got hundreds and hundreds questions i get thousands of questions i have all the pot clean the pot cask question bank deadeight two pages long eighty two pages worth a
question for i have renounced i'm at a answering five or six questions upon cast so let's get people that want to come out an to get face to face with water i and learn about
leadership learned what we've learned and how to fly a business life that's what that's what we're do with the muster is it for an assent this this is not too in wernerian to take
this from city to city to city a city this is a we're goin to have one muster this is an annual of that you may be at some what will expand ogillon west coast one he's got that's
that's a maybe you know right now we're going to do it were goin to do one a one muster annual of it and missus fur leaders whether you're whether you're a leader or follower any
one who wants to better themselves to dive deep into these issues of leadership of team work of extreme ownership of the laws of combat and how to apply them this is for you it
come the san diego joined us were looking forward to divinenesses helping you saw some challenges the lead and win boom come out to the master there's a there's a wet there's a
website for it and we'll treat it out go ashanghran do come you can find it on there that's all company so even to jack that out will look forward to you a a people that won't
come out come and get some now the reason that lay was out here with me ranzani go was for a serious of a vent to commemorate the teneraire of august second two thousand six which
is the day that mark alone who was the first seal killed my rack was killed in remote and also the day where riego otherwise known as big as with gravely wounded shot in the face
in the wounds that it ultimately led to his death as well this particular events were focused on one mark in innate to support a charity organization that is mum runs callemacho's
mighty warriors and at one of those events i was a honour to give a speech from my perspective on mark and herdis ten years ten years is a long time a decade and in many ways it
seems so far in the past in some ways it doesn't seem so far away at all it isn't hard to remember being deployed in remonia in the summer of two thousand and six ten yes
sometimes that seems like a distant place a long time ago and yet sometimes it feels like we were just there yesterday the sweltering heat the dust the danger the crystal clear
focus on our mission when we had but one purpose in our lives to close with and destroy an evil enemy bent on the string us and our way of life and it doesn't take much for the
mind to return there to regain that mind set to get into the combat mode and remember remember the operations out in the city remember the tracer round in the night sky explosion
shaking the earth the weight of body armor and weapons and gear on our shoulders remember the stress and the violence and the sweat and the blood and remember the evil the pure
evil that infected the city and committed savage vile and disgusting act of mortal sin murder rape and torture hinside that dark world old ripped apart by war a world were
sometimes humanity seemed all but lost that is where we got to see and experience the polar opposite the counter to all that darkness against that back drop of evil we young men
we band of brothers we got to witness light and life and love so strong that it makes the darkness feed and make the evil cowerin hide its wretched face evil boughs down when it
sees the bond we develop with a soldiers and marines we fought alongside evil cannot contest the bond we formed with our brother seals with whom we become so close that there is
no stronger force in the world nothing more powerful nothing more meaning for the knowing that these men these for men that we would do anything for each other we saw powerful
acts of heroism and courage haredales daily basis which re assured us solemnly that good would triumph over evil and amongst all that glory there were a few men the true heroes
the ones that rose above the rest of us to symbolize and personify courage and faith and selflessness and love mark allen lee was one of those rare men one of those heroes one the
few men my life that i literally described as a tint that is who mark was a mighty warrior whose ferocity and combat was perfectly balanced by faith and humour and compassion a
man that left his mark on every one that he met a mark of happiness and positivity hand of humility and of joy a man whose love for his family and friends was so unbounded as so
limitless that you could actually feel it emanating from his heart and now he has left his mark on the world marlena allen lee when faced with fear who else could bring a smile
when faced with sadness who else could bring laughter when faced with hate who else could bring love and when faced with death who else could i stand and say take me lord not my
brothers i will be there shield now from death take me they let them live on and that is what mark did full of dean anrgy can courage and humour and full of love he stood he stood
against evil any stood against death and he gave his life for his brothers and for our freedom on augusion two thousand and six in our remade iraq ten years ago ten years ago and
in those ten years think of all that has happened in all i beg aventine marriages gildren born birthdays new houses new jobs new careers and small events a morning surfeit lunch
with your buddies a weekend in the mountains a cold i t on a hatson's smile alas life joy happiness and they have re moment of that happiness is a gift a gift a gift given to us
by mark who sacrificed everything for us who gave up his own precious smile so we could all have ours now i can tell you without a shred of doubt that all this day to day mark
would not want to your she would not want sadness he would not want sorrow he would want smiles and laughter and joy because that was his gift to us every smile every laugh every
one of life and love is all a dis from a warrior friend a comedian a son a brother i here a tint and what do we owe mark for mark each and every one of us must relish the gift
that he gave to us and cherished each in every day while remembering the incredible man that gave us this gift of life and to the seals that are listening the frog men you owe
markowefe brothers the grave commitment to carry the fire pooled the torch and hold it high to take the fight to the enemy every chance you get without mercy and without remorse
until they are vanquished and there is peace thank you mark well you will never forget you god bless marks family god bless the teams god bless america and god bless mark allen
lee when i think that's all we've got for the night in a infacetus out there that's listening thank you for remembering and that's one of the things that we do hear remember our
once an lay for coming on we been we been tied into so many things and you are pointing it out to my other day late we tadense many different things and so many far reaching
stories that we men a part of and i thank you for coming on here and help him sir some of these stories with with me for every one to hear so sramanera can member at those you are
out there and you want to keep listening and you want to keep remembering echo o can they support the similiter red cluster red star cluster there yet thanks for coming on like um
an rameau we didn't talk much about working out for you know that kind of stuff but if you're in to supplement even if you're not in to supplement my opinion got on a dot com
lashed jacolot on it summon that i'll get life and temper sent off so we set him at a bunch of times but i can't i kind o can't say enough really is far the benefits it put you
head for sure so ye get ten person of that um if you want to support look the amazon situation the one where you go to the website click on the amazon linen all before you do your
shopping oh that's a good way to do it if you have bartimee bering we have the trooper tool which is good drady yet ready both came through hanoum it's a thing you go there's a
lancinated is called the troop etolian it it takes you to the page you quick coat you say yes that's it it puts a little thing for it automatically oh directed to the amazon at de
it add the affiliate link so you please support the paces of you don't have to go through the website anymore that's a good un um yes subscribed to the pot gaston i tones and a
good one and where you there's other places in scriptoe sure you too google goguelat by the way he and stitch or two in a junto that i too i think is the main one but a man
stitches got as well colleetion there oh so yes and goito gentle i'll senore lease a video to day was like a a outake or whatever but what your protesting as to have to fire at a
anasticia with other stuff all posted to night and me good on three asticot what is it all take video yes like blondes titidius you amaze me the rasponis is it i believe in
decentralized man right that kenites that rather an anyonesoever but now stored with the may possible trust in every allorqui thrust in one your yet what of mother brother
achochre i haven't seen it so the cite an authorized out takes ye so here and were we even into this old thing so there's one and undisguise tummed where else telling you about my
my children's book idea ocyor gonawak no eats a good idea okay an that was the fish in the water i actually remember right hansine right i'm okay with allies so i was lookin sir
that he might and of you know a rendition of men now seeing we are of the world yes yes we nogeot think we have record we don't want it we don't want that on the internet i have
it on my winlaton will look in head phones on and the mind front of us were standing here looking each other and i felt very much like if you were alive during the eighties he had
that we are the world video and in for some reason that just hit us both at the same time we lost it is the out wheat a world marcellinus was proud for sure in and out so it the
you to be as i told you has last time achoemenian he's not you know compensates the lad back guy and so we need it motivate him and he but he is excuse was well now that the most
scribendo hasn't tell it you streamers i shouldn't ask that minute i metadata the thing and so cling nothing it to technical it's not only motivation any incentive alliterative
onchan to get into a big thing yes yes i don't want to be the also ah such a tiny for the john jocasta a good one you know get a sure if you like those um an a bumper sticker
cannot whatever if ye if ye like those i forgot about the tea shirts and the store but jocasta an that's a little but if you like like em yet if you don't like this don't get them
seahorse a lot of us on to you you yet as reckoning that but i'll tell you i i she we just say to stop asking us for like a donation base no we shouldn't hit a oka but and was it
to naselton patriotisme where i goin to do it ye probably nothing oonoothi you want to and you can donationes he can that's good let's cool it is cool to see those cones like fort
thirty four o ye as i say that's the cool festologies do tell the dona four dollars and thirty four cents a month yet keep him off pingaree and and we pietatis you by the way i
sleep up oration i'm on it right now because latini were out late last night and we were up very early this morning at the to work out and then go serving at right we were all
rise will work and play all her this jug is the flitting of a tosa boutigo you angry you don't you ah assassinate the ways the good and then i also if you want it i believe it not
this guy said in eat me la babin i know he and i might not look like the smartest people in the world and we might actually not be this more people north but we did write a book
people people look at the end probably to get can't spell my nearly or remich less right along it but do we get right a book ah the bushytail and you know if your understood in if
you are interested in the book if you re understand in the concept a jacatala's about the self that we just talked about it we are about it an episode eleven a jacopone ah give
the book and diving to that stuff do talk about three mars ship talk about the laws of combat and how they apply will use a combats neros and talk about the principle and we talk
about how it apply to different businesses in organization that we work with over the years it so suited our mission was the right a book that could be useful for leaders as a
reference and i a good read that he that people can conge into and have some exciting stores that that are pickabit but also is a useful reference for a for leaders to highlight
underline tab were fur to regularly you dan yer pages and in at a weaver see that kind of feedback of people post an messages on on social mediaval their their books in the dog
your pages in the tags on the high lights and the feetache has been tremendous and and ah if we done that and in accomplish that for those leaders as as that useful refers it is
helped them be better leaders better followers better team members a composer mission when than we succeeded in our mission i the will fire me up to all i love to a lessee what
people are like um there shone a big case they i prospectuses of the books that i do on the poast and they're all there all notes there all that stuff because i'm getting ready i
i i beat and so people do that to a bucking wild like i said that awesome and we love signing books that have maslova the other cool thing there's two other cooings there
cannelated one of them is when people sent a picture of a stack of books and their like issuing these my pens to day or get a gittin on that log and nearer something else that
happens at the little it it might be more awesome it might be the same also but as definitely awesome and that's when they're when they're giving the book to their boss i look
thegither as a as a man to rehearse you the day in a kanhagi this book to my boss and i i think lay froeken long wide hat it's it's a great iterate thing to give to your boss and
when you do it see a man i look you know you want to say you you weedeen you don't want to do is say you need to give some extreme ownership so i'm giving this to you as i hint no
what you say is oh i got so much out of his book and i would turn you i looked forward to applying what i learned i just want it you see a change not to do on one you know where
it's coming from you something like that the tactical indecently enough i ironically looking at some one a saying you need extreme overshot it is not extreme ownership right cause
he's remorseful you and you got to control that relative you got billed apelachian fell like the boss a neilsons an you got on that there and you get a lead up the chanced which
is one that chaperon's call to you now wear out your obvious in is weak and for we saw a lot of our of our seal bodies and the eight enterest as having a conversation with fingers
three or four of us santacroce but they were talking about the book and you know it's the guise that were junior do at the time and let now they're saying a otones awesome but i'm
getting wout of it and the guys that are seen or to us with the i wish i would add this block and elise i do too you know i do to our wish i would have i spoke i mean it's just
like a little step up did just now and be all the readin kit just gives you that insight and so you talsonian ah appreciate that prosition given us at the desolate back collar and
you got nything else life that's all i get out they ran me on got to be only to get again always a looking forward the next time achochre clothing comments point of how plain
leave does so like that man that's all if taxes batman medeas lap that men lived babiole never heard that i never heard that until now the audio book minever heard of axes babaojo
on ahuwora the audio book drineachain available so we retire imitation out a generator came to jones said dan might not that be reresolves and ah that's the first time i started
hearing that people like you sound like ticks as bad man helena man like what are you talking to about you you go i don't even aywaille i marplay or you say oh hang it all in that
man and you'll you don't want one too many immediate action drops over the years i geirstein out on the man's it are made me was when i lost my coolies unless love your voice out
all some well as always if anybody out there wants to continue the conversation were all up on the inner webs to water the face book in sagram echo is at echo charles lay it at
laban and i am at jaca willing and to all those folks out there in uniform those in the military on the front lines in the war against evil those police all the thin blue line
fighting criminals and terror here at home and the fire fighters that run towards the danger to protect us in our homes than he you all for everything that you do and he rested
the troopers out there in the world moving forward stepping up taking charge in business an education health care buying selling building creating making the most of this guest
thanks for listening venison the word and thanks for grabbing life by the horns going out there aggressively every day and getting after it so until next time missus lake echo and
jack out
