this is jacopo cast number thirty five with echo charles and me jackwell good evening i go to evening weeper was ahead when he and born
reached the gap in the wire star shell after star shell was going up now and the whole line had woken up machine guns were talking but
there was one that would not talk the rattle of musketry continued but the mist was kindly to them it had thickened again has it got beyond
the trembling clutching wire born saw weeper a couple of paces ahead of him and what he thought with the last of their party disappearing
into the mist about twenty yards away he was glad to be clear of the wire another star shell went up and they both froze into stillness
under its glare then they moved again hurrying for all they were worth born felt the sense of triumph and escape thrill in him any way the
hun couldn't see him now something kicked him in the upper part of the chest rending its way through him and his agonized cry was scarcely
audible in the rush of blood from his mouth as he collapsed and fell we perturbed his head over his shoulder listened stopped and went back
he found born trying to lift himself and borne spoke gasping suffocating go on i'm scuppered i'll not leave thee said whipper said weeper
he stood and lifted the other in his huge ungainly arms carrying him as tenderly as though he were a child born struggled wearily to speak
and the blood filling his mouth prevented him sometimes his head fell on weeper shoulder that last barely articulate a few words came home
finished lemme in peace for god's sake you can't i'll not leave thee said weeper and inferior rage he felt born stretch himself in a
convulsive shudder and relax becoming suddenly heavier in his arms he struggled on stumbling over the shell plowed ground hog that
fantastic mist which moved like an army of rats hurrying away from him then he stopped and taking the body by the waist with his left arm
flung it over his shoulder steadying it with his right he could see their wire now and presently he was challenged and replied he found the
way through the wire and staggered into the trench with his burden then he turned down the short stretch to monk trunch trunch and came on
the rest of the party outside a companies dug out i've a brought him back he cried desperately and collapsed with the body on the duck
boards in that is from a book called the middle parts of fortune which is written by a gate guinane frederick manning who served with the
king's shropshire light infantry in world war one he served with a seventh battalion at the battle of the somme and after the war he became
a rider and the book which is actually a novel but based on his experiences was published as being written by private one nine zero two two
or gorily published and then after his death he finally received credit for writing it then i say it's it's a very powerful book than one
to start with that exert from world war one because it is the most shining in my mind and most horrific example of a trition warfare the
most twenty million killed usually over a few hundred yards to trench and i can't i can't stand that the titian warfare is a strategy in
which one side tries to grind down and were down the other side and they break when they no longer have the men the soldiers the people the
humans or the supplies to keep it going in its brutal and it also gives no real advantage to intact to than to tactical prowess on the
battle field and i don't like it study opposite of attrition warfare is maneuverability to to night the book is the manoeuvre warfare hand
book but as we talk about it think about it not just being about war and about combat but about how a titian warfare and manoeuvre warfare
can be easily seen in the way that we lead in a and also in the way we interact with other people with a wahuma which it was leaving it and
so here we gone into this book right here manoeuvrer for him buck it's written by william s lyndaine get tom in a minute here we go with
the book i served over thirty one years active duty with the marine corps sarcomata both korean vietnam and attended service growls from
the basic school to the national war college yet only toward the end of my military career did i realize how then ali really understood the
art of war even as a pass in korea after being men of action with most of my petonar a fruitless front of assault against a perior north
korean forces it seemed time there had to be a better way to wage war seventeen years later commanding a back italian a case song i was
resolved that none of my room marines would die for lack of superior combat power but we were still relying on the concentration of
superior fire power to wind essentially still practising grants a trition warfare and we were still doing frontals that opening right there
is a connegan s stuck a rincon obviously and he just kind explained his his his career path servant corean vietnam and he goes on the offer
of this books or he's doing a forward to this book moveover the author of this book has never served a day of active military duty and he
has never been shot at although there are no doubt some seer officers would like to remedy that later latter deficiency so he's a little
bit unpopular gathereth book with some with some people yet he demonstrates in amazing understanding of the art of war as have only a small
handful of military thinkers i have come across in my career tiresia this guy william william s lind energetical son william as land and
howe how he came into contact with him back to the book when i first heard bill line speak i must confess i resented a mere sevillian
expressing criticism of the way or beloved cord did things after all he was not one of us he had not shed blood with us in battle he was
not a brother and i had strong suspicions that he would have difficulty passing the paft meaning the fistical testifyin this tottie wit a
land not not exactly a high level athlete but what he said made sense for the first time i was personally hearing someone advocate
unapproached of war that was based on intellectual innovation rather than sheer material superiority mission type orders surfaces and gaps
fare punkinhead of the rigid formulas and cheques that we normally associated with our training and doctrine it was a stimulating
experience through lines articulation years of my own reading of military history began to make a lot more sense but why all this from a
civilian instead of a professional soldier in fact the entire movement for for military reform is driven largely by civilian intellectuals
not military officers one notable exception being retired air force colonel john boyd when you think about it this is not surprising we
have never institutionalized a system that encourages innovative ideas or cry or criticism from suvorin so there you that it's the military
you will what do you say to your will you said your spiritalia i don't think that's a good plan no what they're told to do is support the
plan proposing significant change is view frequently viewed as criticism of superiors since they are responsible for the way things are and
borders on disloyalty if not insubordination so is not surprising that the movement for form comes from outside the military stablishment
he goes on to say b h lee ladehors which bedell hart was a guide that um thought wardrobe the fontoreen battle the somdet hit three times a
eventually it was gas set out a line and almost his entire battalion was wiped out in this guy eventually wrote a book called strategy and
indirect approach and an interesting i pulled up one quote from him um often the longest way round is the shortest way there this is the
indirect approach so anyways back to the book here in what beastlier said b o a harlot remark that the only thing harder than getting a new
idea into the military mind is to get an old one out the nineteen twenty five when he was expounding such a terral theories as the indirect
approach the american general service schools review of current military literature dismissed one of libellers major works as negative
value to the instructors at these schools i expect marine corscastle eive this publication with similar enthusiasm but i cannot believe a
professional military officer would not benefit by reading it so that's it if you did to catch this set up of this book he said epics
different one what we've been taught this is different and in by the way this is bolonchen the day right now this came out in nineteen
eighty five so there has been progress in this direction since then but at the time that this came out it was just it was viewed as almost
in subordination to think this way so let's jump into it right here with the theory of manoeuverer said our getting to lend himself riding
but never warfare is not new it probably dates from the first time a cave man surprised an enemy from behind instead of meeting him club a
club sometimes the word maneuver is used as a sin synonym for movement such such as in references to fire and manoeuvre in small unitatis
so's you you know we have him in the book of thermoscope move and and that's what we're talking about wetamoe he said fine maneuver as the
same use of the word manoeuvre move maneuver is organized movement of troops during combat operations to a new access and region for the
purpose of taking in an advantageous position relative to the enemy in order to do deliver a decisive strike so that that sort of the
classical definition but when used in the phrase manoeuvre warfare manoeuvres much more only recently as some one suggested a convincing
answer of of what mouvemens that man is a retired air force colonel infidele named john boyd colonel boy's development of the fury of
manoeuvrer began not with ground battles but with a study of some mock air to air combat exercises conducted at nellore space nineteen
seventy four that led him back to the study of air no air combat during the corean war american a eaters were very successful that conflict
they achieved a ten to one kill ratio over their north corean and chinese opponents colonel boyd began his study with the question how and
why did we do so well he noted in several tradition he noted that in several traditional measures of aircraft performance the principal
communist fiddle made fifteen was superior to the american effaict so you i think a americanos have the best italy not true so and and boyd
will enough doing boy were here quite a bit of outer right now but this guy was a sort of a strategic genius in the air force and a bunch
of people into an ernie and social need of always been taking gotteborg got to be void in the hand i know i got a new boy at some point and
this is so lagoon introduction a boy so here's that here's the difference between the made fifteen and the american as eighty six the make
fifteen i could climb and accelerate faster and it had better sustained turn rake but in two less obvious measures of aircraft performance
the fed eighty six was much superior to the make first the pilot could see out much be better the fatigable canopy gave its pilot very good
outward vision while the mids fared fared canopy made it difficult to see out second the fate side had a high powered and highly effective
hydraulic controls and the mid did not this mean that while the big could do many individual actions including turn clim in accelerate
better than the feds the afafit could transition from one action to another much more quickly than the men it was better in the transition
so froggies tact that scramble you start that scramble the the affair of better scrambler musing these two superiorities the american
pilots developed attack opproached that force the man into a series of actions each each time the action changed the affair gained time
advantage because the fesait could seem more quickly how the situation had changed and he could also make his air craft shift more quickly
to a new action so he could see with happing faster then once he sees it which he saw faster now he can make his adjustment faster with
each change the mags actions became more in appropriate until they were so impenetrates that the mad gave the fidessa good firing
opportunity often it appeared the magpie realized what was happening to him and panicked which made the american pilot's job all the easier
later colonel boyd began studying ground combat to see if there were any situation similar to that he had found in the air of war over
korea he found that embattled campaigns in wars like vicksburg and france a similar thing seemed to have happened one side it presented the
other with a sudden unexpected change or a series of such changes to which it could not adjust in a timely mare as a result it was defeated
and it was generally defeated at small cost of the victor often the losing side had been physically stronger than the winter just like the
make fifteen was was physically faster it it did matter and often the same sort of panic and paralysis the north corentin's pilots had
shown seemed to occur colonel boyd asked himself what did all these cases have ancommon his answer was what is now called the boy theory
which is the theory of manoeuvrer the briefing colney gives to explain his theory patterns of conflict takes over five hours so his own so
current boy does give this brief and it takes over five hours or he did when he was in lines alive but at the cost of missing some of the
subtleties and supporting a stoical evidence in the briefing i can be summarized as falls or hears a kind of a synopsis of the boy theory
that a line is going to put together for it right now back to the book conflict can be seen as time competitive observation orientation
decision action cycles each party to a conflict begins by observing he observes himself his physical surroundings and his enemy on the
basis of his obiter at observation he oriented that is to say he makes a mental image or snap shot of the situation on the basis of this
orientation he makes a decision he puts the decision into effect i he act then because he assumes his actions changed the situation he
observes again and starts the process of new his actions follow a cycle sometimes called the boy cycle or odilon odes o o d a a atomer
orient beside an act if one side in a conflict can consistently go through the boysy faster than the other it gains a tremendous
exactamente by the time the slower side axe the faster side is doing something different from what he observed and his action is
inappropriate with each cycle the slower parties action is in appropriately is in appropriate by a larger time margin even though he
desperately strives to do something that will work each action is less useful than its predecessor he falls further and further behind
ultimately he ceases to be effective than he welearn i mean that this is obvious in combat is also obvious and enjugare clear when you're
training when you ronion if if they're not making adjustments fast enough you just it's two or three two or three transmissions and you got
your on the back o the boy theory defined what is meant by the word manoeuvre in the term manoeuverer mouvemens boyd cycling boyd cycling
the enemy being consistently faster through however many ludloe takes into the enemy loses his cohesion until he could no longer fight in
as an effective organized force sometimes a boy cycled enemy panics are becomes passive this is an ideal outcome for the victor because a
panic passive enemy can be annihilated or captured at the lowest cost in friendly casualties at other times the outmanoeuvred enemy may
continue to fight as individuals or small units but because you can no longer act effectively as a force he is comparatively easy to
destroy so continuing on if the object in manoeuvre warpers to move through the dolopes faster than the enemy what do you need to do how
can you be consistently faster much of the much of the rest of this book is an effort to address that question but in terms of general
theory but following points are worth thinking about one only a decentralized military can have a fast atop if the observations must be
passed up the chain of command the orientation made in the decision taken at a high level and the command for action then transmitted back
down the chain the udal is going to be slow as he is raly military historian martin van crevel as observed from plato the nato the history
of command in war consists of an endless quest for certainty certainty concerning the state in intention of the enemy's forces certainty
concerning the manifold factors which together constitute the environment from the weather and the terrain to radioactivity and present of
chemical warfare ages and last but definitely not least certainty concerning the state and activities of one's own forces historical
commanders have always faced the choice between two basic ways of coping with uncertainty one was to construct an army of automatons
following the orders of a single man allowed to do only that which could be controlled that's centralized command the other to design
organizations and operations in such a way as to a nable former to carry out the latter without the need for continuous control this second
the second of these methods has that the centralized man the second of these methods has by and large proof more successful than the first
and the ongoing revolution in the technology of command notwithstanding this is likely to remain so in the future and indeed so long as war
itself exists very obvious of the amanian you know an in an arbour streoneshalh that's one of his woof combat decentralized command in and
dissatisfied don't have decentralized commands that the yester report up the chain a command that takes time by the time against back down
what the decision the sitting gets made it the higher level than they pass it that down to you by a tentative it's already changed me and
that's in a jug in eggys comparison if you if you have to think about your most so you have instinct in los muscle memory when somebody
starts a pass or gard you get the under if you have to think about getting the underhand you have the command your body to get the under
harvard got the other hope ye so it's the same thing here this is the decentralized command back to the book number two maneuverer mean you
will not only except confusion and disorder and operate successfully within it through decension you will also generate the confusion and
disorder a love that that is also is not to say hey look faceremus ng but i'm actually in create the confusion immanent happen that's
something we anyone really good you do so gayangoses is that glover create confusion he creates mammered chasing the gate in them in a
match he wanted to scramble to happenings to go as long as possible the reconnoisance pull tactics of the german blitzkrieg were in harley
disorderly as is often its very contrary what people think of of the german knowledge animantium culture german culture is very orderly and
here we say they that a blockade was inherently disorderly back to book higher headquarters could neither direct nor predict the exact path
of the advance but the multitude of german recounts thrust generated massive confusion among the french in nineteen forty each was reported
as a new attack the german seemed to be everywhere and the french whose system demanded certainty before making any decisions were
paralyzed that its very unresting to think about that idea of we all want have certainty and what's canape and how in in battle and in life
if you wait until your hundred percent certain you're probably going to be too late i speaking of certainty three all patterns recipes and
formulas are to be avoided the enemy must not be able to predict your actions if your tactics followed predictable patterns the enemy can
easily cut inside your oodloo if you can protect what you will do he will be waiting for you this wife so hard to tell some one how to do
maneuverer there is no formulated not when some one says conall the bull about fury just tell me what to do you can't you can talk about
how to think and about some useful technique but you can't give new formulas to replace the ones currently talk instead of a check list or
a cook book but new roar far requires commanders who can sense more than they can see who understand the opponent strength and weaknesses
and their own and who can find the enemies critical weaknesses in a specific situation they must be able to create multiple threats and
keep the enemy on certain astec one is real they must be able to see their options in the situation before them constantly create new
options and shift rapidly among options as the situation develops general herminones of the most successful practitioners of lanuvian i
against the school approach that says in accordance with the ideas of the general staff in this situation you must do thus and such on the
contrary you must proceed as dictated by the personalities involved and the particulars of the situation so he got a german successful
german general and he's actually saying you react on base matheson a situation of the of the comorn when on the person now ities involved
leadership is an art my friend therefore one of the first principles has to be there can be no fixed schemes every scheme every pattern is
wrong no two situations are identical that is why the study of military history can be extremely dangerous another principle that follows
from is from this is never do the same thing twice even something works well for you wants by the second time the enemy will have adapted
so you have to think of something new no one thinks of the coming a great painter simply by imitating michaelangelo similarly you can't
become a great military leader just by imitating some one they has to come from within in the last analysis military command is an art one
man can do it and most will never learn little bit of manoeuvrers and so so at the the weight of buck is broken up the poisoner war for him
buck he had it goes in to ah it breaks into another section which were on to get to an a minute but he candages into a little it
landgenooten too a little bit talking education and training back to the book is my great and his requote is my great and constant hope
that the marine corwell produce some outstanding man for this country such men are somewhere and they may as well be in our classes as
anywhere else i do not want such a person to be hammered down by narrowness and dogless to have his mind cramped by compulsory details it
is my constant ambition to see the marine officers filled with ambition unitiate and originality and making get these attributes only by
liberal liberality of thought broad fought that differs thought that differs from precedent and the compulsory imperio others and as a long
paragraph that says free your mind for your mind and i i love pontois the marine corps that's that that cat is from the common don of
marine course schools brigade general j c breckenridge written nineteen thirty four the nineteen thirty four he was saying people marine
coover don't go by the book don't obey what other people said he wants to fill the embassies pretty normal but initiative and original he's
telling to order to be a good leader you got a for your mind no not like i said the book makes a transition from being the the ah for
bemerton by by william lynd about maneuverer and in it slides into another section which is just about as big and this this part is called
fundamentals of tactics and this section is written by colonel michael d wylie's brincos and he ran a course a funnel of tactics course and
this is sort of thee this is the visitor notes from the course when he would teach this course the fundamental to tactics the colonel
widely can interesting you into the wet to the using the list of marine than you and to naval academy and he was jim webs company commander
in vienna vietnam and in jim webberly famous guy he was a navy cross winner he's a set alassen from virginia um he won a buck called fields
of fire and then there's another great book called but night gal song which is it follows a couple o five for so think it so where be makin
all over north ah mc farland i think and and john point ashore was very prominent graduates from the naval academy that all kind of stood
out and work or connected throughout the book so this guy so jim websters kind of famous guantes got it wrote this was was jim webs company
commander in vietnam so that's garnet's a small world i think tied together so now get into these lectures that you wrote in a menelite
anybody but a they're called lectures in this book i would just call him free rein formation atatlan from it a first the first section is
called surfaces and gaps the concept of surfaces and gaps is one of several concepts that bear on tactics it is unimportant whether you
refer to this concept as surfaces and gaps or soft spot tactics or simply the idea of pitting your strength against the enemies weaknesses
that is what is all about strength against weakness call it what you will the term surfaces in gaptured from a german term flayin on the
nekomata which means simply the tactics of surfaces and gaps the surfaces being the enemy strong points which we avoid the gas being the
weak points that we want to go through now adelhard we talked about already to day called it the expanding torrent system tactic he drew an
analogy between a calking an attacking army and a torrent of water if we watch up torrent bearing down on each successive bank of earth and
dam in its path we see that it first beats against the obstacle feeling and testing it almains eventually i fall it finds a small crack
through this crack poor the first driplet and rush straight on the pentowan on each side is drawn towards the breach it swirls through
around the flanks of the breech wearing away the earth on each side and so widening the gap simultaneously the water behind poor street
through that breach between this de side at is which here wearing away the flanks directly it is passed through it expands to widen once
more the onrest of the torrent thus as the water pour through it in and an ever greasing volume the on reach of the torrent swells to its
original proportion leaving in turn each crumbling obscene it long paragraph but that's how water gets foix finds the weak point in piles
on the idea of putting surfaces in depth tactics in the practice were first implemented by the german army in world war on this sustutit
every everybody should know especially military people in nineteen eighteen as they prepared for losing their spring offensive the german
army changed its offensive tactics the germans had found that they were being overpowered by the material available to the british and the
french the americans were coming and it was clear that germany was going to lose if she did not do something differently because they did
not have of the option of matching the allies strength in material the germans decided that they would have to outthink them that is they
would have to have better tactics germany did not succeed in winning the war it was too late by this time they were surrounded but women
and children will starving at home there was simply too late for them to win yet they made some tactical progress there at the last alas in
the spring of nineteen eighteen benefited terrible defeats on their enemies to the point that the allied armies were seriously considering
the prospect of giving up at the tactical level the germans put their strength against weakness they sought the gaps smallsole groups
called stern gropin sought gaps in the enemy lines and attack through them a salting with light machine guns rifles grenades and flame
throwers while heavy machine guns direct and indirect weapons including trench mortars were used to suppress enemy strong points but all
the strichine the spring of nineteen eighteen offensive failed why because loomed on that level put strength against strength he was seen
though he was seeking gaps he was seeking gaped at the enemy's strong points but a very visegrad great information to half so yah the guys
on the ground were attacking the weak points but the strategic picture they were still attacking a strong area so you met i found a little
weakness in a wallet weakness in the wire a little weakness in the trench but they were tacking a let's say a twenty mile trench that was
over all was a strong area where as they should have look for it a flanconade miles away back to the book the idea of putting strength
against weakness was of course born way before nineteen eighteen class fits right about it in chapter nine and ten of book seven in chapter
nine regarding defense positions he states the attack cannot prevail against them that has no means at its disposal to counteract or
advantage in practice not all defensive positions are like this if the attacker seized that he can get away without a salting them they
would be stupid of him not to attempt it there'll be supervene to attempt it it is a risky business to attack an evil opponent in a good
position same thing we heard from some so you don't attack of heavenly defended positions back to the book and pommeton this concept of
surfaces en gaped then gives us many advantages over what could be called slower moving forms of combat where strength is thrown against
strength attacking through gaps avoiding surfaces gives us an advantage of economy of force if we are pitted strength against strength of
salting enemy strong points we are consuming our man power as well as ammunition is supplies as we go along if we go through the gaps we
are practicing the conomy of force we are reaching our objective without using up our men we are leaving the enemy behind because we are
moving faster we have the advantage of rapid exploitation so we you tack obviously that week thesis you lose thus beat lose less mean now
this is important the concept of surfaces and gaps demands leadership from the fun as opposed to leadership from the rear the commander
must be where you can make swift decisions he must be where the situation is developing obviously leadership from the front had become a
scarcity in world war one jaf foller in his book general ship wrote in the world war nothing was more dreadful to witness that a chain of
men starting with a batin commander and ending with an army commander sitting in telephone boxes improvised her actual talking talking
talking in place of leading leading leading the result was unresponsive leadership and slow reactions we actually talked about this on the
last pocas when lay was talking about being in an assault force and being in the assault train which is twenty guys fifteen or twenty guys
and he was standing always at the end of the train cause where he was told he was supposed to be in he did not was going on the front three
couldn't help he couldn't make any decisions given some ones goin t if he needed to make a cisinil can you make us as you know what's going
on up there but if someone said he we edensor the posset to pass that word all the way back not good so you got to meet from the front with
decentralized command and be far enough to filomena simple you got to be the same thing we talk about that if you got to be far enough
forward that you can understand what's happening up there and obviously you but you don't want to be the guy that's doing the shooting
cause you've gone to caldaro to actually be detached and make decisions certainly combat is not going to be that simple the gap then might
be any undefended point or any weakly defended point it may be any enemy vulnerability it might be the enemies of flanks the term flank
itself needs some elaboration think of it as a relative thing john boyd defines a frank as that aspect athatos tored which a force is not
devoting its primary attention in other words in food warfare what is one moment the enemy's flank might the next moment be the enemy's
front it depends on how he is directing his attention a gap from the infantry could be an enemy missile sight manned by troops or not
combat oriented the missile sight might be a surface if you are flying on an airplane but a gap if you are light informed who's gotten
inside in the malines so he does that make sense to you so you got it if you've got a surface to an missile launcher and it has a radarate
or on it in a contract our craft coming in and if you're a a fighter aircraft you they will you want say away from that thing as i'll get
you locked on right or is going to fire at eat seeking miss let you and kill you so for them it's a surface is a strong point for an
aircraft is strong point but for a grownup they don't put you know the highest level troops guarding these things because they're in the
rear a little bit then put like kontiyou know some what they call here there manned by troops or not combat oriented solemniter target a
back to the book let us say we are unsuccessful in finding any gaps we may have to create gaps and there a ways and doing this so that the
talk about the wayside you can do it through fire power of a drop in balms by suppression by a soul all those different ways to create gaps
with with abusing direct fire to soften up targets and in that i like these tactics a little bit better another way of creating gaps as
though supporting attacks by attacking one point along the line we may divert the enemy from another point and by drawing him off creatam
again this is in line or terms for instructional purposes for some plicitly but do not get a line or mind set sometimes a less costly way
of creating a gap as through deception by causing the enemy to think that we will attack at one point thereby enticing him to draw his
forces off from another point from will attack that point where he has we can see but what do we do about surfaces that is strong points
sometimes they are best by past once the enemy has been by past his strong point may be caught off from its support and in that way a
strong point eventually withers away and becomes a weak point which we can attack later you know we talk along in here about not attacking
people's defensible positions in this is his classier way of saying that you know some wee we talk about people with got the ego the big
ego and how you don't want to confront that ego well if you can by pass the ego eventually that ye go to comfort's a same thing when you're
doing ground combat back to the book you are certain problems for tented by the concept of surfaces and gaps especially to command her who
are used to slow moving forms of combat one is that the commander will not always know where all his people are in the marine corps we
become used to being accountable at all times for no exactly where every man is in this faster moving form of combat to do so would be
impossible your subordinates are finding the gaps and exploiting them so you've got you yere control freak you're not going to be able to
pull this off as flyaway echoed no echoes out there is work in her iogaster the manoel where he is another problem is that artillery an air
of might not be made not be controlled as closely as is possible in slowing slower moving forms of combat or you start to deal with the
problems of of air support and or tillery is a little trick erous cause you have people moving around the battle field in your not sure
where you want is not makes it very difficult to gomsoo osyer own people another problem with sociated with the concept of surfaces and
gaps is that as we penetrate deeply often on narrow fronts are flanks become exposed there are however compensating factors again related
to speed we are moving quickly the enemy is always off balance remember the old adage various security in speed so in other words as you
penetrate into a into his own you're going to be exposed a little bit but if you move in fast you can deal with that exposure critics of
these faster moving forms of combat territories by a niste at the low level fear that they will lead groups to groups of men moving willing
nearly about the battle field and that commanders will lose control so people say all you know if i give so much so much initiative at the
low level imeeose control of it and people are going to run round my chickens with the have heads cut off this need not be so if the
concept of surfaces en gapes employed properly it will not be so that is why we have control measures the boundary the limit of advance the
phaselites can still be used it must be remembered that these control measures should serve their function but not be rigid lines that
cannot be changed or ignored when the situation changes they should be kept to a minimum and must always be flexible the tactics must never
follow the control measures on the contrary the control measures must follow the tactics and the tactics must always be based on the enemy
other concepts that will be discussed in the chapters ahead a especially that of the main effort give us meaning give us means of keeping
control over our troops and preventing a situation where they can be said to be moving willynilly about the battle field so decentralized
it it is challing an if you don't do it right you will have chaos so now we get into the next section and it does a lecture in but again a
lot here to lecture anybody else think i in think i could pull that off the concept this won't be sectioned omission tactics the concept of
the mission tactics like surfaces and gaps must always be at work in battle the name is the name is derived from the german of tristan
which means literally mission tactics it is no accident that the name includes the word tactics assigning a mission and depending on
subordinated out constitute the tactic to allow the subordinate to decide on his own and isidis what to do is the means of getting the most
appropriate decisions made on the spot and acted on more rapidly than the enemy can respond to your actions got a get your subordinate
leadership to lead you want them to lead missus acount of prince frederick charles was giving a tongue lashing to one of his majors for a
committing attacked colender in defense of his action the major explained that he was only following orders in the prussian army the major
reminded the prince an order from a senior officer was tantamount to an order from the king the prince was on impressed his replied to the
major was the king made you a major because he thought you were smart enough to know when not to obey orders the that is the essence of
mission tactics the subordinate decides what to do even if even if it means that the order issued by his senior now should be changed or
adjusted the mission assigned is sacred the mission is the output that the commander wants that does not change but how that output is to
be achieved may change and is up to the intelligence subordinate to decide whether or not it has total freedom for the subordinate
leadership to figure out how they want to make this appenine what they need to get done but they they have the freedom to figure out how
they're going to make an ape back to devarication example used time and time again and antedating the student to mission tactics it is
simple and of value so be used again here the supported is giving the mission of getting his unitarian his unit across the river is the
output the senior desires a rotha he has been given crosses the nearest bridge the junior commander arrived at the sight to find that the
bridge has been destroyed he does not stop he does not wait for new orders he does not request permission to change his root he goes to the
nearest fort several clamors distance and he crosses there he informs the segre of course as soon as he can but he does not wait remember
mission orders are necessary to give the temple operations the rapidity that it must have if we are to keep the enemy off balance so it's a
very simple example i tell oh i did you go to across that river go across that bridge you get there the bridges out you like oh southerners
the river here isn't it find to put in the lace when you go across her lets make it happen that you in a happen back in a bother me or not
to call me bagonet bridge is out will you meno but something that this is a little bit this is a little bit simplified because the reality
is if you were a artemon calamites away from where i anticipated you being need to tell me that your moving you need tell me because i
might have other friendly unit in the era that might e don't expect you i might have be droppin bombing that area so this is this is
actually leaving out some critical coordination that does have to happen but the initiative to make it happen should happen yet seems like
you um it like in the in the process of that decentralized command the person carrying out the order is it's cunatai how much he's goin to
deviate one something changes like you can't ease of course gonads going to make those adjustments but you don't want to evitch rite and i
had all ureine to give you the directions they a i need you go in a craneycrow the river i wouldn't literally give you some primers work
with an i only i don't go don't go further south than this area than this road don't go further north than as you can do it every one sided
here so now you can go you know never you want side that box yet how you always talk like you you say like why are you in a courier well
they'll land for speaking of why a hears another example of mission orders it this is an actual example seize control of root six west of
the muddy river in order to destroy enemy forces attempting to escape from company bravos zenian so that's telling you the why that's what
the inner order to his notice in the mission order the phrase in order to that is a very important phrase and usually ought to go on the
mission order there's no rule that every meason order contained a phrase in order to if you were told attachee company that you seem fond
of you probably be highly superfused tell you why they are there her of threat why waste the breath but usually your mission order will
have the ability to endure time better if you explained the sportin why he is carrying the mission out you called this echo turning to
little tact quinion in order to this gives the order the quality that eric vaneman stein called long turn in endureth test a time your
commander can lose communication with you yet you can still carry out his intent because you know what he wanted and you can continue to
act within his intent for a long time without checking back understanding the wine has briefed by tenant colonel achochre fixed rules are
not appropriate in instructing how to how to assign missions too often students reject good ideas about tactics because they cannot get
their thoughts to fit before that of the operation order that is being demanded the important thing is that the mission be clear compared
to clarity format is of little or no consequence that this is that we talk about it in a stretchin that these massive power point briefs
that the hundred little you know hundred hundred fifty sides to try and make the to try and brief omission when in in a leaders would waste
so much time try to put these brief together and andy would they wouldn't do the planning with her supposed to be doing they wouldn't be
thinking baby building polovtsienne i've just had to get these guys to think and stop stop work on the power points of trina match your
fond you know chaperone equalized the hues on each lives and they can look for de know don't care when i want you think and i want
clancarty of missions the most important thing i i i will go as running trading in and a gusset me it's one of the one of the tasking to
commanders and he says he you know what is it pat is it you looking for in the brief and he's no trying to figure out how many slides do i
want to see and what for at do i want to see and i said what i want for the brief is that your men understand the operation bowback to the
book the subordinate receiving that order must be more talented amateur troops awkward clumsy untrained troops cannot be expected to carry
out mission orders why because as a result of their lack experience they must be told what to do only the professional experience leader
can know what to do without being told what to do because we in the marine course at our standards i we expect that our subordinates will
train until they can perform under mission orders so distant outoi made this clear or if i breathed over his fur misorder is exactly what
we're talking about when it comes to he just tell the person this what i need done and this is why on it done you figured out as opposed to
telling them exactly what you want them to do commandent yes indeed commanders intent burdens of responsibility increase on both sides on
the part of the senior comminatory doing mission orders that burgheress increases on the part of the senior commander and on the part of
the subordinate look first at the senior commander operating with mission orders his orders must be perfectly clear the ones is on the
senior to define to the junior what must be accomplished without telling him how to do it the onesis not on the junior to fare it out what
is command or wants the senior must state what he wants otherwise he should not expect to get it now i actually went out when i teach
people this i tell them that the owner is on the junior and if you if i tell you to do some and you don't erstand why you're doing it you
understand what my intent is and you still go on the field of tritonian you i mean as my fault too but we're both taken ownership mine say
what day introspection but really if your boss and tell you why you're while you do why they tell you to do something you just raise your
hand and ask have off what's your objective here what's your avrone with the commander's intent cause i want to make sure if i lose
canetons with you i can continue to execute toward your desire then state and so looking for an additional burden of responsibility seniors
that he must train his subordinates and his unit to operate as a team they are not going to be able to perform mission orders without
training another new bordones possibility is that he must expect his suborned to make mistakes he may not expect a zero defect or or one by
people not machines people make mistakes if people are more afraid of making the stakes than they are of exercising initiative now and then
they will not take risks and they will not exercise initiative furthermore they will not win in war perhaps the most important new
responsibility displaced on the commander who gives mission orders as that he must trust his subordinate if trust breaks down the whole
system breaks down so people ask me about trust from time to time and it's absolutely house i talk about relationships in the rord then
that's what that's what that's what he is and lay toitle about the other day on the pond cast is that just building trust how the one of
the best ways to build dresses i give it i give it into that's all it goes back an forth and in the military you do that when you're in the
training environment when there's no risk or very very tiny rest of life and limb there's no strategic left or not your rest in oculos wars
or in lecturing with stuff in i want you to learn and what you take resting if you fail if you crusoe up i don't try and fire you we did he
learn from it and that encourages you to take initiative and keep getting after it now the the were moving to the next section which is
called the main effort the commander in making his plan must determine what and where his main effort is in every operation whether it be
offensive defensive or withdraw this man effort should be specified in the operation order it should always be clearly stated in paragraph
three aid the concept of operation there can only be one made effort when you start giving two or three or a three part made effort you'd
better look back at it because the chances are you do you have not made up your mind what you are trying to do so if your chinaland a
mission you you tell your telling people that three main things were trying to get up no wrong there should be wanted in message conveyance
um actually i think it's a newspaper riting they call it bearing the lead like your main story half the you know you can't have three main
stories in one article god because an you know one thurston to have cool details freut you start spending a bunch of time on these cool
details they called that varying the lead a bad deal in suonetar don't do these favorites and don't do that on the field of every unit
commander down to the company commander will always assign a man effort and sometimes even of aton commander should the entire your command
must be aware of what and where the main effort is the commander can change the main effort at any time this is what gives the operation
its fluidity and in this is one of the pretty common issues that we run it ran into it when i was running training runnin it now in the
business world where you work with a company in the not they're not a signing of may effort they were concentrating at fourteen different
things at the same time they don't prioritize exister form of poetize execute and that's a problem you trying to be fourteen things at once
you not the complish in any of them the german word from maine effort is spiteful any time in your readings when you see that and often you
will see it written in the tale that german wore ship pumped take note because it is one of the most important underlying concepts in
everything the germans do make the main effort where the enemy least expects you make the enemy make the main effort where the enemies weak
be prepared to be surprised so what's go i i a super there it's interesting the o us see the big fortified area of the enemy you sail cable
gohawk we've had a wet their tack that heart no wrong answered that's a surface with no kin for gaps so don't make the main effort the this
strong point make it a weak point back to the book b p be prepared to be surprised bewery of the council do not ever be surprised in war
you will be surprised the task is to learn to deal with surprise if what you thought would be an enemy weakness becomes the enemy strength
you should not be disrupted if your taxes tactics a fluid you can deal with surprise you will shift your main effort to enemy weakness and
go on through that is how the man ever works in the offence fluidity emenhere a lot about in vietnam on the the vehicle were too rigid they
would destroy their plan didn't have the faidit the main effort should be directed against any weakness not any strength here you see the
interconnection between the concepts the concannen between the content of the main effort and a consensus in gaps all the concepts work
together at the same time the main effort cannot be understood in the isolation from services and gas because it is directed against enemy
weakness in another another one of the four laws combat that we talk about a book extremeness he is simplicity simple back to the book even
the principle of simplicity can be recognized in the concept of the main effort instead of trying to do ten different things we are
focusing on one there will be many other efforts going on at the same time but all in some way directed at making the main efforts succeed
so what do you gain from this main effort you gained direction you drat you gained food idity you gained speed and you prevent dissipating
your efforts all over the battle field the way the polls did when the germans invaded poland they tried to defend their entire and hundred
mile front it was no main effort and by trying to be strong everywhere they were in fact strong nowhere this trying to cover all the basis
is a common error in the amateur commanders plan it is a symptom of avoidance of decision making a voidance of the ismain of your not
saying hey here's waterfolk on your your just when away on one decide yet oh i'm not ready to commit by establishing a main effort you make
a clear decision you obviate deniest for junior officers to keep asking for guidance if they know their commanders made effort they can
continue to operate even though communications may be cut and they can continue to operate in a high temple because they need not keep
checking back from new orders and here we get to a another something you might recognize from for marbode over ship when the commander is
made this decision he has done something very necessary he has done something very ethical he is assumed and taken responsibility for what
we happen if the battle those are he cannot blame his subordinates he can only blame himself it was he who decided what was to be done and
designated a man effort in order to do it therefore it takes courage and moral character is to select a man effort that is why the weak
commander and the amateur so often failed to do this in fact the weak to matter what actively avoid choosing a man effort is very
convenient for the commander weak in character to avoid selecting the main effort because if the battle goes on favorably he can blame some
one else for the mistake the commander who has taken the stand and selected his own main effort can not do this therefore innocence the
main effort is a moral commitment taken ownership by selecting the main effort and you get a big that the next concept in again you know em
i'm cruising through this book like i always do only reading not no probably a very small percentage of it fifteen per cent and there's a
ton in your and actually has some very cool oh like exercises where gives you a scenario attapanciatu and you figure out what you would do
in case you good solutions and got its gotten it's a great book to look at the next lecture is caldecott of the objective according to the
girdering the joint chiefs staff publication number one dictionary of military in associated terms the objective is a physical object of
the action taken a definite tactical feature seizure and norwold of which is essential to the commander's plan that definition is clear
enough basilide hart would have disagreed with the jecterin tion at one point in his writings adelhard stated the only real objective is
the end me the de hart statement is also quite clear and understandable especially when we realize that whether we are attacking or
defending the promises the enemy once the enemy is taken out of the action defending an attacking or no longer necessary now the the the i
guess the controversy here if we recalled that is the objective not being a specific piece of trade its bedact as the enemy but that being
said the train of course is extremely important we must use it to gain advantage but the object of the attack is the enemy the objective
must be to take the enemy out of action to destroy him to disarm we cannot do that simply by seizing a piece of training holding it we must
be prepared to move continually wherever necessary to confuse and disrupt them through a combination of fire and movement when the term
objective appears it means in the aiming point that towards which we direct our efforts in order to best use the train to accomplish our
final goal the destruction of the enemy the ability to wisely select an objective is the mark of a good commander the inability is the mark
of an amateur and history is replete with examples of poorly selected objectives there were hills fought for bravery by marines and vietnam
after they ceased being of any tactical value lives were thrown away from meaningless to rain train that did not meet either of the two
main criterion for selecting objective the two mean criteria or one that is lutha it be useful to you or two dear to your enemy if it is
neither one of these it is probably not worth the life of a single marine any good commander will therefore select rain that is useful to
him the great commander will have the ability to select to rain that is dear to the enemy in the final concept is the concept of the
reserve general jas follow of the birch army the original author of the nine principles of war that the us army was to adopt in the
nineteen twenties one stated that of all the principles he developed the most important was a conomy of force he reasoned that whichever
side still had forces left after the other side had been committed with bound to win napoleon seems to have had similar thoughts when he
observed that whoever still had his reserve remaining after his enemy had committed his reserve would win the bamian here's another a quote
in here from napoleon that i think with her talking about committing in a toxo your mind set on the battlefield from the poleon if i
appeared to be always ready to reply to everything it is because before undertaking anything i have meditated for a long time i have
foreseen what might happen it is not a spirit which suddenly reveals to me what i have to say your doinas es in circumstance unexpected by
others it is reflection a meditation so napoleon he was greatheed quick reactions and everyone is well he must have deshabille you know
he's collinsia disconto him and says he motioning no here he fought through this thing for hours he said if they do this we do that if they
come over here a literary ran preparation what a pullin was saying was that thorough thought and inane prepared him to make split second
decisions when the situation suddenly changed preparation preparation is c now that wraps up the bucking i hope that it provides some
miners and some insight to people not only to the waiters out on the battle field but as i said to beginning i hope it provides him details
in the dealing with humans with people on problems in the business world and lorship positions on that gitimate in life whatever you're
doing or whatever your trying to get done think of the hell you can use manoeuvrer to make it happen and i guess we can not go on as some
some questions from the interweb and i guess before we go to the interweb maybe you could tell us about the interweb on what we can do to
support support by being on aneeb if you're on tinted and you're in the mood to support this pages and or yourself with sufflamina ion got
on it to com flash jocko yet on it supplements or the best one i like that idea he colorada creil for sure for you joint get in topertoe
the alphabet yet must as a seneca fort mode he whom take port if you into performance physical activity performance if you feel you need a
little tub of boo sea gales funny number eecitin kennedy put in like real real good terms of my opinion when he houselike oh yeah when i
took the trot tickets kind of like cause okay so you want to get confusing me like have a tickettaker it's like a like a caffeine booth or
something you know you don't because it's not die not so it's an he put in licensor he's like you know he ekela few rounds yell five six
seven at you know have many round and her ones like real poop but then you're kinda like i can go a few more rest and ready that is it that
exactly how he is this ruffle your hating towards the end of the round or whatever it's liking as you feel solid you know it just it i
guess apparently at what it does is it helped you ulie your osage in grumpin you and analogy taryges don't range would you should but if
you don't well you should but you also as keep working out atinae the you know you do so a metabolic conditioning type shenanigans tation
one on that you remember how houselling you i did my men come matabeland after i aetolian maleficient fury knew no rivers that lately or
only in the hot eisenhower god i say i dread with sweat as in an idea i feel really good and an i figure it may be the opposite will happen
because we both know if you go with your wit you strength movements first you tick a little bed off your men constraint ye even if you do
into that way when you do the net con fresh you feel like superman right a blasted your mules out serene reverse though when i'm doing the
mecontent first and then i just reseit out for that i get on the heavy stuff yet and i i did it on the only free said dig it because your
savage like that but consider cause they are to anyone depends what kind of lifting your doing too let's say you not all if you're looking
like for straying through or you know musgrave you should do that first because the results you seek or in lying with you having full
energy tyolet you a nine your correct and the met con isn't the results of the men cornets for you recover from conditions in a muscular
condition so if your time going an that's more conditioning you have to recur from tattercoats to sentially but haf you wenever say give
your bodies me some some shafthouse ill willy cause i i completely agree with you and have only been doing this for a couple of months and
i for it you don't want to was a youaself a macomber i would good sir and i got down i said i knew that war so i was a omisimus you know
retransmuted get my lift off and when i when i when heavy ilettes good rome all at loose some all warm and so now i've scanned sorted doing
little bit yet in the foget used to that then it it'll start to be more and more benefit used to ice a run on the treadmill to do like
three and half miles from the four miles and then lift and just because they didn't have time and in it every time i lift to him would
never feel like running the you know the milstead i do not tread milestones that i can not have to get the the running out of the way that
i'm a lift to and then i was satanising in its kind of harder by a way rather endure this discomfort when i'm lifting than one of undowered
milbun i do that for months and months and months and then one day i did it run i was like you was wears like staye sooperstition way i
mean when my regional point is will i do the meat now i did the mechanai doing the met con afghani at his been my standard for so long red
but you do you say do the men on before you live or or your dusting the men come that it easier yes because to you not a star yenshee but
in a anyveres point was the sheech so if you do in that kind of thing after you live when you're going into the mettonymy way atter you an
hear something cool so a lot of times people asked me what is got walcot right they want to know wraps setanta s cool of course tom and i
haven't i haven't put it out there for waimate book put together a book like it helianthi i should not gonna be all billboard ye like a
real egypt book he don't have him um which means going to take little more time but i'd rather do it do it right but what's interesting is
his with so cool so people that people that listen for casting as had been applying the basic principles cause i have never put it in put
out of thine a note single work out i also people say what do you actually eat it then when i no one i had for reaeson dinner when i have
persnickety i say i all you know i mostly you know i i i low very little cars i eat a lot of meat i do unapostolic okay what do you for
work out i get up early in the morning i hit it hard you know em i do it squassamondo to it in basic stuff right and have put those basic
principles out there well there's people troopers that have been apply in these basic principles and there making incredible progress in
their lives they're getting stronger their gettin leaner there getting in better shape so it actually proven cause i admire you and i talk
of his long time ago i said listen it's more about the commanders and tent right they be working on about the commanders and tenets not
about i'm going to tell you how many wraps and sets to do me tell you what you want to make happen right montlue you want what where are
you on a bed at the end of this work out it physically and bominable have been taking that and i mean all kinds of people he alassen eight
pounds of lowport to pounds just from applying the basic principals that i end and so those will be consolidated in the book sat people can
follow and i'll be some other good stuff in the book too basic philosophy of offishe seated well it was kind of a tangent on it was a wall
a arightly still i think it right insetting so let it inconvenient which he which actually kind a bring me to my point the consistency or
is probably the most old relish fat even though people know we are you not to be consistently an a but that kind everything because
everything else is variable like you him you can there's not instanther is a sailin different work or if i consistency the omen doing a the
same thing or use me doing it every day he had met the inabstinent skipping days weeks you know get it off the horse you know that kind of
stuff there's a indifferent work out so you can do that will give you result and this he will no one different results that you can you can
canastre for and get his just so many same thing would die it like you can you you people have the reginipolis ophy but the fact is that
many different diets workin mean there's some basic principles you don't need a bunch of sugar you don't need a bunch of fat food you do
you know the obvious things to avoid and you kingites lt with many kinds of dining one stepfather what you're talking about is consistency
in in order to have consistency that roars the tisdoin the despite of that soester if that is the key factor and when people applies the
discipline to the rise boom right theyaodene and the very ones you so the books can come in the books can talk about that anugita hello how
was the site the pacas ah if you before you the year evison shaping um um good a julutta come more didden the website jocatore doom licking
them as on link and do your shopping he in support passively and you can install a little tool for you can just make your forefather of i
put in my mind with that called but the top that looked makebayte i click on amazon it's already idolises that leeetle that's what i at
weery with him on an honinhohonta and don't call it a little too not little too on the tree the trooper tool the big deals pretty little
exactly goldonis got inayat your protulerat made little thing without bargain letaille small tool simple um you going you can on the
website and get it called the jack but as trooper to cretensis what is all it does it makes it easy to support pacas when you do your
impunity you don't have to remember that and if you know it baby quick on it do you want to see like yes tom it's on your little browser
there and on a matically directly to our or affiliating winnowing support that way and and it's kind o cool like on a you gif you uh yeah
when you do it this little a cot near it make it official but you got hid the ication want it just it in if you know a way if you don't
want it and i understand irish felt the stuff asas but an we have the true portola's these to get one as good easy easy way cause
remembering to go to the website click through before you do you know how like you her nohow you gondola think now ye you know you
interlineation or you know so i want this say i want that duck tyanam day dies so rewenge trooper tool bombastes am also all obviously by
supersurging to boccacino et oes nonsense good way to support you you have solution the jocko store that's a good one i think if you like
shirts that say disapintin people do after wear a shirt rightminded get into the restaurant without exaequasti cepted owing but he is some
sure it on there can be like him get a shirt that's a good way of support or bumper sticker elections coming up jacintha and saw car with
jacotot en hundred did you know the yesterday erasing ye christmastide coosey know you full of lead all that's christmasy it look on ye na
nice car too with as hooker cool you know it was like extricates a poor eristalis solemnise subscribed to the to channel and you posted you
at first absenting to put it in a tent a deleted the scene in out o sairtain he told no television achochre talking about a casilinum kids
loithaire about a line of dosimeters but is at a sidonia i was now working a fit in that subterranean shift war darkness and aliofio shade
that's why it's an out take thousand more like an example underlying ten of thing is more about my children's book idea and get were good
were good anyway to do the way i see up on ducatless jaconet the good one like a sit for supplements tempers at off forgot to mention that
i you don't know temperate off the supplements o you i guess we that let's get down to the questions from the troopers only interweb
gination lately better like electors question jack if you were coaching the greater for those don't know as charm of graver esepiger what
would you focus on to try and make up the fugitives parity all defense interesting and if you don't know what's going on canamares plating
neat design took to you have s so alities i no like to talk about this kind of thing because it's by the time this comes out and be you by
time of year listening to this might be over don't care any more but there is a a principal hero concept behind ness that does make sense
to try and discuss a people can learn and improve in something for me i think about my game so you got this guy who's a really good striker
going against the guy whose day pretty good strike himself very good yea very good and that's one of the things that this is this is the
question the way it sets it up as if jugo is the is the only thing that made as is better at that might not necessarily be the truth and in
fact in their first fight it was the striking of nantes that forced conmore or to shoot a sloppy take down take the gun once he got on
ground that gioconda as was his way too much for form a grater so this question it's almost a little bit off because the question shouldn't
be dead there's just as gittering the question should be you know what is how would you make up from the fighting disparture may be not
even that it's how would you foggin wonota cone won't you work on an ye fortunately the adosso let's just look at as an over all strategy
question you've got a guy that's pretty that's what what what is he unites the question what is he to one of the strengths of conamera he's
fast he strong but strongly not even come to play because i redeas walked round or two hundred pounds right now the fightin seventy sonnica
lot away he's can be big and strong an he better shape though this fight a claner pretty good with some unorthodox stuff his striking his
fast and fairly dynamic i lose the things that he has gone for him what his night de as have one form his gentes really good beanball good
at an ale undisguised his striking is especially his boxing notitice so if i was if i was my gregories a i be doing i mean what i be workin
my wrestling we worked moneroo course and in getting control and getting back to my feet when i get taken down immediately getting back to
my feet the way i would fight if i was comingone is i would back off with the hard punches i would throw a bother releast like punches and
i moved around a lot and just trying touch and go that that's what i do he if i was connomore i would possibly start in in the middle of a
second round may be into the third round five round fight in my serpolette he doesn't nate sometimes doesn't even check like kicks so maybe
you can start putting on her in on him if you if you through of those but and you get you wise i would teach him to disengage the
disengaged codetan to be go you don't want to get in the udowat the mc gregor does not want to get little loop situation with with
destitoot keep up with he'll be merely changing though we going to the next thing on oneing or to extinguishing in convarsion and hell
won't be able to do it i seem to get no one thing that does make you do who little bit harder if you if you and i do indite and your go
you're not sure you you actually guessing for me and you're as like your whole goal if we are a man shook hands slap bumping were going to
roll and all you did try to do i stay away from me it near really hard round for me in ill be harder than if you attack me i the harder
than if you attacked me and when i did take you down all you did we trying get back of yeira close a guardian trying to talk me with a
submission tried to get back up and get away from me now is an march harder round for me then if you actually come at me with your full
bordieres then it's giorgio and i have an advantage i put if it's digito mine verses run away from you now i got a run after you now it's
it's it's a more fair fight so that's what that's what agregado he needs to use his speed and his the use speed and naithin that's as big
as verstehe thing that i hate the thing that i find about the des brother that i wish that i could i could i wish the i wish they would not
train so much trappon and tramore explosive this i wish he was a little bit stronger both nat and neck i mean those geyser awesome and
there they're great fighters but be dearely train have they do they do literally do traftons your knocking explosions now a show as that
they have great cardio but it rather dissay where little bit more explosive that's best my personal opinion pye i did it i laave no advice
i think nantes so well rounded and this cresorst match up goes a nonsmokers fight temeravit fight though you watch the first round it's not
heads not a pushover on and its gonna be a tahitan e that's a man that's not what i'm sayin and i am saying he made a tour is for you know
you halieutica week or points right you know like the same a way better segondo die and his judith's way but here my agonale you know it's
obvious that's where i'm in takabout in this case it's not like the ore so i am a oman but oposition for corner i suffering for made to me
hiram yeah i will have lived evilly ending of the fight was very lopsided right the the the first round it was a little closer and i think
conner thought yet magic yes of that some of the heavenset in a prosewriter scotfree said you know he was a big man and and i i i be he
with everything or at most he would stop all a smaller man you they didn't stop him in i i think that's got to be thus got to be hard he
had that out in ilog bessie's prepared for that psychologism maybe he'll be ill to stick with a game play it and not shoot ye on him which
was ridiculous yet and even the shoot it wasn't just like him on a decided to shoot it was cut in like a yolliffe ye kind of kind of rock
to and now you you shoot you're rocked and you have to contend with medea's jugeait not just i i continued with nateionhes bad enough by
the way here but you're rocked and it was like a desperation things then you got to do with it than you get that cleve my colors quick but
it it was like it was just a bunch of compounding factors and you home i ate in that the cokernut looking forward to watch that with him
all right next westion jocko like you many leaders began as rebels jocoserious band one day how did you learn this awinnin that elegant
doobman negoto me about the how did you learn to see the game and a rule followers at a disadvantage okay so ye i was a rebel is eando know
when i got in the seal teams i was kind of a rebel a rebel as well and as a matter of fact if you think about it for a certain perspective
being in special operations especially when i came in being a peal operations is almost a form of rebellion in its own right because you're
saying look the regular stuff when do the regular stuff red one the other stuff so that was my attitude you know why i thought all
regularly now i'm doing it you know that was my rebellion and and and like it explained before joining the military i grew up in in new
england not a lot of not a huge military befalling up there and so that was it was almost rebellious thing in manticoras a rebellious thing
for me to join the military the first place to the use the kind of things that were rebellious and yes we were we were my buddies and me
were red unwise rebellious brocken rolled man's back in the day so when i got to the salts we actually were i in a maintain not you know
like organ me hard come may be the words of reebe were we were like outside or she know we were like going harden the group guys i was with
when the kiswahili with an went to selton with me berinthia ah i do we we we were getting in for we and were forcing hard we were you know
being hard core and i actually got told to stand down a few times for doing stuff that was a little bit too hard coriander fact so you get
the valuation in the in the navy where i first got in the navy that is old valuation to some where you had fifteen things you were getting
evaluated on and everybody in it had been um an inflation so high grade you get is a fore point so it was the inflation of the grades at
the time and so every one disput four point o for everything pretty much and i actually i have this i actually saved this evaluation of me
but i got a three eight three point at in tembile and the guide that gave it to me said i you don't you just you just too hard on people
that are unsatiated reilly he was one of the guys that i wasn't like you now hard on yells alibis and unsashed were all die out in a
earnestest ye so that was shore you now we were we were rebelling by being superheating you could say but then even though i was rebellious
and again that a strong word i renowated we were to itinerent water but i did i love the seligit so an end in working for some of the great
guise that i work for i realize that if you want it impact totem is which i want to do because i didn't love destiny got tricksome kind
leadership as you know these guys that i respected that i work for subdelegados of this potuan ed do that he's helping us he's making as
good so can like that old cow that the best former revenge his successes almost like the best form of rebellion is success and so that's
what i kinda went forth to re situation these tranversing where i could move forward and kind of bring this pay i got this now this my
puttees that was a little bit of a this little bit simple fine but but you i don't want to get home make some like i was some kind of crazy
revel the silting i wasn't i was i was in this yielding i was in doing the right thing and and i wanted to do do my best in the selenites
is not really being rebellious at all but i did still have some of that rebel mind set in one of things i think is beneficial about having
a real mind set is you questioned things it ran to question things you're not allowed to you i was never afraid to say no or i don't agree
with that i'll never frato be contrary or something i was never afraid to hold the line and take criticism so that goes even if if you are
a group of rebels and you go against them whose the revel now well you are i don't win guys will be on at a certain path i wouldn't i be
okay hold the line against them because i was okay with being an outsider i guess that's the word then looking for like an outside or some
of them i can just following renan doing whatever news i do an obeys been okay with being an outside her some maybe something necessarily a
rebel eh but being an outsider like okay those guys are doing it that way no i don't agree with that and i'm okay being over here by myself
marching to my own drum for lack of a better word the feelie only if you need to be kind in right would you mean like if everyone is doing
the right thing you're going to day if that or on you're going to you now go hard you know it the way you do but yet you're not just like
this follow in la folle run line you know and i never i wish i had had something and so if you categorist as being rebellious then yes i
kin o ni i would more carrier with being comfortable with being an outsider ye comfortable with my own no decision making process so and i
not always have me nurse time to raggett it on the way when i was younger you're not that's another thing when um you know you hear me talk
of forty four years old right i spent my whole dollie in this item i in show up in this items with like this incredible leadership gave
ability at any rate of no man i learned this stuff i'm worn stile i'm still learning this stuff i picked up off along the way so i don't
want people to ever think that you know i was a superstar i'll wasn't i am so no i'm just i have an open mind but now i can look back now
and i was lucky enough to have some great jobs and some great experiences that opened a lot of it showed me of the i learned a lot i tried
i had an open mind and the world talkativeness ah yes but what was it wasn't just like hey i was showed up there but i would say this the
leap people that are out there that i leaders keep the revel alive keep life keep under control ye in me be you don't let the rebel talk to
other people right if i may be annotated that you this were they are there rebellious sat there as outsider or whatever to work were using
as i am but they just can't keep it in tincaneetis and their men would lean the making enemies yes they're making there are there in
tagging people their doing that i never did that some blanton will win the long term should tiago so don't let the rebel be the one that
represents you and talks and open him out but let him whisper in ear rentals to yet tonmalerei talk to wife a lot about the difference
there's a difference between what you think or what you feel or whatever and what the how you behave so like you can i can be a nauyet cut
off in traffic or something no s going to be mad at you if you're like mad at that or that irritates your whatever but if you start
slipping the guffroi in traffic lassoo chase one or do you know start behaving because he cut you t behaving and certain won and that
that's wrong for the the difference you can feel like all kinds of stuff but it once you start miss behaving that's when the fit lations
come up yellala you're saying i i don't don't let him control dragondel yeah you behaviour my control it is too sat on her before i lie but
i can soothe could show to ye there let us be a rebel typically that's like hay all these rules that everyone following i'm gonna i rebel
against those rare but is a thing so little rules are good rules exactly so you can't just be a ramble to know aubanel state man yea revel
and a wise that's why was kind of pulling back on that word yeoman i was big rebel i wasn't not i was i i love being the teams it so why
would i revelant it yea the people i rebelled against were guys that were not good seals we would felt against them i got told you we had a
musty that was revelational i had a real the jitney and when against sarcenet command he and said hey portinscale said no i will let his
gun in one batch that's a rap that we rebelled but that but then again everyone my son was with me so we all felt so than was i rebel at no
yea and does that make your rebels just cause you rebelled at one time you know eh and yet think erineach somatic or intense mantic tentare
was not go there alright next wetersoons how do you deal with the leader who preaches ownership but does not practise ownership oh drenthe
leprechaunes ip but does not practise on ershi you know i do no situations i take oldershaws with pehi work for all kinds of bases that
didn't want to take one ship and you know what i did tananarievo hership and you work for a boss that doesn't want to lead you know what i
did lahiff in my mind if a boss doesn't step up or doesn't take ownership and there not a problem there opportunity they are an opportunity
or opportunity for me to step if you're not if you're my leader and you're not giving me instruction you're not setting up an leavin guess
what i'm going to run with it i'm in a run i'm in a take of tow on it to take command of her make things happen and you are either going to
you are either going to see you what i'm doing and say wow he's takin er pinister up or if he doesn't have any potential an all then maybe
you looks at it says um beaumome am not fit for this or maybe they don't realise its happening you on take it ther job from him cause other
people will eventually realize now the thing that you have to be careful of he is if you say he's not leaving among to lead you let your
eagle star sat on the leisure and then you found it and now you might make your boss think that you're going for their job and then we can
miss could i emit shut you down he mother's all kinds of things that negative things it can happen there so when you take ownership you've
got a make sure you put in your ego and check and make sure that you're taking on ships your still given them the credit that's the hardest
thing to do but it was him telling you up on you to work if you take ownership with the you give the credit like hester you know a
wonderous thing right here his right did yesterday the son you know the guidance that you gave us the guiding give you to get in speak it
up on this make it up these ethel here we go and you just do your best to make him look good eventually you're going to win so if you've
got some one to to leading does not step in up that's not taking onderstud it yourself do inagaki manner do ee no eager flair rup manner
but do it make it happen did after it yet the if you keep that go youkahainen you're on a team right you have a a some objective since
points just a handful of atoica an'not just one close with him mistreated make the sayin a word whatever the goal is if you keep the gold
in mine bandy in lonelie really keep it in mind you you can avoid all the cause if you are like okay i'm going to step up just like our
rising i'm on step up in lead and then if you're gold shifts from them the main go that you use all have two now my new gold is to be the
leader that's my goal to be the leader then up comes the ego cause the being the leader that's what your focus one i'm leading you the
facinating keep the goal in my you're goin to do basically with your ownership you are going to do your part and then so if someone's not
doing you'll certain things or whatever you're goin to take a lead you're going to do your job in it to achieve the goal therefore pulling
everybody ahead to where war except keep that goal in mind her yes and eddo it for the goal not for yourself he good jocko something of old
be very interested in listening to you discuss is the art of disarming people with words etaient good question had we are disarmed people
and good thing to night we talked about the new fearer because we already know that we're not going to attack the strong point were going
to look for the gaps were going to or the weaknesses were going to cut the opening so what does that mean that means if we deal with some
one that has a big ego on one side stepped that way lay through the compliments out there may be sayin echo you're so good it did you in
this right here i could use some help doing that our getting around this ego now we can start getting into his head of persons over
aggressive may be just have to be a little of more accepting the limae if they're nervous you've got a just rear sure of their hostile
thisbe open minded to what they're saying so that a lot of ways that disarm in peconic things that you could literally like it says this
and people with words or one of words disarm people a huge beak ope i took it idea oh okay or eat that actually makes to that that's good
sense there that makes sense right and dishonor oh yeah i like that deane right all three loves little ready raised that makes sense they
liked that those are all things that are going to disarm somebody a little bit and once you disunite are going to they're going to open up
the open up a little bit so so like one you give it up you once you get them disarmed by just opening your mind giving all compliment told
that you like with you whether coming left comin from and then you start to prove and try to figure out what's going on in the instead of
being the rack to right we want to use the indirect method here so you know ask questions say hey ecoutait you with what the what would
trying to get down here that's a lot different then what are you trying to do here that's a otacite hello thinking what they were you think
it he could you explain a this cause i'm not sure undestad i didn't really see everything ere or ham having trouble understanding this can
you can you help me cause i'm not sure i don't think i get this so now when i say that you you in order that explained some to actually
open up yet to say okay i'll find i'll tell you what it is i say that i your open up right now you open up and will you open yourself up we
open yourself feverel with an idea to explain that dear the open yourself up manfully to the nowthat a discussion as montana happen so it's
pretty easy i shouldn't say is pretties if you think about it and you just think about although simple phrases that you can use to disarm
eboli's good idea i like when your coming from aryabhatta that actually that makes good sense or that is the way he disarmed very simple ye
an there's little things you can do even outside actually outside straight up outside of any specific like scenario where now some people
are just more approachable than other people and then so some people just as aren't so we you can do and what i've noticed is people that
don't talk negatively about people and don't come in to talking native in general like i knew agueris known but on seenyor hardly but every
time he'd come in the first thing out of his mouth was something like it an altaic was but it was something bad you know he was just
complaining about life and it was just a matter of what particular thing he chose to complain about but is always a complaint everything
and another he would do as witasek would say some on adoyous this or that whatever this this was real cool he be like ye but and then say
something bad and in a dump on it and now he tasteth kind of stuff so don't do that so that seems kind of easy but you'd be surprised were
don't be supernegative who yet go be dominative person in general so right off ter night i'll be kind to one of those guys that's more
approachable but here the years one that's harder i mean its simple but it's it's kind of harder to do because i think it comes pinatello
easy is don't talk bad about people and when people were talking bad about people like two you or around your whatever don't like jumpin in
and kind of a comedy them and i'm not saying you reject them or even talk about about them talking bad about the andon's don't do that just
don't be on don't be one to those people yet it's the herstein it's i'm going above and beyond saying don't be you know certain people
that's all they do is gossip about people who of course that's a no grainer i'm saying never do it tried i never do it at at any cost never
do it if you can because basically you're trying to stablish a rep of being this positive approachable person that's what you shares even
though people don't take a specific mental note like all your talking bad about this person you always thought that about people they see
feel it so you ever a yeere around somebody who tells tells you secret every time they see you like a m that must tell you that by this and
you like danuska telling me all you know as cool secrets i like being around him in oughta with people till ennever goin to tell me as you
certain exactly right so you know i just got talkin about people or this has been negative or whatever when it comes to you why why would i
want to trust in this guy or talk to this guy about this especial from anna do something together you know she kind of coming out of from
the other perspective not how would you disarm or someone you second out it from how do you be a person that does have need to be disarmed
ye like just yes exactly so your silesie all are now know your actually right she your saying if if i know you as a guide that doesn't talk
bad and doesn't tell secrets and tansie ouiatanon matically be a little needed an you're goin to start off the loneliest you've developed a
relationship with the person yet with the one real make that your goal made or go yes go i think jed jocko have you worked with any one who
led from any motional or unbalanced place but learned to detach and what helped them well on alstromerias together obviously hears one
where you also have to use a little disarmed movement to get some one that's gettin emotional about something you got to get him to come
down ye so you don't reciprocate the emotion don't coach people when they're angry or emotional that's not the time to say hey you don't
shesto do i knows oeconomist that does so itaila with telling that story on the last pot cast where he was usin lusitanian and i just you
know so dern said kind o smiled and said i didn't i didn't reciprocate the ink i said he tell you these you know though erbout it let's
just think about it can you make this appen and easie i can't of course i actually i had a a one of my one my senior and listed visors
actually my first to ployment iraq and he and he and i were old school team one guy said go what one of my more my favorite gods in the
world actually but he would sometime a little bit of still libit little bit he had this tactic that i picked up from him to and then i
understood the way he the way he addressed conflict was and i broke it down for a valeas simple fine amplify and repeat that's what he
would do in a actually worked to work to boatie on most people and so like first if i said he i am in a need yet i article more dies on
this operation and i hedn't think i needed more guns for operation he say will want you to take every one in the companies you want you
take every person on the roster won't keep him at tothall give you no people then we'll tell anyone i'll be houssard in every one up right
now will take every single person that we have out there and i'll even grabs em areus in the lead that was his way and and and and i'll be
like no end no it but a what i wouldn't do it i wouldn't get defence i would be a fire of it and i would say ah no i i'm not saying any
everybody i'm to saying i want to take a three more guys there's some spaces in the vehicles it'll give us a little more ability to contain
the target and in we look ditelo picklock the map we can agneten he keep come down an ending this guy's case he actually was of like to
emotion who just super passion and when i actually broke the hour the simplify amplifying intensify oh no simplify amphion repeat aside
improvisatore eat when and then when we ever were certain discussion and he would start doing it will sort laughing because you alienist
loyautie tamiya that that's what the name you put on his little that was a hiatoga you know if you said like i said if i said handing a
couple more guys you to wales take up on one manufactary derive soon glide you he ahipara you said he would amplify it and make it more
extreme and he would just repeat it here give it and most people that he did it to they would feel stupid because of what he did to you
know he said to will know i don't need no die the one just feel stupid and he says to just rediculous and and he went by a we had we we
would laugh about it but it belike i said he was actually too emotional um he was just tired of about stuff which is a possible thing but
some of it is actually to motional select i said you got to stay home you've don't don't coach people when they're angry you set a good
example and then when people came down later you talk to him about my game in that wasn't cool and you got him got a spin at right cause he
turned to get you turning you don't want to like literally coach cause if i say echo anitoo asonante defence even all that left but if i
say a man i asked that i rely on you cause of your expert he steele only guineahen a connection make this happen so if you're losing your
temper man that doesn't almost sad i can't count on you and i need you because you don't make good to no we none of us make good decisions
if we're all ben outshape on something hum so i got out please can you just then you help me by just a man if he start start getting angry
about something just realized going affect your casion making and we can't have that man we need to come we need to make a good sister
counties and that's how i'm handling some one i gits emotional bunstuff ye that that what some simplified repeat one but frail invite ample
pie and repents all girls do this but m some wives might do like you say i'll iesuite i think if you know in your if you're a good relate
don't really take is that serious not but yet you say like out on old you know hey you you you said something mean to me whatever and
they'll be on me why you married me then why a whatd'you just deep that you be a ithaca next lemblin alfinete or or out for that or his go
to swaning tennessee's e she said she want me get more ingenue i went to to the store clinturn one meet get on you for whatever he forgot
the origin shoes not to get thorns so forgot just for that you you come home forget the worn suit said something along the lines of does
anything i say have any important to you at a that's nessitated einen gahinte a sat more than once an you got to repeat his well ye yes so
omean i guess danaan no he most things are pretty important i mean men that he warned at that moment no i forgot um to another tactic like
when you talk to people like the common down or whatever like losely some bales or temporal he came once and you have to dress like them
losing their temperate billina in a how how youse word passionate passionately but i basically like a a an excuse word for some one beat
like you want people i had just magination at you not a heine exclaimed be you for it will hit here the thing being passionate and beany
motional it are two different things because you can be passionate bout something if not lose temper and of being in whether to different
things so people would be like don't put that on it so it sounds kind of acceptable in him simply not true but so if he if he but you can
use that fear then complete hat i know your passionate i did it man poohings i like about you on and another thing that i like about you is
that you also a thinker that's why boneset do her contessina minefields that's what i like about you or where like about you is this and
then they kind o take on that roofers your isolier there is no way no very good very good next quest jocko what do you think of the saying
you get more bees with honey they actually asked late this too but it's not here you give more bees with honey i was i was actually heard
he catch more flies with oneanother's say my dear it bisontin i i agree with him you know viseetations down to the arm word relationships
and always what i'm trying to do some travel the relationship so i'm a pent up the honey you know only but up the honey in the carrot is is
is preferable to the step he is n't a which is another way of saying at the word the good stuff denis's so you totally that that absolutely
worster m now you can give people taglioni he and now they get tight to dietisalvi they get out of shape and they don't work any more right
sir he can't you got to do that that's the that's the dicotomy that you need to balance as leader not being too hard or not ben to soft not
be too gressie but being aggressive enough that's the dichotomy but the the bottom line is in need to treat people well that's what you
needed do you need to not spoil them but give them respect in build the relationships in if you make that your gold an when i work with all
these different companies you know i i was i listened to make her go with this person at your having from it make your gold build elise
that make that your go in they say something negative say something positive when they want to blame something on you say yeh you're right
it's my fault boldacious with the person that's going to strengthen the team is going to be thousand times infinitely better than having
antagonises with somebody you couldn't so free with one i insoide your leaving the finger when you leave in with fear and and you leave
with your er beating people with a stick that does not work out good in the long run to you half to have consequences sometimes yet but the
team that is following somebody cause they want to do their best for that leader is going to beat the team that is doing things only
because they're scared of lead yet they if they're turnavo the stick that's going to be where they operate in they're going to operate
enough to avoid the sigaren the gold till they distangey you not real above him beyond yes i think he said something very wise you know off
the space what is you say alas leaves in his little review he that himitate did you at office be eye wash of notice so so entitative at so
now he tells me true or he doesn't care you know about things so he's like he's real opening on as he goes in intense little review which
is supposed to be this kind of tense thing and they say ah like what's up you know some anomalism stuff any sacatecoluca like what you know
we're not if i get you know all this in silesian it to and then he's sikokf i'm if i'm scared of you know whatever this punishment from my
bustle now i'm just going to work hard enough not to get tired and but that's true that's absolutely true so ye like these kids who only
get scolded you know they don't get like compassion and in compliment and in support nataton get scolded a lot of times i mean this lot
more too a but a loud times they're just going to do the minimum and carlino who gets scolded too far in the ever direction where no wiles
spoiled you too far nor that we and the dangerous part about getting giving to like going to fronesia put it is you don't prepare him like
the they wind out on there on their own like there now prepared for liparaean light yet the antisalt of good parts in life then but those
tough parts of there they are too so if you're not prepared from menage checked relax of a better to sheathe corrector alias cushion jo o
great topic for me would be staying committed to life change i start throng and fade fast into old habits please how i'm gone i'm going to
have to bring in the little shakespeare on this way shakespeare between the acting of a dreadful thing and the first motion all the interim
is like a phantasma or a hideous dream the that's brutus from julius caesar and brutus in the play is plotting to kill since some one he
was loyal to in shakespeare the master of understanding human nature captures what that feels like and here's what these lines mean between
the acting of a dreadful thing so that the moment that moment when you're waiting to do something that you don't want to do and the first
motions of lachen you actually start doing that thing that you don't want to do all the inter now this is all that time all that time in
that moment while you are waiting to take action is like a phantasma or a hideous dream so that moment that moment when you waiting to do
something is like an apparition a hideous dream a nightmare and elevate the struggle it takes place in the that moment it's not knowing
what to do that's not the battle it's not actually doing it that's not the battle it's the moment in the ten it's the hesitation hesitation
is the enemy and in war understanding where the enemy is allows you to defeat him and this is where the enemy of action the enemy of
commitment the enemy of change that's where the enemy lies it lies in the waiting and all you have to do to win his overcome that moment
the waiting the hesitation all you have to do is go so take action did out of bed get your feet on the ground step into the gym put down
the dog ubick up the kettle bell do not hesitate do not wait go forward go to war and when every single day and i think that's all i got
for the night they everybody out there for lasting and for all the awesome continued support i keep from everybody if you want to keep his
portant echo how they do that well primarily i would say support yourself with some them in tation cause really that's really what it's
about not necessarily thus upon mentation but supporting yourself as well skinlike when you when you um when you fly the airplane yet you
know you to put the mask over yourself first before you he held her in fantasio are not don't like her in a you know what i mean it so any
way if you need some pemitigon on it dot com slashdot temper sent off on it supplements what is that mean that's the best up of it like any
o temper so am i could explain whether so good but you can on the inside read it distrust me it's only some omens a i taken ye to right the
unbeating is instantly to night war you can support by clicking through before he devizeton click through the website or just get the
trooper to i think that will be a lot easier so you goin to ettiket the troop to of called jocapa to pretorians ion click on it one come
firm boats on there and then shot at amazon you support passively this potass and your kind of official that's filister base reno now at
the correct term because it when you are shot sedaseer really good easy waterport parcae so i don't agree with you on the past than i like
passing there actively shopping actively get infer it passively supporting idea they actively went to website they actively installed the
too or they clicked through perticari in their recanting after ill and in his credit and its efficient to overedit and official in a non e
less at the way and oh that's a good way or subscribe on items of course if you have an honored writer review yeah to rightoover sonorous
reverte day that's appreciate because then we know what we're doing here were the feed back i nentres yes and if angries subscribed to you
too then were going to mine more little iterative on the e to so won't be no get along at all right here i'm going to get active i'm going
to do it on gegenetai an active on her active escouteront now so that to get subscribed that inhabit this subscript he used to if i'm
putting out dumb stuff if a muckna up it right now it's just you know the video version of the potomac is cool i like paraseline to the
diversion if he and like this a man adsum stuff in there some whatever some attics dotty other stuff little mashuka whatever if they're
lame just on subscribed your confident that they will not go the i'm confident yet but you have redeemed i actually thought the first warns
it was pretty dayesie but i funny about those things i e he could begin side joke may for somebody desertlike no one is the dozen if
someone stumbles across that buteana ches it in the mean nothing that a give the ewelease he's in the game thus the other there there they
know what's fun yet they called those eastlake this little eastern there like in of the troop or two video there is the easter exantantly
back and pay attention to whatever i like that dislike shirt thievery reconsideration everybody sharpener body saw that a year among so you
display yet the outpicture if you look close is like well yes this is tubiers in her aforegiven away to the tarot font par the fotonovelas
yes sure you too you can support that way and of course if you like the shirts get a shirt got a kind of a new one that the the trooper and
the justices the basic friend and jacopo assiento rito i'm wearin one right now yet they know at dayson of a bornean true first instigated
like bylanus amazing background mountains snow cap mountains trees a trooper tropinin did that was good yes well there are that i did make
it a point to get the good ones there not like you know kothe process of mericani wally cality idin just be like he give me the cheepsie
won the ball part i away in do that is in it the you know i went through the length so they socotora le alii goal is to be like if you put
it on you like this is my regardless of what's on it this is my favorite ran that's the gold answered levison is just about us i like to
think so he agamestor's cockle story dot com don't get a vilstick or two if you want it if you armistead a coffee must and may or anathema
jocolate tea amaranthe maybe we haven't elizaphan coming out your can with the working with a company on a people who talk to me about the
beavers that i drink yaingahlabi but my most calm and devours nonette it find that untempered arikaree in easy to ye cause he was after her
what is that was it was it the drainage i got all fired up listened to the vision severities open this is like a atennossen in the gathers
there's a small amount of catialena usually busy white sees about a third of a cup of coffee in search previdin the caffeine in it like a
microscope it may any axis in there any casteno anyways got approach about they we are we are fantacies and guess well we make tea for we
ornament i want you some iteration trying to find it and to it behemite the mixture and now we golondrina is resettle good ye ah so wood
will put it on the joculator said orienting get it well but meteorology did sometimes sir ye and you put the thing on there where people
can have and get emails from a year oh yes sighed the the mailing list right near but simply the mailing list it's the insets more for like
an like inside as you care about like an don't inside her snuff sought don't you all like this lot of manliness or wherever you can get on
and no like seneshal every i make it a point not to say new stuff that's like not release you sometimes no i signed up for that before he
anno don't sew people who mailbox with stuff titis stuff yest's like is like here's me email violate my trust no anno i'll say ve ma e i'll
oh when i went in your selfing on the ourton yea and not the kind like he one out of all these people wanted these people might be
interested in this lammefange body to get that kind novisti i think every osmites i could be wrong but if i think that genuinely ain't
annatese furthermore if there is a pandemic attic a disaster situation i will be sending forth instructions for all troopers diane that
dominates atingeing to do gidyea of fattatenda there is the ease insomina some point i may send out like a longer think like frantic i
coming in we got the master relatione sanine got gotson that sir people know when it's going down all that stuff on my senators that people
know what's happened and then you connected so that detonable yet am i going to email at forty seven times no yeh any reminder but i know
if you're unlessened you're interested the wawasa sonething a lalatte here's my mail violate my chance yeatton how they'll che'l say you
stuff rough every like three days or realities of that he who does that why would you write a magazine gearing on it is that considered to
be good marketing somebody or be killing people to do that and i know you know what that's that's that's what i don't want to do this
market changes yea the day that's the thing if anybody out there thinks a marketing things stop me do it well i dealers i title there's a
difference being advertising and marketing so marketing is everything like if if even you wearin that shirt that's technologian tisico
aweather other hand right bust the peonage to be thin prosuing we i guess was then we mark it and we advertised for no we marked it got
apertis we don't no opera at what about when i say and what about when you say hey on it has good stuff and i say yeah i get the cool
that's on it advertising technic eric i'm i'm where in the advertisement i don't want to do it is to be people down with you know by this
by that i don't want to do that yes good at and it is actually supporting the poast and i support on it that's joe rogans company and
goerner eye who helpless out coat by the way were sitting here because derogatory i hired the other way they all so you got the um you can
by a little book gulfstream ownership layby myself and my brother lay fatherhood on the last part cast poncas thirty four he was also in
part cast a levin and we will a book it's about exhibitor but fastness to barlight and to vailable and hard covering it oardom both lay for
i reread the sections that we wrote so that's cool and i know it's cool is get it for yourself which is colette you but then tell you ten
grabbed them a copy she and your helping us you know a little bit and you dispersit god sing good about that book i said this before but
it's a it's worth saying again is that you know like some books is like okay i'm on my now improve in and whatever i'm going to read the
book of general me in this way or that way whatever but this is like the consul where you can literally turn on that like right when you
read a certain sentence an it's given you whatever you know whatever this advice is which ever wanted is but extreme oneship will say you
can turn it on the right then an there like right then and there you can walk with you i have to read the whole book paganly and he had all
you all ready be changed that's all he's got to do it saying like not all books in like that it's like all yet in this gradual process
henderson anyway that's that's a big take way up from it now as always if you want now let us know what's going on in your world you won't
continue this ill talk that we're having amongst us where a thin thin the webs twitter faced booky and in sagram echoes at acton and i i at
jock a willing now one left things that i made a note here to talk about little bit got a got up come clean here got to address something i
went on a little trip into the bush was out of contact before i left on the trip i stopped i didn't stop but i could no longer keep up
could no longer keep up with responding your that the up until a week ago maybe maybe weaken half ago i committed and responded to every
single person that hit me on ten a hundred per cent and i kept trying to maintain and i told everyone he maintain and i and i maintain for
a long time for what six months seven months something like that but i i cannot maintenay more i can not respond to every single person um
that especially coming back from being in the field for you know seven days or i didn't have it or have a very sparingly i'm getting
thousands of sweets a day which is awesome and you know what i do read the ball i absolutely read them all but to respond arisen one of
them i had don't i don't have time starting about a week and a half ago i just said no tatant do this because first of all we went to the
whole thing of life oh you go two times a week for the pokehorne time two times a month for the potassae one over two weeks he most people
didn't like that i didn't like that i'll want to come in here and get it on so but well and and i used to be able to respond to the tower
in like forty five minutes a day which i can find that time on make that time then it was an hour then it was now untenanted and all of a
sudden became two hours a day and then if figurat this if i missed the day for whatever reason on wastdale five hours finally one sunday i
sat down and i did twiter for a stupid amount of time you know six something ours and toader at method cuatos but i got a be more selective
and disciplined about my time manage i want to cry this one even further but there is an opinion like kind of laughing is that cause your
canine to social mediating but it's funny cause like your sis going to sound strange but you're that like nice of a person that you're like
calling every one like we know you know you can find his ready valour but your like really bothered by you like kilocalorie i have been
rude and that's what's fiorita's what's funny because from your perspective it's like it's like some one talking to you for illinoise nor
ailill putting your in figure up sanadon you know i don't have time for you you you know but anything of your antient we are kind of a
group of ten right the lhasans any berenice on sort o like the guide that facilitates the communication between rested from an almost a
leadership position but an so had not be and you don't it was funny because of one of one of the troopers got in brandon whose bent in the
games a day on a frowe sound i think ethelstane parthenay like follow me on to it and we were going back and forth on a bunch of stuff and
in finding we were email in about some stuff we are even emailing about a he was he loosed trying to get time back he has a answer yet the
pot cast or meat or something cause time exultent watches factually factory the lot of people have bought time axiomen watches botelho your
things there's from peonage in the game you know without a let do it is you know as will not if people have facially bought those watches
mansard on trooper was like her you not a man to contact these guys so we were back on a bush of emails i have pictures of me with this
watch on with his time at once at you see me to it if i not the exact same watch but the same model at the same model and i have i think
five of them right now and actually some troopers sent me other older cause you can't buy any more so why have i have enough of these
watches to last me for the rest of my life as the i think it's about five or six and i now actually done surgery on these watches over the
years white like like mistily like one would break a certain parts or i'd taken on on a parti put the inside that he not so one day i was
reading email from brandes we emailed back and forth on us a couple of times and then the other day he email the just a hay just so you
know i haven't given up in song time actinised man email and i was reading it all the way here to record and ah and as i was looking
through the mail when i parked i saw soon number at the bottom and i just hit you know it's a high forried i hit bethinking i called and i
anisada agaves brandeis hey with something on it shockoe a brilliance on i wanted touch baseness i said do started talking and this was
right as the social media i was reaching the canoe and in the line of social velia and as i'm sort of thinking about how i'm going to
manage and almeni i could tell people like listen i'm sorry i just can't i get vidica can't do it and one of the things he says to me while
we're talking he goes you know what so often is that you respond to every body to let ahoi stuck with it alone in a antibiotic down and i
think that's what i did like a sunday where i just sat there like an idiot you not as i know but i just boom bonbon boom well and tingitana
people are telling you suffocate hey man taeata good for all that to give book i'm the check that out yet when he told me that so kayhole
the line i had a hole the line presented and then i realized if i go old line on that i'm elector more important things one of them being
the poast ye one of them being the pocosan putting forth catboat which to me is the most important thing that he that i'm doing right
always is getting upon cast all for a pocasset right um so yeah there's my ah fie my social mediate venture so i e elation eatin of it from
your perspective because i would argue it guess that from every one else's perspective it's like ye no no one eating yes i yeomen good
anerley think that's that's cool well pajarita and i'll i'm stove telling you so like reading them but it's i can't responded but what i'm
goin to chando is since i don't have to be setting the the morisons is if i treat all my i like to be a little bit more active as things
happen coldinghame ye elster works out a light the close without thanks always in once again till the uniform folks out there the fire
fighters police and long foremen and a course of military members thanks to you all peholding the line and to the other troopers that are
out there that her listening who have opened your ears and open your mind you you who are looking at yourself every day like we deal
thinking how can i be better thanks for doing that thanks for making that daily self assessment thanks for moving forward without
hesitation and most important teneret ting after it so till next time this is echo and jacko out
