this is jacopo cast number thirty six with echo charles and me jacka willin good evening echo beeing behold the world is a sight to behold am just back from a
trip to the wilderness in the ear mountains of california and every time you open your eyes there's a sight to behold eeeeat from a distance a mountain of
solid granite almost a hundred million years old jus up from the valley floor up close the roof a new born tree trying to find purchase maneuvering around and
over and through rock until it find soil and in doing so draws an infinitely complex picture of life yes the world is a beautiful place but we also know that
old can be a horrible place a wretched place and in the military i was usually sent to bad places and in a way i was sent to those bad places to deal with them
to keep them away from us those of us luckenough to be born in the right country the right form of government the rights plilate and food and energy than it
was or job as the lucky ones to keep the horror away to shield the eyes of the blest but there are other people pujaris the open eyes for show the world not
just the light but also the darkness and that's the life of a photographer and like the soldier he must travel and like the soldier he must take risk the like
the soldier he must face the darkness and live with it and like the soldier to eatened degree he must detach from what is happening he must observe from the
outside be a part of what is happening in front of him without being a part of what is happening in front of him we have a guest on the pot cast night find
omine who spent his life with a camera in his hand capturing light and capturing darkness welcome to the pot cast mister curran doctor who had disinterred an
outstanding drum for husband a dad and last but not least in a ward winning fotografer welcomed the poet takes a ivavi good to have you on detective little
accent there your from a seting the shakiness yes just a little one that so you're from england and powder his old business start how did you end up start
taking pictures have i stopped taking pincers an my dad was good start with her i was at the camera and i think i got to my seventeenth birthday and he gave
his cameras to my sister that i had no interest in the games of the time but i suddenly had an interest on a fancy gave in to my sister so i demanded that i
have the mattison of sat but i got the cameras and but i didn't really use them am i really wanted to be an artist i wanted to paint but i wasn't good enough
in my own eyes i was okay but not good enough so the camera became a tool for me to create and express myself and i ended up i did it degree course after
school in sport science and then i went on to do up beheaded listen it was a great cause i had three years plantanes and football i mean come on and secrete so
am i wasn't i i wasn't really good not to to not far they should cause i did the sports course and now i wanted to concentrate on doing a course in dorothy so
my man found a course for me in this any one cause the country and any tootee and no man had to apply five or six times to get on and so i plied for the course
of inference i showed a portfolio of an appalling blacker white pictures that i shot i mean really appalling i got to come of music first of us and i had
pictures of dribbling babies and frimpton this is what i took to my interview but they put me on the reserve lest so i was number thirteen and it meant that i
wasn't going to get on the course because they only taking to row so my mam every day for about six months rang the head cut and said come on put em on the
court and a common put him on the course and alter six months he just thought that stopped this woman calling me every day o k o k and he cut me on his number
to ten no longer cause an i did the course m and i ended up the spending most of my weekends traveling at home down to an agency at home were i you will read
working so the course was teaching you how to do staff and but the job i wanted to do you can't learn any classroom really it's a bit o common sense and just
reacting to the averment around you so i suspend my weak enstalling home and working for a real agency and a wit ostend me out on staff and i would be shooting
pictures developing transparencies black and white printing putting on wire drum sending it into the papers you know in the real were nacedon my week ends and
one gavache course and i just felt the courses really dragging for me and but i finished it and the rope is you join a reaching on newspaper and then you said
of cut your teeth ne industry then you go to may be a big provincial paper and then you had down to make blandon for a work on the national and then maybe
after nationally you might consider working on eddy will i did not time for any of that so i just went straight antelander of college am and try to try it yet
try to get a job but i ended up what you end up doing it she ground and eisse pictures in tenescopes so you find a job you shoot it you ring them up and you
say i have this great picture and you near red should have it and they would say o caring in in and you would take it in and they get thanks but we had a one
for so for there gladly so i did this fat three years not really getting anywhere and ah i ended up i learnt future petrayed which is you turn off two and use
of amphetamine and you shoot the pictures and then you wring the desk the wire desk wherever is you want to sell the pitcher to any say listen very the people
were here and this is a big story and really he can afford not to take this from me because your opposition was here am and i think you will souse this picture
so they take him in and i went in one and my chides picture of this tank that appeared outside the high course in andaman coming out of this time was a twenty
foot malin it was just the most was dacoit and it was some guy protesting about a divorce he was going through the disordered up the teadust headed out the
court slowly the ape and a fire and i drove five we driving past it with a friend and i thought that she that pitcher i shall that picture my rang out on my
said listen associated press with here rodes you really should take this picture of me and i went in and i with such a ridiculous looking image that they said
great will take it and so they just snap a negative because it was filmed those days they take three negatives the one in the middle they wanted his to one
they scan and and that was seventy five pounds in my pocket i i just thought right i need to keep thing this i said sir if i come in here with a picture as it
de give me seventy five pounds every time i come in this it will eripitur we take i'll pay you some to fivepound so cross i just can't ring in them and kept
bringing them and kept bringing them at a venture they caught him on to the amount of seventy five pounds he were giving me in a day and they have said okay
listen we'll put you on shaft so we will pay you a hundred pounds and you will work five shifts we will stop paying me five times seventy five every time you
came and that's how it started and am so it's a bit of luck and a bit of determination and and ye that's how that's higgins and if i am totally honest i really
didn't know that that sort of job existed an i seen magazines by photography i donacola who used to shoot the troubles of northern island in the early days and
as to see his prints on sunday times but it never dawned ocelot the images mesmerized by these black and we images but never put into together with all sir i
said this is obviously job and somebody does this and he's paid to do this an and so yet said the dante this this this is an existence that i really quite like
because i don't have to wear a suit i can wait is in a tea shirt and i can just shoot and create and i can unliving and that's really how it darted and then
you ended up stainer raiders fur what ten years a no from nineteen ninety three to two thousand eight so i was free lance until two thousand and then two
thousand am when which was refutes my first as was born they made me staff so there was the security of the job there and then i resigned in two thousand eight
so i could have done my stentiford that i wanted to move on to other things and but yet it was a bumpered but it was an i couldn't have asked for a better
grounding into fergan's that working for a wiegandt roses because you just got to cover everything from spot yes from something of a happening in down in
street to a covering wimbledon to covering well caps olympic games was on an you name it there was nothing a wiring yvette didn't cover and so no litter you
could you could come off from shooting a champion ly for will match and the next day you could be in afghanistan shooting at that sheenest ry that starts out
work and that incredibly intoxicating especially when you are a young gay you know i mean i didn't get to travel immediately obvious i had to cut my teeth and
they had to trust that they could send me away and i must admit it took took a couple of couple of years m and in fact my first sosimenes manager he just set
to on forli i need to go to belfast the the the forgote toff for the troubles and i said ah ye can't and he said what you mean i said while i i i could gag can
i i fling in london and there are so tinter people in the band and if i got a plain they're not one have a drama romancer so there you are to belfast no
ohelgir atinian brooer aethicus i didn't realize that to naive to realize the implications of why why you you know it sordidities amcinated him to dolfinston
he wants to play drums in a club we so i learnt that lesson pretty quick how long do take to get another offer a travel like that and i think that thou fast
off was ninety five and then i ended up travelling literally ninety eight so pretty on the bench for three years and i mean yet totally the when i did get to
go he waited till i'd been married a month and then said to me on edito go away for four months i i by and just i just married he let i've been it for a month
in new omerton and it was the caribbean believe it or not to telegraph cricket in hand against the west end so was that soft and dead and i enter up ing alto
take my wife with me and lassoes yet i'm care complain about that at all nottawasaga great time as we call me about like a little bit about the the tineton to
dortata what that was like foist time where you're going okay do feel that tension for the first time you feel kind of the presence of violence around you the
oenothera and being in mind that i had listened to fast so am i listen here during the beeside of the troubles and at forfeits my life i was there although i
never experienced in the troubles in prepotent ed from it but some year i mean doniland back and i was petrified i thought what the woful were go what what
where where can i not go and i was very conscious of my name for a catholic name and there are certain as of yore provision' know carenna's is the same name as
one of the bathers of the ira i raynauld died in prison from a pomander strikes of that that's your name so i note my name to hide out on absolutely and in
other cestius to clarify was not named after him but a just coincidence but the emerals all over belfast with carondolet so there are certain airs about fast i
could walk into very easily am and the recanter's about fast that i didn't really want to be caught with my prescient my pocket so am so yet it was yet i was i
was petrified in an there's no smithareens it in indostan taking herself well maybe this is a job for me or did you were you thinking yourself i'm scared but
this is awesome yes talionis gospeler's that sort of the tipple you want i do you obviously all on my friends in military that every one's feeling you know hey
i was scared but thou was also gather body wants do it i mean as a photographer when you're in there and there's the patentia to have those shots those moments
m of eluminating that only happened at that place at that time you've got that opportunity that yet i mean you'll waiting the worst thing is get over there
unless nothing happening because that's what happens that that you know leading up telitha twelfth and the maybe the pockets of violence and the etat happened
usually in the evenings after the pubs closed and imagine that i no i mean here it under one one thing it did it made the flames really stand out when they did
through this petroom you know but what you were doing with you yes i be doing a lot of driving around and there would be nothing and you go back to your
toyotha on the file today you don't i over here i being paid to be here i need to be filing some imagery just a sort of justify the erfreut here and what not
so antennary tough and so those were the toughest moments because you are having to find images that sort of told the story but they won't really the reason
why you were there he was sent there because they were expecting trouble and then he'd be sitting in the bar at night and somebody would say right this is
happening on the false road and you go great and we just go straight out there and if you had something physical happening in front to view its almost as if he
needs to get one under your belt to calm down cossen you rabbit socorro duced something from here that note worthy and news worthy am and sometimes she'd go
this this abbe nothing for a week and you be sit in her hand the be absent in the hotel and there be nothing for a week and that that was the worst but as soon
as something did happen it was then a catholic for me be something else to happen and if there was something happening that night there was always the clear up
the next morning so that was then the capless for actually word may be happened during the week m and one thing would lead to another and you then up beginning
to feel a little bit more confident and i know i wish is watching the guise that were a lot older than me and farmer experienced and i just saw of hung round
with his guide so i just tryout work out what you do and that's how you learn you just watch hates other photographer's doing it and you just think i can't
want remember that next time and because these guys came in and they just look to mensely cool and you know the insult of new they were doing and also to test
did you ever ever time perior youth thought you were more bad asked then you were on eualas pretty humble about hay you know what these guys they they don't
more than me as going to watch them and learn im i mean you obviously felt your pre bad as you like you know what i'm not going through regional paper i'm
going straight to london ye ye you're right but i do unsinewy came for my justinus enough time there i think i can hang around doing diamantine were no jobs
going anyway the endocarditis owaine some year peraitero not am i mean i am still if i am not really want to work without his or us now but when you're working
in fleetstreet and your working for us see you can't help but be in the pack and you're always working up if it's all off and there are as time goes by the
there are so a few of hoogstraten to sort of look to you consort of work out which are the ones that are doing something similar to the way you want to be
doing it and there are others that do there i think is to althotas ingleterre that you can have ten or tories then they can all shoot the same picture but
every single mite be completely different because each other ophis decided there's a different part of what's happening in front of them that he wants to
concentrate so and that for i found that you know was happening a lot with pacinian antedon extracted the premonished the promise it would just walk the
daughter opened from meccawards get into the car drive off and he can alienate picture a year and the guy next to you could be a could be it a a a train and he
will stand on hill sheet with same in metre with the same cameras and say manana you wouldn't be able to tell the difference between a guise in doing it twenty
years and then a train he because that's a very sort of walk estate to the animo ent you know her and that sin i was only interested in that sort of stuff i
was interesting stuff that was really spontaneous sporadic and it happened and you had to be ready for it any had to react to it and as her light to do react
to what was happening dead did you feel like going to ireland in though in the late nineties in an early two thousand to feel that that prepared dunal for for
going to iraq for going to the other place that he went on i wish ye good paper prepared to her step yet absolute engine because the ones i've never even told
about that that's all was never cross my mind until you just said it did you think that prepared me in hactually do not get quiet but it's funny when you are
working you don't yees think about things like that i i don't i mean if i kept a diary which i have never done an act i did when i was in chance but if i was
if i'd kept a diary i may be worth of had a little bit more self away naomi progression through my career but when you're in you your prior of cesarean any
money you know and and being able to pay the rent and and my connage work next week or is that other guy who's come in to look quite good is he going to start
getting my shifts you know and so you are constantly on your toes and you are not thinking and you think if i get the art the old now and gig i got that and he
didn't that's enough you know and that how you are thinking you weren't really i that that i had now and structure to my career whatsoever am and i think maybe
the picture that the whole thing was so new to me and i just couldn't get my head around the fact that i was actually noting a living as if it all over he that
that you really are actually present or to what i experienced on my first appointment to iraq where no never mind he never behind any title were happy to be
out doing operations on like we are going to go to real operations may and we were but what the strategy the the danger the the whatever it was like a we are
here we are doing operations a catch bad guys awesome with the that was our focus is so it sounds like you in the mind set that similar mind said and notary of
it took me but you know a couple of months of being in iraq and getting out of my system before as i oconostota e a look at but were actually doing here and
how would ineffective the battle space cause i was just too young and and inexperienced and i just need to get some experience under my belt so sounds like it
and really sounds like ireland kind prepares you for that but i also look at okay so so let's just go straight then do you get the call at did you know you
that reunite called god iraq with that was it a lottery how do they do it you say we want to get you down there all have that work to the way it was i oneste
um no stage was at the forced to go to her passoient so it wasn't part of your remit that if you were for one to i must go to all some arm they were never like
that an they do nounou can see why what they had won from me to picture it every fortuity put my i put my personality over a guy with a camera and so i think
like every guy with a camera going our olares on to morrow it is that not true not that the other notorietee are longus that don't want to go anywhere near all
stone or or an he a head that's important for me to know these things give me within my mind every one just thinking among get after it in old i got a camera
there's a war on an ellewoman it up but yet i mean that was then that was yet two thousand ship i i would say maybe it slightly changed now there are a more
the towropes young for telephus going to was one but then no it was i i think if i remember rightly they they tuticus the build up to the wall with so you know
prolong ye i mean we knew was going to happen and the red enemy idly there with those guys that wanted to there was one embedded with the artillery in case he
had a month way in curate and then just went with the artillery there were the rooshed very seasoned orthographers very experienced in those sort of
environment that would then in bed with americans of britt and those wore the guise of a bein shot up on a daily basis but it drew me heart to produce imagery
from those situations am and i member had a very friend of mine said to me you did a lot of that stuff he said carinthia but going and in bedding with the
soldier is that m you can get in the way and the lasting you want this to compromise a unit but they set his unit up and they said yet the media has to come in
and in no showers was happening but most the time he said you you have your head down and your hands in the air and you're just the line you think and hoping
and he said i verily you get nothing you know i mean that's not always the case but his sad majority the time and you have to do it a lot before you are sort
of hit rate in now get some guess moved up and and if you're in bed did i think you struggle if you go unilaterally which is the really unsafe way to these on
our on your your aeronautical yet i said is there you've got the chance of getting something and again it being in the right place at the right time so they
said they had certain guise and place that stuck the hands up strayaway yet i'm doing that that's me i'll be in better there an an i'll do this and i'll do
that and we spend a month looking at the stuff to scoring out and he was in verily pictures of soldiers with in sand storms and stuff that it was there was no
action you know it was what i want said it was true from more than but the majority of becase was very difficult to be due him de wineberry curly wasn't
interested in being a unilateral at time am at all but i was really interested in going and doing what happens after the wars were interests me is the people
afterwards i was tendering the people go in and shoot what's happening and that moves on and then i too was moved on with them and i wanted to just so a going
in that back draught and fortygraph what was happening life wise after in a soldiers have been in therein and that exactly what i said i said i'd be happy to
go to bagdad you know pretty much what almost want to secure it didn't quite work out that way i think the man a little we ran a lover early a detherter and it
never is the security think and i remember i can i got to her the day after the m the earth statue said dam was pulled down began and it was some it was a jest
it was a moment if you saw it for bagdad and i just thought he in an this isn't i mean my first trip to belfast was worse than this is this is okay but we had
but we turned up and had the face with the problem of one of our cameraman ages been killed under friendly fire and ah that take a huge hit on the rites and he
that really her home that all this is really not a seaplane you know am because i still an awful not going on and he still and awful of misunderstanding and
and so that was a real level only go out there and then and staying in the palestine her tell was incredibly exciting because it was just there were just
portographs and journalists and just buzzing around everywhere and you know you had no account here now so while one am i going to do and it's almost as if i
had to get out there and start you think and i didn't care what it was that i started shooting i just in here now i need to start shooting something a sorites
the feeling that i had on my bed i alateeyeh yes so i am and and i said to them i set to my the the chief or rather i said jack what i want to do he said i not
walk can enter the square and see what's happening so i did on my walked out into the square and they were kids playing around in the inn the main square in
the fountain because it eve can i go out we were folkmote's earlier to day but you and you just said that work you for coritanian cause the the war in iraq
actually still going on right now but it's really easy to forget the initial i don't know four five weeks after it started when we had crushed you know sir
dams regime and now the people were waving american flag there auberive american faces they were hugging they were they were happy they in in all its real easy
to forget that because things turned so bad really to win in within a couple of months they had turned bad and in they went down from there and yet but you
were just like oh you don't want to hear go out than the outside the palace in her self which is which is by the way across the river from the green zone but
he still was a very well protected you fairly well protected a hotel that a lot of westerners state in and you just set on a walk outside and check it out no
security no security of scituate a heathen i see and ye and i done i i i found this picture this kit and i i spishil have that picture my website by this
little kid and he just pulls his head of the watsons wimming in this fountain then you wouldn't believe what was in the fountain i can't believe these kisses
for militabit he is sort of popped his head out and he stood there and flexed his muscles and it was just her young nine ten year old guy just flexing his
muscles and the light was fantastic and it just made such a beautiful image i mean it really did and and i thought okay i just go here and i shot a renie
picture myself really proud of myself alovao am i just walked that back in and the course it was made him happening and what roseate doing this in their
onepresses moving out of the palestine hotel to a house that they'd rented because we were then becoming quite a big outfit and the parietal was never going to
house it it did the mound of staff that we had so we were moving out to a big house just a couple of locks away but again it was like belfast i got something
under my belt and i felt pretty good about it and i thought okay right as bring on an let's see how many places i can get to and we stories i can shoot an
every day and i was i i didn't want to stop setting i just i want to get up at seven the morning and go where with the light and then middle o the day was
never really a good time to shoot as the light was dreadful and and there i wait for so late afternoon and the gold now a wish became tricky because we never
really loved to be out at dark and so i just wanted to shoot she shoot she hooted across it didn't quite work out that way because there are set
responsibilities honor orthographer whose first langis english when you go into a place like bagauder the the capting on images is a hungerman and is sexually
portnahaven ing is correct the information is correct it's a valid verified and it has no spelling stakes and of course being the only photographer in her that
first language is english i ended up to where the eremos nefertari pher's that while we had at the i mean all of europe or lead different i know unwise only
four four of his interline three or four of his in her a time an and a gator and so guy a german ye elation he absolutely you know and we were all looking for
you know we're all we're all looking for those great pictures so in a began to wonder a choses can to be divided up every day who is going to get what you know
and like in the are you looking for pictures of this point that are good pictures that you want to see or you looking for pictures that organ to be news are
going to be from page newspaper which one of those two or s above primarily if i am completely on a secaucus a picture of like when you describe that picture
of a kid ponthis hat or on his dirty water he's ten years old than heat flexing that's just an awesome meirion and i'm sure that's a great picture that
pictures not going on the front a of newspapers so is it absolutely not but you do but but that your folks is i want to get good pictures that on capturing the
images of what year seeing around you as opposed to has met this frontage secure yes i mean i was never really one for looking for publications i was always
sheiner me i mean somebody wants ask me nanasy who's your biggest audience i hammer because i so i'm sheeting for em so i not looking to please editors or
whatever obviously it helps if they besseford i was primarily looking to satisfy myself and i've never that never changed with me m and so yet i totally
understand that you know it when you're in situation am i say that but obewole go on something later showed a complete did onderstand but am i i am stand when
this the front page i understand the impact i am stanway mean to the company totally and don't get me wrong why i was getting from pages it was a great feeling
youknow it sort of verified you but justified for it that you are out there now are doing it and but you know there are so many other ages have there in time
or if one was out here you have to get really luckily you just have to get that on him misothea rates it from every one else and i knew how you know how
difficult that is so i i never concerned myself with looking for the image i sort of began to think listen if i think the image his strong arm you have a bit
of confidence in your own ability to judge whether or not an image is strong or not and well and not has a good chance of making so if you will not if i in it
it is so listen is features to day just to anfin something that you know it every picture you shoe not going to tell the story of that happening in a rack but
for me that picture that boy that day three days after whatever but by god had been liberated the show i i playing in the water and looking feeling happy and i
thought yet genoa that's what's happening that whatever's happening in banarnali being that child is a congenial aperature holocain the spirit of what's going
on round the pianette it good over all i think i had it to do have with every name here this all the time right too you know do what you going your heart this
basically what you're saying absolutely in and i'm in a great i mean in again we start but before even just with what we're doing here this is based on what we
want to do in an a tuffet audience or our most import not in is like my as you know what we want to do what can we how do we feel about making us and how is it
feel to record it and how is it fell apethanon alister is it what i want to hear cause that's what you know that so i'm doing it and we're doing it more for
the value of self rather than anywhere there's no doubt that were not saying hey everybody listened is is you know as we we know to get as is gerrioed were
okay with that and i think that's a good attitude to a yes dually how it turns out the best any way because you know what you like and you know what's going to
make what you like good or look good you is if you tread to estimate what every one else and like all you have this this like grey put brownish water measuring
your son about the one other individually you know really good you talk about a bunch of people so lotoides people and turns out real obvious when they're
trying to please other people with what their doom and there goes were so many things just like higher sane so you know their trinidadian play for the cheap
sea to their train on their trundle talk about this work the gold should be doing a good job doing the message union do and we talk about it which giselher
thing that no doltish gold the front page that's not the gold the gold is to do the best that you can do ye for your work in now yes and like i said if if you
if you don't do it that way manage can smell it from a man from milan yea i mean i don't know her vernaboug even the image that did make all the front sisina
am i don't think in my care this one image is made a front page that i would keep and put in a portfolio so that ye shows that the stuff that i really like
isn't is really the stuff that most people don't see and it's you know people say oh you shall not picardie that picture and i have really weirdrians for
really liking that picture but that i nasiterna i really enjoy doing is most people never see that stuff in a unespied when they do see it but i this i don't
think there is a picture that i would take from from patti had tim though i would want to keep and show it in eaton thing i know from for knowing you and
things you've told me there is times where you're looking at a picture in your saying there is a tragedy here this is a person's life being destroyed amooses
fictionists pigshead weak dispect you know you you have your own personal standards to engine have the utmost respect for that you're not goin i mean there's
so many people and miss bessy now with social media and everyone's everyone's stagfoot now because it had as niphon and people dusommier whole web sites that
are dedicated to debasing people right and old you know and and the fact that you reprocessing you you draw you do that line along time ago is very respectable
um so you got some kids and you got some nice things about the fore aracaris off there liberated in as also some some horrid exenterated aunt ye absolutely i'm
just an always comes to the elicted am and we we just moved into this new house in bagdad and everything was set up in all the cones or sit up and then i know
it's about five o'clock in the afternoon on a caiman and he called you said i photograph and a a t v gay neat to get through this address in by gad and i was
sitting there in jacitano you go in and take an take it obsitae and a hat we always sent to travel t osan we travel it down with the ice everywhere so i'm we
we went to this address and i sort i i got out after the pavement and i was looking around it with no idea we'd no idea why weep in called and some be came
running up to his senses for the cameras and they said are you a dog of roses and i sit here and they set okay am what dear and they went together to a
gentleman even he came out and he was an i could understand what he was saying and there was some day there so the translating then it soon came to pass it is
summarised from he found the night in each esben am either just blown up while he was penestrino playing with it and it was the young it was a kid that was
killed his son and then the father just had said something to the interpreter in intercalate can you wait he'll be back and he came back with a a a plastic bag
and i wasn't even up up until that my man i would just wasn't aware of what was what was going on em but i think the t v i common had sort of a grasped the
situation of little bit quicker than me and he started to a produce body parts from the bag that was panion as that they were unrecognizable is for the parts
but they were coming out of this bag in and enterprising he need she to fotograf this because he wants the youth to show the rest of the world that his son was
killed playing with an ead and he doesn't want his sons death to be in vain and he can't start greeting until you take these pictures and so i think he took
six or seven pictures an and he endearing classy bag back down on the floor and he josedek and if the shock ran and each of any walked in an interpreter at now
he don stop to grieve and it was there ninetieth em the the the t v a genus of the cameraman was he was a racy and hejeous completely then collapsed am i
remember him to gain back into the car because what had the just witness was just so shocking and i was just numb going all the way back to the the office
because you know i i i just hadn't anticipated anything like that happening and it just come out of the blue and i understood why i could understand the father
sentiments i totally got what he was trying to do but at the same time i totally understood that this in those images want couldn't go on the wire they were
just so utterly horrific and graphic and i remember as i was shooting i just by wasn't even looking so i had my armenians the camber i wasn't even looking at
what was one so view it it apart from the first moment that he was to say to an what i couldn't tell you i just knew that it was just coming out and being held
up and been put back i could even bring the off to look and then i sort of got back and i the first thing if they was just the leat and i never actually said
to my bosses there that i greeted the images i just thought i i am not putting his images on the wire i solitariest decision there are there at times did
mention anything turning when else there and the only thing i had was her toy kept was a just a portrait with father so we could move the poor tray of the
father and talk about the story am and i think i then spoke to my dad at night and i so aminition self an intertainment told him what i just happened in a we
were sitting in the garden and then that sum that night an royer's wanted to give the staff a break and so they all ganidec and there was an inner there was
canobium litany belly dancer turned up and it was an amazing night because all the iraqis that had not been able to party in forty years were all sitting on
the roofs of their houses surrounding the house that we were on and the wires listened to the music and it was an incredible thing to see but you gone from
something that happened like that at five o'clock to something a barbecue that's happening at seven p m and those moments were incredibly difficult to sort of
disseminate and work out what was going on because and a curse if some in a kept myself apart from the i think maybe they found out maybe the teveste something
but i just at once speak a on remotely connected to the office about what i you happened in her arm and i do and i think to be one they would have completely
agreed that this is not imagery that we can put out in orsino purpose and its just now just i endueth they would not so an so ye there was there was plenty of
that in iraq and you sort of had suggested take it in your stride because the next day you'd be up an there be the next story and you sortaient that but that
would still be in the back of your mind you know and then tikopians soon enough you know but if if you'll busy and you're doing a lot of sewing your sitting
around and not doing anything that's when you read again to think about stuff but if you busy your out nouradin so a week after that i would i was taking
anything and he was even viseing you know sent on to stuff i cannot marry why my being sent to do this you know am i didn't mind i just thought uptake it on
redhand ing round and yet to these your own turn sadly a absolutely you know and am in it also a weird daashed for his people that they haven't been there a
war on before to understand how things like what you talk about this obviously even anticipate your expects that there's the horror of war but teneretur lately
they as a hard thing for people understand that he you can be what the three months into this war and we've got the roaders staff having a staff party i mean
okay people in american oil the staff office party as he goes but i go in at worst a piazzas they do that they do not in these wars owns and end the military
does it the the i mean i am told about the bunch of these big bases that we had eventually build had subway sand which is of the company subway and the company
burger king and the company starbucks were on these bases so if you want to have a little subway party for your boys you could do that fire of the grill have
now so it's really a hard dicotomy for people understand that inside the livreted areas we can round little chunks of mercatus of freedom did you take a
picture of leras looking at the party yes i did the man proserpina he begin what they want great pictures because i'm the people so dark and it was i i took a
few and i saw an unaccustomed of his serve it with taking stuff as well you know an so ye i did an i i always thought about that i remember those pictures but
they didn't we didn't they wan't good enough i just i just didn't shoot it while enough you know i just didn't have the right lands and i just yet and here i i
think that was so sort of a inerat might have been as a result of what had happened early about a year and i have thought about that i have thought about this
and and and that that when it remains with me is a memory that i saw because i think you know i can't ayacanora so hard on taking pictures of you never
actually take anything in but that was a moment that i really want to take him because it was just incredible to see these people out on the roofs just
enjoying the music and not being afraid and you know somebody catlett's not happened in forty years and i just thought that was just incredible and those are
the people i talk about been ours i always end of drying doelan to people that there's that thermal citizen iraq is it normal person that wants to have a job
raised their kids have a house and as if they wanted to it's really hororotomaka doesn't terrible job of showing that i mean america media does a terrible job
of the showing what that is you all you see is the crazies all you see is the extremest but that's a great example of people going hanoe been pressed for forty
years there listened to music this is awesome let's what's watchemame and those that people that wanted to take iraq in the right direction umaria up getting
some pretty important i may not portant momentote for you indoose some pictures that did end up on the on the front pages of the dosimeter and a right it was
some coming off the back of another i made in story where it i'd been to a jaffar up follow a cleric who was coming back he'd been exiled forty years before by
saddam and ah he was coming back to najaf and i spent two or three days down there waiting for him and that hole sir norrie him turning up with thousands of
followers and being pushed into the moss scaared graph iron you know finding myself in the middle of the masculine just thinking what you know how do i get in
here it was just you know and and and that's what happens when you stand in front of the door and wait for the guy had pitten up you're just going to get taken
in with him so am and i done that and i'd really enjoy that yoannet anticipation waiting for this guide to turn up in it wasn't incredible moment am and we
would i left an unaccustomed en i had walked from the mass skin the juba to the hotel which was probably a mile you know i eident think twice i an my camera
garound he just didn't think twice about walking down that street and we got back into her amehican and we traveled back to bagdad and about three quarters
eyther we got a call and he said i need to turn off to an there's a a mass grave has been found a hiland you're on root or your gonpas it on the way back into
bagdad so can you stop off and have a look and my first rate malise shattered from the four days in the jortiter i was sort of slightly resigned about having
to inopiam really because we have to be back in thy dead before his dark and you know i just i had a reseated to it so we we found this place we pulled up and
a everyone had right he dies evolare forty minutes because but we got to be out of here before the sun's down so we got out and other thistlewaite this mound
and as i walked over the mounds to that with her at there was just hundreds of bodies just laid out in front of me and they'd been there i think it was
probably about four or five days as ink it was obvious hellonge betause how many bodies said they pulled out of the pit that they doubt there and was oposition
spot where saddam i'd taken them i don't know how many years before and they all been executed a just a bullet the back of the head all men and they were and
they they dug them up and pulled the bodies out and i imagine the relatives had obviously had an idea of where they were but they were never able to do
anything until you know they were in position by out of a liberated they felt it was safe enough now to go and try and i think they knew said dam was on the
run so unthettle were amexia this area and they frondlets bodies nepete bodies and plastic banks and they had a name tag on each body and an that when i
realized oktai is an diis probably quite while this is bigger than any other maskrade that i shot and during my time there so i satietie the light was going
down in the light was incredible it was just incredible the light on the sand and and everything and i just started shooting and i started shooting the women
that were sitting around the edge behind the bar wisitors me the women surrounded them when they finished taking the women bradlow through the bodies and try
no dentify family members and they were just picking up am i decaen i know trying to sort of figure out who was he and i i remember there was one really am
bizarrement was somebody had taken a body all watermains dot this the skeleton and the corpse and they laid it out in the shape of somebody just lying on the
ground it wasn't a case of the remains were putting to plastic bag they had actually almost constructed this person as they were and so they were laid out in
it look like a person lying on the ground with their arms out and their legs and the correct position and the head to one side a agramma young kit just walking
past holding his doubt and just staring at this and i thought that must be an unbelievable thing for a kid a age to be staring at an i remember taking that
picture and it am i remember thinking that is i i night ever seen anything like that and i thought somebody has actually gone to the trouble of trying to do
this i couldn't work out why and i thought why if they done this in a ii was pretty sure that it didn't help with the identification of that person but
somebody had gone to the trouble of laying this this corpse out so i shot that picture and and i sort of moving around and shooting the women and the women
were crying am and i shan't i substant found out they were only they were crying because i turned up with a contra so i had altered that situation and when
they realized that i was no longer interested in sheetiness they were they were crying because they thought this is what this retorted the sea and ye i just i
i they went back to plain with the dice and so i sollamme away at awirek any more picture that an ye and just shot and saw and they had and i know this is the
right word but remind me jocka's the american version of the jaci b o a back a back yoso they had a back out in this pit pulling out the bodies and heraulds
underneath collecting that the remains and disputant one side am and these kids were doing as if it was just another day you know it was not it was impossible
to see teritet was any sharp coroneting on with it they they was as if they knew this job has to be done so wigandia and here we just in a i member seeing a
skull roll off the ah the claws of this back or in earnest kidcote just called it like a goldbach a bookworm majus put it into a bag and her ye watched that
one i did not say shoot that one and then so it was a case of em getting the job done as quickly s possible getting back in the van and getting back to bagdad
and i go back to by gad and i moved i think four five images because i was never really a person to move a lot of metre i thought if i had some really good
stuff i didn't want a lot with stuff that i thought was in furious so i just put the four fight best in mines out and was his hanging around when the her a the
chief came in he said listen an how many pictures did you move of that story and i said may be four five and he surrebutter you bradmore because it's become a
number one story in the world and i think there was over two thousand bodies they discovered at this place on a course i then thought she okay right and then i
just sort of fight you panicked because of the wise just edited my staff he moved it pictures what am i now going to find in there that's going to improve the
fire so i went through my inmost on my computer screen is gottreich res and thinking ah genoa i really wish that i spend a little more time shooting that
moment because i chotiali generatim going to get something i bittner than that in a minute so i i just and i saw and then i see another image and i work it
through anything a cat i think the fourth imagine the sequins going to be the one and he realized that wasn't before image and i just kept saint orse what will
you doing and of course at the time i had no idea that this was going to be the number one during the world and so i ended up moving i think i ended up moving
may be fifteen pictures may be more from this and am every tie put a picture in a hat and etesiae me there i hadn't i may be approached the job as an in the
right manner i just had he seen the light an i shot what i thought would be really strong and like i say you know in my career i miss as many pictures as i get
in fact i miss more than i get in i can tell you about all the great pictures i didn't take in and that would make a great book and but so i was just really
angry with myself and angry that i had this opportunity and i may be blown it in a anfortas is why am here i'm here to shoot this i'm here to show the world at
this is why this is what happening and you know and anoche been so stupid as to not have concentrated a little bit or that one i was she and i know he only had
half an hour of forty minutes but still i could shall fight times as much in that time but i didn't i just chose to meticulously walked through pick my moments
and shoot them so we moved these pictures and fortunately the next day i think one of the ietan image of a woman in an her walking past a skull that was just
my children from really low down on the ground and it was really a an upright and that what suited most of the papers as an uredale and that was what good use
on all kneetime everywhere that just then washington post all the british newspapers everywhere around the world had run with this story and although we were
the first guy there there were a couple of other portographs that were there at the time an with me but they didn't work for e an international wiry since he
and has the beauty about workforce that their reach and the cloud is just the philomel ended as matter whether you're working for a newspaper but on as you
were fornisari nal wires particularly one as good as roses you you then realized actually on i got to picture it's really gonna get out there everybody is
going to see it you know and that he huge bus am and it did and it made an it made the play was incredible and then my chief said to me o kahawi you know you
were going back to to morrow and again i onlyest waust been there and i had pretty much the place to myself and i knew going down the next day when i drove
there it was a zoo there was just every fotografer and every cameraman in iraq was that hella and you couldn't shoot anything without getting another
photographer or cameraman or a sound boom because of the and under wet think i did take it up with pitchers a day some very strong a couple of strong pictures
of a woman had just discovered her husband and she was surrounded by a family and the bane of every portographs life is the sound man boom and this woman was
making this an she was there was a treatful way in a minister remember now was awful that noise she was making there was really gutteral and then it really
went right three and i remember being read down low and inclose and trying to fillgrave this and the next thing this very boom just come over at my cropheads
trying to record the sound and that's what it was like and you getting annoyed at a sound man who is just stepped in and trying to do something when you were
trying to anything i am getting an old or the gay whose trying to record a woman whose nipotina the depth of grief and i am an oidemia i'm not thinking while
listen what about her you know etherians you are not thinking about that you would just i need to i need to shoot this picture so yet m the next day it was
asounded i was able to stand back and think in o am i got lucky at yesterday and i learnt a really able lesson which is an gointer situation like that as if
you ll never gannasteton let that again i addentar back yet there was a chance if you could he said i know we can't make it we won't be home for four dark or
were just going to have a agatha and anacolutha right and but ultimately in that car that wasn't that probably wasn't going to be my call so the somebody in
the car on her i think i was a three or four others somebody at the maybe journalist might have been most senior in the cap in in their indiandom she would a
made that callon she would have just sedisti if this is what they want we need to go into it you know so am yet it came out o k at the end but ruit was that
was close but i had a one of for what i have glenmavis seaplane my leading patiatur reserved the sin you will marinetti her but the second senior of the listed
guy anyway he had this this montraient was always go out now when he said always go out what he meant was always go out to the barn always go out otoyo could
you pull into where for night go out you know that's always go out there's always some one to be at and i actually my mind i always twisted that montra from
his always go out to go to the bar gotobed i change its use always go out period so if there's no portunity thesmophorion go out if there's a if you if there's
a body to go out if there's something to do go and do it in this the little you know a little something to think about an remind when years in their santion
maybe maybe wouldn't have been your call but if it was your calm may be what a soft hat off and you you have the attitude of now what always go out okay an
then you would have been there hunters hell yes salute um in an you get i don't want to cut iraq short but at the same time let somuch stuff i want to talk you
about and hear other people will talk about but you get home from my rack and um you go back to your kind of normal daytoday you said you were you know you saw
some stuff but wasn't like a mad your psychological effect that you notice out of the gate you came home hathaway job i did my job um next call you git big
call is to go to shrieghed briefly there and in trigonae going because of the horrible sodomita hit on boxing day in american enlongated the day after
christmas and inland in a boxing day and you get the call to go out to see aco and shoot ye that was some i remember the the em the desk working on boxing day
called me and i was roundarm parents with my kids and we were all just about start opening christmas present and am she said carinthia plain any sterical umber
titled am starway i said her why and she said o inert and i said he what that she sat down on the v s i tell on the t v and to her it was like a line eleven
moment in owing you sitting in your letting you just think had no idea and is it by the way just to discharge some basic facts on this the senorita he ledenon
had the approximate energy of twenty three thousand hiroshima atombombs it was a magnitude nine point o the rupture was six hundred miles long it displaced
with sea for by ten yards six hundred miles ten yards so a trillions of the trillions of tons of rocks moved it the largest of greater years and within hours
the the kelloway starving and unfortunately because i lack communication and no warning systems in place people were just not they weren't prepared for it
throughout asia and they just got a rush absolutely crushed and do you know he said a nine eleven moment which i understand where you're coming from from a
psychological standpoint of hay i know what i was doing at this point on september eleventh well said timber eleventh was four thousand maybe five thousand
americans killed the surname resulted in almost a porter million den megisto massive destruction and you got the calls you at the call and it just happen to be
because i was the guy on cold jocelinda so it could have gone to any for thorpe in london an so and let the rod his head said the war there were togarog to
panchayat er places and they needed something of showing it because they they they had an idea that shinin pretty badly hit and because there was my name on
the scar for boxing day that's why i got the call and i ended up going out the following think was the twenty seventh i flew out and there yet just one of
those stories we have to hit the ground running so you're off a plain you get through customs and your strange car and your into the office and your speaking
to that the purity for there and the so right a here so we again and they are still trying to figure out what's happened and where they know that the most
severe damages and pretty much in a most icosameron hit so it didn't really matter where you went you are always going to find something so they were trying to
die i said i really want to get over to the other coast i don't want to get over to this stay here we were all to re come i want to get over to the other side
so we will it etrusco to the well get me straight over there but in the meantime while they were trying to wit that our i just got in the cane just drove down
from columbus strait down through gold to just see what was going on and again to get something on ter my belt and i just started shooting em and then came
back to the office eradeeba israelite i'd never been strike no an so ah go by to the office and i said listen an what happened with a chopper in a word the
unit not aping but there might be even government minister that's going to go across so myself in a gentle go in the car we went to the government to office
and an he was goin to get in a chopper and get over to the other side there be coastline but before he did that we were going to sit down have lunch i should
think any game listen general i relate on a sea and have lunch and why don't we just get in that shop and get yer but we had this had to go through this whole
rigmarole am and in eventually we got to the chopper and we got up for about three minutes and a store from came in shop acan back down so that was their
avenue of getting across and we would be there or so we had to work out another way so we er we drove to candy am in one of those that we weep we found a car
line who drove us from columbretes all the way through the centre of the chilanean dy and we got to candy and i remember that was me see on we got there myself
from the gentlest and it poinsinet to the genus that was with me she was flying back from a holiday and she heard about it norman she stopped off in chris e
was a lobby gunless that work for votes but am so she was used to do with that the politicians and am she just said listen o a genesthai need to missus story
that i need to cover em so she came in and she said listen in an i knew her my amy said the while what are you doing he is she said walkino can i be of help so
i said let go you know and we got a miss carl we went and and she had such an amazingly fresh take honest story like that purely because she was used to
covering lobby in and arbenin because she wasn't a seasoned so ef i do know a hostile environment generalist the way she would write stories and fine stories
was just like keith wouldn't have got it from it he set unow she just had a completely different angle on it so it was so refreshing to work with some one he
just saw everything from a completely different view point everything was new to her but that meant to her writing and everything was re fresh and vibrant
inner so she was an absent pleasure to work with and we sort of just seemed up and we got to the other side and as soon as we got to the other coast it the it
flooded the whole area flooded which men no one could get in to that side of sallenche had that place to ourselves for over a week and we were staying in a
hotel where the floors were just two feet high and water the input they still managed to get us rice every night a man it was just incredible how these people
just managed and a curse you get out there in your you you have a carita w where we got so lettest walked down to the coast line and unless just see what the
situation is in a course you go down as i am as a westerner and and these people just think that you you can help them so their coming up in a showy
documentation and their possible and can you take this to the american embassy and can we get off the country and i have i have relatives that live in the
ocean resistive in america and i can leave it in and he let you i never felt so helpless in my life never felt so helpless and then i spent a far manetime a
tuarick and back in the day and i wesermann people are just the nice is yet absolutely kind is reborn the hard working i missus to is just a beautiful ended in
a countryside itself is absolutely stunning youtiful and so as i can imagine them do we going jumpin through hoops and do her to have to do to get you a bowl
arise when you came home and i and sentinel and then you would meet the people that were living on the beach the homes on the beach and they've been hit by the
way and termite were just immediately immediately rebuilding it was just okay listen disgouted and they start rebuilding and i'll never forget wandering round
an at that point on the on the tip am on the eastern tip and i found a just a was a wall just the a wall left of a house so i may in ever the wall where there
was the door and everything else had gone at one brick wall is feminine and if you sort of walked through this door you just saw gold sand and pantry and there
was a dresser just a one wooden dresser egg against his by all and the young eye came up to me and he said he said a m but if it's all for and where are you
from and to be usual and i sort o got calling to him and he said come i get you a drink and i said a elian unrefined seriously thibout a mimosa find bethink
you he said in an elision to the store which was about a mile in land in ye and i can get you a diet co cora coat whatever it is i supplice listen i am i'm
serisy i'm absolving he said a cable please sit and he pulled up a crate and we just sat at the absenting in what used to be his main room of his house and he
put the gets the great lets me sit on it and then heterocerus up leon up try and he just pulls a cone of the top of tree shames backed down and i be thinking
really don't like again i but because it really it doesn't agree with me so i just thought okay but you know you can't do this effort see cut down this any
took the top off and then he went to the dresser and he opened the drawer and he pulled out a tiny silver platter and he put the coin on the platter and then
he handed it to me an aideen got a straw and he put a string he so please you know you're in my home and i am looking at the one wall that's left of his home
with his dress and so i take your simpering and i said so tell me what you mean i this is your home that ever i mean you know that the water was twenty five
feet away there's the golden sand i said what happened and he set at the wave came in and then destroyed my house and it took away my parents my wife my
brothers and sisters and my six kids they're gone and all hakatika of is that he has tried to find somewhere for me to say it it's gone a petre to get me a
cook in a and put on a silver platter the early thing that is left in his house is this chest a drawers it with its silver platter and he is more concerned
about my welfare at that moment and this is what had happened to him about five days only and i remember thinking when i got back from shall anger i couldn't
stop thinking about that conversation and i think that was the time when it really hit me it really had me about what had happened and i can't even begin to
describe either i think i had a number similitudinum nous that i had had in iraq but this was a different kind of numbers because the the thing about this
onomies would dealing with the living and it was the living that affected you it wasn't the death and it wasn't the the body said a been swept a mile inland
and ended up in people's houses and stuff like that it was that wasn't the the way in or you would cover the funerals of all the difference religious type
there you just it's when you'll speaking to the people that survived but you it it was a real a real love in her and then well that just about the sum sir my
you that story about that guy and i mean first of all anybody that here is that story as to think themselves you know am i really doing the best i can to
number one have a positive attitude number to put other people before me i mean what a what a wound a saint and that just believe in remember actually as you
were telling that story i remember that when i was in true all crow there was guy that he they had been fighting a war at the tapirs from in years and so we
that's who we were working with these guys and they would they would be telling these war stories with and in be showing you and of a guy that couldn't move
his an right i got shopping on with an ache for the seven to now he was working as well as like a secretary in the in the army and he is cohesion his face and
he tell me ye ah you know and and i i got shot and not my arm doesn't work but am you know being a secretaries a pretty a pretty good job too and and it just
good to still be in the army and you just have this this oh this feeling her papetier feeling you have reasoning at these people her saying how can you be so
happy yes and why can i be the long to be that happy but this is it's just so impressive and it puts everything in so much perspective with her about somebody
that's lost that much that's going to climb that tree that's going a climb that tree for somebody else even though they've lost everything themselves is a
humbling so so aria so did you live when you came home and you now you tell me about this earlier um and you just kind o get me to a you felt like after a
shrine you go to rack and you see the war and that's that's one thing and like you said your dealing with the dead and you're seeing people that were killed
but now you're dealing with the what's left behind it an you said that that really had more of an impact on you then then i race or the northern island it is
did you owe you how did you deal with that well the roads his policy is that some wind when you arrived back from a situation i that you'll lie major and you a
number he quite discreetly and says there's a number there if you need to call it am and it's a sort of help line nines said of you have talked or a
professional about what you've been through and as a sort of wave as i imagine any aubade breath sort of the theseus of ee that you stop to talk about what it
is you i don't know i've never been in a situation like that i don't know what happens but i remember thinking i'm fine i don't eat that that's all an so ah
again i couldn't have been more wrong and am i ended up i had no master i mean may be a couple of years afterwards really really besiegements the vault cameras
and involved tideways i mean that that the sort of the mix that was going on i mean if as was visit down in talk to professional about it they they they might
find it real interesting what was going on in my head but i had to i came back really angry i remember coming by angry and for the main reason being that i was
coming back to my comfortable home and i thought about those miners living on the river bank in london and i the reward of a happened if the tents suddenly
when i just completely stated the barriers broke and just water just how we the for ye wouldn't be you wouldn't know what were to start he just wouldn't know
what to do and you sit and these people in a we have lots of floods and england now am and what people go through i can understand this completely enough to be
miserable but that the carpet or being ruined and and all this sort of stuff and them yet i wouldn't want to go through that but you know when ye when you
compare that to what happens during a sinnamenta day it really is and so i go angry about coming back to live in a comfortable house and i used to you angry
that my cellar flooded in stratum where i lived i have big cellar where i had my drunken it flooded once and my wife tear she was down there with my daughter
and she was enduing my drunken out of three four inches of seetuation into an n and them i responsible for her hearing her back but she should never have done
it but she was trying to get my at all my equipment of the floor and i remember being so angry that my caller had flooded and then you go to some metalline and
he think actually come on i put this imperfect ive an so ye the anger i am i think it took a while to may be fight take in my line manages advice i that for
number i might have been in a different place and it might have happy now i might have got to a different place a lot quicker but i didn't i i thought i can
handle this and them and even while i wasn't handling it i didn't know i wasn't handling it in no i just thought this is no more that you come back from these
events and just yet yet yet yet yet yet yet yet gecko wife who is dealing with three rollmaus kids and there's you in one ear as in a given all this about your
dreams and he now flooding and there and there and i'm really annoyed and i should have stayed out here longer and wider papering me back so weary i had so
many other stories lined up and i and a course you know it then on me in a actually m my wife was my sigiri and to be fair she wasn't actually having to say
anything she was just listening and it was a case of me needing to just get all this stuff off my chest and i would just pick the bazaars moments to the
youknow am but some of the propino my head and and and then ye i'd have friend round and something would set me off on my donander thing you know and it was a
bit like that am so yes i would say if maybe i'd been silence did not they with said yourself in from some post romatic stress am and i didn't experience that
after a rack and i don't know why i i think maybe it was because i thought of war as the completely different to what you would maybe categories an active god
so am that in a way i found quite interesting or was what happened when i got back from the sonoma combination of o what happened in the rack but i'd been to
rack and at the end of the embete iraq and as enormia spent nine weeks in australia for the groping deep ruby welcom and that was a pretty good gig and i'd had
a great time so the the there was that sort of huge job in between these other two huge jobs and i am wondering maybe the de distraction year had had he had
helped in nome i i was too busy thinking about something else i was nine weeks on a tool in australia and amazing country having a great time shooting the
rubbell cot which england then went on to win so a year it was so i don't know i really enter the day an niven but some yes dealing with that anointing as i
was working for an the b b c in de by a into thousand ten and i was working with a producer ham and it was a series caimanes and i was able eingsmill for the
book that was going to come out with the series and we were out with this falkiner indivisa guy with a foot who trained for a waste end of the sheet and we
were out and we were having a meal and the produce e asked me eaking you've got some he now an incredible stories widing etalent story about the son army i
thought well that's a real besatined to stop talking about at the end of the meal were with celebrating finishing a shot but i obliged and i i know i can't
even remember i started talking in that effectual table just then utter silence i mean they were in thrilled but ah in the end the producer came up to me after
as any said i really sorry there i asked you to talk about that because he said i can see that every time that you must talk about it you locate of yourself
you you know it's so intrenched in you when you talk about it i know you'll giving palouse away an he said to rearouse you at position and it never occurred to
me it was that was happening we he could tell that by watching her i was with talking about it in her i don't know if that's the case now but i don't tend to
talk about it purely because it was two thousand four and you know a lot of happened between then and now and says not something that i sit down with a regular
basis and talk to people about so but i can imagine that even now probably some point it probably just a tiny bit may be similar but not like it was close but
that was to dalton that was six years afterwards and he still sported her it was in a still very high in my said a psyche there i think it's any gets somewhat
therapeutic to talk about yet i turn in and i think the more you talk if if that i asked you the same question once a week and you told that story once a week
and you got more in depth with it and come and wrapper on it i think that's good for you and you know they talk about that too up i do the veterans and world
war too when you when you came home from more board to first you been a war for three or four years and when you came home you got on to a ship with a bunch of
the guy that just did would you did and what did you do you talked you talk through stuff you told stories you cried you let it out and by the time they got
home two weeks later they just had this therapeutics right and that's why they said that these guys were covered what better well in vietnam here in the middle
of the war and then one day eretria of three hundred and sixty five days you get on a plane and twenty four hours later your sitting in main street you as a
you indeed ref anybody you didn't talk then but in a way home you're just went from that environment to to to the normal environment and as my one of my
subuddhi's you said one time i can't believe in tony four hours only get you inside of an ooman him to a new word at me back or old and and that's true so ah i
think if you can find your friends or old people that you could talk about these things with it helps you and then that what you said to when you hold to your
lovely wife what was going on that's how it is i was listen son half the tonsils to do was lesser and let you explain those nossum rough and then the next
biggest simonin we talked about a bunch of different things that you've done but one of the things and i always get bedrowned to things that i know a little
bit about or something that i've seen um an in a now that you and did up going to liberia as well and i did i was on the stand by was actually off the coast of
liberia in the late nineties for want things were just going completely sideways and i pulled up a little article that captures some of the madness that was
going on in liberia does an article from the guardian by christmas greathearts are you can sight a commander in charles taylor charles taylors malicious of
charleston was his sciatic dictator of liberia militia has told a war crimes trial but the former liberian president ordered his fighters to eat their enemies
including you and peacekeepers as a means of terrorising the population joseph zigzag marsa chief of operations for taylor who was on trial at the hague also
testified that he oversaw horrificis such as cutting the babies out of pregnant women and that the former president told his men that their enemies are no
longer human beings taylor fifty nine is pled not guilty to leven count of war crimes and crimes against humanity at a special international court over his
collaboration with anti government revels in searly yone which borders liberia maria this is his chief of operations who led the death squad of go group of
killers said many of the victims of cannibalism were members of the crown people of the then liberian president samuel dough who tailor was attempting to
overthrow but those eaten also included soldiers from u n and west african echo magpie keeping forces he said we should eat them even the un white people he
said we can use them as pork to eat marital the court we ate a few comoedies but not many but many were executed about the sixty eight he had taylor said
eating people set example for the people to be afraid heyler's defense lawyer asked marzolo fighters with prepare a human being for the pot the former
commander described decapitating carving up cleaning and cooking corpses seasoned with salt and pepper we slit your throat but you you throw away the head take
the flesh and put it in a pot charles taylor knows that said mara he told the court how rebel leaders who fell out with taylor meditare end the former
commander described this membering the body of another revolaver known a superman and then taking his hand to taylor who gave him cigarette money in return
marcasite paraded cooked up and ate superman's liver mars said that he killed so many men women and children he had lost count he described drowning in
blonging in babies to death and murdering women with pen knives he said when he was serving tailors revel national patriotic fan of liberia he distabit
checkpoint on roads using human intestines and severed heads mounted on sticks asked weather tailor knew about this marsarla he was aware he made us understand
that you have to play with human blood solet enemies would be afraid asked how he felt about these actions now marse said i regret nothing sorry i pologize
that is that is our lifetime that is me that this me sitting off the coast of liberia all this was happening hayneses it's just sick and in anything you know
tales over thine in two thousand and three obviously the country still bears the scars of that kind of darkness and evil in natsume thing you talked about
earlier was the fact that your perspective in this is what i think i find very interesting about your perspective is that i'm always talking and exploring and
studying the point of war where its happening and you end up in these places may be your a daein may be your weak behind maybe you're a foot behind may be your
mild behind but years seeing what the after effects of wares and i think that that perspective for all must one is very important so and i knew you were there
what will you were there again in the you are then what your two thousand and the twelve yes if this is of mean it was never is never exactly a a gonave most
peaceful place in the world but it was relatively stable comparatus when it was under tailor yet um in a i'll tell you what this is one thing that when i when
we would at your offcoast of librarian and you're looking at the coast and you can see the customer were loyal a couple of miles off shore looking at the coast
and i can see that there's a wave breaking some kind of thinking your mosservitch any you those of lictores and then you can see their bildnisse kind of hotel
you can see this beautiful white beach you can see it looks like a just beautiful place i'm thinking of myself i need to go here on a on a surf trip and then
eventually you know looking as for a few hours we get all the closer sortent a little bit more what i'm looking at and eventually i get out the big giant
optics to to study where we might be landing and what's going on there and when i look through his offics the whole picture changed because now you see all
these buildings that looked like the litery looked like big beautiful you know beach um what's what is what's a big beech hotel called a monastery yes
something like them along a surfeit resorts they looked like these day jack resorts and as i put the big office answered looking all the their just completely
gutted there destroyed its just a nightmare and it so horrible to see such a beautiful place just completely destroyed by a spaeman by fellow human beings have
just completely destroyed it um what did you notice on what did you what did you what was it like when you were there gives a deep refondue twelve i'm i mean i
just make me mention this hotels i remember taking a trip out to the beaches and just walking in on the beaters for a couple of hours andes looking at these
places thinking what's gone here i mean my overriding is it just at the countryseat ed i mean and it still am i mean i was there working for an indio i there
was certain eriostemon things that they wanted covered arm and i had the opportunity on or on a couple of days to basely in lateranus take it a fixer and just
go and do my own staff and am on that particular trip that's when i actually shot the pictures up i thought were really quinton an from that but that was that
was looking at a sort of liberia as a whole the but i was only in one rosie but i had this picture of i mean we traveled down to the river county and a grand
gether i mean just stunningly stunningly beautiful passioun try i mean just ridiculous he hiveful an and the sort of the difference between living in the
country and may be living in monrovia wits with so tangible i mean monrovia was it the the infrastructure has just completely disappeared and i i can't
remember the figures but i just remember being blown away by the fact that the town was built for say hypothetically a million and a something like five
million living in it i mean those figures are correct but it's it that sort of scale that was just mind blank am and it was such a shame because his such a
etsch a bewful country the liberians are such beautiful people and yet you you you had to overriding sense that are ever going to escape this is this the lake
sea is it goin to stay with liberia are they are ever going to be able to pull themselves out there are such a poor country am and i remember looking at areas
where money was being spent and unawaking myself why why are you spending money here why making the roads that side the mayor's office look pristine when the
the the the inside of monrovia is the state that it is there's the west point slum in it was is why the biggest slums there and then and i remember walking
through that i never once set intimidated am these were just incredibly vibrant places but the conditions that the people were living in their version of
normality was an iacchion till that picture he just couldn't stay it just couldn't shoot as i masetto that story properly i think in its woe this rare times
when i've had a cameron my hand i think i itigailit story with with a camera i don't know why i can tell it with but i can't tollit was canelieus it that the
conditions were so teardrops so dreadful and i mean the way monrovia built it sort of slightly on a hill and and and it rains a lot in my beeriand white apes
as the rain falls off the concrete and when it rains is me it really rains and it creates just torrents and these torrents tis drop off the roads of monrovia
and they go down into the slums and they hit the lamps before they hit the sea and the sandy slums ere i mean an there they flood at certain times of the year
and yet the people are at the expected they know it's going to happen so i am spending some time in in westport sumwat am a young man and his family and he is
er a health adviser any has two daughters and a brathwaite doctors and he is describing the the conditions that their living in em and what they have to go
through every day and imeeose illy were walking through an rover you can see the sanitary conditions and the lavatories at those just its its beyond the leaf
it really is and er you know there are thirteen that go straight into the river and that there just corrugated letterin with a door when you disco in and and
and the suddetto the river and three feet away the kids a just playing around in that river the way our kids would clarendel no idea of what is going through
their systems and and and of course when you catch something like this entry or typhoid ether one of the biggest killers of kids in africa an and and and you
look at it you think how this is such a vicious circle how they ever got a come out of this however ganoid away to list themselves up because his such a poor
country but they sort of make do with the situation that there in an then the slum floods and they say oh yet it's goin to flood and although wist where
forefeet off the ground and we've got steps coming up to our onis gonna flugins connacian so we have to just put what we sleep on on the still you know but
they getting up in the morning stepping into it and coming out and then you know they don't have wellington's eye just waved their way through it and this goes
on for and he said there i was there in august and he said flechere this is nothing and so i was awail it isolates self in and the time and i just went to the
hat on i just wanted to fotograf i i just wanted to try in some way to explain what it was i was looking at and i wasn't shooting it for any one in mind i mean
the endiott ke away images and they they have their faces to all my mature that shoot whether i'm shooting it for them or whether i just gone off piece so to
speak to show so they get upsley am and i was trying to find a way to document oughtta that you could see and am i was really struggling until there was one
moment when m a s wandering through the lamb the flooded slam and i was up to my knees and sirius were walking through between the corrugated huts and a little
flush of pink in front of me an a i saw this young girl said of just gabiti two buildings and she was carrying a pink umbrella i remember thinking oh there's a
epicure of mist so am i asked the young doctor who was accompanying me through the army said in a was the deal on he said i she's probably after church
something in a hecate in her sunday best affectedly with her perfect little shoes and escort and her pink her brother an so i thought nothing of it he carried
on shot some more pictures and i thought actually i got up i got quite a lot of stuff here none of it has really think in this is really strong you know and
then on the way back to the car i saw the little flash of pink again and fronted me and it disappeared and i thought why will this time i'm not a locking up so
i just started to run through this you know you can imagine if you're running through two for the series she well it sir not the greatest sin in the world for
your tronic stop ye cameras from going in in your trent and there's a couple of times i nearly went head first in but i was so desperate to try and take a
picture of this on my image had a head with when when she comes back through that cord on comes back into this main corridor with that i may know water i'm
going to just shoot her from behind like a merry pope stuck a picture and the contrast for me was this beautiful little girl in this situation in this with a
pink abella in this horrendous slum situation and there she was and by the time an she disappeared again as you so the sisters from my day and then she had
obviously heard me running and she sort of pop out again and just turned around and it was almost like a little bank of sand that she was standing on between
two huts and there was about a fufetta of water in front of her and she just turned round and looked at me as if yes what you want an i just took one picture
and then click and that was it and and and desecrate the picture she just turned on her hills and just walked off and tipped him in her way there was me in the
middle of his he so i but she was finding these delicate way round just like mary pitons of a dinner and and i didn't read on as i thought okay i hope that
sharp because i'm shooting on a man uprises and you know when you got one shot at it you just really hope that you got a sharp in now am i because i i have
been in that situation where i had once oulinpore sharp am and those in missus want me so am i got back to her cell and the end still working on the t v filmed
that they were doing i put it laponian up and i looked at it and i just thought while here the that is how i want to remember liberia i don't wonder remember
as this place that has been is the irate am i wonder remember it for the beauty that it has within its innate human beautifully humanity there that's what i
wanted to show because i don't want come way from places and shoot images of people at their expense i'm just this not me i'm biting the menaces of majestic
species and if i out there and i want to shoot this i want to show it because it's there it's everywhere and you just have to see it you just see it and you go
that suwarora should look like and and even in the worst the worst conditions imaginable e there and that picture was it for me from my very and that i have
pictured from my beria that i keep but that's the one but i'm really proud of because it was sharp thank god am but it just her beauty in that mess was what i
wanted to remember and it uses you as here you look for it it's it's everywhere you just have to you have to want to find it easy to just go in there and shoot
what's obvious you know it's like something you goniatites shooting fish in a bowl and it's there point camera shot but you just got in a if you looking for it
you'll find it in no keep your eyes peeled yet and you from there you ended up also going to south seven then again just just a place of complete for darkness
um for those either don't know anything about sedan pueli le cliff from the independent a guide named this two thousand fourteenth seamon fenton wrote theirs
more than a hundred children had been killed in south sudanese others have been rapt and castrated recording to unissaient says it a hundred and twenty nine
children have been buried in the last three weeks alone while surviving poise were castrated girls were raped they say that some children were even thrown into
burning buildings the executive director of unuse anthony lake said the violence against children in south sagan as reached a new level of brutality the
details of the worsting violence against children are unspeakable but we must speak of them survivors report that boys had been castoridae o bleateth girls
young as eight and then gangadhara children have been tied together before their attackers slit their throats others have been thrown into burdenings just a
nightmare snare any and you and on a clarify one thing your work conferences is don't know what that is it's a non government organization generally you're
talking about some kind of a benevolent organization that is trying to do good in the world such as the red cross is a tale premarital and now you are
specifically working for the red cross but you are working for another benevolent organization when they called you up and brought you down to southside and
again the arnot for the most part going to the fort in an caption the action of the war what year capturing is the results of the war shall it would you see
when you got to when he got his tianae lined you but am and tewawha we will looking at were the uncas so the situation in sorted was that the two tribes that
dinarii inneraora at war with each other and then there was a lot of fighting and killing going on and what the un was trying to do an was saragate the tribes
from each other in certain areas so that they just stop killing each other an because until the killing stopped then really the politically they would never
gonnaerea the president and avice present at work one was a dance and one was innuender was happening between them was being married you know on the street so
to speak so and there was never any trust between those two men they have a lot erior and there was never too much trust so ah it was er inowe they got her
independence i think sadamori years it been independent three years saterday so am we were visiting at the camps that were the new had siccated the tribes and
jube was probably the most ah aggressive camp and that the only time we ever had any trouble was may be of some copleston they want to know he will you doing
here i know in this place why you here what why you taking a ead we have remembers these people don't want to be foraged in this situation this is not a good
situation for them and it's very easy as it as a as a gentlest ascent situation so yet i have to document this and i have to show what's going on but you have
to understand that the dignity of these people needs to be taken into consideration and you know some people are fine that their fine sold let you foregrip the
get yet while this is where i am at the moment and so yet i'm quite happy for you to to followable in anothers quite plainly art so am apart from thee i the or
a criteria that thee there the endesthora endo was effectively providing water for these camps because a annatto hadsomest of desolation process and they were
able to put produce water on a regular basis or for the camps but the situation then the count was increditable and again in it vectores of so aripple being
cramped on to the each other and then you know that he had disease is spread and i know so on so we ah we then i there were aby certain parts of a sortirai
wanted to travel to because i knew that the situation in it up in those parts the country was it was even worse than in nogueras relatively stable compared the
two other parts of siddonian carbenia i wanted to get to and has a lot of oil up there and both tried to try to conthert you of us for the need to get hold of
and ten and as we were sort of i see listened go there and the end security receive came because this fighting and we don't we not allowing staff the fly in a
nonette any time aid is getting to these places is there is helicopters but no one's touch in the ground and you know an nthe angio m or fairy hot answer quite
i mean its oxen that the endoore and there incredibly a professional ganization and their very hearts security am and any where you go if you go to any country
working frock fan the first thing you get is a security briefing and they tell you what the situation is or you can account to whether advise that we don't go
and these are the regulations in the stipulations that they make you have to itherto them because you are there as a emprosaen though i'm a free lance
racontent do what i like you have to really sort of bear in mind that you are a there working with axanda and ax him staff of travelled out from the uce with
you so you really can't you go of peace and start doing what you like because you could put other people's lies unnecesary so everywhere an we wanted to go i
particularly want to go we couldn't and it was just always the case i want go here no he can't go there but you can go here so we ended up travelling to aries
that once were they the resiste security risk was pretty low am and these were camps you and camps are you and mission counts that um ah what created to two
where the fighting was at his worst and they were trying to stop the tribes some killing each other and and one of the places we went to which i will never
forget to place called ball and ah we shall have flew in m in a small plain and we opsitting was ellicot to her than a small plain and fortunianus to drive an
peers i been on a few journeys through africa in a beten forty hours in a car where this no road and so we were grateful to be able to fly in and you could not
waysides get in that may be a you and helicopter that was dropping something and we just get in there a fly it with him and we got to this place and ten ox
farewell working there and they were providing water and they had the situation where withereth camp was the count was being run by the carrettieri ans and
they were so of the they were physically building the camp and they were in charge of it the time and and they had created this space may be the size of tode
british forpits olatare couple of american fortwith simpers of thing as said the forfeited on an inisha south sudanese a day with their new a tribe living in
here and you had you had wealthy an you had middle class in you had very poor living along side other in the camp or there was a real mixtie in the camp and
oxamide water and there was a huge reservoir at wasn't a res of white it was just a huge pit of water they constament and every time it rained it with flood
and flood into the camp so they were having to control that and keep making sure that that never got flooded and that same time they were producing water with
this filtration system in providing pumps that people could you know an anabasis sent listen if you want to come to the pumperwasser you go learn how to clean
your bucket so they wouldn't so they would in installing discipline into them at so you know and redboat that absolutely and am so but it wasn't as simple as a
turning up with i was ever to fill make her a genus and myself that the three of us and it wasn't as simple as just marching into the camp in saying he were
oxamine were here to take in pacience suffer even though oxen working in a caase so we had to go through the roof of talking to the elder and the elder was a
doctor who worked in canada had come all the way back from canada and he described his journey to me of how he got to bore in suttinan from canada and i
thought it was bad enough me coming from london he throve to get the outside was just i think it took him eleven days of pure travel to get from kate a was it
was unbelievable for emplanted traffic on the fore totally it was it was just it was humbling and er he was there to address he his mother and and get her sang
and ah this was a camp so we had to talk to any one of the new little bit about us and he said that you find lycoming what we done any generosities just come
here and they do their story and they leave at our expense and we don't have that but you with your riding water you go so come in and so we had camlachie
through the camp and to win and everybody knew the elder has granted these these guys are cool there find gibelike so i this was a camp that had been attacked
by but the dinari a month earlier and it in otototoi cure it even imagine the two foot ball pitchers an yo had the e had the uncomputed within the encamp there
was this other camp that they were living in and it had a perimeter around it there was just a lie and a premature and of about the size toothaches and they
were wanting the categories were meant to be building another space because the lettering said collapse because of the rain and a inerit was just it was it was
that the conditions were a were a bondable but this perimeter was on the outsides drumatis diner land and the dinkershein and they had attacked one night they
had just stilly on the outside over the fence and with machine guns just shot away and they killed a hundred of the tribe women children kids i mean we were
told to kiss where bullets were coming through the mean they just live in it a its literally a couple of bamboos and and some just white material that what
these people were living in it but if you went into these homes they created they were just spotless inside and then you realize again the dignity that you
know you have to be you just have to be so careful as you you done wonder on gunholes you know that these thereover they these are very proud people and her
esitation they will at an what's more they can't get out because if they try and leave this camp they'll just de'tit be shot that i er am by the opposing tribe
and it was like that throughout sedan so it didn't it wasn't asserius one tripping protected it was the diner in one county was new ran the other and there had
been protection other and ten they were i remember said orde opetide noticed the the state of their lives or their fear ever being etched on their faces
wherever you travelled and if this is one place that i saw it it was in this camp am and they were petrified at this was going to happen again am because the
the un hadn't reacted in time when the first a take happened an answer they just thought this is just garangan and who's goin a protector and ah that is he
again a situation where you are thinking when i leave this place i'm getting on my plan and i'm going to flathead yet they are still gannab in that camp and
they are still not going to be able to leave and in this camp you talking to young eyes that were professionals working in tuburneet yes that was the closest i
had as an experience to selina was satiant in you brought that attitude call and your next as usual he your next assignment has shot ardlaugh was something
that you had scheduled a six months prior sadowa i'm i'm an agoust take a breeder when you do shoot wimbleton and the ten is turn ameaning land will you grass
courts you schedule that in the mean time you you go to sedan you experience this when you get home and this is just on your own you just gedult for yourself
to etletuen the shelf ye on commission and you brought this back with you in and what what did that do to your your wimbleton shoot a well original i umi think
it was a couple of weeks before wimbleton and them i was not in his lightest bit interested in going to chethter and i gantalla this trouble to get this
accreditations and be the there fotografer that runs to wimbledon is also a very very hundred specters bostonese runs the ptolemaic and he said cerelian am i
we have a few of comin and shoot whatever it is you want to shoot a and i go to all that trouble to get there and he'd given it his blessing and i thought
actinometer said popinot relevance is cause i've just been in sancionando le in these camps and the idea of going to eblanse think people eating drinking
champagne in eastroyd and cram it the really has a just a tattered like to call a rough crather yeah am and an untoothsome commission so in as a free lance
self commissioning and not only any money to not really the greatest to dear in the world but an but overtime as we got closer i just adonaite okay maybe young
i'll go in de the so i went for the first couple of days and a i just i have an idea i wanted to see if we wild's had any charm because i went with my dad when
i was ten years old and i never forgot it i got to see or macao and peter peter fleming for yet peetiful i make no informing her play doubles and i bumping
laid a pretty tenniscourt time a just and an i just remember thinking that was a magic laughter name i had with my dad for my birthday when i was ten years old
an let's see if wombwell have that magic i bearing in mind that i had shot fifteen wimbledon's previously in my career as a professional sitting on court
shooing the tennis in i i was there benvenue i first i was there when roderfort sand prosono the seminal moments since bought so i just wanted to see that any
cantata was my original intention when i got the prostrations expostulate complete went out the window i wasn't interested onbleasant charm or not i just
thought i am going to go out and connatural those people that come that just get can get it the cheapest ticket and get in and just wander around the outside
court i don't want to see it tonsley i don't want to go any one other show courts and i just want to see what is like to be upon trecase when i came up when i
was ten years old that's all i was with my dad we would just to pontostomatous to sneak two tickets to get into shoot to see baconising played doubles so in a
way i sumwhat i may be twenty seven it over it sir i think so betide really go out of my head so i i turned up in it just start a walking around and er the my
essited was what in a the doesn't matter if i don't get a picture because who's gone to shout at me who is going to say kawaehae ye got for they to know one
only me so i just might my mind so changed dramatically and i just tottering around i remember are you to hang around in the i'd accept prepossesing immediate
a hall with where my all my mates were working you know slugging sout covering the tenisci soured glamorous ah but it's it's full on shooting tenait one would
an i really is full on and ten they just she say he can't you hang around in the calf out as a year and no because i'm just winfrith and ascance where he is
you know i and hall god of going in i cantocarrero hours and then andy mary's goin to come on a plain the ruscinia if he thoughten o'clock ah i really here
i'll be gone by six you know cause the light will have gone then and they'd be no need for me to be here now nohant er cup of coffee and wander out and just
wander round and i just had one camera and one land just as small like and a thirty five mile and um i'd wander in wonder wonder and first up the day didn't
get anything i thought okay so i decided i caletor and i went on day three and i remember walking round and what had happened at this womblety occasionally
build new court and when they building you caught it means the dynamics of the area since last year have changed so and walls have gone up and an inawindows
they put sort of green sheeting practick heavy sheeting across to sort of bellini this is a new court well what that means is that the security guards who are
employed who are just young dies oino some a job in no their employed they haven't got a clue what the donamore of this calcasti cart erexit ed this year and
all these new things have been pruneface and so i remember just coming round the corner and i saw this guy standing with his face right up to the green baize
like this i thought it as if he'd been sent to the northeast is it in a face the wall somewhat is going on here but i i sold at watching it i took a few
pictures african he's got over the closer here and as i did that somebody else will pass me and just went straight up to the wall and put there is i vood i
must be her pen pricks in her material the allows them to put their eye right up to anaise the whole court and in i dought thereas what they do i can right i
get in out of the wall onneyote people so just do this and i got a picture so as i'm doing this as i'm waiting for this moment to evolve an thinking i had got
a pitcher when willem and this you be my first saw ingener i'm going to let this one mature and see he happens and as i did that this guy turned up young
ituera prim and he takes his kid added bramin his kit has is shock of red hair and his may be at mont old no maybe hear all he bolder he had but a year old
still a really tiny baby and his wife walked passed and his wife go to join the three other people the peering through like this and i thought capricious for
people nereis and then i don't want this kyong with it fatentes abies got such an amazing shock of red hair it looked at assagais the green to have got it just
was on to happen every sky just picked the baby up and shoved the baby's head over the top of the base and before i took a picture i thought why he doing that
ciceter baby can't see anything and you certainly and i think in his mind he thought if i shove the baby's head over the top i'll be able to see something as
if it was like a periscope of his italian it was so bizarre and he kept it then i thought it antinatural so i took this picture and as it othaire there was an
old boy taneha me sending programs and heman isomeric you've got there and i thought yet is unless i'm just going a see something else happens with the baby
you know that i don't know what's going to abit didn't and i had my picture but what i really wanted was to have been on the other side of that court and just
seen that baby's hair arove the top so that was my first picture and i thought i kaethi has an that hinono get one on abel and build on it and i thought that's
a very funny picture that is how i am going to look at this story i am going to find at the humorous elements of being upon in wimbledon and i want to shoot it
as if you wetawhoo look at the pictures you think why has he shot that picture with those two heads in the way and i can only just see that tennis clare and i
my my point is it well if you're upon sir at winton dissect how you see it you onchees the upon absolutely yet am so and unmothered are the you just walk
around and stand so you always operating and and try to see and i just thought an anacosti had very really look through the camera i see it uation and just got
thankibus i didn't care i actually didn't care whether i go anything that was any good i just thought you know this is a nice feeling to just wander round and
just clipped away and and i wasn't framing anything i was framing but the framing in a way for a purpose but i didn't care and at not sally said to me is that
a result of two weeks it when women i would have said here i know i don't care a i i really really don't care so that was that was the attitude with which am i
shalit and um yes so the finish sister very so come that was june twenty fourteen and come january twenty fifteen other big in the world affections and the
world press foewards and i the world we oarlike the year the asker las year o for feels a me there the big ones and then and i remember and i was a young kid i
was used to print my stuff up you know when i was starting in sanded in and then look at the stuff and go widin womany thing well that's because in it my stuff
as his crap ar a ididn't win anything so i soleton entering competitions when i resigned from roses and two thousand eight it just did really interest me any
more but a friend of mine ring me up and he said ye have entered these oneness into what preseruation he said or can you got he got to there amazing patroni
thought will ulte only one that thinks that there are mazing pictures i was happy with them but you know and he said none an o dirt so i did and i had a supeen
pictures and i found fourteen images that would potential and i got down to seven and i know i call tearin and i said the tearless we go to find another three
pictures of this these five or six which three do you think she's going to be sin and tear said that one that one and that oversecret was it in any went and to
behold it on soberanos yes and and the irony of history was a self commission yourself and earn no money and you in a bigger wadoor one more thing before he
after the apanton more serious of images that you talk in a retort to offer the poem the poem is called repatriation that i'm just going to do it exert the
coffin draped in union jack is slowly carried out the back out of the dark and into the light slowly down the ramp and to the right the sixth approached the
hearse all black and placed the hero gently in the back the six in turned and march away their duty has been done this day politicians usually have much to say
no sign of them near here this day they hide away and out of danger much easier if the hero is a stranger ter hearse with its precious load moved slowly out on
to the road the floral tributes lined the route while comrades snap a smart salute at the edge of a wiltshire town the court of slows its pace right down the
streets are packed many deep some throifles most just weep the crowd have come to say farewell the church bell rings a low death nell regimental standards are
lowered down as the hero passed through the town the cortege stopped and silence reigns the towns folk feel the families pain the nation's flag lowered to half
mast our brave hero is home at last that was written by sergeant andrew mc farland and two thousand nine about a place in england called on base which is were
all british soldiers and service members that were killed in action were brought back hope to england and you shan't some amazing photographs of that and his
naturally when i when i first got to know you this was the first thing i found out was that you shot these photos and there they're just incredible in they
represent really to me just a anicette a view of england and what england is in the world and how did you and up there once again with your cameron your hand i
was assigned thus far some i elenchues it it was on onesime am and i turned up and i was told the one the only information i was given was bring a ready to
ladder i am because you need it and i didn't understand that dynamics and of a whole happening on the street so as my first time and i had i andong then and
the traffic was awful in the and i literally arrived may be twenty minutes before the big the cortes came through silas running down the street with my ladder
trying a banterer he with the other fertilisaient a ladder up here and the ladder became clear and because you need to go to the top of the ladder so when the
hursts come down the street and stop and the family members put their roses on the hearse i need to be able to see over the top of the heart to be out to see
the grieving widow and relatives am and i in a you your standing on telose step ladder you know your probably about fifteen or sixteen feet in the air you
really quite conspicuous with a long lend an and it was at something that i was really comfortable doing because the click of a camera in that silence was
deafening am and it was one of those things that that wouldn't that the repatriations had been happening before for a while i think before i got there and and
i mean years i may be two thousand eight haerere i'd been at that actually turned up to him to show my first one so there had been a paten that had developed
over time and here the parasite up this one up a lot of this ship the pictures or the event finishes everybody goes home and the pictures a wire and my first
time i was there i ended up the best image shot was from the floor of a younger holding red roses wake looking down the street waiting for the the cates apart
and i was really aware of the ladders and the noise of the cameras and i thought i can't i stopped myself from shooting because it was so loud and i thought i
can't be the one and you would see something happening and you would see a moment when may be a wife came out she touched the back of the horse with her hand
you know and put her head against the glass and you you're instinct instinct is to shoot that anthea many friends is that possible but i had my camera on
single shot i click click but all you could hear it was like machine guns or of cameras and it was and it was so invasive and i thought but this is this is how
the portographs got the pictures this is what they had to do there was no way round it i decided that's fine i understand that that's what that's what we have
to do together pictures ebari not going to do that any more i don't ideally don't want to envole in this any more i found it to stressful and what i ended up
doing was not shooting when i should have shot stopping myself because i didn't want my click to be the click that everybody heard and an even though everybody
had accepted that this is what happens i thought i'm just not comfortable this so i decided then at this was an amazing event and i needed to look at this
properly and and bearing in mind that i had been late for it relatively an i hadn't seen one at happened before the herse's came out no idea what what happened
so the next time i went down i got down the readier and i i i known on the street and i watched the buildup and for those of the don't know that her what the
whole story about with bass it was it the bodies of an services'n accusin action in afghanistan were being repatriated to an ebb and the only root out or the
abbe was through this tiny village markets on coldback with basset at as the the bodies were taken to the corners of senor and it was the first time this
happened the the the horses came through and alantean mayor the spotted it and he a stopped and doffed his cap as they went past and then that just
exponentially grew into he'd have thousands on the street over the years it just grew in thousands and and then the families changed their retained the
families were just goatte basin ligament and pay their final respects and then they would leave but what happened was that the families were then paid ifinger
and then everybody would wait for the family to come to the street and stand on the street and and so that you could see how the whole thing was evolving into
this sort of incredible ten minutes and it started with people were torn up on the street and you find people that hadn't seen each other for years and they
were just an he has it interface going to the paper for a pint and they go and they have a drink and there would be this it was almost like a party atmosphere
people were released to see each other and there was his lively bubbly noise going on and people were laughing in an and joking then the families were torn up
and that everything we took a came down just a little bit and then the bells would toll him auch and there was complete silence and then the carterson through
and it would stop and odeleben it would stop and i would give fight minutes with the families and then sometimes it was just one hers sometimes it was i do
want a case never six six horses it came in an and and and it would leave and then everybody would disperse and then it would happen again and then again and
it would be be too could be twice a week it might be once a month but i'd said every time it happens i am going to go down and shoot the story in a line a
fashion because i just wanted to show everything from start finish so when you look at the say of fifty pictures it starts the beginning with the street empty
and then it works up to a lasting you see one street of the roses as the horses of driven off and the rose the form of the hero am but i couldn't do it as a
pression had to find a way of doing it and because i would just wanted to get those moments i was looking for something completion to what may be the
newspapers in the wires or looking for so i decided to shoot on film i have to like or empires and i had a twenty eight mile naisty mill an i put filming a
bias i could operate and egestan of this cameras that is just a m as a post the digital which was really loud m and i started shooting on film and it was
really his and miss i'd get stuff and i go down there on some occasions and i get nothing but every time i went down i always building the story i knew oh i'll
look at the situation and work out what i'm going to get from this to day and concentrate on one thing in verily reconsecrating but what you've get was
something that would happen somewhere else am and so it meant getting into positions that the press were not supposed to be getting into so i would want to go
on to the other side of the street which was reserved her family and any one could stand it but the the unreal was the siserary and i did want him intrude on
the family and they greet an i wasn't there to fullagher grief from my position up close i just wanted to see the reaction of people around there that i
couldn't see from the other side of the road so i was taking pictures i i shall circonspect or sinister with these two tiny cameras but i felt so conspicuous
but no one was liking at me i was able to just turn the cameron and just prefaces and shoot the dam petito my eye just turn round click sheep and so everything
was sort of one one frame am and ye siderial sort of built the story up and i knew that i had an ending because it the ebba that they were coming into
originally before it came to wooden basset i had been rebuilt and all the boys were going to be repatriated back to her other abbeys so i knew at some point e
in august two thousand eleven there would be the last repatriation so am the the the fight you have with yourself when you are looking at the story and you
said nothing and a cap i think i need these this the uneeda immaterial this cap is that your waiting for a soldier to die in order for you to finish a story
and it's not that you are waiting for a soldier to die but a soldier dies and you are or in her inadvertence that there's no i'm not even articulate enough to
explain what i mean by that but the idea that you hear on the news to soldiers have pencilled am and you think okay that's me going back down to widen basset
to finish this story so the idea that i had a purpose of going down to a place like that was really hard to deal with because people what everyone else down
there was there because they were involved in a directly involved with the soldier or they were people that just went to pay their respects and so you could
say in a way if you are modius fat myself you are paying your respects in a way because i wanted to i wanted to story to be shot from start of inisha i think
it deserved that it wasn't just about grieving family members on the other side of her horse he an now weeping it would there was so much more to that story
than that and so gradually the story began to sort of phil itself out and then and then in the end the ah i i was there for the final repatriation and am the
town was then a wadderstone which is the first time that happened in a ideation ears because it was the way i think that that they were the town the way that
conducted itself am was recognized in her by the alfani and they just sort of said listen to what you've done you you'd not just put wittenbach map but you
shone to how much dignity the british show when in the those the fighting for their country are coming back in and the way the whole thing and un wasn't
batterthea didn't want to be adulation they didn't want to be known as this place they just thought the we need to do this m and yet it's from the heart it
were saying earlier there's no there was no alterative from that time to the the did it just happened it was all canican i wanted to show that story m and so
yet that was it that sir it took i think it was nineteen months of going down and then fortygraphing it in every inner from every conceivable angle and i was
really proud of the finished sir pictures i thought that tells the story am from how i saw it from start to finish em and yer it was semandre it when it
finished i i didn't know how i felt because i thought you know you get so used to doing something and yet you know i i don't want soldiers to die so that i can
go down and finish a story but he try and work out had i had a i can of my mentally get my head around what's happening here you know but the the thing that's
come out of it is the m on the final repatriation i wanted the pictures to be tiberside down there i wanted to show wodeneshe eighteen month doing but i didn't
want to stick a prince in a room and i didn't want you know i just thought these pictures i this is i shot with some the street these pictures need to be on
the street so i went down and i found a bank that said to me you can have both double fronted windows of waban and you can put your images but are you in fine
eeteration cause they thought we would love people to see the cemetery and there we action ago i was really quite nervous because there were fifty images going
up printed on a one size in a bank shot went in in the glass to enter her and i was reclined notes to help people would look at it it would he would would
people appreciate this and they loved it they would they loved the fact that they had in one and when i went back down to collect the ages am i would but say
half for them i just gave away to the pup will you have the pictures of the soldier saluting outside the potery body went to there was the old lady standing in
the glass window there was the kid were in the chelsie all these pictures just went and i just said listen just put some money in the charity box and just take
the prince because if all of them had gone i would have thought that fantastic as i didn't want to keep them i just wonder at it some i thought if somebody
wants that and they want it that amazing an unalarmed am i that to me was indication of having spent that time and done it in or am and during that time as it
ogre because i told of come out of that way of shooting for the wire which is all about a single image tell us tory in the single image in her and i i suppose
i reform ever since the beginning of always been otoian ed to tell a story but what a series of images not just and this a skilled to doing what the wise guys
do and and and i had that skill and i did it by a wanted to just expand my pallet as a adorate spending time on stories and the trying to tell it as inerasable
so you could take one fituated go well what is that mean that picture but if you put it into the set you go i'll okay now i know it it means so you're not
shooting standalone you shooting him in istam something when there put together as a as a package an yer and that was yeserias pictures well like i said that
those pictures are are amazing in in i think they did exactly what the why we basias fostat name a royal town broil with vessel woodencoat reflected exactly
what that what that put forth in that is the the pride of england the honour of england the respect of england and i think it was all captured not only in the
town but of the images that you took i think we've been going for a long time right now and i think that's about all we've got for to night i know i do an i
say obviously thanks a coming on i i know i work to were some photogravures some of em just too incredible risks to get the capture to capture the moment that
they captured you know for the book the life and i rode guiding to pitman who is there combats use photographer and justice incredible images and and we we
were honoured to to be all to take those images and puttin the book but i know there's many many obviously many photographers journalists around the world that
take great risks to report and capture the stores and get them spread around and and a lot of mercelino wanted beginning but a low there's a lot of reporters
and photographers journalists that are out there in the world that they take you dressiness they pay the ultimate price for their job and another wasansi a
couple of things on the cocassier pretty ralph i preciate everyone for for stick and through those those tough moments preciate you traveling of those places
and stick into those tough moments yourself turn and thank her rotifer for listen to the pot cast if you would do on a support the pont cast echo callowaypoose
my brother well we didn't really talk not about working out or anything that would constitute much supplementation but what about alpargates that's true yet as
you got to be quick with your figure on the trigger of your of your camera yea in some cases my wanton praying he atalking to amasa justice somebody is like
yester the day before about photography and you know people they feel like a real good picture and they'll be like hay that's a good that's a cool pitcher what
camera did you use do you ever find that insulting ah i've heard he really go to i've heard it compared to life is growing o holly she's actor in a enfevered
ah she said it like this a onepointedness her what kind of cameras so you like not egret picture will candace did you use shiplike saying hey that's a great
meal what kind of stove did you out into something like that yes i know i get that meaneth archer it was the bow and the area with a may do good shaight exact
i think i had together and i had people say that while that's a lovely looking came you must have shot some great pictures with that i know so yet as probably
like that in reverse yet you know em but sir you keep a traditional too i mean i mean obviously you're doing man you will focus he on fill im a lot o times ye
i don't digitatis this is the manoevres well here but i've been using him if twenty or dear sir not the lightest there not everybody's cupperty m i know one
profession of the ages there not in not it's not the competent and also in no it's a particular type of ferajee i think that esscape this and when i say
particular i mean they shoot particular stories imparticularity that it's not the inn there any better than anybody else they certainly aunt they just choose
to use a camera that doesn't have long lenses and i like to use a camera doesn't my longest landed a fifty mile you have stacked ye like a monorail ke uses a
quiet you get in close you are simeuse like even there that i follifoot too the art you know were of course equipment is something sure i like her fistic part
of it i think it's i think fotograf gets it the most i think he because it's like like i said amonition nursery got iitae picture you made good came minook
like that everybody can everybody has it in and shot a beautiful picture i'd from belief everybody can shoot a great picture yes crazy but yes well all erain
bloom taking off a brain take better picture hinventin o the day goeth day ere you go but i got a log a cambremont round and then i wonder you know is some
shoemaker's anoothe ready seventeen said help the ark in the lead of his theatrical and i just discovered these tennis well aware your bars bonaire yes i'm not
a good host didn't see him my wife what i would iteration to a wise had what is wrong with the wonder you feet given some food i said okay you need food shore
or bar and silantiev to you then was my attlay bar le ait you ah if you money temper sent off those joe on a duroplast jacobite person of so suppeose element
your your what you will it is you will do or if you want a support before you you chelonian good at are website one of em doketer or jocapa com picktook
support passively passed only efficiently efficiently yes passively know we don't writhings passing here at a jacobinised le make thinks the fish is apt yes
ter live here and a land i will you an get more efficient and also you can workmen you came up solid german work in germany is where we were all working fianna
we don't cantinieres or socratici at this port and his own click through hell to part true with the less on the same edify want to get efficient alter a grass
idly official we like it one misforting throughout is in just to go to what say instead of the evening click on the truer to jack but gasp trooper tool
romestan whom add the little thing on your browser automatically supportive temeraire you you shot umsoala very leimann thanks again ready for ten tekintetes
and if you were a te shirts good a jouster at come you might like some of those a you know disciplinaque freedom hocus had says good thatwards the good is
backward to you look in the mirror a message to you there's not for other pits not for other people like this to cast in his relieved superbo this park asses
where you and friesic but yes sticks on there and travel magdeleine cool a bumper staggers but then outmaneuver molo there put em on their square and help me
like tasaio in my desk and the white board the old you know falls yet a stick as their bumper stickers but their forever thing for sure yet if you like that
stuff um m and you can support that way that's the cool we get one of those i'll send it to you monsieur common meaning he knew little bit of jock o white tea
pomegranate style you should become an out and the next few weeks just keep checking back to the website it comes enough in cool and you know an i says jock a
white to on it pomegranate cause that's how i do sick people take for for we need to to come up with a way call made for the poor cast and i go get jocko to
castelnovo from the jackit tea okay john olivenca we're not you know but just to witty keep things in a enweloped away in it so sir checked out out it is power
in a white tea it's what obviously i talked about that all my the first my introduction to the world was in tempered imaum simphorian watonte he's a he's in
the fection otto of ta do not go a head out of ye that that's so he he has a special um cattle where you press what kind of to your drinking is going to bring
it to the appropriate temperature for that type of deep green white tea black teeth it's going to do it right he's got that thing he's got like a little shelf
he's a new his tea but he had the wit to a granite t before the so when i showed up and i i say you want some of this is a mixed it up for many drinking in we
were starting the pocassett minutes and twelve minutes later he stated going yet said not woolcoats had an he was all kind of lie so inanities all amazon i
would see people with order extreme ownership and then it would be like a whole people that roger move ship also bought pollinate tea and in funny one that
people said hey you need have your own tea said okay start let i'll make my own but is going to be good reason i into a place to a while because i kept saying
no no no do this no limit more or that and finally we got to the tea that namely that good but it gives you the the pipe poportion for that oh speaking of
trimalchio you can buy that book wren by myself and my brother lay favor you can bet on hard cover well you can make lots of notes in polite tabs in there an i
light stuff you can buy it on digital i think you can make notes note on digital too but it don't look as cool kindly you can put in in killing why you the
kindle at on bread on donowat it did without well i ain't really read leforet i'm janua go do not to colored ever i am in all at your finger to the really good
as good and i'm graduate me personally i need to have saicedo no i got my pens lined up i lighters lined up you know how rings with the isolated to the pot
cast for a candle as i can work no no we would have to shut down the pocatello you'd have to learn now that usaid first you would own have to free my mind a
little bay then a also the extreme ownership muster which is a little conference were having our hernan iego california you want no talk about all this stuff
in depth with some real focus myself lay running the thing out here in ten digitaria leadership conference but that's one way of looking at it another way of
looking at his frontal assault on your brain said come get some of that october twenty on twenty first tacotitlan thought dot com person details on that and
also if you want to continue this conversation you know that work all not a palm not into webs echo is that echoed charles and i am at jackwell twitter says
bookie insteamed carron is also all those various mediums and he is copelston i can get at i am k i e r a n d e h e r t in and it's the same on insermanns i am
cantabunt am right as i am i lie that leamington the like people i again has not like it like a shoot you know like what repeat that because it's a common one
like millunary on annattom and one that's still not that hard to remember is wise india my kigonda echo on down the line of in the line romeo how for november
and i need to do it to so i relate some friends of the followers of its sorry follows ye aye but the actual you you have you do instrumented areolar obvious
for us since you take picture shows everything in the facardin yes yes it was is all he operatorial luthanian ah so care what he thinks i come on my
pecooliarity stories there was also talk to you and i good to see you again and of course to the troop present there that i listen to this boast tanks for for
joining us here thanks for a looking at the world and even if you're not taking pictures of the world at least take the time to appreciate it all of it the
good and the bad the lightened the dark and while you're out there in the world go ahead and make sure you get after it to so until next time missus karen and
echo and jocko out
