the names in the stories in this episode have been omitted to protect the privacy of the individuals involved this is jacopo cast number thirty seven with echo
charles and me jackwell i goodygood evening it with us to night i am nor to have retired chief an officer roger had en here with us to night as a guest now
unless you are in the selten or you were in the silts than you likely don't know who roger had isn't fact among ahead and guarantee you don't know who roger
haven is there no book there is no movie there is no social media there is no one to doc and i've talked before about how their three types of guise in the
seal teams the guys that built the reputation that the seal teams has the guys that maintain the reputation of the seal teams and in her the guys that live off
the reputation of the seal teams of use guys didn't contribute much to it in the first place but let there be no doubt roger had in his without question
without question one of the people one of the men responsible for building the reputation of the seal themes he did the mass of heavy lifting in laid down the
foundation of everything that the seal teams are in the jungles of the nam and he passed on lessons of combat written in blood that we carry to this day one of
the guys here roger had no true le forge the attitude that makes the seal teams what the seal teams are in and what a quickly how i first heard of roger so i
was back i was a new guy as he piano it's nineteen ninety one and back then no one revealed or that popular yet and the old sealed easy ticinias were not that
big of a deal there they were discounts all little gig down it down it like the line in club or something in national city real low key but the only guys that
none of the non younger seals went to his all the name heels may be a couple of world war two guys and i was down east whiff my my running mate at the time my
man my good friend whose a sulky montagon through buzz with guidbye name of cress and we were just sitting around talking to some old the etnam guys and we
were getting pretty fired up i know its kind there is you don't want you pay the ten dollars fee a get into this gig there's free beer so we were a few beers
deep you might say we listen to stories and again we are new guys is nineteen ninety one we didn't never been in combat so we were there to try and learn and
about the history and learn about the guise of finely me being young and dumb in pretty well buzzed i asked these two vietnam goes a wearing her talking to i
said he who was the most bad as verginita packer and hielandmen in both these guys left to me in said roger and i remembered the name and when i actually met
you for the first time you were i'd mention in action work with you first time you were lane greater on a on a potion full mission profile and that's actually
the first time i learned truly yonder stood the the concept of covering move which is a basic tactic which guides did know no one had taught it to me this is
my second porton it already been through work up i had the idea in my head but here an you say it the way you described it i said the eclictic my head in a
never forgot it and actually rode about it in the book extremere i talked all the seals at when i was putting through training that's what i thought one of
those fundamental tactics and so that's kind of my my introduction to roger and roger i know you've actually literally never done an interview before and i
want to thank you for coming on it's it's true honoured to have you on the poast so welcome a young roger had en here thanks acopoeia near one of my ears too
if garment different times the you kicked asking tent they ummi wasn't i was ah just one of the boys in the ah insel team one when i got there and on the poop
of times with him and a ringarooma was the young on we got pretty good at it and now when out and hunted the bad guys nobody else in vietnam as far as i know
army marines horiable with good at night i would use a hold up and a base camp or someone that while we figured night times when they move around that's the
were going to move round table can find these guys and take him out to well we did it isn't tom one guy at a tea marrer body or hard i had some great great
bodies in my net were a i mean my gun partner was a stone guy and i was a sixty guy between the two of us he shot a thousand omitting of five five and ten
seven sixty by sixty at the worked out well laughed with to night was in we carried four sixties and five stones fielded carry a stone or over a sixty carried
a sixteen with a two three one or examine forty eight e for back in the ages santos numbers to get of how many guys were carrying sixties do notes four of us
were carryin sixties and of five guys carried stone or at repartee man a two that's a wee ower his soft does used to villedot bet that a lessening that's a lot
of fire power that's that's a way bring a thunder and so where where do grow up though before you got matins were to grow up a basely rooks and when i look at
my dad was a carpenter so removed quite a bit round by the oar place called rule nanon can by the flathead lake in montaneis ring in the role brief were of a
ya grow up green breaking horses and stuff like that and a amildari houses and just to or can on my grandpa's farm and my uncle saranoff like that so that's
kind of why i grew up an i lived a wild phoenician on stuff like that and am says sernine t thing sports wit played total hillside line back or a box for two
years in high school and i swam my dad built worked on the tram and palms brings and when he was there i went to pontremoli got on the water potenter sat as i
you got a little comfortable to water yet oh yes it was so it wapin what year was it when you actually decided you rejoin the navy how's nineteen sixty five in
did you know are now about the saltem will nono nobody little bout him o my dad do you like you said he was a carpenter and he was then an you neeteth three
and it was at swam on the incantatur in vietnam but i had none not the uncle but i got no anything about it because you never talked about it to your dad was
fraught but i mean that i knew guys that knew him over older garraveen i was young like you said you were well you talk me to know so anyway but he never said
much about it but i don't know as a kid you know i watched the bridgeriver quiet and and ah the guns and never on and i'll soceeities hidden be kiss and
rangers get white down they went okay if you're going to fight you want to get in something that you think you're going to come back with so that's why became
a frog man and i wean't go through but it was easy hereunder water then wakendune so all you get is a joint ave i did a hand he went did you go straight too
straight too on the water than was jed now back in the day they wanted you have an ice school of sausage a boot camp and sixty five on the north island he
incarnate for about seven months waiting for my radio in school and was lucky enough to go to twenty two weeks a radio in school and then one from there to us
has power ever for about four months and then went to a training as are turning january sixth nineteen sixty seven then got howbeit your glass and showed up to
that there was about it no two hundred of us maybe maybe a hundred and fifty howaga made it he were about thirty of us seven men which is pretty good news
corinthian don't know how you guy did when you wish you turning jacobi and we made a pack that we will go anybody quit and we did everything we could to make
it happen so and some guy did make it through the allies should not rear dat's one of the tenets things are talked about with lazistan i was never instructed
abodes but eventually say no you don't want to help people though you they're not going to make it do on their own you don't want them to know that you got to
get guetem get through on the late you know what i mean he no got clothes and i know figure you know i don't get you i had a guy was up there was a previous
fleet guy and he had been to buzz before i i became pressed class mature guide i thought yet has got a kind of a kind of follow his lead a little bit you know
a second night hell week he quit the helegant iaughter and by god like hers so mature guy twenty seven years old you alas a kid and he's quitting ridiculous
certain you but when you got done with the initial editor a you went to u e checked a u t right yeah you keep to over rule frondeuse um m men are good for and
on minutiae going in we decided were going to be marine he sees dat de gladiola you neatest is uncle's dies in from marine but he talked me into a tea so i
went up to join the rains well offices close and right across the hallway with the navy recruits their boatmate of the line you know wanagans it the dories
when the boys doing oh we're going to join reneweth in it so good to and he goes out asked the other guy would your parents background everything reined men's
man tell you that he was going to be savage my dad was a bar in the navy at tiefenthal commersonia my body went off to be a marine i went the navy at close
unfaith we all have a story like that had no really close to the ataboy bruce we were it was resolved like not some some ship hold in and we saw guyrin
uniforms and we were like let's go join less to you at so effective that ricardo live oh yeah i little i location ere it was no penfeather rode navy office is
open so petroff it it's a chiropody tea in in one was the schedule there i mean the vietnam or is already an on a was like at nineteen sixty six now no i
didn't go got one into it sixty seven i graduated in training a single nineteen six the seven and that's when i went over cagoutelle ye the word men on and in
an weather a little better about sileambano still get nobody knew much about it cause we're everybody i gradually with these coarseness cos you went to a easy
tea team first and you did a triplicate you came back on salt said how is that how is that first trip with you dig holes great i was did a nine month a threat
we had different debts that you went to and am and now venom like a first thing we did as go to dinan i don't place called camp ten shingle worked up a two way
way quintiana all over the northern part of em that's out soltano doin demark different things you don't mean and then we left that dead went on nessita and we
did about a hundred and ten miles of beach we consistent from there here he went on we of a sous went down to a dead in the h willis hydrographic content with
it just want the holiday were a person dioscouri would ticular yet feel right harlow not perpendicular and most pale we didn't do any perpendiculars that could
come bad of you know what men she so so for those either don't know oh that the original job at restores the easy t was to find out how deep the water is off
of a beach so and not cicianai there's any of schools there that could trip up a boat that's coming in and she said you did a hundred and ten miles of ether he
months that's an inter you basically you have to swim with the lead line so you have a a cord with a with a pet lad on the bottom of it you've got different
markings on it to tell you how deep how long it is and you sit there and you do you swim along and emory every twenty five meters the other beach party on the
beach as a swimming out and we had a hook to a nipessings we've got ye a man o bescourge is out of the railroad to go course there was only a nine a half four
five reintegration and the elder swim at every twenty five metres you take sounded sound men sounds will you got back to the diction could teleport we got was
luck enough to be one you draw or hide the graphic chart right or when i got to eat tea twelve um you know you're pretty regimented he'll caught by juliet be
rippety redmen bud one got there or putentfum up in her kind o lost at sea and i mean no he's only telling you what you have to do you none put a union it was
kind of you kind of a foe you know to mean i hadn't they one up and dead ah well life guards stuff for the ringside land on up by telltale like that it was
really a lot to do you were going she says you played ballyalla he suffered round your euty teas and for a boy know and so i then we start for en up and now
how eyke worked is that you did be home for nine months and then the whole team with the ploy and relieve the team not was out there like we were lieut to
eleven and the level would come back nine months later they would come out and relieve us so is my month appointments and almost portstewart it hadn't have
like a year and a half to years of work at those butments and i love a hole with a work up in there was a work upon what do you during the work it all we get
everything we get recast we did come elation raid to we did a river reconstitutes how many guys were in the unkept him eighteen lay one a man might have been
twenty it was quite a bit because you got the swimmer lying gotthard and all that other stuff you don't eat that's why would we at the old heart to parents we
always try to get a couple of extra days to an him to cover more beach should same deal yeah and ah everything you did in and the do ah yes it was just a lot
you know a man and it was a lot of physical work too you know what i mean everything yet actually went to intone i think we did about fifty times march on in
than the guy's doing buds now and has assolutamente said i at the otiose seven we did to but that's the oddest wobbled i went through but he ataile then sir
walter and to no january's pretty cold yet as no doubt i die when you were there and you tell me before about some of the kind of hookena to some of the
conventional units or some of their operations as they did with the attic with a nine in metre as so were down in the delta or no we were doing river we clowns
and not think were the ones that ever did over this they called him the dart to the word look like a jet ski but you laid on it and you got it with your feet
and had a three hundred and fifty five degree came up on top and a fat eland the bottom of it and it had a piece of luminaries he wouldn't get here with a prop
to stuff and the handles were on wrong the right and left you once and they went up to about thirty knots what they would do i take two of us either by copper
some copain canal it would come down the canal that we got back we do up of of a chart of that of late coal and a that would let the ninety and three in their
revering boats now if they could go up there to a lanyon that the one he thinks you're good course only would down the river maybe it once or twice in the
agedness which care for would he carry like a side armour on that at any amatory five in there and chronotoger there natural we had we and a black cat and on a
hill went yoeta earlier the we to do at that or the day time by day time all the one and then we all with and with the three and fifty good degree camera frost
a canals come into but go to as anything that was a known thing he could find on the map with take a pitcher of as owen down he tried to stay at the same speed
all the way down because otherwise you are your turn wouldn't be good you but we could willy did that and we couldn't do it too much so off i mean just a
different rivers and different canals and stuff so we got bored so we start going out with the nineteenth and tree on these river boats could be their
demolition guy's brow bunkers and sometimes they put long dams across the river we boethos off and stuff and we we took some heavies on that do that so osolini
situations to get in when you're in when your riding up with a night infantry well he got condonable when time and varnish had about seventy but five six seven
bolts had a bolt no front called him el fable and they looked like your old man curnell war and then they had um um like the landing craft they had those of
baron on his side and then they had the fifties up on top to back their dead old build up and they had bore so that if a bee forty rocket pinched too they had
refixed arefor so that we just be channeled into one area feedin from the sides and they had thirties two thirties on each side each one of the landing craft
type of boat at they put the troops in and right to meddle of that with look they call monitor nesenham was that's over and sismatias and then to back to have
another alabandean all the ones had between so who is the wise those navy boats where the army but now their navy athenaeus do not woodshade that job for
anything real on tony we was going up and a group of one of the forest dropped their people off he came right by us sosiaty him ah they opened up on us and
they do was a bad day we had done thirty killed him seventy wounded whereinto i like the alpha beta had of us that everybody me one guy was killed on and a
boat was floating by he stated demurely flying and as one guy on the back on that thirty so she damaetas you know is to most cracked me up an he not crack
matters may from me and think about that but i was just that the american finding nay you know so i we are so in our give those reverable guys all the creed
the world almost tangle boats cauterets said and targets you know and then after we got hit a course said well god we were in the fourth boat back and we heard
number one boat hit it was the alphabet numbered two boats hit number three boats had were number four bolteth of a she the guys not both an remember bethoron
it he going worthfulness we got head boussada and stuff and not for we buddies it had baffy three pieces for applicable old tin idiot morphine got up and the
navy god geolofos thirty yonside shoot and to round a round and set well the other guy um ah no that was a god yetter guy saw to mass up so he goes over and
getting see my pin who has called her some he had said with inordinate sendlingen me a tree got that we just are chosen the sides and self in the army guys you
won't get up and chose their hinges up weapons as you will some oleaginous and we were up there having down an sometimes get a frogman one then they're covers
came in and a arecalin o the retinoo so they were they do like an actual landing that out the purpose was and there we get a beach foot hole to have work in
area for a while work to make us weep through there and don't ask me why the rings were doing it on he had the night every i tell you where the rains were
going but there holding to dem zee up and north as haseman that's their job but the night empetre did a good job there good troops time well you know you
haven't listened to this this poast much but i know you have you have read the book that the late i wrote and you you know that i have nothing but a nothing
but the most utter highest respect for the marines in the army units are we work with were just phenomenal and the theatines that they made in the bravery
nahoon the battle field this unbelievable on a daily basis so i know with the ring me some in you you take about this now don't think of the training now we
went through just for you to the starting then i came back meanwhile say yet all that which you guys kolinski to wit call a cat redback in the day and then you
go over again you've already had defeatin that you figure he's army guys go through basic training and later had right over the dam he not mean and the good be
an i shall valley anywhere and where it were though crapelet the hat the breckonside that we had the training we were volunteers we volunteered for what we're
going to do we were in insane he we know exactly were gone to go and we wanted to go in enemy sotteranea another weird thing about the enomotae a lot about it
not books from the name pasefield be in all her and you know a fact that these guys would rotate out you'd be in the midde of the pointment you just you know
guys were as rotate not all the time you know wasn't like what you just described which you did in this soutanes and you tea and what we still do in the heel
teams now as you get with your guys you go through a work up with those guys together as a team that you go on to ployment together as a team an you come home
together as a team and the army guys they would just gather dust fell in in the holes and gudeman another god would take his place i never work with his goyo
could at the guy on a patrol with you two or three days you never worked with before her going out to it so it ain't like that system in a way not do it on
interferes come you know that was what were we got a little bit hewitt don't know the new guys that came in to the plutonian you know it oh ye as ye can an
yetive already been there already near just coming in they hadn't worked up with these guys nothing they were just join up young puffinus did take a couple of
guys in when i was in ebody we took a couple of guys that just showed up new guys and we decided slowly you know i put to put him in winnipeg that were take
him out at that when they came in they were just in as that were filling it we did only loss gosther were just guys that day they got sent to sultery for a
mesquite and when they got there there is no one there so they brought him over on the poet couple guys with a two or three guys and we just you know okay
here's we made em work in the compound for a while and then may be bringemout they'd be a turonian they eventually get letourneau's peshito in so any other any
other than alienist gow soul not the time were we used to be on the front but the alphabet because there were the first wotinell dams or neebours as that we
got about a big stack of sea for in the back you know that i have ataxion on and i also know who beat it shook like this we got to be forty rocket right and
one of the mietau woods and we started sinkin so he that give the cockran to shore everything and were shooting back everything but the fugitive and if her
death been about another and a aitches hired it had all that sea for a but we land a andante swam off i got out in the river and the other a they called it a
zimbo's like the troop kilbogie was only upon or not napoule they coutancais thor a ellingford of the hossains went all on the beach and on we went clandon
that we got out of their day as in the crew mathews now that was ever moment of excitement you wait on us to go off what you just said to and with the training
that you get in special operations cheetems whatever rangers asked of these you know a lot of times we in special operations get a lot of praise for a doom
what we do in that that's great everything but like what you're talking about being in a conventional unit same thing over in iraq and afghanistan being a
confessional guy is no joke i mean it's in many cases they're doing a much more dangerous job amedee you know a legist job something like that when they're
explosion themselves on a regular basis so anybody out of its civilian at that thing at the conventional guys aren't doing you know are taken as many rest as a
special operations got on telling you right now they absolutely are they absolutely are and of course there's things that that all special ostade that a
stepping up as well but everybody everybody pays a price and everybody takes a lot of rescuing over there and sounds like was a same thing what you had the
nineteenth roll in up the river he and hans gusher gonthier job so fit seemed to say thing derogatory apologisin now he always really did it all you didn't
know ob just point out lothaargen people's i'm i'm setting your thinking i'm thinking exactly what you just said here you are you eatten through detesting and
you you know when a boat starts thinking your like i'm a jump on the swim there's regular army guys there they're they're thinking they have an appetite that
you had and yet they're still in the same pulsitations actually so one other thing and you two were going to be recon in i was like a congress i up and front
with another guy you amavisti huge piece of plexiglass undone all the bacon formation on but i'm ahead of him were putting in the stakes so the guys behind his
pinhead every twenty five meters and he the soundest well i won't we didn't usually at our van we are your isothermes army or we have mine that would do screen
for you don't when we are doing to be recontact get either one of them so we had two of her own guise doing it so they were walking going for hinneras all um a
lot of sand dunes and stuff like that on the beach you know trees little forces of while we almost walk right into his humiliate gambles it they had set a
force except the two guys back here that a spire who back here so that one we fell back from the ambasineus were still live in these gases would get us riette
hit these gusseman them open up with me to open a feritate frog down and then and got out of their retasting too and that's when i got back to the sinister
yell screwed this a naked warriorship emhain me up and be glad and not these guys at night and all i got down the beach in eyes and you know my coral boot you
an him seventy nine clandon and shed young men a it was a but i was just utopian so i didn't talk too much about it you know i wasn't seals you get back for
that potent oh yeah yeah i am every month where i was on that to point at me in a gun we put in a ship to go to seal team and they just cure as is out ain't
goin anywhere until we get back you know all right so it read a month and put another sheet in the when we got back to we weren't right to it and i'm a cat
rick co in check in to sell timonian went into a cat rick and the catering was was walkall now as aculeate and alcohol that stuff in the actually on the alamo
river and a few other places they had set up to be exactly like it would be in vietnam with watch little watch towers and they had a hole of a village that was
in amongst all the ships that on the side of the alamo river and stuff it was really good throng yea and i would do that the ambush us with ambush they metacom
down in em you know san pans we have there and stuff like that and his like on our going you do an amberson a river you always want to try to do it as a curve
and get him that way the sampans after he had a superfluity the bank not keep on going down the river and you can't get enough now to him it's all kinds of
little truxton what they did our cadre at ran as sue the umour cabrion suckers were gusta had just gotten back and be poltiot a button to do that for about six
months before they went back to the toothaker gettink us guys right out of the field in the name we could do good and differeria too the triple genipa go stuff
and you are right patties all that stuff like you will or to do a bulk of the train oh out of niania we'd go up their queer macomer map and compass and stuff
and then a bunch of us went to ah what they called the advanced training which is for your proof program which is our five months long and that the is all
trade graft medical and stuff like that and will really good i got really at home meador even on the aids and sufflicate we be coals intil trails all kinds of
stuff yankees ing as you talk about that ham much that stuff you know carrytown to you when i showed up at opium be one you know we did that all we did mobcap
trails you know there was no one had been war going on for twenty years when i got there the old of the gulf for but we still did moerocles it did point man
courses we did the medical stuff we did river and bushes and meet it is it's awesome that that in there was no it wasn't really written down anywhere and he an
anshunt weeks of advance to an ketchin table then will ye ye i'll kill we cut all that up in silent i know she had curacaoan he might have at that awesome that
at last it that long you know with no cause a weird thing about supines it we to have anything written down in a barely anything written down and so all that
all that knowledge was past word of mouth from god a god a guy and that i think we've corrected that now where we capture more of the stone much hear but you
know m the ever on the firing here get the ring or hamburg it eh ah that's very thing i have again sat a little bit i extolled stay in the house that should be
rolled down but you know him sane i don't yell and give your ringer amberoid or guestless guys goin to fight what their methods are everything in it allote
thing i talked about on her is when you have doctrine and you get past with something that's not the doctrine in econfinna what to do that's one of the bats
one to reason i think she will be made been very successful in the recent past and even in the feniton er past is cause we didn't have a pup to look at we had
to figure out to do it and so no matter what the mission as we always had a fresh look at it and melodeon or dowered them i mean you know our guide a few
pultipartite out o them nominatim in a remote or somewhere with a been lost to see because we didn't have the training for the urban type of warfare a
doyouknow you wouldn't have been lost i see i know you to ohtained in same as they priscianus talked to in the safe then we do over there it affigere it over
move take the high ground yet we with a figure it out but you know we didn't have over watches and satietate et tu pitchdark at night near a working away to
real quiet not making lotefos everything he does for you will be in in silence or just like you guy gebrauchen like if you can a real tomline to point scolded
well he had stepped over it grabbed the guy behind him ranged down chonita water was on and he had step over the water he had put his leger grab the guy behind
him and the college across until he got a body across and cut ahead count they would move on and that if leeterally at that shout then you did it and you
couldn't see a bit black that's why you graound children where i was and if it's a tie one you don't cut it on if it's all lovewell the old upon how the point
many that i yet i would they call it the wee tom you take a a a a a clergyman on a real no more or i but just like a fishing pole and you throw on that of the
down my hat well move and you feel it you can feel it just like you would if you got a trilobite and then you work her hand down your reather and feel and see
what that is you in mine dear seeing idther other and resting thing that when you start talking about the will beam and going out at night time and how that
was all on orthodoxie are doing it is obsita what it when we were ready we started going out in the day time and read we start going out in the day he was a
bunch of reason why we start going out the day time but one of the main recent was the enemy now that we own the night we had night vision we had levelled the
night and so let in one of globe nigh unto they went out dat time that they tell planetaries on thin culbean so we went up the daytime coated with a bag
dashwood time and in one to you siegeslied him exuberated muncaster i had been out at night doing ships so we wanted to talk to him and if you know just like a
rules of engagement ship when we got to my last button we stopped in saigon and went to matford vein or altegans order you know is older to passify then the
long province while that was his order passieren province roger lad sit was loewenton and did it you no rules are engaged but nothing just passify it in him
the was like a kaye that's in you we didn't work for the army navy marine turn by yronne so if you'd been the old dover there dorothea you'd have the coin we
would at a matter of fact they all were at don came at an able here and then the big army base here dondametta on the gitimate base in between because the navy
didn't want in a onepage plus her boats are right down there in the war so worked out perfect yuletide the army to you don't know and test a west side
chantlate were doing that all the time so it was the light tellingest anything unusual you only so so go back now you get fast from your pen first appointment
with you need to you go to the elthousa your calligan who was he what was the kinetotele about this before but how are you getting treated could you got you
got one get on your first poet as a younger right so here you are you are come bateta you've been in the shit you may wonder they had concubines so you shall
up that you'll be on your kind o like a maaeferi ence veteran i've been incident mean ship in hades the guide there in a tete you well i mean all right just
the same a man in addition keep a just but everybody that wouldn't see team came out of uitlander twelve in the silting you know what i mean granteth day
before the sharp bring him right into a silken a new guys you know so it wasn't any different over guy's ere you sattler am i didn't you don't when i was in
youth to tell ya i wished it really wanted a go like when we were dog gone came in with during the sixty seven sixty eight cat and we got a call that the east
coast put to the metal which was in too far away from dogtown was being over ran like the rain a tall building so they they held out rigord they were the
tallest building and they have a fifty seven corduan he could hear the v c coming at the stairway that thelenie down and chillian they needed some help in the
erbout seventeen of us down on that dark patrol on the use men a while right by gone tom and we begged over etena condemn let us go in there we have been
fucking killed our heart were there but we didn't have the i i i a training in the emersion young none of that ship and me with a bed and it won't it would
have been stupid so old he showed lieutenants had known we have he knew then he got back and i went to a career as quite an get all that stuff and then to play
next on my sub jonathan hugged him my said yours one smart son of a betchuanas there you don't be that eetest weren't train to ah operatin he didn't have the
ah the pre rescue skills as you learn in this cutest you or me to know get ee get more of that even in buds now than we ever got together we are trying to be a
frog man that was it i mean our last to owe did it sank him at the island and it was we swimmer scouted in by birdship rock and i can tell you to you talk rot
they gave us forty pounds a demon have her sack we went twenty six miles down the other end of the island blew up a target and come twenty six miles back and
attacked the camp guise as we were patrolling the ambushes they pick out guy had been killed pretty soon we all fall down and to god darewell you whom he shot
then they get to go back to camp and to find it when we came back and attacked it but it was still just a demoraine isn't anything oh but toning iro good
putting tactics on all that stuff that cameron i mean oh i mean like i will owthority as and a new debt and get a umtomie almahide orvieto wins we yourana at
the haven one ah my second batoon two of us we had the asses come down to work or thus may loved it and we went up to new agate but the sixty guy we went up
from what i with them we did attend a patrol with him we supply all that stuff they never talked said onward tetlathi hand wrong signals that's all spin they
would they would get an ill you fit night everybody with her feet out on ned you lean on your pack have your wearifully a poet he called himself gave and you
go to sleep only in sleep for about two nights because that's when we usually went out to work then we started to cause the way they figured they was in a
rongier and somebody in that circle would be awake and if we got springer some and yet three hundred six degree fire powering a riot of but they were the best
i've ever seen i've been to a went arminel arid of her school and everything in that one ten day be to the strains of her more about recognises my did any
where any where we know we have guys from vesseco to come tenants matter of fact ere they get we had that problem for a long time and never had the last that
we had there was the oserain was worth a ship at some of the sorgues we have this the guys that enter that when they were not showed up we were really squared
away guys that death only eating had their field craft down all their children through that fun if france say a few craft you in unity it just didn't have the
field craft beyond the jungle looking for people and she you know that's the white and the eighty t thirteen some the dago killed hisself down trails the
silicated young men got a kind of heavy shifter little bit ye so sir you go buttonhole training you check into your potion and as time to going upon it you are
fain where are you find out of fine out of north island gaelan or north island and my first button we flew in to um cameron bay and then took choppers down to
a place called yeaman which is the very southern part of south vietnam right by a place a caledonian force in ejicietur over ops with he got with the other
potentate were there no turnover in azinte did at that time matter fact most of her off were darbor of ever heard of the douthat's where you put a map behind
union choose one of the guys to the tune he thought dark behind you were that dart hits is where you're going to go into as we inhabit we didn't have her we
were pretty isolated where we are not being these base camp and and be a egyptian that's that's how he went out as a word did you do in like a einheriar aura
or a river on certain old river in that action of a team can were we were wild take sampanoh cause we didn't even have any yet is teaparty think the guys down
an see fo dead which is a way away from us and darthe squares there and finally they pulled us out of the land can because we weren't were doing stuff but it
wasn't was effective was a little angelidae brought us down to see fall then we started young some got oftener than i will those of life we still did viveros
like we went down to a place called square bay and a cause are to saison work camp in state down there for about three days watching this trail seen if we
could see him moving and stuff like that we do ambushes with get in till for our navy nile which still wasn't that good o one o things in sixty nine that was
first lotuses nine as we landed at newman can caught her stuff off to old forty six that lantenac the bunker and then the little lodge came in landed dino no i
don't go well then might i know his name but i do the use a provin that proves that we are in down there so he came in to us she aftergathering just let us
know in the sustillo lo chief we got more than for about a marantha so we told him never to come there again and they knew it the low toitshe was approved you
know elisa proved a isleno the great i but ah he and he was a prudent long hair he veered melittae patoon set up was yet in all i see you a isotope all kind o
like what you run well what we ran and to squash i peel and his like with you the team one that exactly yeah and then we broke it down you older men yet you're
like a is with her a wise and the last petunias in moveless my lisa brillyant that was all one was that eighty nine talaat's also but he was a montacute a
great gun has a nose he was easy the whites as he always see a wave kiopo work with him than i would you have a have you anaguia sen you cannonade uttered all
i have there all my protonotary rain for whatever had my life heautofagi all you know i went to radio school like a tolerating never carried a red on the team
really he never cared to radio now as a sixty dinnertime i polani went to the importunitie to seven six two loud etats the ah that's canasta what i went on at
the restituted us if you're not carried up i am foreteen your your wrong is a one that's a great weapon it's a cart it's perfectible of a guy you you a bunch
casemate there the importune as well cause there shooting goosegate eccles you shoot to buildings shooting and i put the at the a tale around in there and dona
that will get him you can dig through some stuff on whom he had we get six with eploye it did three to payments idea tom nankeen sixty nine i was in a kioto
and then came back and that the nation out for you a half cause i was married and my wife talk men to get now to a dead and were for the fun comes the campus
father hated everybody heverything we lived in corn out of a good down the trade winds and all my buddies with tell me what great trips are having the stuffing
a dis one and when he was at it was um see seventy seventy one that was only to back to the sixty nine serenata and kicking out for a year to half while but a
year made her out quite a year and a half but i went back in and gotten another platoon like a he went to be a noman seventy seventy one and i galiana it was a
great botoneros at what was at the beneathe y o that pete no i sisatoones it nay be ye exactly at what was that was there differencing at first sealed the
pometia and yeesterday with the first appointment because we distinto a lot i mean it was okay we did some suphanitess my idea of what it should be you know a
seal you know what i'm saying oh yes and there was better when i got down the seafords you don't mean that that second actuation that kept me in the navy you
know they were just a you were a vanderheyden the oriel close as unbelievable and not love those guys in an do the difference in what you did was at the
mission that you got past without therewith he that pounced er kind of set things up so that he had a better vision of what what to do and what to get after
absolutely i was in my second atone i guy was just unpliable amuses of religion our first petunia was he is connoted like him like one time were all trying or
weapons on the sea float everything and what we used to be come back when off his gravel in then he jumpin the water and let it bore all the mud off him what
he grabbed a line jumped in and we had music real loud and cleaner weapons it is yet well the line wasn't tight off rutheh he gets started going down the river
but they saw him in the watch tower said man overboard i got you know something that something that we talk about on here and observe sperience is is even blue
on blue situations take place yet and he he be hard for people to understand how it happens but i know that you had you had one those happened do you want to
kind of give a quick deep re on that i was yet where about right i go home we are nelaton come in they wanted to do a breakin up not mentioning names to the
offers but they want to do a hammer nanawit he just don't do with a brand new platoon and i would be there you know we we had her or septet her pretty well nat
area but what it was was were supposed to push his bad guys that the vic into these guys that were and a three line and they inserted at the wrong place a star
webson we start work on our way in we can a come up to the tree landward ended the rice paddy and the new another tree line i i couldn't give you the it was a
half way decent ways away you know in but we had three katharon scouts were this kit carson scouts and were a northenmost gave a turn over to the south and to
mean they put him in camps and they called on ma am to boy camp face italy and what we would do as we had go to these camps and we would get these guys that
new or area that were working in and through interpreter and stuff with briefly erything and they'd come and work with us and he had work with a son a couple
of bob till they became kind of trustees and they were pretty good most of were nor aunt nor feet to meet the v c that were good fighters you know and then we
day lived to us the whole in yard we paid him we had money for him ah not for begins the a lot of money to pay these guys that stuff so they weren't doing just
for free he don't don't get the needed money for their families met on old out crosses and happen to their families as one the reasons he who to hointment our
or acute south eneide the way we had three of those guys coming out in front of us black pajamas a capote seven look just like the sea you know so the brand
new proton saw three guys coming out of the tree line that were bestained up on him killed two of em and wonted death one we swung off to the left and lay down
and they were shooting season stoner satis but chetasar ere has because they were shooting high like negus generally do before you and there was pretty new
brand new guise and that pecuniary experience and she normally a walk and me and whatever you know so were yelling the radoslavov are of so that was with us
got upon his knees as she back in her maguntoot the heart and we finally got him to a stop and then we got him out of their head though we shall ride through
the heart i now was a blombodinga it was pretty bad it has reefer you and all ye o ye the confusion that have no the aldabra in or be on like a aeneian fortune
had bout two guys i think they were epicene remember his name and in the north be on that beat where we got caffies maturin class he was the ah either the
oases but most restirring you guy you don't mean good training everything but you know this is the first of inamorati you know ye any time you get the
opportunity and to slowly work into the combat situation you know do a smaller patrol to an easier for to attenay did even he not candle rider off is that i
got you know taking in the day time now was a daytime up ierway but usually as his taking of get em or united to the environment we are going to be on and then
we all have these ah under off we have one in six nine ten seventy seventy one we had these barn dan's files and every opry went on with put us on oficios
pardon oleron going that same maria be a pope that barn dance filing reading see what the guides had seen there in me what the tree was like a annandale it was
i was pretty good roll good and almost every put two in half those from the previous buttons all the way a cusso he can cut a get an idea what you're going
into if he didn't have intil on that area what are some of the leaders should be talked by your second potamienne to picotee some of old leadership
characteristics said you saw from the tunisian he and a potenciana that that as you look back yes recognize that those would really good traits that really
brought everyone together well or sir chief he meet seeing your chief he then over about three times and just very easy going but very sharp and he understood
things fully well or elpis garry smith she pisseth and he had been a prud viser in that province or the fist so as far as getting in telling all for the size
of the perfect and then on you i won't say much about him but dar el he was outstanding he went on almost every opset one time it burned hand with a smoker
name and were so gone goudas going to go with the seguines hand wrapped up and shut so he has over caffas club on the navy side eating and the after assentior
hands all that he defecate going out he says yes they get by my guide i'm dead anyway but he was really good he had he said he has stuff together he was a just
save just so had his head on the shoulders figured out things quick thinker you don't mean to eases a nate he was just good either about i mean you know we
always obvious to hear now veteran de treated great now a bed from the afghan award the iraq war we get treated really great by for the most part by american
by the public we get treated really well compared to what you guys had to deal with the etnam well at much of that did you see when you come home was it in a
corn on his pretty throw navy town i mean and sand the ages pre prone by town was it the same way back then what's it relatively provided these some of the
some of the happiest not coming on and then some demonstrations sometimes she on me you like go down town sending could not much and now we basically just hung
out here and send ego or to other bars that we knew would fly out on northland fly in a norina was like her fling in the san francisco or something so well and
get him with a real row heavily hit on me an if we did have issues at a bar somewhere we usually stared scorted away pretty quick you so was it really a
problem we we didn't really are guys here go but he's got guys that don't know but er guys here will be we did want to have a have a thing on tell you not the
end uh sixty nine we um or going up this one canal and we to peboan get up it so we had to take a boston wit or up at with a twin six is in the front and one
guy would set in a stertere you know he would take it qualitee five guys you and whatever squad didn't have the open night they got to be the driver and the
gunner and which i got to be the driver once and i wasn't happy i covered myself if liceagas anybody going to shoot at all yet so we were going up all flow up
the san and all kinds of a philomelides the stuff like that that were cut herself so because it was low tide and luckily it wasn't high time you know what i
mean no so we got up there and and oh i want put the guys in and we came back out in the peba do what the boatsan's were sitting on the pebrine by buddy that
was the gunner and at the seal elsinora this river who heard this popuulation thou we're going to go after hadsomest one guy drive a one gun the sixty we need
a guy with a hat could see to yemen because you yelowe asked one of the pebrine wantage's and his whole time we have been with him at cotanello you guys the
only guy he'll not both and volunteered was a gutteral married to resign do it and i so while we get a san pan when after other one chose him down that he had
the bank and then there was blood trails going into the ah killed volume was laid in the boat of the guy got out and ran and he could see but spots i following
him while we hadn't glavering were not that stupid he at night time you know is of he did not take these fugger a guys out with me very we brought that the
sand and back and got down we had a big figure in tail and weapons and all kinds of shade other guys that we want of he got the other eyes but about they
didn't do a thing you ellis pretty neat it's tesoyucan imagine neatetht you guys are set go by these filament wires and step over this trip wires and just
continue on der mission at sketchy he after a fortune will we did anyway so i wasn't on his soft but there was a indicopleustes from the other squaw went down
the score bay and we'd gotten a cental that the san pan pretty good size and am almost like a gem we go up the river at night time up the main river were senor
was a bit that way you know so george those guys were down there they are again were in a boston away there that couple um um lavrock chats with him and stuff
like that you know so that figure will shut we have lived ten adry hold here away at that god damn umteen when it comes by you know so they go out after the
junk and the cold hear it and then see the silty know so got real close to it and fires a fire said of a low rock einheit the stern not the exact rudder
everything then popped to flare so they could shoot everything well after they pop their fare but fifteen other fliers popping a wasn't there at us oh so fine
it was all this ofalia sand panshin to they took off and were shooting back with her stoner and sextus like that fine called and a couple of pebrine saved them
witta was a pretty good afah's that's is so a that's one of the giaour defines you know what i have at night mission now he thanatos had to utilize a
nomination and we did we did utilize lumination preparative we we actually ah on big big operations sometimes we have the army firing of the army are
killistine lumination in certain situations but generally we weren't doing that you ambush as we always fareforth ondeggiante at where we had no regonnoitre a
clean marsolam more behind and hung me every thing sat winter dedico down the river and with yeou know it in so you get you get back from from your second
tornadoes at the warner a minaret much clematis a fact or petunias at ben luck which was forty miles away from him severely over there for three months and
they came back too so we were the last fold of poe to pot deployed buttonhole there was november but to what their tea like i said the poncaries in atonement i
mean at that time there was a couple of hundred guys at seeon it then there was about may be ended boosting so of their mighty men two hundred and fifty
undertake there was only bothered and fifty when i got into a life the big pushes started yet to build more guigue one the light you knew everybody i mean it
was a pretty tight to go in one of the one guy o that we both know he eat old me he checked in his soul be one back then he was like taking a shower after pete
and like every god was shot up but he could see it every god was you know you could see stars and her arm leg some did you did you are a lot of guys stay and
in at that time or at guys do in a compton the attacotti no mont forgotten what we did that where we long to me then after the warrior we had a pretty good to
a tea people you know and when they get out because they had an weetheen that is that's what they were doing now was there you know they are nothing else i
mean what he going to do you know and now i can encase i just like to guys all i totally dead you know and to like what is over buds i come back and seventy
seventy one and i would over a buds as an instructor and i got bored doing that so thoresby called a te i would not want to be a a a student when you are bored
as a butentrot or isolation miscebam then it buddy doll was in eetaly bitte got from colorado and he is a rodadero he talks me that going out this place called
burdens each is out by young wasn't like side you was lemon valley on her letendre levin gold galante was a place called burdens out there and was just all
bows but they were dinkie real your royal boon to wild out there and how i like that never got bucked off there so my wibration when i ratifies the katal
thought about getting out of the navy to have right royal cause i loved it but then i got bored because rodeos bows or i grow bolshevist of the theban right he
fell i saw riding bare back and saddle on to but the am i got stepped on why i get twenty two stitches in my left i my face fourteen the back my head had both
my shoulder tifata else ugogo then against stepped on head five buttering a that's enough i quit doing that i just sat in the team guetem a safe for the rodeo
was over over a year and a half almost two years eaten yet and what about where about guys i mean how we guys doing as far as handling what they seen and come
and back and all of a sudden early latro we didn't have that progeniem telling you the guisado crazy were crazy before they went laviolette want that they were
a i mean in all my buddies in fact i have thirsted disserves the night without vietnam tsi kept together on tursenikon those guys in the ante but he going you
know i've got to go to a hospital and then leans not that i know of i tell you the men maybe it did happen but to only guy know that really got affected who
was he was with that one platoon i can't think they lenahan they were taken a part of mortar and the mortar blew up and he had just left to have a cigarette
and all his buddy'll by the morteuil gone to eustacie guy and he wasn't quite disante i can understand that i mean not young me but just being the fire
ficially tate stuff that happen oho now we just it was the way a wanton on when you even when you got out for the first season you did you did thirty years yet
in the navy and ah fellows another funny cat when you when i talked about earlier when you when you dreaded are you man grandma over time i don't know how old
you are i was nineteen ninety three maybe nine book to the one i was in a a alpine team one with a goaded of ye ye but you were out of howld you were that time
here but you know for for my perspective you would like a hundred and seventy years old i had a inditing myself hey this goes the old is isis roger adan you
like puttin on your weputation the assuages you on to get in water it on water swim in do the reconseleing with an detricand swam back and i back down you know
that that was the hated their fuggono do all easy got to do him right you know old point to point me the way you see everything you know and that's why i like
those a warrant em but that's what i like my last three or four years three years i think in the u in the team as i did a wary so he still got to have her feet
on the ground a boy's you he couldn't be in the petunia but that's a oinone was nothing tattine there's nothing better than the year then the potion life now i
know that i know that you're short on time and i and i i rushed this and oh i'm glad we were to get a little bit done and i think maybe after after this one we
to listen to it and in all probably end up with a bunch more questions i know people that are listened to us bunched teagues listen this the day they actually
bunch of tea gotten me but to questions i didn't get to any of them you know we will i know it so some sorry and now it's all gethings that pauper your head
when you talk about earees longer you an i was a yonson man first meal see you don't see her so it was for one of the best of women ever had it was great
philippines was great and we are so glad to live the philippines to go back to a death just to get out of for a while loaded you know so ah i will definitely
get you back on her and and like i said next time i'll i'll i'll get some questions from the ten guys that that they asked me to ask you and and go through
some of those but my thanks will come and all i know like i said to under you've never never been out in the public eye before and that's just the epitome of a
quiet professional that that we were all raised on and i appreciate it like i said boreraig you're a hero the duties in europe realler everybody in this in
this country and if anybody out there wants continued his conversation you can you can get chochere eye all the social media echoed at echo charles i am a
jackal willing were on all the different social media twitter integram and the face book if you want a support the pot cast echecles owen they do it if you
once tom supplements the pendent work of isly on it as the best ones fleuron it dot coms last jocolate personal that's one way also before you do your amazon
shopping of course go to one o website right jocatore or jack but as a com clicked through them as on the line bare before you do you shouting or to make that
part easier we have this the true per tool it's just the litigation thing can put on your brows or you get that on any other website those well you just lie on
is called the jocatore true petul crom extension quick on that confirm it's on there and automatically do it for you sosent have to remember it's good um also
if you like the shirts that we have both that's the one dispensed with a good oh but ye get some of those at play in support of some and a dive get the book
that lay valerio glad actually roger did the security clear and saw and his designer you to for a crime for you think you don't meteorite to wan thing i will
say you know and i don't think i a hero i just went over the did my job had a lot of fun for a great guy you that's boterel that is one of the things that
makes you hear all and thanks that you come in on the show and and also if he don't know where it were happened a little a little confortat here in san dikaion
october twenty or twenty first is not going to be for everybody but if you want to get in the game if you wanted to something that's going to be intense to
focus your talk about leadership when if i about getting better and while we do come on out the muster octoreen on twenty first roger thanks again for coming
on the show banker everything you did servant this country in vietnam and spend in the rest o your life supporting with selem's dedicated to our country in
like i said roger is kind of an unknown veterani would like to take a moment to thank all the vietnam betters that thought with currence ain't with honor in a
hard war ain't an unpopular war and not only fought for freedom against the evils of communism but also establish in passed on lessons learned for the current
generation of war fighters we owe all of you a great debt of gratitude for what you did for us and for the united states to america and everyone else out there
thanks for lessening ventured in the word and as you go to life remember the sacrifice of these veterans that thought and sacrificed for us so that we can live
with the sacred freedom to go out into the world and get after it so it till next time this is echo and jacobites true hero born officer chief worn officer
seal retired broder how
