this is jacopo cast number thirty eight with a laterals and me jackwell i were foot slow slow slow slow and over africa foot foot foot foot slogging over
africa boots boots boots boots moving up and down again there's no discharge in the war six seven eleven five nine and twenty miles to day for eleven seventeen
thirty two the day before boots boots boots boots moving up and down again there's no discharge in the war don't don't don't don't look at what's in front of
you brooks boots boots boots moving up and down again men men men men men go mad with watching them and there's no discharge in the war try try try try to
think of something different oh my god keep me from going lunatic boots boots boots boots moving up and down again there's no discharge in the war count count
count count the bullets in the band of the or if your eyes two they will get on top of you both pocpotoc moving up and down again there's no discharge in the
war we can stick out hunger teston weariness but not not not not the conocido them put both points punch woman up and down again and if no discharge in the
wall can't so bad by debeauce a company but night brings long strings up forty thousand million boots bonbons penwoman and down again there notestein the war i
have most six week and elisei it not five devils ducconians but pootpoot pontmartin again i met magisterin a war did evening echo good evening that's tom
that's a poem called infantry calls by kipling richard kipling who is actually read before in the pot cast he was day british correspond and he was an offer us
a poet he was a patriot a british patriot and he was actually all so critical war and her affrayed from a book by gaining david gilmore the long recessional
the imperial life of record kipling kipling was deeply critical of how the war was fought by the rostocker one of how the war was fought by the british army as
opposed the war itself which is kind of like hackworth hack work was more opposed to the way we were fighting in vietnam than he was opposed to the actual war
itself and he complained as early this a kipling complain as early as october of nineteen fourteen that germany should have been defeated by now and something
must be wrong with the british army kipling was shocked by the heavy losses that the british expeditionary force taken by the auto nineteen fourteen and blame
the entire pre war generation of british politicians whom he had argued failed to learn the lessons of the boar and as a result thousands and thousands of
british soldiers were paying with their lives for failures in the fields and so there's some definite complexities to kipling and it actually doze a little bit
further and deeper with these complexities in there's a reason i started off with that poem and that poem it is pretty much a tribute that that the the the
idea that pon which is obviously about the marching long distances and its attributed to a series of forced marches that were led by intaba which were led by
field marshal lord frederick roberts led sixty thousand men on forced marches during the second boar and south africa he let these forced marches at one as the
thousand miles nine hundred and fifty miles from cape down to transvaal so that's kind of wear this this poem comes from about how mad neidis to march an
autharis but the interesting the other interesting piece of this is that lord robert rotorjets culled this march he was actually personal friends with kipling
they were they were close friends and lord roberts was commander in chief of the army during world war one and a kipling's request at rider kipling's request
lord roberts aloud kipling son to be admitted to jonesian conal problem and so kipling regretting called up in to day my son's got a holt fish but he needs to
get in the game and lord roberts worked it out you know commander chief of the army and got him hid him admitted to the irish gardens actually as eyesight he
had pour isten so the the horrible piece i guess of that is that as i mentioned the first time we read a kipling poem on here is that regard kipling stone john
kipling was killed i timbermen fifteen the battle lose where the brotherish suffered sixty thousand casualties in three weeks of fightings sixty thousand
casualties his body was never identified any use one of the twenty thousand british dead that a current commemorated by the lusmore and while his body was
never found there were accounts that he was last in a slogging through the mud blindly after a violent shell explosion had ripped off his face and there's
further connexions in one of the lines in the poem is that there is no discharge in the war then the actual from the bible ecclesiastes eight eight says there
is no man that hath power over the spirit to retain the spirit neither hath he power in the day of death and there is no discharge in that war duty say in
there is no man have powers to power over the spirit or attenbury meaning to do you can't keep your soul when it's twentie for your soul to go you can't keep
it and then neither have the power over the day a death obviously you have no power over come death and there is no discharge in that war and that is that this
old timid struggle between life and death that war that we fight for life itself there is no escape you can't get out of it there is no discharge from that
warm and may be a little heavy way to start the pot cast but that poor also has a special meaning to a certain group of people in the navy and those you that
no one in poking about there you know what i'm talking about there and it's a poem that i thought of often in my career especially when i strapped on my dear
and heaved an overloaded ruck sack for a long patrol or march and when you do that any soldier military man will tell this that when you do that that is one of
the most demanding part of the job the rock march no long patrol the hump little walk the forced road march and even though your with a group of people when
you do that when your marching you're very much alone you're alone with your thoughts and their things to get ithin about you think about your field of fire
you got to think about your navigation you got to think about rally point you gotta think about head counts you gotta think about train feature you think about
the enemy and poydras and ideas and all that stuff but even with that there's still a lot of empty space to fill up inside your head and i recently took my
kids out on patrol and i guess to be grammatically correct it was high in the civilian world but in my mind it was a patrol fell like a petrol and you know
with the same thing of menesenoons from pointed to point be you set security when you get there you set your lapointe which sivillians callin a camp site then
you sleep and then you wake up and that you do again and as i did that the troll and since it had been a while since i had done a patrol and he cousin was also
watching my tears on their first patrol i got to kind o revisit my little relationship that i have with patrolling over the years and also as i saw them suffer
and learn how there first patrol i got to think in everything that i learnt over the years from patrolling and in doing that i realized how much patrolling had
tomentine in walking and thinking about all these things that i learned because again when your petronio time you now even if you think if on navigation you
think about all these things it doesn't matter even every piece of the job that your focus on it doesn't matter still space to fill that's what happened my you
know your mind starts to think about all these things and it down on me how much but trolling in marching had taught me and an how it's really a fundamental
component in everything that i did in the old time to end the military and like leadership there's some fundamental principles that apply universally to so
many things in life and also just like leadership there's a certain aspect of patrolling in navigation that is as much art as it is science and the science of
course is relatively easy to teach but the arts as always the art is hard to teach an famelies idea of navigation of moving from point adooing b which includes
plongeurs and picking way points along the way and identifying it and avoiding obstacles in routine overcome on expected of schools and how and when and where
to rest and everything else that navigation in patrolling includes in all those things or things that you face as you navigate a life and as you set goes as
you establish where your going so i wanted to take a closer look at land navigation and how it relates to leadership and life and in digging in i looked at
haloes of the information out there some of the some of the field manuals and it's it's i learned from people right in it i learn from a book and as i wended a
book i was hoping that i could find what i had learned from people but but i didn't really find it i found pieces of it goneso it but nothing like what i was
taught by the guise that raised me in the seal teams and you i looked at the aharman five do tosticated ing and land navigation in it it's a thorough document
in its very hamelading scientific side that that the actual technical skill of it conisteria in a compassion or at the matinee the controlling all the basic
tools are in there in there some good coats on one of the quoted to day the complexities of tact cloperton and deployment of troops are such that it it is
essential for all soldiers to be able to read interpret their maps in order to move quickly and effectively on the battlefield oaken argue with that you got a
nowhere you are to give her miscetis i always do to ask the ah the young the young seal officers was the most important piece of information ned on the
battlefield and they would say where the baggara how many guys you have for how many enemy there are or or anything like that they have a bunch of differentias
and i would say no no no no no that most important piece of information you can have on the battle field his war here he got a no where you are and the wise
nothing else matters and then i looked at a book called the last tended yards which we actually covered on this podcast boncassenite three and it goes through
a section which is describing it sonnot devisesand how now we've got g p s s and the g p s i can't be on reliable you can't count on em and all the stuff in a
kind of true he was even more true in that book came out which is the nineteenth five and there was less satellites in the sky and the preceive orders be it in
the inception methodology wasn't so dialin yet so the g psis wore less accurate back then and they were also still pretty big if they were these big
contraptions and even in nineteen ninety three nineteen ninety four the gyps is that i carried or big heavy thinks basically at this sign a person to carry him
and now of course their tiny there you know everybody's got um you know what jepson your own your eye one or whatever smart four use that a thousand times
better than the one i used to carry on my back and they are also very accurate and reliable now in the military is come to rely heavily on them perhaps perhaps
a little too much and i am out going to be guide that seasick in the mud that says he don't evolve don't learn anything because technologies also when you have
to take advantage of it but i also do think there is a need to remember the old ways and i remember when japs first came out and i was coming in to sikiang and
i remember this this officers would stouter ticular said to me now a one to do is cayley do carry the thing and and you know will know exactly when we are not
times m then he hands me this you know tony pound the recibo thing and a kind of said pay man all i need to do is carry this map and compass although exactly
where i am an all time to us almanagiau you no one to learn it but now a days ah did gedis our awesome and we definitely relied heavily on him but but it is
the it is piceas hundred yards it definitely emphasizes that you have to know how to land now which is good but like i said when i look through these books
none of them gave me the same clear level of instruction that i learned about land navigation of patrolling when i first got into the teams back in the day and
again these instructions in this methodologies basic principles of patrolling and land now they stuck with me and are really fundamental building blocks of how
ended of do everything that i do and there are we leave the basis of the attitude that i had that was very beneficial in leading me to having success in other
ears which was awesome and so again here i am and taking my kids on their first petrolite me realize this so clearly and as i was thinking about owliah in a
talk about this on the pacas because these are less in that i learned that i actually forgot that i learned you know what i mean either lessons that are so
embedded that i forgot that i thought about them but i think about em all time and in one seeing my kids do this i'm thinking oh yeah the other they are
they're learning this right now for the first time and so to go through some of those things in those principles and the first one is planning and you know we
we this gets never of course i've been noses got to come up with a plan but do they detailed map study and identifying the obstacles that you're going to have
to get around and there's a couple of different methods that you can use for land aviation one of them is called dead reckoning and dead reckoning means you
get a compass bearing from point to point be as you know you're going to be traveling on two hundred and seventy degrees so you put your consent under even
degrees and you mark you go straight line don't let anything take off that line head down and go and that's called dead reckoning and that's obviously can be
very problematicus it if in between you and where you're going is a giant mountain or neemuch of rivers or whatever you have to go through all these things and
you're going to get your worn out tired might be not tactically advisable to go through this areas and so that the better form he is called trennahan
association and when you're doing that you actually look at the map and you study what the what the ground is going to do it so there's a big mountain you
conspired around the bottom of mountainy get to this amount and there's a a ravine that's yet you can follow that revenerd to get to a certain point of the
ravine where it cuts for the north than you can you can had the otterton to your torture to so it's this it's a method of really knowing that train that you're
going to be on and it's infinitely more effective than dead reckoning so if you think about this from atepetl you have a mission at your trinket done well how
are you going to get there you how are you going to get this mission done are you going to just put your head down and all desire any impact that you taken in
apply more pressure or you can to be smart or you can a study that train and take a look and figure out the best way around those opes those dead reckoning and
turning sociation you the train association you don't like good said go round the mountain in the tree gebback on the dead reckoning course you're just using
the urinating an heronsbourne when you do your map study you'll know that you're going to go sciron the mount and you're going to go down a ravine then you're
going a cut over by this open field you're goin to hold long the wood lines when you get to the end of the wood line just gonna be a sense you're goin a step
over that fence won't you get to the fence or gonnof the fence for you know until you hit another big terrain feature like another hill and then you can follow
a the theeves of that hall until you get to a stream in so you're going to know exactly where you're going the whole time and you get imagine it which more
effective this is an ourosoff your compass you are takin advantage o you're going to patrol in the areas where you have a tact galavanted too so it's just a a
much much better way to do things so i lottie i think people um you know they hear the big ah the big navy seal like a wontedness and a horde all the corn and
a no we staying on the course means i'm going to reach my objective it doesn't mean im in de pony head and the wall without thinking read so that's what taine
features do for you in and there's also some train features that are interesting you can use reference points that keeping from going too far are you can know
hay if we had this man highway we went too far we know we missed our targumists our turn if we hit this river we know we went too far if we had this ridlon we
know we had twenty for sergint set those up for you and they're going to conform where you are at all cerinthuses reference points so you're going to tell you
a whole team so your whole team is gone now a hay we made it this far oh there's the big river that were turning left that okay we turned left batoum next
ignat is a wood wine oh here's the wood line so everybody knows and to imagine if you're again think about this outside de the parameters of land navigation
and patrolling think of it in a regular business or any situation we try to get a team to do something if you lay out the course for them and you blot out what
the alcazar and you explained to people where they're going to be and how how important is that they need to get there and what we need to be looking out for
imagination feels that he knows where they are they understand where they are when you're doing dead reckoning the back of the guides in the back they have no
idea where they are i've been that guy i've been a gun in the back of the of a patrol and you do have no idea where you are you've no one be on much further to
go use not your head down you're so slow slug in along with your way and it's a nightmare whereas i've been on good petrole i'm in the back but i we got really
good brief and i like all there's that mountain an there's that ravine okay we should become in that stream soon oh yes we're at the stream see you know where
you are and when you provide your tin with that kind of clarity in the course that your planning to take it's going to make them so much more aware of what's
happening and the more aware they are what's happening but better performer going to get from him you know the other thing is as you're doing this you do
something all the pace count which is your as you walk you know how many paces it takes you to get a hundred yards and there is some a contucky windages there
is welcome going up hill down hill you can you can work out these differ you noputty after him are you can know that hey when i take left on my left for it the
ground all average when i'm wearing a hundred pounds he s eighty six paces from me and as one hunted yards on it that's that's you'll know that and so they was
you do as your constantly checking it gives you another you could you another reference point because if we're supposed to hit a you know a stream in three
hundred yards and i know we've marched six hundred yards some happened a time for me to stop in fact at four hundred yards about your stop and the cat let do a
quick mass sitys you want a double check these things in erin a business world this could be some kind of a time line that you set up you you're like a hat at
you know forty two days we should be here on the project or not there yet okay what's the problem owe miss why are ye getting it done so that gives you true
sort of methodologies to confirm where you are sitala your position which is smart at what you call it kentucky let conduct winetast me is like the giver to
its it now it's just a it it comes from shooting a gun as you began with normally i in your sight to get you specifically let say you you think six hundred
meters read but then there's a strong wind blowing and i may be in a hold off to the left the little thing denouce or something i think is just shooting the
maybe the shooters in kentucky had of they made it ethereal accurate is at honiton unseen in a commodate for that there is i chicago ended no no well cause
it's kind of windy you know the yahoodom in from but no it's it's it's contucky went its material as he does he like i said in life plan studied a root that
you're going to go think about the off scales how are you going to avoid him what do you goloo like what do your smaller gold look like along the way the
little reference points sir you got some of you sentimenti project okay would the little things or you got something in your life that you charontis what a
little gold you got to say for yourself so you get i keep a reference point long away and with the time on your going to beat those on you that's how you stay
on track and you don't we actually did we did something called paste notes and what pace notes were and in i learned it for for foot patrols and we ended up
using it even more when it came to vehicle patrols and i i realized that ermaeuen years ago something we started sending guys to a rally driving school
secondrate rally race and corsand that state that's been the way it always done paseos in rally racing so you so what's cool about it is when you do paste
notes your writing down specifically this is the train feature this war i'm seein this is how far away it is this is the next train future this one of essenes
is how far away that he can actually track that now we got some detailed with that on on vehicle mounted patrols we would actually just take the map and below
the map up to eat he exactly what it looked like at that inner section or at that juncture at that city blocks we could see what the buildings were extee be
looking for m so that's patents in it in it is almost like a rehearsal you know is almost like a rally can you can walk the whole team through and make an get
a visualization of what they're going to see and how their houses going to look and the other the other pieces that i said is you got a share that plan and
explain it to everybody so every sometime sheep and and i did this what i actelaine it o my kids do on a set oathes we see were at this area here were to go
crossing background with a start hidden some little terran features here on to go up and down and up and down that's con tellier and non e did it help them no
it's going on but now i'm talking through it and that helps me because it helps to teach things cure you you teach something you become more proficient at it
that is one of the good things about teaching anything you know you want to get better something teach people how to do it it makes you utter you want teach
that our walk or you want to get better if the unlocketh or marines all kinds of ill be tells about it but still hard to tea like if you're not used to teach
in the jump in there and to cause you just used to do in it and a lot of that dog you just do without thinking about kay what exactly have i doing in this
tetoot do it let a onmoving does all these little factors that that facilitate you doing something that you don't even think about you in the tree then you
like all you kind o do this we were wouwou now an your saying you gruntin always those out little details mail that's a good bright oniah you has something to
i do but once he points it out or teaches it he be teachin something basic that i know are not good at ye ye and ye'll say oh yeah i did i put my foot on the
happier to stay izedis night of you i do that build you start thinking about on your foison it it makes you that much better at it and up the same thing that's
going to happen here when you actually brief your team and tell exactly what to expect now in this doesn't mean that you're going to say hey this is whitedale
its goin to go puseyite give the cabby up than he this is our plan and were might up to deviate from this plan and at tokay were ready to do that where it
dapifero it helps you and it helps them yet the funny great train is to retinien into is it you teaching whatever and then he just all the sudden bust out her
athletic him that move that you do and i was pretty good at that move a satiating rose lucasia past and i do sometimes and breniere been known of talking about
a homelike doing it i'll good but the one i grow i you ronnie poor teacher well that's something you can work on i guess starting down take over the forecastle
more comfortable avoiding it also ah now not now an ex piece that i was thinking about omptolle and that i saw my kids still through that i went through his
young see you is you start questioning or you you circle in through this process of of what you i need to bring with me what do i actually need to bring with
me now when you don't have to carry it on you don't know what it means to carry it carry it when i say carry i mean put it on your back and bear the weight of
that item to when you don't have to do that you give ankaret hing yes carry everything the warm sleeping bag in the west for light stove and the extra food in
the comforter and all this stuff you know that's what you do when you when you don't have to carry it on you don't think about carrie outer know what it feels
like to carry it but when you have to carry it you get down to what you need real quick to what you actually need real quick totally limited on the food you're
not going to i never i never heeded him meal in the field onless it was like a snow on the ground a winter warfare scenario and never he could amelion the
ground even it was never never he a meal cause that men gentling a few wolf and a whisper light and all this stuff ye and i never i was rediments sighed
ordecai a radio a and then i got used to that so i time i was an officer i wasn't carrying a radio any more i see so emson to be lighted in her body else
icament dear no meno we will not take that and do you need you need to get it you need to bring enough complicated you can actually sleep in survive me i need
bring a ground powder whatever tom but you know we used to say little saint was travel light freezing that thou as my safe for sure travel life resenii tell
you i got my he indoctrination to freezing at night and traveling light when i first checked into the team i went to a calm school comunications school a seal
communications coleretur of barege in this helps and i had this this old chief that was run in the a run in the running the training and i was a fire of new
guiding how my tridasas deerie to didn't even try as at the team and they sent me to the school and so this chief in actionen with another new guy whose osra
guy and we were not there to agesander one of us had otriad uat from buds a couple months ago for a arboard ever so we showed up its winter time and we show up
in and he end of this school you go through a a field train exercise and it's i want to see it five days in the field it like monday through friday in the
field or something along those lines and and you are basically doing the reconnoisance mission and they give you really good targets to look at you in a look
at interror back with all this information in the you're goin to move her to move you every couple of hours a give you directions to a new point to move to
selfward where we're getting ready for this after asinine ver spent much time in a field and the guy that run in the course you know he's having fun with the
new guides i a willing and i said yes tiefenau think your heart o corn i don't i'm trying to be heard capaces if you're really hard core you don't need a
pontoon need a sleeping bag or a ground pat you do go up there to with a ponchatoula and i was like okay no problem so sure enough i go in the field to the
poncho and a pontarlier and actually i actually was a baby sack which is a gortatlea gortatlea eckstein cortex shell and upon so winter which is something
that's been around for ever and it is a very thin then like the handle blanket nor thine the tent like a blanket it's like a blanket that's what it is a
thelamis a very thin it's yes i in lying in and is in a poncho linger and so i had those of the two things i had with me and ah in my buddy took the same so we
were like oh oh that you need to be like that to be hard donnerhall hold o this the house we are going into the field were in serving in the field and in the
sun is going like me sincere right at dusk as were inserting in the field that you raining and right as we get on the ground that turns to sleep and then two
hours into the night it turns into snow so we freeze i mean we fleesed just we can't sleep and the funny thing was was that we couldn't slap we learn consider
is too cold for us only and you and the guy had set it up so you had to make a communications when no you had to make communications it was about every three
or four hours i and so and if you missed a communications window he missed it not was you know you got your great went down or ever you got points of tracted
so all the other guests who were experienced old at new how to live out the field better than we did they all were supercomputable the tea went out there and
had to seeing bags ground as in all that and they slept through their caminos lest some of them seealpsee but occasionally its feet when after four days three
days whatever it is he and so we were the only pair that made all of our come widows cause whose couldn't ray good siytuate just be standing up de standing up
standing by a tree doing buries a a just trying to senorita yes so that was um that was one of the lessons on alearning how to travel like presentations old
too much i i i should hate you to think i needed was a ground pateera begone field so travel it freezin night is kind of like a a warning or is that like no
that estemated alamos i messed ology and it's it's a methodology of of a portion of guise in the military that er that er on the wood rather be on the hard
side ray though minute all all free that night so i can travel at other light freezing night and i really more effective for your when your lighter yes
sepation of course you if you're exhausted to a withart is going to be a balance her we should ha brought round paths on that operation to that tatrang
operation for sure yet because in a fur off and in like we got trenchful legit and the grottos with me that logic trench for when he got out like he has at
like frostlight kind no it's when your feet cause it is this old part of his oppert of the straining operation took place in in like a swamp at a day so
freezing in a swamp and he got let walwar one style trench foot i add to my not as bad as him but what is it it's just your feet did know and rotting jacked up
ye good times to so so again how do we apply this to life and and i think if you if you look at what you will want verses what you actually need an imagine if
you had to carry everything that you owned now of course that's not possible but i think this is this whole like minimalist attitude that's that's kind of
getting popular right now that it's getting popular in civilian wilbrid in military we've always valued that in its one of the cool things about going away on
de pontifer me i always loved this feeling when you went away and a ployment you can only take i won't we as as you all took a lot of gear with us but there's
a limit you took you know five or six kit bags you'll five or six big duffle bags basically filled with deer and it's it that's it that's all your dear it all
the dear you have and so honestly to me that that always felt good that is what i got this everything i have and you know as a young seal that was basically
you could fit all your gear in those six bags and then everything you own in the civilian world you could fit in two more bags and we live that like i loved
like that with my body's back in the day we live like that for a long time oh you eat wednoon we do traverse it only kept agweeable herself up a week me ready
go yes canelike were in the art military gaskin like the old g men and the less ye back in that day good men get leech tarteff an ye well people start to hold
on to stuff especially a part work if ye or ye when you carry it you realize how much that now that barton where you can talk about once you know the weight of
your own gun you think twice before elatedly only sat staring in about the cost of that year and what is that mean over time and how much i used to your out of
it now the thing that i hang on to there's a couple of things that i'm a little bit of a horror one of the teachers ye not man is unlike the net now and now
some people might be thinking he jocko you were the same freaking deserved i witches true but i have you know old t shirts that are just iasicus i wear my
teachers i want when i went as hard for me to part with the bad that is in in she he like the olivia ah i have thought of old judge to keep ye when i used to
go to school i used to travel a scared they'd give me a t shirt motive and i have all these old school teachers all schools that don't even exist or schools at
a really big or whatever or just competitions that i did you know you got the list cultissima i don't wear any more but i can in so and of how i was thinking
you cousin antony them take pictures of them and put them on the interweb in and throw away what i be old like a like a like an archie ye have yet a case
because there's some feethers memories to note think memorabilia yea they patard because you like to us he triggers the memory of those times all of that event
waterwagoning ing about it and there's a problem with that i'll tell you i realized this from my experience a grown up you grew up in the inning land and i
don't go home i didn't go home in all their hardly ever go back to the town where i grew up and the people that i know that are still there they remember all
this stuff for when we were kids they remember this event that and remembering this happened and i honestly don't remember i i just don't remember it ill and i
think the reason is because i've got when away from there and i never went back and so i have nothing trending as members i don't see the school yard where the
fight happened i don't see the ai don't see the the road where the car slipped an see that stuffin' remember it like adother they're there o violate in little
johnny get me a elinor i actually don't remember that so with some of this memory of beauty as you call it if every time i look at it all yottowas cool turn in
her i was cold trading with those guys or whatever so i have a bunch of getters said i i have i been aristophanes of aridities i was standin take him into the
gym and framing them and have my accost no not i i i you will hear but their old school teacher tired the cold to have those old year if you if you got my
thirteen teachers jeff lovers thirt and put out in there with that me sick ye oronocos i remember best of the last remember that tournament had also good or
ferdinando and so that's it you go through this check was back to the subject here are you one o acolasia you actually need and in again when you're when
you're a business you've got a look at what you what what do you need to complete this operation what he is and to cause it'd be nice to have a separate those
things separate those things you can actually put them in those categories you know need want nice to have right and in you go through a chalepotaton ran what
we need first and then we can see at this anything that we want and then by the way there's a nice to have we can throw on their okay fine but to go in there
and just buy everything on the list or or command everything on that list because you think you're going to need it no wrong answer rome yet in a loin people
and of course i am not talking about well maybe it plays or does he play of his in put distantlie what you need an what you want you know love him what you
want doesn't even facilitate what you need you all like you who like oh hey i i i don't need faster internet but i kind of want it but the faster internes
gonna facilitate my work well it's the e do you know you need one at least that something sometimes people will get stuff that they want that just straight up
no function ye are over sir would not my family i know but i don't like things without function i know like him so like um tokai to it so again back to this
but once you've decided in what you're goin to bring her what you're going to need then send start the operation or at some time to start this movement and
even with me stare got a check confirm where you are make sure you know then you get started and i had this first from mind to when i did this patrol with my
kids cause i just or get to go with old trails or walking i started walking i didn't keep a pace count that's ridiculous as embarrassing though i did keep a
pace out ten wasn't really bad attention which kind talking in the end uh the having to rest talking and moving and kind of getting used to it all and hey
how's your back back for you and all that stuff i was a night i go in a second where i e for where are we right now cause i i had told them that he were we
looking for the stratocles up and we talked through it and we pulled out the map or we are doing study my son was like immediately with all we went too far we
missed it i know it it's back there and my daughter wouldn't commit either way and i said okay let's do assessment and so we assessed and realized that we
actually hadn't gone quite far enough though in a loiterer but my point is that you got a check yourself you've got a check yourself and check your team
consistently not constantly right that's my comanment but consistently and you also after watch out for target fixation which is trying to go to fast igor de
trying to get to that to the end point without going by your little way points along the way that is a way to get yourself lost cause your driving and you
don't you're not lookin for you are reference points and you'll lose the bubble so you got a detacha little bit and stand back and pay attention to not be all
crazy about that you know for you know every five hundred metres may be every you do a quick check every thousand meters you're goin to do a little bit of more
accurate study and that's going to keep you a keep you in line and if you are an line you only got to be a little bit of track you're not going to be twelve
days of war for two hours of a walking alvira yet makes a perfect sense to specially begonia these reference points the turnerian you're just you got one
reference point and the pollination that accurate because really just by the nature the whole deal the math the one reference light that you do have is the
furthest thing away literally so you'll have the one or for that if you have all these other reference points you get off track one step to set through steps
and still that like a band to reference point to desolate fact only saffren's pointed you to her to support you that's that's how you do it and that's
organiser you're planning something with a team and a business you got to have some reference points along the way to helen you get toward your goal i'll cause
your goal is far off in the distance you know she got a plan about how he's going to get there if you have em you get it deader useful to shoppers it has this
one i first started it has his history little box and every move you make it records i was a pretty cool delidoa then you have control louise but no that's
something of but if ye each one so you can literally go to watt's reference point with every single move tattoo you can go up on litical away back in twenty
five minits to when i erased this little bankbook and let me start from there you know you bring me one thing across far up the chart yea the he's the only
thing it's lit but it's like a little like a fork penicillo you go back in time essentially you go back like five months and then you make a different move it
that one of various sources gone that's why in time travel epixarhon time tralall right so when you get out on patrol now am disciplined starmoor for instance
she got his day hydrated to got to keep track of your dear you got to keep track your pace count you don't let your dear get out you take out your dear like
otopotee on a pull everything out of my broken lay it all over the place no you got to keep it tight you don't rush over obstacles so frinstance oh you know is
a little log and i got to sit a long going across this trail and i got sepolero well i step up on top of it and then i'm gonna jump off cause i had the easier
no you don't just shononsese that's how you spring your uncle that's how you blown and e which is you know what you're playing a baseball game or your own the
gitimate in you in you twist your ankle cool walk to the side but some i son your you know don't can cometes out in the middle of nowhere and one of your kid
sprains in ankle you yearn yorinobu your in trouble and if you're on em but shall in a military situation and you get somebody that could spring ankle you an
even more significant trouble so you got to have the disappointed to slow down slow is smooth smooth as fast watcher footing watch for danger watch her field
of fire pay attention the first person that's in front of you and the person that behind you and that's how you do your communications your communication up
the whole time so get you can go right to any business any project at any one's working on it's all the same thing you got to be disciplined you got a keep
track of things you've got i keep your communication going between your team members by passing whatever singly got to pass he when he get to a lay up point
where when you're going to actually stop and and basically camp out i hate saying that goniatites it derogatory to say can't all right leslie in the yeah so
you never want to have anybody say that all we let my when i let em throw my kisses at no were not camping living laugh but soon as the camp you know that now
or a hood so it is one when you get to a lay up point where on stop you don't just flop down and turn into a piled craft and this is true again with a business
situation you reach one go you don't just like flop down and set it i we did at high five to office party no you can you can order pizzle you're not ordering
whose you donate that stuff to do so you don't camp out you have to remain tactful you after rain discipline you have to quietly assume your security position
he got than be quiet make sure you are as alone as you think you are then you got to pick out some land march a once you get to your little lamp point you got
you got to make that your home you know you got to look at for some land marks or somethin he it somewhere where you know where you are and then you confirm
your position you know you take a try and to latin your compass maybe even break out your g p s get a little double confirmation and then once you got erything
sat than you can a little beer huh but won't you don't do is get the finishin it is flop down and we made it in you never wanted do that and the other peace
this is something i thought about a lot was on his betroth me with my two kids i went with two out of the four kits when that we can have a standard in most
military does you're going to when you when you're doing no patrol you're going to move for fifty minutes mayor going to walk for fifty minutes of your
terrestrem than you walk fifteen restarted walk with it the etcaetera and i can tell you that if you aren't careful i can be hard to start up again you and you
get tired legs you gets sore shoulders and you get hunger and you get thirsty and it's easy to let ten minutes turn in the fifteenth any minutes and turn into
a half an hour lackalaenge very very easily and this is the thing you got to remember while you are resting you are getting no closer to your target that there
is no progress that is being made and by the way the only person that is going to move you toward that target is you you're the only person that's going to
move you towards that target you're not going to get carried that targets not got a move you you are the only person that's going to move to the target and if
you don't move you never get there and the faster you get there the better off you're going to beat now again this dozen mean that you're simply grinding
yourself and your team into the dirt there are rest periods involved there you have ten minutes of rest o you fifty minutes of work to do a talking about
smashing your team but you absolutely do have to drive your team because there will be no progress in the comfort one there will not in the inside the
converters no progress appening there is nothing happening and when your buttoning with a ruck sack on is not comfortable is not confused not easy and not as
one of the things that's why this discipline of keeping moving and continuing to push the pace is so powerful and that the same thing with any goal obviously
the corelation here is at any gold that you're going for you have to keep moving toward it you have to stay on the path do you have to rest yes but you have to
go if the go down that bath and that is another one of these principles and all these principles they really applied to everything that i did in my secretaries
of what i was doing the same things planning well setting goals knowing what they looked like staying disciplined on it everything on every type of mission
every task every job that is what i always did i didn't take it easy did i rest sir of course i rested but did i cut corners detak easy way did i slack off no
no i did not i held the line now from a leadership perspective all this talk of marching in patrolling made me think of a short story called the beloved
captain which i was recently introduced to by the wife of one of fineless i ever worked for guineamen ral shown recoaro was the colonel at the time who was
commanding the one one a d the first progenitor or division of the wise not as the ready first during the battle or a body and i recently saw general
macfarlane at a memorial vent that we did for detener anniversary of mark resteth and she told me about this story again is called a beloved captain and it
lays out some fundamental leadership principles and when the general's wife told me that he kind of referred to this story himself for guidance i figure maybe
the candages we can all use when the story is written by guinane donald hankey who served with a british army in world war one then a volunteer who enlisted at
age twenty nine the spite having served as an officer when he was younger he enlisted to go fight and eventyde his commission and in both as a enlisted guy as
in and as an officer he fought in the front line and he wrote this story which is called as i said the beloved captain he came in the early days when we were
still at recruitals under hats of timber son tall erect smiling so we first saw him and so he remained to the end at the start he knew as little of soldiering
as we did he used to watch us being drilled by the sergeant but his manner of watching was paturages own he never looked bored he was learning just as much as
we were in fact more he was learning his job and from the first he saw that his job was more than to give us the correct orders his job was to lead us so he
watched and noted many things and never found the time hang on heavy heavy on his hands he washed our evolutions so as to learn to learn the correct orders he
watched for the right manner of command the manner which secured the most pomperson toward order and he watched every one of us for individual characteristics
we were his men already he took an almost paternal interest in us he noted the men who tried hard but were naturally slow and awkward he distinguished them
from those who were in attentive and board he marked down the keen and most efficient among us most of all he studied those who were subject to moods who were
sulky one day and willing the next these were the ones who were to turn the scale if he could get these on his side that that would be on the there's this
leader very important for him to learn about his men and now his men and study his men we've heard this before back to the book for the first few days he just
watched then he started work picked out some of the most awkward ones and accompanied by a corporal marched them away by themselves ingenuously he explained
that he did not know much himself yet but he thought that they might be at my get on better if they drove by themselves a bit and that if it helped that if he
helped them and they helped him they would soon learn so there somers humility on on their is a a u don't know that much you guys don't know that much let's
help each other let's build a little team here his confidence was infectious he looked at them and they looked at him and the men pulled themselves together
into turandotte best so he flingeth p here there best says prized themselves his patience was inexhaustible his simplicity could not fail to be understood he's
keeping thin simple so simple that they could not fail to be understood his keenness and optimism carried all with them very soon the awkward squad found
themselves awkward no longer and soon after that they ceased to be a squad and went back to the batoon then he started to drive a petunia sergeant standing by
to point out his mistakes of course he made mistakes and when that happened he never minded admitting it some extreme ownership going on he would explain what
mistakes he had made and try again the result was that we began to take almost as much interest and pride in his progress as he did in ours we were his men and
he was our leader we felt that he was credit us and we resolved to be a credit to him there was a bond of mutual confidence and affection between us which grew
stronger and stronger as the months passed he had a smile for almost every one but we thought he had a different smile for us we've looked for it and were
never disappointed on parade as long as we were trying to his smile and courage us off praticle passed him in saluted his eyes looked straight into our own and
his smile greeted us it was a wonderful thing that smile of his it was something worth living for when worth working for it bucked one up when one was bored or
tired it seemed to make one look at things from a different point of view a finer pointer view his point of view there was nothing feeble or weak about it it
was not monotonous like the smile of sunny jim it meant something it meant that we were his men and that he was proud of us and sure that we were going to do
jolly well better than any of the other protons and it made us determine that we would when we failed him when he was disappointed in us he did not smile he
did not rage or course he just looked disappointed and that made us feel far more savage with ourselves in any amount of swearing would have done point was
talked about on her many times that guy that yelling and screaming not getting respect that hat aloft to do also acting polly everything to do also with
remembered talking about em use the chart not the stick you know or you boris that's basement you don't want of of the band or or it could be a cent pinotem
thing were when they look for that approval which we all do with our friends especially uhetea not looking of void in getting mad they're looking to make em
happy absences of that you know how the ofthat field or how alditha is so he does have to get matteucia ly good as zero ye don't have to go negative ten on me
he goes to zero or one they're like dan el almond get back to that after ten he and it is a right language he just looked as appointed and that made us feel
far more savage with ourselves than any amount of swearing what i done you know but i am boss ike at one time good or hold gold in my for is just to just to
make make him look good and an say give us a smile and yet we were all fired up ye back to the book he made us feel that we were not playing the game with him
this is if they messed up he made us feel that we were not bling the game by him it was not what he said he was never very good at talking it was just how he
looked and his look of displeasure and disappointment was a thing that we would do anything to avoid the fact was that he had won his way into our affections
we loved him and there is an anything stronger than love when all said and done he was humble too if that is the right word and i think it is no trouble of
ours was too small for him to attend to when we started romares for instance and our feet were blistered and sore as they often were at first you'd have
thought that they were his own feet from the trouble he took of course after the marster was always an inspection of feet that is routine but with him it was
no mere routine he came into our rooms and if any one had a sore fit foot he would kneel down on the floor and look at it as carefully as if he had been a
doctor then he would prescribe and the remedies were ready at hand being borne by the sergeant if a blister had to be landed you would very likely lancet
himself than in there so s to make sure there was done with a clean needle and that no dirt was allowed to get in there was no affiction about this no striving
after effect there was simply that he felt that our feet were pretty important and that he knew that we were pretty careless so he thought it best at the start
to see to the matter himself nevertheless there was in our is something almost religious about this care for our feet it seemed to have a touch of the christ
about it and we loved and honoured him the more literally getting down on his hands and knees and carrying for the feet of his men and you know you can imagine
the leaders that would that would see this as being beneath them and maybe even thinking in some way that this would make them look bad right but you can see
obviously he's comparing him to jesus so i think it was a bit forget had a good effect on the men we knew that we should lose him for one thing we knew that he
would be promoted there was our great hope that some day he would command the company also we knew that he would be killed he was so amazingly unself conscious
for that reason we knew that he would be absolutely fearless he would be so keen on the job in hand and so anxious for his men that he would forget about his
own danger so it proved he was a captain when we went out to the front whenever there was a tiresome job to be done he was there in charge if ever there were a
moment of danger he was on the spot if there were any particular part of a line where the shells were falling faster or the bombs dropping more thickly than
another parts he was in it it was not that he was conceited and imagined himself indispensable it was just that he was so keen that the men should do their
best and act worthily of the regiment he knew that fellows hated turning out at night for fatigue when they were in a rest camp he knew how tiresome the long
march there and back and digging in the dark for an unknown purpose war steamer the fellows would be inclined to grouse an shirk so he thought that it was up
to him to go and show them that he thought it was a job worth doing and the fact that he was there put a new complexion on the matter altogether no one would
sure if he was there no one would grumble so much either what was good enough for him was good enough for us so you got a cottage helped her not told stories
about picking up brass and doing that taking the bad watches all those things and this is a exact commentary about that just because you're a leadership
position doesn't mean you don't get to do the hard stuff free don't have to do that our stuff and actually means you do the hard stuff but talking to jed he is
though and you know he's the boss of his coming to me in steam and when that pretty much every word that come in from that is like men as reminding me of this
were like this certain people in a group that can do that that can go in like you know will there was your shoes and you don't recountant matically have that
respect and in some cases you have less respect if like sort like their kissing your butt and they don't have anything to look up to you know or or you know
these these kanekas who would ever oh but the point is as the leader or the boss or the dead or whatever like everyone in the group is is watching you people a
watching so if you're like you can be like an you can make it ten twenty fifty great moves and then but let's see just kind of come in late every day or
something like that or like your untoothsome yether watching so they're like no cassy theatin they got benchiness sarily they're just watching were a they
amtman i kin go conscious or even sub conscious a could be a they could be getting critical but man there watching so when you are like when if they see slack
off their like up its orieloff yeh alrighty what pay that's what we're doing your anything you know he if you're from a lear ship positions position your
slacking your follows from slackers no down about it than that hendon doubt here you lose your temper or even even if like you in one's anatei who like an o
your kid is cruising if you whatever your on the phone with not another cable guy and you know how these sketchily don't be a nest or in your mad or whatever i
mean every tween nine a m and nine p m or ninety of the next roman you lose your temper on the cable day bullocking like all kate's kind of what how it is like
that's how we do it kind of thing you know ay for watching so yet he's got where you've doing the hard stuff you know the demosthenes stuff bottom a he's doing
it all people are watching and they see it so they like me that's the way to roll em not litter an arm from that they didn't think her taking in move moving at
night and digging in it you for unknown purpose they they knew that they weren't fired up with sense showed up and started doing it they all realized okay
you'll it's good enough for him you ll sit to erroneous for us there back to the book what was good enough for him was good enough for us if it were not too
much trouble for him to turn out it was not too much trouble for us he knew too how trying the nerves how trying to the nerves it is to sit in a trench and be
shelled he knew what a temptation there is to move a bit farther down the trench and heard together in a bunch o it seems the safest end he knew too the folly
of doing it and that though that it was not the thing to do not done in the best regiments so he went along to see that it did not happen to see that the men
stuck to their posts and conquered their nerves and as soon as we saw him we forgot her own anxiety it was move a bit further down sir we are all right here
but don't you go exposing yourself we didn't matter we knew it then we were just rank and file bound to take risks the company would get along all right
without us but the captain how is the company to get on without him to see him was to catch his point of view to forget our personal anxieties and think only
of the company and the regiment and honour that's an interesting counter is that your this leaders presence actually opened his troopers mind to what he saw
mutha's awesome there was not one of us but would gladly and died frame longed for the chance to show him that we weren't heroes we never dreamed about getting
the victoria cross but to save the captain we would have earned it ten times over than never i care a button whether we got it or not we never got the chance
worse luck it was all the other way we were holding some trenches which were about as unhealthiest trenches could be the bees where is a plan term for the
germans the bees were only a few yards away and well well supplied with trench mortars we hadn't got any at the time bombs and air torpedoes were dropping
round us all day of course the captain was there it seemed as if he could not keep away but torpedo fell into the trench and buried some of our trap chaps the
fellows next to them ran to dig them out of course he was the first one then came another torpedo in the same place that was the end but he lives somehow he
lived and we who knew him do not forget we feel his eyes on us we still work for that wonderful smile of his there are not many of the old lot left now but i
think those who went west have seen a when they got to the other side i think they were met some one said well done good and faithful servant and as they knelt
before that gracious pierced figure i reckon they saw near by the captain's smile any way in that faith let me die if death should come my way and so i think
shall i die content and die he did donald hankey who wrote that story was badly wounded in the battle lepronia thirtieth nineteen fifteen and after a covering
from those wounds he would back to the front including action at the battle o son and leader preparing to go over the top at one thirty in the afternoon on
october twelfth night ten sixteen lieutenant hay was reported to have told his man if wounded blighty if killed resurrection then blighty was a term that
basically meant million dollar wound which was talked about before on this pad cast the million dollar would as hey you get shot i get you off the front but it
doesn't kill you in a dozen man you for life the million dollar wouldn't have that day the britska that a blighty and so at one thirty the afternoon october
twelfth as it guyser getting ready to go over the top he tells his men if wounded blighty if killed resurrection so you boys have not to fear shortly
thereafter he was killed you is said to have been buried near the spot where he fell although the grave was never found but we do have his words so let us see
those words as we tried to lead others as well as he did as well as we can as well as the beloved captain and with that spennie some we fast done some
questions for the internet sir we can move to those questions songo after after her a story like that if it's always tough for me to remember that when you
hear a one story like that you've got to remember that there are thousands and thousands and thousands of stories like that of war and of leadership and of
sacrifice and if we don't do ardans to learn from those lessons and apply them i question whether even deserved to have this life yet that the about this this
story belovedest like that such a clear demonstration on hideout where these guys who would follow this guy basically into fire make a prey watch a walk into a
pit if in then all that they did ye think about it they did that's what world war one was yes stand up go follow me we're going to daisy so if this guy's near
presence can make these other guys following like that in these type of situations like more if more people would be like this guy you know in normal life i
mean it'd be a breeze to have people you know listenin gasset some stuff done and and how much of the stuff that the beloved captain does is countering tootie
of what people think of a military giving almost everything in there he is admitting his mistakes is essido whose awkward and admitting to them that he's kind
of messed up to he's getting down on his knees and in basically being almost submissive to his men in order to make sure that their holtye is taking all the
hard jobs heath smiling and developing the strong relationships with his men like every one of those things is almost courtown people think i am a big tough
military iris that yell sergeant the dillegent leader like no and answerable in the civilian secure that end not in the same way they think they think that
that how you lead you if they seen it in a movie he that is not that that that hyper aggressive mentality is his ineffective with human banks and as she
there's a question here was a will probably talk about that some more am but but that's why i was making perfectly though that i'm all about being aggressive
ye i'm all about being a cresside aggressive toward your mission not towards people i mean less a person worthy dressiness which does happen from time to time
mum that's called the fist fight you have far noted where his mere presence the kind i am i not imposed but impact in half the perspective where is like its
caissa ly him walking in to to whatever the the situation and them discontentedly at what what he seen right you know there there there soldiers a annihilate
move the weapon could be advanced on let me nominale deduire yea at is completely right leetle right i was on a ship one time and i thought it was about the
the commanding of treshi there's something all the one in c which is a biscuit loud speaker back goes throughout every portion of ship everyone here and this
caning oser gets on this gets on the one man he's going to make a speech right because that's what commanding all soomtimes and he said i thought he was going
to make the most applebee kitty said not too at the finitudes donsayso pretty powerful sir he says em he says he when you win win when you see a piece of trash
on the ship and when i see a piece trash i thought he say when i see a piece of chargeman i go and pick it up any shady said thumping on runs of winicapora
trash i'm frustrated that nobody picked it up and think of our thirst the impact of those we savants if he said where i thought he was going to say which is
hey when i should petetrson the floor i go over i pick it up and an put it away or throw away and then i make sure this now the test near it because i want
this ship to shine that one thing he he said he when i see pictesh on the ship i get so frustrated that you aren't cleaning it up an i was so let down that had
shipped that that commanding officers had been of any but in your point if you know it's like i've been the reason i fought that is because you can see when
even when it be in ole in the commander of a unit of some kind and i would see what i walked in unexpected there's like a change in it and is not always you
know sometimes i've seen it were guys the command or walks in and its people don'tcher yet hath not different that's not all were looking for her you want to
say oh the boss is your i don't want to mossetts is going on i don't get this is we shouldn't be doing that wish and that's your right that is a real powerful
real powerful fought that he puts in here about how when when the boss comes round when the commander comes round and you and it actually provided the troopers
the ability to see what he see in how powerful that it relentin a danforth yet to do the thing where it's like it was like a tense thing and he was distantly
succinct and if i could yet emanuele like right after that cause a d an have to face like some awkwardness is some like that and then am i on sir leonicino lay
you on to do that and you say all like you know i joined you like a a you know kenilworth you think about that you not even in sosimenes kind o like that being
very like a wood like em you're watch remember command o ye it's not nice ayether there's this part right where it the torancio is one of his his guise that he
trained and stuff em went broke went bad and came back in the thought he's dead and he comes back and he helps you know that you know dringenstadt anyway um so
this this bad guy now he you can stay till he still has all this admiration for good for since he met on meteor arnold the francaise he's like he's walking
around the compound natty's kind o like you know and i'll be guides are like talk to talking of it so so you goes to the the other boss and he's now working
with em he saw it's it's funny to hear your men talk tuff makes me laugh if matrix is here he laughed too you know kindliest like him in a yourth same team
still you know he knows how he would see that you know the kind of unsighing presence also as so rapid that restriction before sports pat cast other going to
do it i cut your an won't one way the way i like to recommend one of many is by supporting yourself at the same time on its uplands and were you bars on it
documentation sent off before this podcast on maisure before i spit gaslette some i didn't get the person off now you can get ten percent off or if you show
that atalmulck to our website is another way you can spot parquette or website i am vonlicsense that's jocolpus or calm and jocatore or come therewithin you
can click on you yet and you can support that way in pasargadae does not it barely costs you time terly really the thing is remembering to go there
yeshonaraseshen a good solution of that yes which we do have now to trot true fer to oisin it's called oh it's this cool little thing and it's on the website
as well as to a tripartite sion one clavecinist puts a little iconiura or an it automatically a filiation experienced with widushaka alberic passively not
passively as it went in cases no not if a grass ive yes but i ate yes i passed me you didn't do any time it's the we have we have too presented that he
regressively shopping on em as on a sport the pocassett the open i antipatriotes my friends one to it her they'll send me like a screen shot boom of their
trooper tool where there over their little purchase and like a bought this ducape here's my fantesca do it yes it really makes me feel empowered and i'm not
joking well in it does help politefully forshately am subscribed in bateson course i do and then on you too is well i'm slowly playgoers put it you keep
putting more oh so you're not just stuck watching the pot cast which is cool too by the way if you're into watching it um and listening as he sometimes like
people will put it on their screen as they work out an you know thinking kind of watch listen work out watch les unwanted little little formula one you too so
good one as well and of course the jocko store if you like you know sir and what not coming stickers oh they're pretty cool i've got some great feet back one
announced men were woman's stuff coming out in about what a we fertile loathesome troopers yep foes been fresher in sternly recommend the ale the consistently
strongly up recommending yes yes they're good ones i chose three colors you can have to wait and see which one is here um and when they do come out give me
more feedback on a narrow down to the fire stuff that we all want to edicate dot com and som costui e like it boom yet one or two or however many and that
support as well and prusians i don't have to buy my wife anything ye all cause i have hever's one only of the acasta one of the good reasons i like managing
this stuff in on have to not that i really butcherdom anyway but i have still bunch of shirts now pessary my daughter too a perfect nectar were good to go
everybody's good to go hardly a regular utter the same design or is it something now ah it's there yet there more or less the same but there you know disaster
base of the winds of vision and cravat we got it a sertain enclos freedom i might just do one for women because let's face it like we all get get after it in
pretty much the same way except for every once in a while women get after that the different way every once in a while so might be worth it to give him a call
some different and some special does my opinion on also in there you go that's the way to support so portabat cast her boy and with that question in cromer on
i am a marine corvet only four years in a recently hired another marine he had a great reputation and a lot of experience as encelade gennesaret but is not
doing well in our company he only seems to lead through fear flash authority it is a working his i standards which i like but he's not gaining the respect of
his team or the rest of the company what's going on and hunnicott his he is kind of a classic taste and unfortunately in a fortunate case too and what we have
here is an example of a guide it's probably pretty terriata is probably pretty aggressive he's probably pretty loud is probably pretty a fortater he's probably
pretty smart as probably physically impressive in other words he's probably got a london natural good leadership traits and i served my in a situation like
this that physition that took the basics and what the military tone and utilized it to lead in so what he did was he used imposed discipline that's all i used
on him and ask what he used so it's the things that we just talked about it intimidation it's the old thing with maneuverer verses a trition warfare that the
military still teaches unfortunately that the job of leaders is to obey orders and insure orders are obeyed okay that's that's what the military unfortunately
in some cases teaches and you can go through the career that's what you can and to learn or you can have some good leadership inside the military that teaches
you the better way the wait to actually lead and so i but if you're if your raised that the way that your job as a leader is to obey orders in a insurers are
obeyed a fetour job how do you do that will you do it through bonfort man that i do it and as i said before it that does work for a time period does get the
job on it my roman agement and fortunately or unfortunately in the military you've got people that rapidly cycle through leadership position and so e e it's
not like you are permanently in charge of the same group of people so he can kind o get away with it because you do a work up and it don't work of a stressful
then you go on to point tontoli month long and by the time he you're done everybody hates you but to kate your moon on the one job and so that's how people
survive and what really hurt about this is because they survive that leadership position it actually reinforces that type of leadership behavior which is not
good but what they do is if if let's say you do it just american kind of mind set of hay if some is good more is better man so they take this this attitude and
they become more more aggressive they imposed more discipline they raise the standards to ridiculous level where it's no longer even sensible where things just
become stupid like we used to say so in a why they call to put enough military they called a push up position the front leaning rest sir front leaning rest out
of the way but i and in they also use the term forward leaning meaning hey we want to be a head i i ready were impaired and i used to say let's not be so far
forward leaning that will in the leaning rest the means of a cord that we're wasting on around getting tired and sort a certain point it can he come to
pineapple this would be my gum like uniform inspections but who got you got to have a square youtiful you know you not o be able to break out you to form look
sharp well if you do that every day you're wasting time because it's not the most important thing it it does have a level of important somewhere on the higher
arthen portant things not real high but there's some people of europe strict military disciplinarian you might think i never you for a session every single day
as my geyseral best and so he got a bunch of guys that not only are they wasting time propping their uniform in paying for a minorum go drylyn and their
actually using their uniforms so much their dress uniform so much of their providing wear and tear on er and so it's just it's just stupid doesn't make any
sense so that's that's what they do they these leaders that have been raised like that they start to do it even more and i just a defeatures in most important
is that these leaders start to stifle free thought from their subordinates and eventually in this is even more critical a venture they begin to stifle free
thought from their own brain and that's likely what happened in a such a wastin like this and here you got a guy that lookin was raised in this attitude and he
took that attitude and he amplified that attitude and that is how he was successful in the ample fighting even more and he ends up now he breaks out of rancor
will now it's not just a six month upon it you got to lead people for years and years and years you got to go through different various projects and all these
personalities in and it's a more sensitive environment cause it's in the civilian sector and lives are necessarily stake and so what do you need do what what
you need him to disannulling to the leader that asked this question what what can you do to help while what you need that former of marine gunnery urgent to do
what you need him to see is that the next level of leadership the next progression along of the spectre of leadership is not more of all that it's actually
less it's not more imposed discipline on your troops it's actually less if the troops having free thought and self discipline and it is not you leading more it
is actually you leading less it is not you taking more ownership is you taking less aerchie and your troops taking more ownership it is him giving guidance
giving commanders intent and then stepping back it is him not being the fucus claim when you're eliashib position that can be an ego either an almost sundown
to be the center of attention one of being the spot light but you don't want to be that you annabelle of that and yet and i'm telling you for that's what you
got to do you got up open his eyes to what the next level of leadership looks like he never had that open to for him he and i montano's going to be hard to get
a man because there's a good chance that he's a hard person to coach because he's been successful with the technique that he learned any has experience and
he's and that that experience has strengthened his resolve in his belief in his leadership technique it it's it's a tough situation so you're likely gonaive to
take an indirect approach and so for instance here's a good one he i was wondering you don't who usate your place when it's you know it's time for promotion
who you grooming to fill your shoes cascenas not glooming anybody or you ask him how much time he spending looking up and out at what's going on mister tegi as
opposed to down and in at his own little element and the other thing that you could do is a sin him some higher level projects that actually pulled him out of
the micro management weeps and maybe even put him on projects with people that don't like reagan is and god leaders that leave a good way put him on some kind
of project with them so he consession that looks like and obviously these are dissociations of approaches because your probably going to have to you'll have to
ada adapt those and figure out exactly how to walk him through to the end state which the end state the command as intent from me is you wanted teach him what
the next what the next level the next advancement of leadership skill for him is in it something that the opposite of what he learned so good gallenga that the
that leading from authority of thing when fear in authority it's almost like it so black and witwer when someone does that it's so clear onoway clear and its
very addictive yearand because there's immediate gratification i owe you to do it answered they do it and then a case or no kind of take less work to let the
time on nodwengo work you don't have to invest in relationships genwine in in indirect approaches on things of course it takes less work at it it's real simple
eyeing in dear temper sometimes to a ah your tempers a little bit of a tool refectoire is over time those that type of lusiades n't work in you an to be to the
beloved captain who never engineer who never yelled to his men and yet who would follow him into the fires of hell you leweston if you had a leader at work we
did not respect and know his ineffective and i communicated that time yet when they see you the tredescan how would you react and how would you deny their
hands shake offering to set if he exciso um okay this is just off of the haight i know all this i i have old people realize that this is no it's okay i mean i
understand the recent put the sin there just because this will we talked about earlier where you think man a hole the line and i'm ianthine an this is my
expectation of a leader and you don't fit it the somonour one or a tell you not to if you tracey hand you're not get a right so that's what we call an
adversary a relationship and is not what we want to howl at me ask you this how is this going to help your cause to have an error adversario ship with your
boss how to help your case is he in alister or less is he going to support you more or less we'll keep give you what you want more or less which one you won't
shake his hand and and you think he's going to support you in any way no and furthermore is he if you have adversarios ip with your boss is he more likely to
promote you into a position where you can have more control over the visions for the team and for your own future well you think the answer to that is negative
all those answers are obvious this whole concept is wrong our job is to bilderatlos ip with our boss and onesoever in else trout matter that's what we're
trying to do straight up dis respecting the boss or again any one is not going to help our cause it's gonna hurt it now this doesn't mean that were kissing
asked the dozen men that wear full being a dozen men that on a wake this is the thesis these this the challenge for me to convince people that want to be
strong leaders that this doesn't mean that you are weak it actually takes more strength to control your emotions it takes more strength to remain professional
it takes more strength to foison the long term when and not the short term frustration it takes more strength to keep your ego in check and i would say that
this whole question is a good is it is an indicated to me i might you jack my own ego okay am i critical of my boss and i crickle because of my boss because
i'm a little bit jealous the possible am i critical of my boss because i think i deserve the job more than they do do i think that my boscoli or he he's a
brown nose or he favored some way that why he got it in homine better about it and therefore knocking a respect him all those right there he gotali red for an
eager talking so you got to put the ego and shack you can support the boss ain't you ask for the team then that's the best way to sport the boston sports team
and the obvious cavato this is if the boss is doing something that allegorolical then find you of course absolutely you can call out you can deny his hand
shake you can report him up the chain of command or to the authorities because if your pardon what he is doing and you know it then your complicity in the
activities so you're at risk anyway and it's the right thing to do so obviously in those cases yes you you can hold your ground but barring those extreme
circumstances what you want to do with your boss'ull the relationship and against not just your boss it's your peers it's your china command up and down you
and a build those relationships is hid a breaking him yeah yet seemed the fillpots ing how i when you lay it out and i'm sure a lot it may be ten uweisies just
hearing this question out loud it seems obvious you know the really triton about yourself in this situation yea where can't you don't like to guy and may be
said some stuff to offend you even in an you don't respect him obviously so yet you don't want to shake disguised like how you feel is a lot of times what
dictates your reyhani you know towards people and just the way oh so when you're in the situation this is kind like it's so hard to be like yeah i don't
respect his whole methods at onlike any of the stuff you've got a come shake my hand at so hard to be like sure and and do what you're talking about i can be
procured check put your motions and japeth your attitude in checking a basalt going to day you know everything's going good here he thought how resistor you've
been given us i there's a one decision you made i was kind of wondering about i love to get love to pick your brain on and some point oh really were as if i
just go odont want to shake your hand i hate you i basically disrespect you and i hate you and i what you do decision made of her as long as you know listen to
me does no champenois answered in a weak or lose the argument he me when i go in there and a alanson yes tenoro hey in one thing and pick your brain about this
decision you made over here is he listened got a better chance still might say no but that's what i'm fightin long war for a outlast a my outwork a moment how
maneuver you know mamma's going to do what i wanted to do i know and yet you've gin keep that in my man easier when you're in it when you lose that little but
a cause realitatis when they shake your head on your like in your head you're like i hate you i don't want to shake your hand fringe your hand out of my fear
home big xistence of you had from my face is an insult not to you thinking so if you shake it you lost that battle and that that's that other for you the live
meat very very immature when ye if it is just you right at the attitido got your motions giangrazio you're not getting socii that aileen thinking about winning
yea and by no means the nourrit playing the game correctly he it is with the point is i understand these good and well or say it out loud it's like oh my gosh
it's so clear but hootalingua you do what you you you just indicated to me something very obvious is that over time you know we time you get to be yougo for a
hard work out and you get to you look forward to the feeling afterwards i dat yeh to this art work out of their odorans or whatever he feels i mental you at
some point i developed some sort of attitude where when i do when i control myself and i make a good strategic move in of just as death the fields way better
than the short term a man i really hold him no no wrong answered you lost you won the battle lost the war editha that i feel like if i may fenestrata
absolutely correct it could you condition yourself to the whole process you know cause he probably went through the few times and tasted the fruit a nooning
but in so just with extreme the exactly right exactly right so and there's ways you can can it do that to yourself like a i do if like even if you have it like
a reality when i when you boil kinder whole way thinking down when you do have an ego that you think it is like a functional ego for you that eagle to win the
long word so like and like what i did with getting mad it's like no one kept like my like norton i have lost up a team because really you anger ingrates is
usually because of the self is ten so in this case you could be like her if you ever facilitate that at the serrulation ship where you don't take his hand or
your like you an a a as he said you've communicated that to him yet leader but you don't respect and you know that effective any too okay so keep that i when
you say stuff like that consider that is like your weak and her like this tell yourself that rudeness that's your weak estafet ing a long war and for and for
showing your cards atkinson you get on ye just it's this little internal thing you tell yourself and then just like how you're saying where you feel dumb a if
your ego can't have it can do that then goatpath i said this ooman your weak he means that you are winning yes let lippo as far as what you tell yourself like
you you know it feels we to lose a small boat i andersen but slipping around and say when i say it is you know if you went at the expense of a long that means
you we say that to yourself to tell gave easier you see rushing you off if you use the long turn battle here even more weak yes that's the big weakness of
wetness a texian or the pilot cast what would a jackal school for boys and girls eight sixteen years old she ichibata would that look like schedule subjects
isilda ion so fertilisation assures me one day i would i may do this lord of the fates omai i actually really do relate to kids for some reason and i think a
school i think as i think i could develop a school that would be also and all standing and would produce really stable he strong mentally capable children for
the world see it is still happy with us on the question and i actually looked and all i'm actually pondered the ideas of you know by an by a piece of property
you know what it would cost me beginning some investors together that were going to build a bolite rally i've actually looked for property which something to
on time but if looked for property and said okay this would probably work as to like a like almost like an extension school like a little on one alienate y
like a school that you go to and you and we we well we could probably do is due like a instead of a having fear from it six grade to graduation you go for like
one year i you oone year here you go back to a regular school have you been in the school for a year though your back you regular school you're going to
tollemache going to be number one you're going to learn so much more it's just going to be awesome so we resoldering daae wouldn't need to bring these young
these these children into the school for for the entire time because you know you could go out back out of the regular world and overlay what you learned at
the academy in and you had just dominate and so um yeah maybe i'll end up you into some day and the schedule i mean i didn't spend that but titian it doesn't
relieve an take that much time to fit your own cause you know what we're doing were waking up very early in the morning where do not hard corpet some kind of
sports of variety of sports guess what will plan every sport you know baseball basketball swimming footballs soccer resting judo boxing at were new a little
bit everything that's gonna happen we then obviously were on up at fort thirty we are a before the sun gets up i mean that's the way it is and then we get the
knowledge so we go into the class rooms classrooms i will i would get instructors that will fall on a gauge in what they're doing just in the game that love
their subjects and that can relate it for old and most important cities with lacking sometimes most important to all the different knowledge courses are all
the basic knowledge there would be a common thread that connects them all together because that's what i think people are missing that ali i think we miss that
that underlying theme of a fur educational system but i think when you connect everything there more powerful like when you connect matthisen to history to
english to foreign language and you connect those to art and music and you can there some third cather all those things if you look at history all those things
are connected there all connected but we don't make the connection i whom you don't connect things their weaker so i would i would force or i would let you
natoire it you'll have to force it i would i would foster that thread you everything so that everything made sense on any big picture and that way when you get
granular your time it into this over line fem of civilization and the movement of the way things go throublesome tanther piece of us you would learn vocational
skills at my school a hundred per cent you would learn carpentry you would learn the how to do electrical wiring you would learn plumbing you would learn
automotive men remoter repair you would learn all those things and guess what are you going to take those courses like i said this this court the cool pranaba
year long that's fine cause guess what you how long it takes to learn basic carpentry not real long dare you your skill carpenter now but i'm not looking to
build scillies are you going to be a ready to rewire a giant building a con commercial building noble could you rewire a house likely doesn't take that much
time to learn that you will be skilled that if a youille the knowledge same thing with plumbing in like i said the automotive those vocational skills because
we have people in america right now they don't know any o that stuff and that's the act up yes even like when is young o my dead ye to make a change own oil
bentonian go anywhere to excite in whatever fifteen but he's like now you change your own oil you got a knot to do with the oil you know there's this little
process can this be rolling up and change later even now have triplet calupan from flatter because signaigo a flatiron time i got a flatiron day and ate
recently had been getting kind of utterson the less but i change a merry time cause when i first got it after not having a flat there for a while i thought all
men do i even remember how to do this and i of cord idea a yonderly doing not that hard just like a said so there a people who don't know vegetate and they're
detherter losinga they want they have tripler whatever sure they get saved you have taken to it them himself you know the so at my school you would learn those
who occasional skills and in on top of that you'd learn basic survive skills little hunting to fishing little gardening and planting and out to grow things
grow food and your basics water fire and shelter you learn those see belderin in the environment attestation obviously with all those survival stills and the
vocational skills any even the classroom knowledge skills there would be a a system of tebidi where you're going to be doing things together as a team not only
for your classes but also cleaning the place working together even as they do in in military boot camps all you do clean paterned cleaning into like a team
building after cis said we would do that a people would be in simple uniforms you know nothing to fancy obviously the night time would be the study of the
martial art and you had learn the basic of judici moti and wrestling and that's what my school would be like and there be some real disciple narramore real
given and i think that anybody that spent one year not school right there would have a infinitely greater chance of success and domination in whatever they
feel that jose to go into and when they went back to their school to their regular school look funny at first at first thought one year come conabitur in this
stuff or whatever and term not be only one lessine on a cast shoe that prove hard core school we know they got to be ready to to get a gun then he now you want
to well when you think about it you probably wouldn't be that hard court in fact it probably be kind of fun giving your approach to you know teaching or a
leading of stuff like that cause men i remember what it was like when i first met you i'd make you an unremembered when i first met you but i'm so i can anew
you were whatever little bit this is back at the boxing club and you came in first summer saw you kids toward like dorani one of his system my forenote a
they're just little kids they are you brought on or whatever and they come in the door and they just start running around like it is the big playground ring
like a paranoia hating the bags and doing all this stuff right and then you you had the look on your face kundala you cit's always like you had control in
situation but you're just going to let him be them kind of name and i remember just kind of gunalong at like all in interest you never seen jack and it's kids
you know swing you secondus watching so do you centralized commines real day if a maeleai me so um you jesus start to pentagon on and i think you are i might
even been teaching on though you're involved in some way and am they got loud roque in a kind of was like for lack of a better term candidis rating in you like
kinaston what you're doing you're like you go to that like room romane and then of like limoeiro now i look and then they stop they look at you like just just
for me be almost to second and looking to look at each other like that and they just start laughing they set going and and they like it you can start laughing
of the same era like the ha i see like you probably strict but it's not that there kid you don't they're doing kids stuff we won't get up breaking nothing yes
folie it's almost like they knew and then they knew the on that you know like they know what was ultimately up it was interest well he now maybe we can put the
school together some point i know there's a lot of people that would love to the send their kids to a school like this on every atilius out and all my kiss is
cool like this to morrow if it existed yet one year of the academy to it's called the cat i think it would have to be ill a big part of it and i'm sure this
would but i'm sure to be would be implemented in the whole system is how the teachers and instructors are treated for sure you know like because i think that's
a lot of time any way like one of it many issues you know one that went issues come up in education scholar that teachers regarded young that situation a man
yes good sign me up a expectin on but accept the position across the country after changing the i t field i work in i've just been accepted for my first job
and in this type of position with him one responsibility all have and am not or i am having some issues and some habit hesitations on if i'll be good enough
have you ever been in a position before were you tried to bite off more than you can chew professionally how do you broach it and is there ever a time where
you think it best to bowl out an quit and if so how do you know when that point is so ah actually most people get higher into leadership positions they haven't
been to before the seal teams is all about that you get promoted you do that leadership jobates as your getting the hang on it you get promoted again so
there's nothing abnormal about the feeling that you are quite ready for a ariostian and the reason that some people fail when they get to these positions that
they're not ready for is because their nervous that there can ashe and so they try to hide it there afraid to ask questions or afraid to say they don't know so
they end up looking scared and stupid which quaitet looking incompetent and a man even just with a beloved captain the day actually kicked off the there's a
reason this guy included those statements in their that he asked questions and asked for guidance and admitted his mistake as a reason that he was beloved that
is one of the reasons and so so so that's what she got a dew is beekwith don't try and hide it now at the ball out and quit i have not done that but there is
no reason to because if i don't know how to do something i have no problem asking for help up and down the chain of command up and down the chinaman nothing
wrong with that and of said this before that what what your feeling um person that asked this question what your feeling that you aren't good enough in that
you don't want to blow it those are actually signs of humility and to cats are good i felt those feelings my whole career and i still feel on that and when i
was tessupas i would avaperate for things and it wasn't because i put i was going to dominate it was cause i thought i was going to falstone i was telling you
i prepared for the pot cast all yesterday i thought i was good literally had printed out my notes woke up this morning worked out on it no i'm not ready i over
prepare for this why because in my mind i'm feeling on going a bo it yet i don't like that relishing the it's like a feral thing is called impostor in gremio
her that no red it's this anticinating i think everyone has it in in water ten time before or a lot it's where it's basically you feel this you feel like i'm
real like i don't inside like a really not dis good you be like camping on the world on the inside alike i this just a mere time before they find me out you
know i not an i don't do her have to be here whatever that i wish more people would have that because there's a lot of people that i know that have been
leadership positions that feel that they will have the divine right to be there alone time i still have it they'll behave in that old day aldo cathy they fail
so re hash as always bottom line be humble study and learn what you can ask questions and if you don't know something admitted now had to make this note in a
cautious to even say this but i do have to say it asking questions dozen just mean putting your ignorance on clear display all the time okay it when you ask
questions make sure you are asking thoughtful meaningful questions it in fact if you can find out the answer on your own do that if it's something that you can
refer back to you can look up and you can go back he can check up the orchard i can see where that department is or you can find out who's runnin that project
without having to ask that question do that because contrary to popular belief there actually is in fact such a thing as a stupid question and you can get away
with it sometimes so you don't need to be high prepared about it but you also part of leadership is confidence in up and down so you got to have some
confidence and you people have to have some confidence in you and if if you don't know anything and you can't figure it out pretty can't figure out some
portions of that on your own he's not a good sign because i just expect if you're goin t be charge me at you couldn't look that up you didn't you didn't review
this before you came in here i know you don't know my job but you should at least know what the requirements of my job are you shouldn't least know what the
outcome at a strategic level of my job all right you see them saying there's a difference so you don't have to go in there and be um overly humble ereafter go
in there and be overtly blank a wide open with what you with what you don't know mum because ganskau tious to make this note because it doesn't i you should
feel comfortable enough say in adana how to do this or hay can you spin out the way that works to me kingsland what this project you know what this product in
tail there's noughin wrong with that there's nothing wrong with that but if you go into a room and you accidentally as a question of something that everybody
legitimately should know you're going to look stupid that's a mistake that a missus tate answered don't do that he so kate be humble ask questions but as
thoughtful questions meaningful questions that you don't know because it's bruty pretty difficult for you to know the answer i yet it's the many kind oftimes
obviously when you say it aloud where you'd knock on a know everything no so that makes sense but for you not i know something or on you got to be there for a
reason you can't be like hey i don't know nothing i shouldn't be your menatonon thing from the beloved captain where he says for a few days he didn't do
anything ye guess what if you can observe for a few days you propagations er a bunch of questions just a observation in hating notes and getting back and may
be conferring with your trusted agent through iour senior and listed guy or your your a superintendent you can confer directly with them and keep that bill
that relationship while you're guard garrion formation he got by that guy try not to yell the annetje how do we take ownership of mixed messages to the people
under me from the other leaders in my group pretty sharperson i like it well first of all you have to address this straight up with the other leaders in your
group because if you aren't a line as a leadership came this is gonna hurt the cause need is absolute in heart to cross this is critical and it's going to be
hard and there are some things in your group that people do not agree on and that is why they are undermining the messaging or why they're giving out difformes
ing because they don't agree with it they don't have the courage to stand up in the hat on the reef this out here so let's dudeffant way here's my thoughts
they don't have a curse out so what do they do they just sit back and then on to come time to put out the word they put up the mixed messiness and it's it's a
bad situation and you actually have to leave here that's what you have to do any should actually be that hard because what's your asking for is something that
anybody can tell as important so you know you say i do say your leadership taine ego hayes a message said the troops needs to be a line and right now when
histe need to fix that is there any one on your leadership teams going to disagree with that no they won't that's not what they disagree with they everybody
knows that the leader should teem has to have on a line message they after be on the same sheemus and that's what you need to do and and again it's going to be
hard conversation it's good a bring out that statement should bring out the conversation of what people don't agree on and why they're sending miss messages
now if you if you cannot get them a line it is a serious problem but if you can't the best thing you can do is mitigate mitigate that tear team by becoming the
trusted force secwet your tenant become the true trusted voice now you susi mean as you're on under my your other leaders it's a ill cocain here he is no i
stocking about mononia's not what i'm talking about and never a mosseer talking about undermining another leader or leadership team what i'm going to do to it
i'm going to translate a safe plan is our job all miss i know echoed that here's our job years here's what our focus needs to be here's the way this translates
for us so i'm not disparaging you and i'm not even disagreeing with you i'm simply holing the message for my team now you still even rehooded that your
mitigating that as much as possible you still have to maintain the critical goal of getting your leadership team a line and one other little tool to help make
that happen is to present verworn back to them many say you know i wrote out on what you said to the team as morningness on to go through that with you and and
break it down a little bit and and he got through it line by line and have for hard conversation and make the tough decisions you've got to make the toughness
and also give a little seed some points right be flexible but unify unify the message and if there's a worse not a worse historiette or scenarios where achonet
agree on the message and we got to go up the chain of command now i would never want to do that i would never ever want to say to my boss hey achan i can agree
you need to make a decision for us to me that's a total failure is a failure in my leadership that i can't get us all the same she music so as i don't i can't
even think of any time that i have re did that went to my boss and said hey boss i can't weak you know i can't come to come to a conclusion here with the other
taking a commander i can't come to a conclusion with the other portion commanders or i can't come come to conclusion with the of my squad about how we should
do so i never done that do you should be able to your right you'll win argument and if you're wrong then you can't your mind so it's not that it's not like his
old alike i'm saying i'm great an i'm just saying if you're right then you win the argument and if you're wrong then you'll change your mind so snap that had
so that's what happens this to happen here with the leadership team got find out who's right and people that are right need to convinced that people that are
wrong now you need to check your ego obviously across the board every tea everybody on the teams got to check the ego cut a lot of people will be holding on to
their idea of because it's their idea and they do their idea mum cause the egotistical and that's how i would deal with mixed messages coming down the caiman a
long head just play it that that could have been one of the best lines of ever heard if you're right you in the argument if you're on you'll change your mind i
have to go to otsego or you know than that if i'd said just make it often have you had yes it's something that i have known but right that's what makes it so
good because your kind a kind o seems like all ye you don't write but that never the case but if you're being on the up and up they are it is rather you very
go echolike i want a watering for about one more i don't see why not jocko you often talk about being on the path what path is that and where does it lead ah
yes the path well i can tell you what pass a man and what path i strive this stale and that is the war path that that's the path a on the war path a path of
war custome war path means moving toward a battle a fight towards war in that is what i am doing in that's what i've always been doing whether it was the
actual war against our nations enemies a war the war against my own weaknesses that is what i am doing preparing and and sharpening my sword and holding my
skills and maintaining the unmitigated daily discipline in all things and the war path is just that it's a pass it's a root it leads somewhere and so you ask o
kayenta where does it leave they in yes yes it it can be to war at fine in fact i am waiting and i am ready because the war path is a war against weakness and
so it leads to strength is a war against ignorance and so at least to knowledge is a war against confusion so it delivers understanding and the path the war
pass leads to control in leads to ownership of your life in that to me is the war path the path of fire and adversity the path of blood in a sweat and of
suffering the war path is the pre eminent path of discipline which is why it leads to freedom and beyond that in the end the war path it leads to the piece and
i think that's all i got for the night so like everyone out there for taking the time to listen to this this is little pon cast we put together and if you like
it and you want to support it echo now under they do that if you're in the mood if you worked out and now you're at this before but if you work out any one
supplement that actually work can supplement industry you probably know this brother can put whatever they want in it or there is no regulation yet you can he
feel as the document is something like that wore a tie dis put chalk the taller wants chalk and there he's like hey look protein powder sell it and either he
found there was like there was no like regulation saying he couldn't do it technically anyway this it's a long thing none the less if you want for real ones
reatly not a bad promised we could make proaching power that you can use as chalaco could be main and the eating of a no no yes yes i do know to manage on it
to make the protein powder chock up yes yes that's that's a little bit different from what else can say but none the less if you got on it do compasionate per
cent off there there salomina my point being with that story is that there's supplements or all like legate and you can even read like about it like the pill
oil i said to fifelike i said this for but you can see like how they harveston or may use like eagle friendly boats like it's like it's basically the ones when
letting the wottonianae like ealred ly and moonlike that kind stuff anyway is watching the oetatis anton there but i'll get all the git um warrior bars i feel
like we haven't really talk it ran and i the way i got asked by somebody on tower of the other day what you know and my joints are hearing what i take take her
while i titian taker o yeah i been using crafer a ray long time i'm forty four years old i'm almost forty five years old actually and of my joints are done
solid and knocking would um you know i i had some joint pain in the past and when i started taking in talking ten maybe even longer years ago um the it's i i
definitely attributed to helping me and also the also the cosey so and that in a lot because you're big you're you're big y to third and eviot exactly flexible
ye oughtenter ye and i do a lot out heaven heavy duty stuff i have it after it had not out as much as i want to and not as much as i should but i try i try to
work out hard i tragito i serve i run i spring i did all kinds of activity and before up until several years ago i was in the military i was in the silken and
i was running around doing a lack crap for my hell wife an so ye i would say order of so crevel both just saying just doing togetherness ally as much as you do
it you not alone old young whatever just doing to an you're like my joints are fine you or in that situation to be that alone ye in and be cool for sure and
also i believe that working out period yes yes very help more in an injury free yet was i always work out and therefore am always moving and therefore my
joints are getting rusty right you know if you both like fuebot that i know you know i i do get injured you know i had the finger and dry which is a better not
of pretty good right now i had um i had my shoulder got tweet little bit yes but that was not hortensius rolling ye and that's not the inestimable anthat it's
he is like when you wake up or when you when you like him i go out you start working on an i got to warm up some more smart you know and i do hate to get at i
i i take three of the five hundred a milligram for the capsule yearning and three at night so it is that all anatominy yet dan beyther you go an do that then
let me let her fit your big i thank that ye mongliana yet good and from on it you know you're getting like the good the good one you know is he not giving the
greenstuff and mass manufactured in general and from them the one or store coral you mean good and you get tempered with them alone in rimini slashed jaffier
coronilas pollitt's a win wininees speaking a port sporting piast am as on dat com clicked through it might be the best way i don't know the best way i will
you hadenter way yelleray yet which is very effective which as definitely helped support the podcast ye the hadadezer costantin it's real easy to do you just
quick yet not the ootside the keeping to tounis remembering it remembering to do it to petulant out that to go on the croixilian soberton extension if you
haven't put that on your brows or in any do on a sport my guest through them was on situation but that on their these makes it like sobriety a fish in a grass
so active and efficient yes not passed i like your heart you can report that way and then am obviously the pot is of scribe on i toandt you too which in
putting more ideas on there starting to and got a pick up to i got more content i'm going to put up for sure and i am the jokester if you like shirts and what
not have you like him get one of those and we have women's coming out is ranting else you have come out ye it's a secret know i decorate if you are signed up
for thee if you enlisted in the went inside to you mail it and find out what else is out there he held his coming what else is on the horizon a cause we had a
lot of people asked for this item in what give me hint layering her lately you did you give rascar eh or coming out don't do you to do this stollwaert
godefroid you not yet working out or am or diving yes or or certain or learnedly for yea the absolute i use surfing rascaille danford to get we the rest is
coming out and then if he if you're individuationis do you got the patches comitatua ah yes the good cool basic the way we like them but ye anyways algarotti
not a you can see all the stuff and um yes you is if you want to be on the inside or the last with i don't sam people were saying you like stuff just for the
sake of sending stuff on to that in fact i kind o understand stuff yeh people don't want to be bothered if if you're going to send something make it be
important yes it be something that i honestly think that you'd be interested is yes honestly in pusson thought intent so you have third is the theist now in a
very very near future like i'm talking maybe a week sure an it's by early september two thousand sixteen you will be able to order jack white the more and you
be a order from amazon which is good to go and i got my first batch in from taking a little bit of that stuff right with all hatheland um it's it definitely
put you in his own look place in it call me a sole on getters look for it is as i is you know if you were the first pinasters and he was like what is this
dreamland fill drink it was white tea and white to as mount loaded with caffeine and there's other stuff in there there's magic in there is any accidents and
there i didn't tagoo and ah anyway so that's common you'd be a the order it were kind of wonder i'm kind of oneness if people won't talk away tea i think they
do we apingi find out shortly i know i do yes it it's that's the interesting thing because you know like i just kind on the surfaces cocito not like you know
something craze like something clopas it sounds kind of delicate you know why you were when you see the can that it comes in that delicate not delicate harris
resist trying to think of where i discovered it i actually don't know i actually can't remember how at wide drank it for the first time too but i when i
started drinking i was like oh ye this justifies a load as pere when you're under stress of there's a lack of sleep or um you need to be mentally sharp bits
yetel pelican max white tea with it all mess up the test but you mid jockett without a brig of done it this one either the part as i do miss up the taste to
take good tang ihoway he is is he it's not like this super harsh taste a ray yet i poitain mild as you can taste it you can kind of feel it too lengthy when i
did have a say are native wit de not at it on a heavy taste ere she can make you a lot of stuff em and you can like i said you can beltage down a maison see a
click through the gintleman's an can also going to by the bugaboo called extreme ownership when you're there it your yet and you can get that anywhere anywhere
of the cell books by the hard covering by digital audio format which my brother lay fatina i ax leave read you can get it for your people up and down the chain
of command you friends family whoever disio think these to get on board with the programme get him a copy that's kind of a good initiator form and also october
twentieth and twenty first and san diego we are having the extreme over ship master that is also late batin and myself were to be gettin granular granular with
the combat leadership lessons that we learned on the battle field and how you apply those lessons in your business and in your life now that event is going to
be extremely interactive the itswoot end to behind behind the curtain or going to be out front with the troops if you got questions we are going to answer them
if you got something you need were going to talk about it if you got a problem were going to come up with a solution i say we cause it we fling to work
together were on a learn i can't wait to see how much a wont learn with the the list of people that are common is awesome it every industry you could imagine
every level of leadership you can imagine it's just it's really going to be fired up and lay in ihehaonen the schedule and there's so much material and so much
good information in so much good content is goin to be altamaca wet to takin off garis deespar of the gede dogess not on the schedule reteat i'm going to do is
i'm going to basically have a jujitsu situation happening at the gym so the iffida friday so maybe it's going to be wednesday night if people came in early
may's going to be saturday if people come on to stay or sunday you want to stay the week end eh ooroowela where they are like you know the welcome come to the
gym you like these the yet of the one may be it is just to make it just bring some mats to the hotel and do some kind of a but no of that that we got to the
times way better cause it's like that that it's the one one of the best got a wing of to the gem yes so you ave if you want to get the juice together we we are
going to get the jimmy i tried to do so in an diagoras oh will be as an diego we will be training we might not be all to do it thursday night cause it's a pack
schedule oh doesn't end in so late at night but either wednesday night or probably probably wanted the masters over cause a headnote mister amante like ye in
action having a bone i have an event earlier in the week so is probably going to be weak and if you want if you want to get you to get you on statement yet on
sunday afternoon get a run i fly back to these coast or whatever and war if you are here just go home something night and that's kind to em just muster no
muster people come in and they're like him an come in to jim the tegus have comes go back they just i just met um hominis girlfriend is life umore their
married now but they came in an i was a m you know i just came me in whatever i so you people just come in also and they just let him into of course all ef um
also a look i know that the masters expensive and in this situation gasaton my new play on it costs money for the hotel room the offen the event room the food
the evequemont the security elegists all that stuff across money in the reason that were investing in it is cause we wanted to be the best we wanted to be the
best event that you have ever been to batori want that's all and but that those costs money and so if you can afford to come i'll do it you know what i
apologize the but the poast is free the book is twenty bucks um get what you can out of that but if you can afford to come out come on ill because you being
there is going to make us all better because it every single person that leigeas many responses on twitter i get some stuff so much stuff to through the social
media that i learning from every one here so anybody that can come out and participate and ask that question or give that scenario or give that piece of input
he is going to make us all better so come on out and get some and as i was if you want to continue this conversation you know where you can find us all upon
that anteater instruman that face bookie at echoed charles and i am at jacolliot fine lee to you to those of you albertine battle or military guise in iraq and
in syria fighting against a truly evil and aporataeeion stay focused and be dressed it'll keep you alive to the police officers who are suffering through a
hard times right now verband physical attacks on me talia take the high ground in both those cases detach from that negativity and do your job to the best ear
ability be smart and stay safe and of course the fire fighters emergency medical teams that keep us safe keep us healthy and come to us in our time of need you
all stay vigilant and train hard and to the rest of you troopers out there all over the world doing what you are doing make sure you do that thing with every
olof effort you got and nature you stay stay on the warpath and get after it so until next time this is echo and jacko out
