this is jack pot as number thirty nine with actors in me jocelin good evening echo did even i heard of a high british officer who went over the battle field
just after the action was over american boys were still lying dead in her foxholes their rifles still grasped in firing position in their dead hands and the
veteran english soldier remarked time and again in a sort of hushed eulogy spoken only to himself brave men brave men and that is the name of the book we are
going to deal into now brave men than a few episodes or go we talked where curantar war fotografer and when we talk with him we talked about war correspondents
well and i wanted to get a war correspondent here and in this case the one that were going to be talking to is possibly the most famous or corsepan every giby
the name of early pile and we will join him now own a warship steaming towards and inevitable invasion the front line soldier i knew lived for months like an
animal and was a veteran in the cruel fierce world of death everything was abnormal and unstable in his life he was filthy dirty ate if and when slept on hard
ground without cover its clothes were greasy and he lived in a constant haze of dust pestered by flies and heat moving constantly deprived of all things that
met once meant to stability things such as walls chairs for windows possets shells cocacola and a little matter of knowing that he would go to bed at night in
the same place he had left in the morning the front line soldier has a horrendis inside as well as his outside or he would crack under the strain some thoughts
were merimee out on a ship getting ready for this invasion talking about what the soldiers were like and he'd been in africa and now he's out there with
sailors and he has something to say about the sailors as well of course when sailors die death for them is just as horrible and sometimes they die in greater
masses and soldiers but until the enemy comes over the horizon a sailor doesn't have to fight a front line soldier has to fight everything all the time it
makes a difference in a man's character in early pile goes on to talk about what he thinks of the front line soldier everyone by now knows how i feel about the
infantry i'm a rabbit one man movement bent on tracking down and stamping out everybody else in the world who doesn't fill your preciate the common front line
soldier and if i have made myself perfectly clear in everything i say everything i do that this same exact feeling that i have about the infantry respect and
admiration and now he's talking about what was like what it was going through their minds as there than a partake in this or invasion it and he had a member
he's going on latent but when when he when he thinks her happening this is a war correspondent this is somebody that's a portent from some safe position than
you and you're gonna see plenty of that here he's going in so he can relate to what the troopers are going through mentally and this is a very really accurate
description i back to the book i don't believe one of us was afraid of the physical part of dying that isn't a way it is the emotion is rather one of almost
desperate reluctance to give up the future to norada the physical stuff is the reluctance to give up the future i suppose that splitting hairs and at a really
all comes under the heading of fear yet somehow there is a difference these grave learned for futures of men going into battle included so many things things
such as seeing the old lady again of going to college of saying in the navy for a career of holding on your need just on your own kid whom you've never seen of
again becoming champion salesman of your territory or driving a cold truck around streets a can to city once more and yes even just sitting in the sun once
more on the south side of the house a new mexico when we huddled around together on the dark deck it was these little hopes and ambitions that made up the sum
total of our worry at leaving rather than any visualization of physical agony to come very very accurate now and i i i got a say that with this book as is a
fairly fairly sick book we got almost five hundred pages and i had to turn through big chunks of it to get to some of the stuff that i wanted to cover but
there's a lot of very important detail in her and one of the things that early pile was known for was capturing what was like not for the big general not for
the big street strategist but what it was like to live every day as i as i can so the invasion takes place in the geas the day they went into italy and early
actually spent that invasion on the ship the initial part of the invasion and the goes ashore and for whatever reason he gets sick he is like sick so ill
doesn't get wounded be just gets ill and he and up if you'll possible eve we've had several several books take us into field hospitals and we know that they
are a horrible horrible place but there is some pretty glorious things that come out of those two and i'll go to the book here it was flabbergasting to me to
lie there and here wounded soldiers costs and begged to be sent right back to the fight of course not all ended that it depended on every of their wounds and
on their individual personalities just as it wouldn't peace time but at least a third of the last severely wounded men asked if they couldn't return to duty
the mediately for all those fears that we just talked about and then you go into battle and you get wounded and the first thing you do and you get back to the
apes station sake send me back to the front he goes into a specific case here one big blond and fortieth slight flesh wound in the face and the back of his
neck yet a patch on his upper lip which prevented him from moving it and made him talk in a grave straight faced manner that was comical i've never seen
anybody so mad in my life he went from one doctor to another trying to get somebody to sign his card returning him to duty the doctors explained patiently that
if he returned to the fan his wounds become infected and he would be a burden to his company instead of a help they tried to entice him by telling him there
would be nurses back in the hospital but in his peaceful oak lahoma draw he retorted to hell with the verses i wanted ye back to fighting dying men were
brought into our ten men whose death rattle silence the conversation and made us all thoughtful when a man was almost gone the surgeons would put a piece of
gas over his face he could breathe through it but we couldn't see his face well twice within five minutes chaplains came running one of those occasions haunted
me for hours the wounded man was still semiconscious the chapel note down beside him and two word boys squatted near by the chaplain said john i'm going to say
a prayer for you somehow this starkenfaust hit me like a hammer it didn't say i'm going to pray for you to give well he just said he was going to say a prayer
and it was obvious to me that he meant to final prayer he voice the prayer and the weak gasping man tried vainly to repeat the words after him when he had
finished the chapinite john your doing fine you're doing sighed then he rose and dashed off on some other call and the war boys a winbourne duties the dying
man was left utterly alone just lying there on his litter on the ground winging an isle because the tent was full of course i couldn't be otherwise but the
aloneness of that man as he went through the last few minutes of his life was what tormented me i felt like going over and at least holding his hand while he
died but it would have been out of order and i didn't do it i wish now i had in addition to talking about the infantry they also conant the engineers and for
those of the tidn't know engineers are basically military construction people that build things they also do other jobs like getting rid of minds and doing
mind clear and they do that often as well and look go back to the book during the latter days of a sicilian campaign i spent all my time with combat ingineers
of two different divisions the engineers were in it up to their ears scores of times during the sicilian fighting i heard everybody from general to private
remark that this is certainly an engineers war and indeed it was every foot of our advance upon the gradually withdrawing enemy was measured by the speed with
which our engineers could open the highways clear the minds and by past the bloom bridges from this this is the same thing that we we adamo the the engineers
were just absolutely first of all they were incredibly professional and their job was incredibly dangerous they were plated minds they were doing this building
his combat posted the ticity are they armed the engineer in your case when he had they are but you know picture a guy that has to go in and move sand bags to
top of the bilding he's he's carrying of you know a sixty pound san baggage got all this dear on and and it's a semi protected area not fully protective but so
low if i'm tegeret might have a pistol on em but they're working there constrain work the working construction fell you don't now that doesn't mean that
they're not also picking of security when they have to but mantis a grueling rolling job and in so incredibly dangerous and the book also talks about all der
pieces you know again we talk about infantry but there is other pieces there's engineers who are do all this building there's our celery which as you know
dropping bombs on the enemy and an actionland's ly there was art weave you i the usite artillery fairly significantly in remind ye that that it's when you
think about that like the engineer in a word one gratis not like it compared to like me may fight right to cut man where he's like facilitating all these
sayings giving the latter whatever but that's between routes he's not part of the flight then and yer gustenhofer of his yet they're going to get hit what he
is a thing that they are not there specifically to fight now they're there to do some other sosomenes they can blind side i like all that stuff it's incredibly
in and yet derisions engineers they re construction guys you you may be people i don't see them in the light of being would get combat warriors and i'm here to
tell you on the hundred percent without any shred of doubt those guys are hard core combat warners at haven credibly tough job and obviously the american
engineers have been just outstanding marwar to i mean and when i saw them in the matiere a sight to be old without question and think thing like i said i
tackbun the artillery the use artillery on in remote as well which was which was it was pretty cool for me right cause you know i was drouthielaw two loves and
and you know there i was and remade we had tanks out there in the streets but smashing through slashing to buildings and firing their man gonoud's and then we
had engineers out there rebuilding bridges and building combat outposts and we had our tillery that was firing counter batteries out it at the enemy that was
shooting mortars at us and at night time sometimes would fire a lumination round just like a big assault a world war too so it was very well if i feel very
lucky to have been able to experience that that almost you know world war two type filling out an i not comparing anything that i do do a veteran from old or
two by any stretch of the imagination but it was cold by cantlet taste of just a little this a little taste of it just a little taste of it and understand i
mean can you know we are you know the the imagine fighting against all ter troops that were as well trained as you are which is what you're doing in germany
when your ruin your invading france you're going again i mean the insurgents there there a hard fight or an enemy that i respect her capabilities but they're
not as well trained or as well organized or as well led as let's say the german army in world war two right zeitoon enemy and so as he continues through the
book and had a sad i i miss the big thick book and i had to really be selective about what to call out he talks about the various phases the war tax per pretty
big chunk about the air war but were you eat it's all leading torn one think thomadine towards the one event it's all leading towards an invasion in that dead
and he spends time in england you know they're doing the preparation and their having their doing what the americans did in england when they were got ready
and then finally they get the word that the mission is going to commence i will go to the book we felt our chances were not very good and we were not happy
about it men like dawn white head and clar lee who had been through the mill so long and so boldly begin to get nerves frankly i was the worst of the lot and
continued to be i began having terrible periods of depression and often would dream hideous dreams all the time fear lay blackly deep upon our consciousness it
bore down on our hearts like an all consuming weight people would talk to us and we wouldn't want to hear what they were saying a house again those of the
correspondents those of the war correspondent that the bohea when they when they bring them together the they're talking like a squad or a petonar course ponds
and they are scared to death the army said they were trying to give us twenty four hours notice of departure actually the call came at nine o'clock one morning
and we were ordered to be in a certain place with full field kit at ten thirty a m we threw our step stuffed together probably a smart way to do it you know he
will give you twenty four hours advance now to toryoko we'll let you know hey report an hour cause cause and he is going to talk about this the waiting isn't
is not good that is that is a sure as part mealtime thing with everything you anything that you actually you got to get to turning your waiting to complete
that's the worst part won't you won't you go you okay your mind is free handed his doing what you don't even turn a workout if you got a hard work up that
you're goin to do you're dreading it and i do this i'll be like to if i have squats on said there i'll make all kinds of wit may be any destructible but more
and i don't want me let me just grab a little bit more thouthand o and then let me check the line of of the music that's goin to play and just make sure that
that's good to go and moonists bumper plate and look straight and got a straighten that out you just sit there and have a hawk and in finding walk over you
press it you press your starting your son stop watch and then there's no stopping you just go added half an hour later the deed is done i'll look the waiting
yet it's he it's it's going down the skin it over with ten other yeou don't want this is that shakespeare cortat i read one time on her what that moment in
between taking the action and when you think of the action and when you take the action that moment is an eternity is in a vest she had closed the distance on
that thing is it you exactly what they did ollive you twenty four hours nowhere in close the distance you got now half you know you're reorder you ready to get
it on back to the book bill stone men another correspondent who had been wounded once never showed the slightest concern whether he felt any concerned or not i
could not tell bill had a humorous sardonic manner while we were waiting for departure into the unknown he took out a pencil and a note book as though starting
to interview me tell me mister pile how does it feel to be a sault correspondent being a man of few words i said it feels awful we had hardly got a board when
the lines were cast off and we pulled out that evening the colonel commanding the troops on our ship gave me the whole invasion plan in detail the secret the
whole world had waited years to hear once a man had heard it it became permanently part of it he became perny part of it then he was committed he was too late
to back out even if his heart failed him i asked a good many questions i realized my voice was shaking when i spoke but i couldn't help it yes it will be tough
to colonel admittitur part would be precarious he hoped to go in with his few cast pieces possible but there would be casualties from a vague anticipatory
dread the invasion now turned into a horrible reality for me in a matter of hours the hall cost of her own planning would store over as no man could guarantee
his own fate it was almost too much for me a feeling of utter desperation of sessebe throughout the night it was nearly four a m before i got to sleep and then
it was a sleep harassingly awful knowledge my devastating sense of fear and depression disappeared when we approached the beached there was the old familiar
crack and roar of big guns all around us and the shore was a great brown haze of smoke and dust and we knew that the bombers would be over us that night yet
all the haunting premonition the soul consuming dread was gone the war was presician and i believe that was true of every one aboard even those who had never
been in combat before so again once his gig ticks off and all that horror e's gone and now it's time to get the job done so when her out there in the world and
your feeling that dread and you feel that hesitation just step go you titn't helping you to sit around a beatermost not help you to to see if he need not sit
the water before you start doing what you're doing there's bad news to deliver in your business there's no sense in doing another pace lap outside to the room
where people are waiting to hear from you gideon and get it going now he he does a great job here telling about how hard less actually was because you know we
go de day as we know yet was tough fight here's some detail on that i want to tell you what the opening of the second fundina one securities you can know and
appreciate and forever be humbly grateful to those both dead and alive who did it for you a sore facing us or more enemy troops than we had in orsolina were
over the disadvantages all are the germans were dubinin they have been working on for months although they were not entirely complete a one hundred foot beloff
a couple of hundred yards back from the beach had had great concrete gun emplacement built right into the hill top these opened to the sides and seated the
front tussmann at hard for naval fire from the sea to reach them they could shoot parelelo the shore and cover every foot of it from miles with our tillery
fire a hundred foot cliff by the way let this don't let niehaus that all hundred foot cliff as you come out of the water that at your face then you put in pill
boxes and you put germans in those pillboxes by the way more germans in their armeria it's a nightmare back to the book then they had hidden machine gun nests
on the forward slope with cross fire taking in every inch of the beach these nests were connected by networks of trenches that the german gunners could move
about without exposing themselves throughout the length of the beach running zig zag a couple hundred yards back from the shore onanismi eschaped ditch fifteen
feet deep nothing could cross it not even men on foot until it filled until pills had been made in another place is at the foreign the beach where the ground
was flatter they had concrete walls these were blasted by our naval gun fire by explosives by hand after we got ashore our only exit from the beach were
several swales were valleys each one about a hundred yards wide the germans made the most of those funnier sowing them with varied minds they also contained
barbed wire entanglements with minds attached hidden ditches and machine guns firing from the slopes this is just it's it's it's unbelievable it unbelievable
the amount of defences that were emplaced and oegat that we pushed through it and i humbly use the term we can all this was done on the shore but our men had
to go through a maze nearly as deadly before the even goddess under what of goes were terrific under the water of the germans had whole fields of evil devices
to catch our boats several days after landing we had cleared only channels through them and still could not approach the whole length of the beach with our
ships even then some ship or boat would hit one of those minds and be knocked out a commission the germans had masses of great six prong spiders made of
railroad iron and standing shoulder high just beneath the surface of the water for a landing craft arundinacea logs buried in the sand pointing upward and
outward their tops just below the water but tachetees where minds in addition to these offshoots had floating mines off shore land mines buried in the sand of
the beach and more minds checkerboard in checkerboard rose in the tall grass beyond the sand the and the enemy had four men on shore for every three men we had
approaching the shore and yet we got on going in i defended position he so very difficult the odd will in indoctrinate in urban warfare your sole to have to
hand man for every one defender ten men for every one to find her and here we were out and out man against the heavily defended the fortified position to how
do you do it well back to the book as one officer said the only way to take a bechstein it and keep going he is costly at first but that is the only way if the
men are pinned down on the beach dug in and out of action they may as well not be there at all they hold up the waves behind them and nothing is being gained
so are war sons attack what guess what he is only one way do this you got to do it now he talks about as the carnage after the afafit beach had he been taken
he talks about some of the carnage that remained there in this shore line museum of carnage there were abandoned rolls of barbed wire and smashed bolder doers
and big stacks of thrown away life belts and piles of shell still waiting to be moved in the water floated empty life grafts and soldiers packs and ratinonwes
rious oranges on the beach lay snore rows of telephone wire and big bowls of steel matting and stacks of broken rusting rifles but there was another and more
human literal it extended in the thin little line just like a high water mark for miles along the beach this was the strewn personal gear dear that would never
be needed again by those who fought and died to give us our entrance into europe there in a jumbled roll for mile on mile were soldiers pack there were socks
she polished so in kit dietaries bibles hands gerhards there were the latest letters from home with the address on each one neatly raiser out one of the
security precautions in forced before the boys in barked there were tooth brushes and razors and snap shots of families back home staring up a youth from the
sand there were pocketbooks metal mirrors extra cholers and bloody abandoned shoes there were broken handled shovels and portable radios smashed almost beyond
recognition and mind detectors twisted and ruined there were torn pistol belts and canvas water buckets first aid kits and jumbled heaps of life belts i picked
up a pocket bible with a soldier's name in it and put it in my jacket i carried it half a mile or so and then put it back down on the beach i don't know why i
picked it up or wife put it down again soldiers carry strange things with them ashore in every invasion there at least one soldier hitting the beach of eight a
hour with a banjo slung over a shoulder the most ironic piece of equipment marking our beach the first this beach first of despair than of victory was a tennis
racket that some soldier had brought along i lay long somewyes clamped in its press not a string broken toe the most dominant items on the beach refuse in the
beach refuse were cigarettes and writing paper each soldier was issued a carton of cigarettes just before he started that day those cordons by the thousand
water soaked and spilled out marked the line of our first savage blow writing paper and airmail came second the boys intended to do a lot of writing in france
imagine the letters now forever incapable of being written that might have filled those blank abandoned pages now talking a little bit about the german
prisoners as they start to roll up german prisoners some of the german officers were pleased at being captured but the died in new but the died in the wall not
see was not they brought in a young one who was furious he considered it thoroughly unethical frost of fight so hard that's right if you are rested he thought
it was unethical how hard the americans fought the americans had attacked all night and the germans don't like a night attack we come on a yet and this special
fellow was brought in when a special fellows brought in he protested in rage you americans the way you fight that is this is not war this is madness the german
was so outraged he never even got the irony of his own remarks that madness though it were the it worked another i ranking officer was brought in and the first
thing he asked was the whereabouts of his personal orderly when told that his orderly was deader than a mackerel he flew off the hand of an accuser of
depriving him of his personal comfort whose going to dig my fox hole for me he demanded little german aristocracy going on in the ranks but what a a what a
testament you are was just kind of talking about how tough the german's work which they certainly were but here is the german saying good lord it's unatic that
you fight this hard that's right at the german thought they were rolling light you know halesome ricans were like now we're going you eighty scandalaria don't
know it's all the elecampanes ye literally yet a word ypres i always a d you know american be american fighting spirit it is a powerful bowlful force in
sometimes people don't recognize that because you know what what i live in here pretty good and even back then now we're coming out of depression she did have
some hard that he can american but you can trace that free to pression americans fight hard there's no doubt about it and i can i have bertinoro ly witnessed
this spirit of the american soldier and it is a dam impressive thing then again to some wealth the name of the chapter here is streetlight ing one of one of
the favorite generals among war correspondents was major general manton as eddie command of the knife division we liked him because he was absolutely honest
with us because he was sort of an old shoe and easy to talk with and because we thought he was a mighty good general general eddy looked more like a school
teacher than a soldier he was a big tall man but he wore glasses in his eyes had a sort of squint being a wit mid westerner he talked like one he still claims
a cage as home lthough he bitin on my off her for twenty eight years he was wounded in the last war he was not glib but he talked well with laughed easily
excited of being a professional soldier he despised war and like it any ordinary soul was appalled by the waste and tragedy of it he wanted to win and get home
just as badly as anybody else general ideas especially like to show up in places where his soldiers wouldn't expect to see him little leadership lessons right
now from general edi opinon with smile and talking with the boys no one was going on and then boom show up in places where his soldiers would expect to see him
he knew it helped the soldier spirit as he re commanding general right up there at the front where it was hot so he walked around the front with his long
stride never ducky nor appearing to be concerned at all one day i rode around with him on one of his tours we stopped that a command post and were sitting on
the grass under a tree looking at maps with a group of officers around us our own military was near banging near by but nothing was coming our way then like a
flash of lightning there came a shell just over our heads so low it went right through the tree tops it seemed it didn't win it wished it swished everybody
including full colonels flopped over and began grabbing grass a shell exploded in the next orchard general edi didn't move he just said that was one of
ourselves the general also like to get up at four o'clock in the morning once in a while to go poking around into the message genders and messhalls giving the
boys a start sounds like you was libifera riser trente up and forteenth us definitely out before the enemy and will parent you know the germans they were
saying he is in time they excite during the sheer board penine campagna spent nine days with the ninth infantry division the revision that cut the peninsula
and one of the three that overwhelmed the great port of charms the ninth is one of our best divisions landed in africa and falter genesian sicily that i went
to england in the fall of nineteen forty three and trained all winter for the invasion of france was one of the american divisions in the invasion that had
previous battle experience the ninth did something in that campaign that we hadn't always done in the past it kept tenaciously on the enemy's neck when the
germans we withdraw a little the night was right on top of him i never gave them a chance to reassemble or get their balance the night moved so fast a got to
be funny i was based at the division command post and we struck our tents and moved forward six times in seven days that worked the daylights out of the boys
who took down and put up the tents i ever heard one of the boys saying i'd rather be with ringing brothers but that's a little strategic importance there the
night was just oh you oh where it were on a get you and we're going to come after you and we're not going to stop you're not going to get a chance for covering
not one chance to rest in some one's got to go in that mode no matter what what you're doing in life sometimes you got to go in that mode you don't pack off an
i say what you want rest people want rest on but some time you can't sometimes you need to keep the pressure on it kinda like you and twitter yes had to keep
him pressure on it i one day went along quite accidentally i rassure you with an infantry company that had been assigned clean out a pocket in the suburbs of
share boers since he had based was typically of the way an infantry advanced into the city held by a combined enemy i would like to try and give you a picture
of it so he's going to try and like explain what that was like the soldiers around us had two weeks growth of beard and before he thought about these
acecending you a little up dat ol the aim for i am centres the soldiers around us had two weeks growth of beard their uniforms were worn worn slick and very
dirty the uncomfortable gas impregnated clothes they've come a sure kind come ashore and the boys were tired they had been fighting and moving constantly
forward on foot for nearly three weeks without rest sleeping on the ground wet most of the time always tends eating cold rations seeing their friends die one
of them came up to me and said almost beligerent ly why don't you tell the folks back home what this is like all they hear about his victories and a lot of the
glory stuff they don't know that for every hundred yards we advanced somebody gets killed on don't you tell them how toughness life is i told him that i tried
to do that all the time this fellow was pretty fed up with it all he said he didn't see why his outfit wasn't sent home they had done all the fighting that
wasn't true all for there were other divisions that it fault more and taking heavier casualties exhaustion will make a man feel like that a few days rest
usually has him smiling again you don't want for this time and time again sometimes you start it that mental fatigue you got to take a little breather so ye
like the ninth sometimes you got to keep the pressure on but if you start to break people may be time especially in individual and you know dick winters did
this for banterers dick winters beyond a beyond the band of brothers he talked about he let out his guy'll losing the bubble upon back an got a madman stuff to
do in the rear with god and take care of that boom down let this guy he left have to this guy needs he need in breaking to rest and here we get the little
briefing little briefing from the lieutenant who in a tall moliere going to push through this little and clear of pistolet of enemy resistance this is how will
do it the lieutenant said a rifle to goes first ride behind them will go a part of the heavy weapons poltoon with machine guns to cover the first poltoon then
comes another rifle polton that a small section with morthers in case the runner to something pretty heavy then another rifle to tune in bringing up the rear
the rest o the have you weapons out fifth to protect us from behind we don't know what we're run into and i don't want to stick right out in fun so why don't
you come along with me so he talking of any pile at that point saying listen to what's going to be fat you stick with me we'll go in the middle of the company
i said okay by this time i wasn't scared you sell them or once you're in desuming anticipation is the worst fortunately this little for a came up so suddenly
to was in time from which anticipation the waiting so they take the star taken a little fire and find me the shells stop and here we go the shells stopped and
finally the order to start with given as we left the protection of a high wall we had to cross a little cover right out in the open and then make a turn in the
road the men went forward one or a time they crouched and ran a light alike across this dangerous space then beyond the cold rathe filtered to either side of
the road stopping and squatting down every now and then to wait a few moments the lieutenant kept yelling at them as they started spread it out now you want to
draw fire on yourselves don't bunch up like that keep five yards apart spread it out danites an almost irresistible pull to get close to somebody when you're
in danger in spite of themselves the men would run up close to the fellow ahead of them for company but obviously if you close to your ecooe and one buffers or
one pullet can kill two people but you are here with a bomb you get hit with a grenade you can kill multiple people so you want to disperse you want to keep
your dispersion is spread out but there is little thing that people wanted just get close to other people in everybody knows it's wrong and actually former
inthe as in the beloved captain that's what you was costing said guy spread out in the trench don't pay don't uncomplainin the author we saying we ought to
want hot aether you want to be close together you fear i see you want to huddle and is the one move now we didnt discription of the men as their making this
cross the men didn't talk among themselves they disent they weren't heroic figures as they moved forward one of the time a few seconds apart you think of
attackers as being savage and bold these men were hesitant and cautious they were really the hunters but they looked like the hunted there was a confused
excitement into grim anxiety in their faces they seemed terribly pathetic to me they won't warriors they were american boys who by mere chance of fate had
wound up with guns in their hands sneaking up death waiting street and a strange and shattered city in a far away country in a driving rain they were afraid
but it was beyond their power to quit they had no choice they were good boys i talked with him all afternoon as we sneaked slowly in word along the mysterious
and rubble street and i know they were good boys and even though they want warriors born to kill they won their battles that of the point regular guise world
war to regular guise and in its is not depicted utterer like that into movie you don't all he's you know just a look like a regular guy but most a guide don't
be letorenue as they look like bad as war hero guys it necessary you don't hear this description where he literally saying um they want warriors they seemed
terribly pathetic and so he pictured these guys to get this scared strained look on their face and guess what they do their job and they do it well yet strange
some of like you can look at em in both ways cause on one hand they're just regular guise but when you see him in action kind of thing you like all dan they're
getting that their warriors you know like he immanoosa that like you said they win there battle he am and even what they're doing right now takes in
baskingridge and yours giray to step across the street we know tis a machine gun fire could open up and take your life or take your legs or you know won't you
that that takes some will that takes him disappoint ye i mean how can you not just cowrie first corner you see really you know when you compare attery day life
an i mean on it i hate to do he to but i can't help but compared to samaria right and that that merely roantree's a part where they indicate that everyone's
been trainees uh the the the job of the ohashi whatever of the trying to guess it right and so thou like an exposure of a cat is a a humanity in that yet you
know that a and then he's like ye a school teacher and all just thought all this like normal stuff and then meanwhile as the movie kind of previous him in
action is like dan for a school teacher these guys are you know there really geaete your man we were when i first got to monty we were there with the up the
two to weight which is a which is a reserve unit from pennsylvania iron soldiers and led by a guy at the time was named colonel grand she is and a general but
those guys were schooners they were i mean they were service so there was guys they were school teachers his gas there plumes that were gustible and stalers
they were gods there that one a canister was guys there that were lawyers that just every job ye and yet these guys were there fighting you know rangeing after
it by the way to battle harned e and really they were fewer so impressing we were so ambled by these guys these reserves that were bad as you think but again
nothing but respect and an admiration and for them on the battlefield and antheat where if lee didn't know their job outside of the the u know the battle and
you see if you like tangye's guys are straight up this is there a thing this is what they're there primary career is you know you that's what it seems like a
anile you i mean i soot in missus effie and i was with a bunch of guys that were reserves in mississippi and one to gus'tine to me more boswellian to that
multiple to polissoire and and these are twelve months to ployment fourteen month a ployment the caschrom awesome guys also professionals to who had taken to
flight to the enemy so amazing that that america has these these reserves that liveries and an old vither way you're going to go on to foment i rack for
fourteen months right now and get after and he come back and and got your omareille that on ye and go and just be straight up affective ye not like the there
like timid you know because i'm an him to see for a forty months live back home i'm you know i work in office winther like nope watch me work watch me get it
worse be gideon so am we get to a point now ethyon know that street flight continues they take down they clear that pocket there's more combat description but
now they're getting ready to push out of normandy besottedly stoecken i betattered taken his hedge rows they got it locked and spendin of some time but now
they genre he stuck making the porch making a push out of there and so that's what dis is this in a massive massive attack and in there getting ready get a
brief and here we go back to the book the regimental colonel stood in the centre of the officers and went over the orders in detail the tamanoirs took down
notes and their little books then general barton arrived the colonel called attention and everybody stood rigid till the general gave them carry on and it
listed man ran to the mast truck and got a folding stool for the general to sit on he sat listening intently while the colonel wound up his instructions the
general stepped into the centre of the circle he stood at a slow canon foot with the other leg far out like a brace he looked all around him as he talked he
didn't talk long he said this is one of the finest regiments in the american army he was the last regiment out of france in the last war it was the first
regiment into france in this war it is spearhead every one of divisions attacks in normandy it will spiradis one for many years this was my regiment and i feel
very close to you and very proud the generals lined face with a study in a motion since heritage sentiment werner contour and they shone from his eyes general
barton was a man of deep affections the tragedy of war both personal and impersonal erti at the end his voice almost broke i for one had a lump in my throat he
ended that's all god bless you then good luck and with that the begin this master operation the first plans of the mass all loccum over a little before ten a m
they were a fighters and dive bombers the main road running cross wise in front of us was their bomb line they were to bomb only on the far side of that road
or infantry had been pulled back a few hundred yards from the near side of the road every one in the area had been given the strictest orders to be in fox
holes for high level bombers can and do quite excusably make mistakes so did you understand that right there so there is a very clear road and they say listen
the bombers are going to be bombing the other side of that road but we're going to back further away from the road just in case something goes wrong just in
case bound t get dropped early obviously is indicated in pointing that out for reason cause this is gettable our front lines were marked by long strips of
color cloth laid on the ground with colored smoke to guide armandine the mass bombers bombing dive bombers hit it just right we stood and watched them barrels
nearly straight down out of the sky they were bombing about a half a mile had of where we stood they came in groups diving in every direction perfectly timed
one after another every where we looked separate groups of plain were on a plain were on their way down or on the way back up were slanting over for a
divorcing circling circling over heads and waiting for their turn some what you a picture what this is like picture what this is like and you don't don't
pecheto watching it in movie cossetin derstand that it's easy to picture it okay i won't she put your mind in this situation can you imagine what that looks
like these ere the plane with the sky is basically filling with plans and their making these incredibly aggressive attacks and this peace which i'm about to
reign this is one of the most magnificent descriptions of war i have read here we go the air was full of sharp and distinct sounds of cracking balms and the
heavy ribs of the plains machine guns in the splintering screens of diving wings it was all fast and furious yet distinct and then a new sound gradually droned
into our ears a deep sound and all encompassing with no notes in it just a gigantic faraway surge of doom like sound it was the heaviest king about the heavy
bombers that are going to bring the thunder and their so many of them in their sole loud agisters out every other sound until just this massive far away sir of
a domelike sound it was the heavy they came from directly behind us at first they would the merest dots in the sky we could see the clots of them against the
far heavens to tiny decon individually they came on with a terrible slowness they came in flights of twelve three flights to a group and in groups stretched
out across the sky they came in families of about the seventy plaineth maybe those gigantic waves were to miles apart may be they were ten miles i don't know
but i do know they came in constant procession and i fought it would never end what the germans must have thought is beyond comprehension the flight across the
sky was slow and studied i've never known a storm or a machine or any resolve of man that had about it the or of such a ghastly relentness i had the feeling
that even had god appeared beseechingly before them in the sky with palms outstretched persuade them back they would not have had the power within them to turn
from their irresistible course this is just that such a credible description of of de this impending doom i stood with a little group of men ranging from
colonels to private back to the stone farm house slices were all around the edges of the farm yard and a dugout with a tin roof was near by but we were so
fascinated by the spectacle overhead that it never occurred to us that we might need the foxholes the first huge flight passed erectly overhead and others
followed we spread our feet and leaned far back trying to look straight up until our steel helmet fell off we'd cut our fingers around her eyes like field
glasses for a clearer view in then the balms came they began like the crackle of popcorn and almost instantly swelled into a monstrous fury of noise that
seemed surely to destroy all the world to henious from then on for hour and half that had in it the agonies of centuries the bombs came down a wall of smoke
and dust erected by them grew high in the sky it filed along the ground back through our orchards it sifted round us and into a noses the bright day grew
slowly dark from it by now everything was an indescribable cold turn of sounds individual noises did not exist the thundering of the motors in the sky in the
roar of bombs a head filled all the space from noise on the earth our own heavitree crashing all around us yet we could hardly hear it the germans began to
shoot heavy high ataca puffs of of it by the score speckled the sky until his hard to distinguish smoke puffs from plains and then some one shouted that one of
the planes were smoking yes we could all see it a faint line of black smoke stretch straight for a mile behind one of them and as we watched there were
gigantic sweep of flame over the plain from nose to tail it disappeared in flame and it slanted slowly down and banked around the sky and great wide curves
this way and that as rhythmically and grace as lee gracefully as in a slow motion walstein sundyes to change its mind and swept upward steeper and steeper and
ever slow ontil find me it seemed poised motionless on its own black pillar of smoke then then just as solely as it had turned over and dived for the earth a
golden spear head on the straight black shaft of its own creation and disappeared behind the tree tops but before it was down there a more cries of there's
another one smoking and there's a third one now shoots came out of some of the plans out of some came no shoots at all one of the white silk caught on the tail
of a plain men with binoculars could see him fighting to get loose until flame swept over him and then a tiny black dot fell through space all alone and all
that time the great flat ceiling of the sky was rooted by other plans that didn't go down ploughing their way forward as if there were no turmoil in the world
nothing deviated them by the slightest they stalked down slowly and with a dreadful pall of sound as though they were seeing only something at a great distance
and nothing existed between god how we admired those men up there and sickener the ones who fell credible it is possible to become so infrared by some of the
spectacles of war that man is momentarily captivated away from his own danger that's what happened to our little groups of group of soldiers as we stood
watching them mighty bombing but that benignest didn't last long as we watched their crept into our consciousness a realization that the windrows of exploding
bombs were easy back towards us flight by flight instead of gradually ford as the plan called for then we were horrified by the suspicion that those machines
high in the sky and completely detached from us were aiming their bombs at the smoke line on the ground and a gentle breeze was drifting the smoke line back
over us an indescribable kind of panic came over as we stood tentemus and frozen in the intellect watching each flight approaching pass over feeling trapanese
helpless and then all of an instant the university came filled with gigantic rattling of as it of huge right seeds in a mammoth dry gord i doubt that any of us
had ever heard that sound before but instinct told us what it was it was bombs by the hundred hurling down through the air above us many times i'd heard bombs
whistle or swishtale but never before had i heard bombs rattle i still don't know what the explanation of it but it was an awful sound we dived some got into a
dug out others made foxholes in ditches and some got behind a garden wall although which side would be behind was anybody's guess i was too late for the dug
out the nearest place was a wagon shed which formed on one end of the stone house the rattle was right down upon us i remember hitting the ground flat all
spread out like the cartoons of people flattened by steam rollers and in scorning like an eel to get under one of the heavy wagon we wagons in the shed and off
sir whom i didn't know was wriggling beside me we stopped at the same time simultaneously feeling it was hopeless to move further the bombs were already
crashing around us we lay with our heads slightly up like two snakes staring at each other i know it was in both are mine and in our eyes asking each other
what to do neither of us knew we said nothing we just lay sprawled deeping at each other in a few tile appeal or faces about a foot apart until it was over
there is no description of the sound and fury of those bombs except to say it was chaos and a waiting for darkness the feeling of the blast was sensational the
air struck us in hundreds of continuing flutters are ears drummed and rang we could feel quick little waves of concussion on our chest and in her eyes at last
the sound the sound died down and we looked at each other in disbelief gradually we left the fox holes and sprawling places and came out to see what the sky
had in store for us as far as we could see other waves were approaching from behind when a wave would pass a little to the side of us we were grateful for most
of them from directly overhead time and time again the rattle came down over us bomb struck in the orchard to our left they struck into the orchards ahead of
us they struck his fares a mile behind us everything about us was shaken but organe through one hurt i can't record what any of us actually felt or thought
during those horrible climaxes i believe a person's feelings at such time are coitas and indefinable he just wait that's all with an inhuman tenseness of
muscle and nerve in our so later i began to get sore all over and by mid afternoon my back and shoulders ached as though i've been beaten with a club it was
simply the result of muscles tensing themselves too tight for two long against anticipated shock when we came out of our sprawling and stood up again to watch
we knew that the error had been caught and checked the bombs were following again where they were intended a mile or so ahead even at a mile away a thousand
bombs hitting within a few seconds can shake the earth and shattered the air there was still a dread in our hearts but i gradually eased as the tumult and
destruction moved slightly forward it seems incredible to me that any german could come out of that bombardment with his sanity when it was over even i was
grateful in a chest and way that i had never experienced before for just being alive i thought that attack by our troops was impossible then for it is an
unnerving thing to be bombed by your own plans during the bad part or colonel had known a long time was walking up and down behind the farm house snapping his
fingers and saying over and over again to self not given to dimittas he passed me once he stopped and stared and said got kamatan i said there can't be any
attack now can there and he said no and began walking against snapping his fingers and tossing his arms as though he were throwing rocks at the ground the
leading company of our bitin was desperate attack forty minutes after the heavy bombing ceased the company had been hit directly by our balms their casualties
including cattle ties and shock were heavy men went to pieces and had to be sent back the company ship was shattered and shaken yet company be attacked and on
time to the minute they attacked and within the hour sent back word that they advance eight hundred yards through german territory and were still going around
our farmyard men with stars on their shoulders almost wept in the world came over the portable radio the american soldier can be majestic when he needs to be
i'm sure that backing on that night other men bamberses and maybe they did really in the awful knowledge that they had killed or on american troops but the
chaos and bitterness there in the orchard and between the hedge roads that afternoon soon passed after the bidden bitterness came the sober remembrance that
the air force was the strong right arm in front of us not only at the beginning but ceaselessly in everlastingly every moment of the faintest daylight the air
forces up their banging away ahead of us anybody made mistakes the enemy made them just the same as we did the smoke could confusion of battle bewildered us on
the ground as well in the air and in this case the percentage of error was really very small compared to the colossal storm of bombs that fell upon the enemy
the air force was a wonderful throughout the invasion and the man on the ground appreciated it so obese talk about boonooog here i think that's about as an
extreme example as i've ever heard of and i you know the bloom blue thing is such a nightmare because the yapple it your own people and it's a laconic ation
and it's the fog a war then you can't do anything you can't shoot pack hum all you can do sit there to wait then it's amazing one of those company that was
scheduled to attack is so shaken up that they can't go forward but then the other company is gweat this step aside now the attack starts pushing forward and we
get a little description of one of the commanders that commander the regiment was one of my favorites he was a regular army colonel and he was overseas in the
last war to his division commander said the only trouble with him was that he if was an got two bold and if he weren't careful he was liable to get clipped
some fine day when tired and dirty he could have played a a movie gangster but either way his eyes always twinkled he had a faculty for direct thought that was
outstanding the colonel went from one bettington another during the battle during battle from early light till darkness he wore a new new type field jacket
that fitted him like a sack and he carried a long stick that teddy roosevelted given to him he kept costly prodding his commanders to push hard not to let up
and keep driving and driving he was impatient with his commanders who lost the main point of the war by getting involved in the details the main point of
course being to kill germans his philosophy of war was expressed in the simple formula of shot the son of bitches once i was that of titanian post when we got
word that sixty german were coming down the road in the counterattack everybody got excited they called the colonel on a field full gave him on the field phone
gave in details and asked him what to do he had this lusion the note in a nutshell he said shoot the sons of bitches and hung up cakeens simple then you got to
keep your your tasks very focused you know what's all this complication were here to kill germans so kill them sons of bitches now he to aid the younger
soldier that he goes through a description of clayton's weirdest disguising clayton cleaned wear to experience before i twarn't so filled with pathos he was
returning with a patrol one moonlight night when the enemy opened up on them tommied right through a hedge and spotting a fox hole plunges into it to his
amazement and fright it was a german in that foxholing pretty holding a machine pistol in his hands clatchie times in the chest before you could say scat the
german hardly moved and then tommy realized the man had been killed earlier he had been shooting a corpse all his experiences seemed to have had no effect on
his mile on this mild soldier from indiana except perhaps to make him even quieter than before the worst experience of all is just the accumulated bluer and
the herding vagueness of being too long in the winds the everlasting alertness the noise and fear the selbys exhaustion the fining of surrounding ranks as day
follows nameless day in the constant marching to eternity of one's own small quota of chances for survival those are the things that hurt and destroy and
soldiers like tommy clayton when back to them because they were good soldiers and they had a duty they could not define mental stress now they continued to
push through they take paris and it's really incredible to to her what that was like then you should definitely by this book and read it and here's how he
closes it out the final chapter is being written in the latter part of august nineteen forty four is being written under an apple tree in a lovely green
orchard on the interior of france it could well be that the european war will be over and done by the time you read this book or it might not but the end is
inevitable and it cannot be put off for long the german is beaten and he knows it it will seem odd when at some given hour the shooting stops and everything
suddenly changes again it will be odd to drive down an unknown road without that little not of fear in your stomach odd not to listen with animal like
alertness for the meaning of every distant sound odd not to have your spirit odd to have your spirit released from the perpetual weight that is compounded of
fear and death and dirt and noise and anguish the end of war will be a gigantic relief but i cannot be a matter of hilary for most of us somehow it would seem
sacrilegious to sing and dance when the great day comes there are so many who can never sing an dance again many many thousands of americans have come to join
the ones who have already slept in france for a quarter of a century for some of us the war has already gone on too long our feelings have been wrong and
drained they cringe from the effort of coming alive again even the approach of the end seems to have brought little inner elation it is only brought up tired
sense of relief i do not pretend that my own feeling is the spirit of our mies if it were we probably would not have the power to win most men are stronger our
soldiers still can hate or glorify or be glad with the emotion for them death as a pang then victory a sweet scent but for me or has become a fiat black
depression without high lights a revulsion of the mind and exhaustion of the spirit the war france is been especially vicious because it was one of the it was
one of the enemies last stands we have won become of because of many things we have on partly because the enemy was weakened from our other battles the warm
frances are grand phanariot the victory here is the result of all other victories that went before it is a result of russia and the western desert and the
bombings and the blocking of the sea it is a result of tonisa and sicily and italy we must never forget arbelite those campaigns we have won because we have
had magnificent top leadership at home and in our allies and with ourselves overseas surely america made its too perfect choices in generalized now in general
brave they are great men to me doubly great because they are direct and kind when he won because we are audacious one could not help but be moved by the
colossus of our invasion it was a bold and mighty thing one of the epics of all history in the emergency of war or nations powers are unbelievable the strength
we have spread around the world as a pongee to those who make up the individual cells of that strength i am sure that in the past two years i have heard
soldier say a thousand times if only we could have created all this energy for something good but we rise above our normal powers only in times of destruction
we have won this war because our men are brave and because of many other things because of russia and england and the passage of time and the gifts of natural
materials we did not win it because destiny treated us better than all other people i hope that in victory we are more grateful than we are proud i hope we can
rejoice in victory but humbly the dead man would not want us to gloat the end of one war is a great fetter broken from around our lives but there is still
another to be broken the pacific war may yet be long and bloody nobody can foresee but it would be disastrous to approach chip with easy hopes or next few
months at home will be torn between the new spiritual freedom of half peace and the old grinding blow of half war it will be a confusing period for us
thousands of men will be returning to you soon they have been gone a long time and they have seen and done fanandels things cannot know they will be changed
they will have to learn how to adjust themselves to piece last night we had a violent electrical storm around our country side the storm was half over before
he realized that the flashes and the crashings around us will not alter artillery but planosa thundering lightning it will be odd to hear only thunder again
you must remember that such little things says that are in our souls and will take time then all of us together whahae to learn how to reassemble our broken
world into a pattern so firm and so fair that another great war cannot soon be possible to tell the simple truth most of us over in france don't pretend to
know the right answer some mersin war does not necessarily qualify a man to be the master of peace all we can do is fumble and try once more try out of the
memory of our anguish and be as tolerant with each other as we can in this book was dedicated by early pile on a man a read the dedication now in solemn salute
to those thousands of our comrades great brave men that they were for whom there will be no home coming ever and any pile did get to experience home coming on
fortunately it was not joyous and it was not long he he battled with the pression and a motional tunal over his experiences in warranty could hear him talking
about those and also his wife who had some kind of men to issues and she actually been hospital eyes and so he was distressed and depressed about that in top
of that the war was not over for him and he mentioned there in the end that there's only half piece because there were still a war in the pacific and he knew
that and in personal letters and in conversations that he had with his friends he explained a personal for boating a sense that he would not live through the
war but when he was asked by the department of the navy to join the battle against imperial japan in the pacific he reluctantly may be fearfully but dutifully
agreed to go and it was there in the pacific on the tiny island called ease she muatapha coast of okinawa material was shot and killed by a sicle snippeted
members of the seventy seventh infantry division who dipinte with for the operation quickly marked where he was killed with a sign that read at the spot the
seventy seventh infantry division lost about ponyparte april nineteen forty five so mister pile thank you for your service and your sacrifice and to the
journalists at her out there now in this day especially the war journalists who take risks to record and report history tanker what you do again the book is
called brave men by hearne pile lenwold give you some real exit into the nature of war echo the world is a crazy place and it amazing that you can live the
life that we live and some people go through life their life without ever even even just brushing against this madness and a osages for the thousand time i
believe that it is important to delvin do these things so that you learn not just about beatership but about life and how precious and glorious life is the end
life has upsidown it as good and bad good as darkness and light in everybody's life makes those transitions and having darkness in the world or in our life
does not exclude the light a fact i think it makes that light just a little pariter thence when we we don't have to stay here in the darkness we can go we paid
our respects and we will continue to perresent asked we go forward and with that i guess it's a good time to answer some questions from taterleg from the
interweb sure and actually the fore get into questions from the interweb speaking it in a web there's kinnison was if you could you lie the other wet the
interest for other things oenone of them is and by the way this further you to don't know now echoes going to say some stuff about the inner webs and about
supporting a pocket you know women do i'm going to i'm going to like the ominous swish and a little compression when during some from an drinkin white tea
realite pomegranate or get a little adjustment a little mind set change need into the zone for answer some questions sure so there's there is actually a duel
purpose for echoes the scussion of how to sport the boast yes yes yonder port prices which is much appreciate it hum also i can decompress for minute you from
being bombed by my own plans from being stressed from being back in the wars on always be hole describe it i mean he could you know a writer than general order
dis really good explain in stuff ye i mean it i yet pretty much already any conceive the difference in the way the men this one or imparticularity really to to
me anyway really really delivered with the with the descriptions and stuff that it was like diathermanous in there i am lesteren i was reading it champceri
ways of em i have certain ways of no tating kind of one i'm going to read and and that you know some of it stuffs are circle than somewhat says that but but
occasionally if something to me if i if it hits me i put one single red line underneath each individual word that i'm going to read in that i no might not by
once or twice a buck but there's a couple of paragraphs where i had done him old piano those lives are just powerful like the the one that i did open about
back up to relocation but but you know what he's like um and then a new sound gradually droned into her ears a sound deep and all in compassing with no notes
in it just a gigantic far away serge of doom like sound and this is the part that i underlined it was the heavies and in disposer of that just knowing that
these in the afther which you have no big deal to us now because we are giant machines but i have the bobeche was like a aetas just this ultimate modern
machine that had been created that nothing could destroy what these things could nothing was close to it and it noteece one of these insane power machines
we've cleaned hundreds and hundred and actually recreated thousands of them and they were all a mass and coming to destroy this little section it was the hay i
yes o yes it's a it's a book that definitely draws you in in his writing that he the ffact that he writes a very unstraightforward very very clean and
directing lish is i think one of things that makes it so powerful howcome where he compares like in a letterati do this on me can do it good it's really
powerful were alike for example the ah he talked about the the one plan that ettinger his crashing in avertissant he was a spear on a light lips spear with the
smoke trail the ancons exact that looks like she'd onobatis weird too because a latin go watch this man they have some forego this stuff huh but that that
takes you there visit i think we no eating ye and listening does in eighteen you there mentally yet you take you there in your hand alietans more which is more
powerful than and this happened some old time when i'm when i'm reading i'm getting better when we started this podcast i could tell like old that's powerful
like we had that's going to be that's a really powerful statement and in some the i would read it it'll be twelve more times more powerful where i'd be like
roy god i begin just power because when you read it aloud and now a a little bit more aware that a you're going to have to read this i brow you've got to he
better get your head in the game because it's going to be powerful the so that's something i've become more aware of as we've done this more morningred all
these books and gone through them and underlined the stuff and thought about the way it's going to sound and thought about what it means to say it was the
heavy as so lillianthals over here go well speaking in a web and awesome by the way uh talk about supplements as to allotment in time to find it right bess up
omens we all know that even though we are already know that that is a big deal because of the nature of disappoint companies in general so rested on it
detonate on its supplement you can get temper sent off because of the jacal lanquages una decanus jocko temprano supplement your wallet a little bit summer
your body and enter mind and your mind overran offerin and for sure but notably ka a a a midside an take care will when unlearnt till recently so merikani the
indisputately aldershot apparently i i was not clear enough to you of you know about a fact that i wanted it oh from you yes i offer you some a techiroguen
that celandine i wasn't just wondering that you wanted to anyway all the men i i didn't take that of ranajambuka o bring me troyano yes you know i take i said
a few tantanoola so i take the cree oil and i'm not i'm not disguise like it has all these nagging joint pains on i go work out and casinhas really what i
think okay to have driven on an art work out good partnerless have joined tainteth the thing i do have trinketware up in the morning her home and the thing is
like i said when you like one i think of when one is judging pain i'm thinking when i work up that's it no don't think like her you know others onless there
there asking specifically so like my daughter she's three and a half now she's kind of like a bigger three and a half two in she comes runs up wakes me up a
lot of time and his like take care o me downstairs when i sit up she jumped on my back she was forty pounds and i'm not saying him you know the power left her
nothin but forty pounds is not an carport pounds i don't think even had any where yon foreknower out his meaningless yes m she's forty pounds she jumps on it a
amicliton a focus really that a focus on like my yet just because of the stiffness not necessarily pain but is like star you know how like you you just didn't
warm up at all you can't disgust like that feeling and then recently my my ankle got jacked up yndaia like i think this tournyment so he kin watch out orry eh
you know but i at it already been getting and by the way so it got full oft and then it like inflamed it and so i got a walk down stairs with this girl i
madanotsava a hate no problem i do it almost every day though problem but the face those are all as i notleben think the chillily not the first day in even the
second day but you was may be a few days later she jumped i'm still working out arbiters and he's not like alora she jumps on my back i'm like dan i feel solid
i can go like i want to stand up on my boon pop you up no it is sadly reduced still there my ankle still there i henri now and so but broke this was like
eliciting before five days and then when i know a thing dainties this is good for longer yet i that's been a bunch of puncheon toward her and come back into an
as aretaen carlyle in you know a week later at like man my shoulder stood to go you know it really works so it does really work it really does ye and that like
i said that mean and here my wife dead was like telling her long destoyers agostino crill hill no one not fishified good and creoles a amy credo look up
crilloire like old sweet it's joint paying the all this stuff or whatever in like i said even back then right now same thing why i work at how have joint man
manifesting of umpteen general is now so i am good for you so not yourself out with a grille when i need it and then i mycanae as you about some stuff so you
know i see it and its cool good but the first time to yourii i i get i got you a cruel now you get it i gushed so when i run out laddie ye another kill kin yes
that's clear out of new cool and i meno was is face to the book wereway bars e e in is this will we i think we're besomed on a buffalo meat they are i are you
say right we never said that oh well my bonstetten hatter you know ye degenerate you eating buffalo which moeopathy estranger all yet but am none the less to
me that makes it even more also not cause me i mean not for any specific reason other than may be novelty but it's still pretty do i might in oh so still at
really good best real replace it if i'm goin t ask on twitter hay do you you know what mere replacement or proteck or whatever would you recommend if any
parson none so well that i so to it some one said the same thing to me well you and millicent i had why would you replace a taehae path i hate but in the event
of really they have is it is a hat and a unoutgrown or disgusting or halma one to replace him yea but or or you don't have to eat a lot i'm driven truck ye i'm
driving at at a way or plain or something for a long time you umtetwa you drive my ear plant yet notoriety and probably right do but it's but okay der you
worry about yes after the adrell siller ye to them that a big field of the era made to their another not messer on and the good that's the thing like remember
back in the day but the of the the bars royalty can not back nor even right now you eat one of those like a rise where you goin with ye tryin to make like a
candy bar where you turn in but it's not like that at all as good anyway to war but all of another way in a support the pot cast in the event of our being in
the mood to support the bocca is next time chopin at milan umdoom quick through one of our length like a passing way actively aggressive lee efficient way
leafwork and super easy to the alienating he clicked to do shopping boom it's like we get like a line referral thing it was what i like about that is go out an
ask people like a lot of people that want to donate money i don't want ye to donate money to us if you want to give us money that's awesome but i'd rather you
buy t shirt if you can afford it but if let's say you can't afford anything cause your broke that's okay when you were er something from amazon this is his
free money that you give us so it olleyday it's all the most like a collective like hay we all shot at that mason this thing together you know kind o being on
ananian amalon knowledge spare the change right they can spare a little something for the doctor as i or you actively making a evangile of money how's that
forget after it but then but but there you know so it's like this weird like circle almost you know they you know they buy from amazon were like he got amazon
will go through us your anemones like a thing for buying of anger to any tom where other whoreson whether be both or whatever ducal this stuff there is
womaneen a by stuff from from him as on i eat books sure you know ye let in the looting people can be by a jollificate which is coming is so good to you i only
the ambrosia roger they came out o sogerin yet that's gone better than in solid currently that eliot yet the amranwa get word that way i like always say a big
part of that were big let issue but a thing in there is remembering to do it and if you undetermined to do it so but you have what's called the trooper to
aldesey you download it and facing you click on his asonder topertoe from extension click on it except it it's on you think it automatically does it for you
from here on a don't psycho litical thing to regret sosaman we were trying to update been talking he cried updated for canada you casey can have but too for
that polonie that's cool cause as new yeah we working on that one but they thus get tritely after remembered any more you remember one time that's all shapadon
still support aggressive efficiently and of course a support by so crushing to the patteson i too and you too saddled graniger tea is what jem and of course
the jocko store of i think were i not a thing i know that we're trying we patriotes to provide multidimensional items like eating in a simple thirt is
multilingual dimensions to it you know lettering the saying is important and extends way beyond what you expect on the surface dagoes frobishers so i growing
irascaris including the resaca of new stuff now staff rash guards to rashid the forcing the fit of forename vigo fame won it out what cool about in here's a
reality when you when you when you onofre you don't well you put on a uniform you change your mentality a little bit and you sell factory well actually answer
when people are like all man i i was wearing of this protiasis line cassetete take i got my par an aleander yet and i'm like yeah yeah you you put on your you
before and there's a mental like the state of mind that makes it inhuman in the brain i know real funny about that exact no sin one i forefit got the first
shirt to his leeward om but on the grey one man i get i know that that thing that's it's in my iapygia thing of a real foot yet with it is a by the way one of
my arretans in a hole i psychologic anyway so i put it on ligament a picture you know of me in the new shirt kind of thing and i put on a and i was going to
work out any way and man i put on as like ye i hope atyatonentha i may you know you yet so true and the rascal i aagint the story but a putrasya working on
junior ed up very i toever well so there is some sort of the oblite power ewithington on not when else thinking rathees advertising they of you where this
rates raphaelite per cent nowlett how false had a boomerang falls at the end i went in to the whole rashburn like yawned dressers because pepere saint antlike
this rascal and they were just with a demand sir but here's the thing like rash cards like the short sleep all read this susie if you go like biking and stuff
that's really what it for humus like a liking a like cross the anything where you your ladder what is surely right or serving that really what rathmore i mean
you gitano cause is dino but all we use so back in the day barkingside we will if people were in rascarse was no such thing as esoras art right there was all
my actual rash or assuetis for body boarding is what it is because it oranienburger all means of water sports yes yes in in ah my my little rather headeder
dispiriting than looted reveil too he thought that he cutaway his unquiet so am thinking like you go die of being water so it's like that's what this is for
including but not limited to judges to ian's a complete bones on the tail and er that but if hanover now these are sleepily to fine for to dis there steed on
her very dearest multi personal my multipurpose up an in straight at me you are for didier going to do better than he not ihonatiria love to a lady or not lest
i have hot rolls with you while you're wearing yet ad good luck good luck with em we will go to chimerical so now that's out is patches for did you do for
anything there is patches you one iron on but you ye so noonan soon ye oh patch is this menial freedom very is a judicasse patch it says jujitsu entitling any
intolerating see em on and women's sure we missourians real or so i got a recommendation for the valor and yet which is briant even know why i didn't like
eight dinner where i happen to ye you don't wear hats yet but still i but i'll go where have all time i there's always space before a patch on their sramana
put it on everything there you go away what about the women shirts women shirts okay yes lanky debend you know all you guys every one of the yamato aagot it
death after it oh yeah at least alliterative so yet he there all you yet think they bring on not they bring very good imputed a fact of in a respector can act
you feel frightened to know although i found that we were all in this together you know em but you think you so yes they are coming scare he thing they're not
teachers their tanks or do we want the shirts i don't know if we do they were as you sir as well good asked asked pa he nosed female trooper nay will do a pig
we will not may be we will though that you live in off we will not either way they are in the literally in the works submitted at least as a pink pink pink and
a name day not happen yes he too i don't really feel like doing the panther so guess what i did the paint as actually i didn't do the thing but is in the
ardness or on the way or eraton the way of feed at the decent toastin forks all at micromanage in that hot and these kept the creative brain so i let him run
and i and he milanese just because it's not your specific opinion to it you know but there's a man i there is a standard of solyman at firesides be you know
i'll try give you the proper times well there you come to make that happen they all help of coe store dot com that's it at a word they all are and thinks every
one for shop in it supporting its also in she go to the question only wait one more thing just the little technical thing to olga i'll say to the u s the girl
that you have can serener else it did us am i put a little thing on there because just who is far as the just the shipping process technical thing tom that for
customs they want you dear phone number to create the shipping label and editor embroidering gave the pour out at a call now in technology but they just need
it for the customs that drown so i've tried to put a thing on their but hale you shopping you just want to check out of me done with it i understand but if if
possible trade tenerem ber that one otherwise you've got to emma's no problem in e mail for fort well as of a now yet he led but he got a fresh shave a long
way the exactly right in with her clear atalantis a fuero many people is with really cool suiting feedback from people all over all over the world that crazy
right you that's kind of crazy right the ashes all over the world troopers get after it yet it it makes an i don that it seillon from um sweeten it to
intimidate the gem in rout we hang out we talk about physics a property the physic assured pietist mister physics that gasworks listen to the poast we do talk
about physics go ye goggin erectly i lay a if you can athothiate to remember them for number so i just sat saintete and pomona's on its way to you quickly
there i don't mind emailing now in fact i get a lot of cool little conversant like the tryouts for some reason i like hay and they'll say the australian stuff
i will i astrocourse of years ago whatever and a medicean is a backdoor he on and and he has a anyway usuages stuff and he teach me all the austrian stuff then
pummididle two easy for example two easy as like fagots yet like all good like heat it's just as real it's kind of ambiguous but is you know of that free
norration the less you know you get into fun competition with people when you email in for for the simple stuff for they utter in order though you eight old or
whatever good god how long are we but how long o how long at that go oh yes roughly to ours rushlight well i actually got a pretty good stack of questions um i
thinking that for to day we wrap it hand hold off on cuineul the next one we won't distorted on the next one i don't he be quite franquetot kind of tough to
even follow up with this book so sore with that thanks everybody out there four from listening for supported the poast thanks for takin the time to learn with
me to remember with us the depth of the world the depths of the darkness and the sacrifices that have been made for us and remember that remember that remember
these men and what they were really true you fraid of not afraid of physical agony not afraid of death itself but they feared losing their future they feared
losing their future so we hear sitting here to day we have a future we have that opportunity so make sure you take every possible advantage of the opportunity
that you have and that you have in the future and you know how to do that i do that by getting out there that getting after it until enter next time this is
echo and jack out
