this is jacopo cast number for it with the others and me jackwell devening echo it evening and the use podcast that we did i went a little long with the book
the book was brave men by a guy named early pile and it was just some credible writing in there that i dissent deep with i read it all and so we had to
postpone the curate so that's okay gave some time here to give some time or to go a little deep on some cue this is pan casting number forty by the way forty
weeks straight who wants some forty weeks straight is where we're at and that's apparently that's the battle rather we put out pot gasps and we do it weakly
and we've been doing it for forty straight weeks and i i that am good and it's not always easy you don't cause if you think about the times think about the
times when you are not doing anything well when you're not doing anything or when i would normally offer you anything for forty weeks i've been doing sunkthin
you i've been reading it on improving i been researching so forty weeks is legit and i'm on stoked to where at number forty men to and now we get to talk about
some questions for me interweb thanks to everybody forgiven us to the awesome questions through to interoffice book pretty much where they come from towadneck
either i guess i tacape emails i get tex to from like some of my somebuddy's visitant at the upper the question here and there but a tempted just responded
them his real an sometimes i use em sure but anyway ye let's get to it let's do it okay jack first question from the book at edrom the vole i've got a lot
icenian got a big but i got a big vol and always just trying to go through and make sure there wasn't any question or disavow questions that might be good that
i missed the first time round so is one right here from the volts women old school to ours to ye on that you always intended to may be revisit yet in how we go
revisiting it yes now let the revisiting darted to jestings to you any tips for complimentary exercises species pecially for non athletic civilian what's the
hardest stage of your an what's the hardest age of your judicature the manacles for dissection towers to questions we affined im in the one could over their
kind of a similarly and okay so do it wanting a school butchers he is it say it it is a very well rounded physical activity right you got a flexibility goave
string he got having durand she got a be able to recover quickly wing from fatigue gone have some ajeelity speed balance coordination proprio caption no
propriate oftenest met it no wing where your body is in space sir it's and it's a talent that dimness have very well nerembe a dancer has eroine where there
body isn't space and dogian that you know where your body is at all times so that's the stuff that you need to work on all this all those tanks conjugatus
unique test almosting it a test of restricted to testificates of your endurance is a test of your ability to cover it a test of our ideality it a test of your
speed of your coronation attestants things as that makes it that makes it um i rely good sport to practise huygens ah what do you need to do well what you do
do um too to train them and he treats things they don't so for flexibility i like apperson like the ability wad i been dansent you know but you know get some
kind of stretching protocol a gymnast tips moved movements there is gymnastic bodies or to a ridiculous ledge pepeeta you can go on it's an internet thing
gyrations on come in wouldn't he like a work out yeatara come on as he extremity ye it's it's it's hard core it's hard corn um but that's really good at you
know you'll get your flexibilities stuff for that but so you got to be flexible you got to walk in to flexibility to whale you in like i said you and you
mobility water some kind of stretching protocol say you get limber he got work on the strength of what you were in strength only pick lifting what is that
clean and jerk snatches ah that brings in things like clean by themselves you know ah presses and hand clings and all that and then on top of that for strength
you also have the simple movements the dead left the squaw the fungoed squad and all so first strength you can go back to gymnasticated those gymnastic
movements and basic celestini polo's persists squats luterano hole nine yards now you got have endurance right so wounded do for thee i see where the head for
nuance what you got run swam by some kind of mad can i like the mad con personally for my for my care you vast your endurance and recovery in what not you know
sir yes you can you can add running and sprinting into these you can sprint women can spring on a bike you can use cattle bells to work your met comb scenario
can actually use barbels teduccio do a bunch of clean and you will get tired yes and ah and then with that when you work on your nurthery and prose your
recovery and so that's that's going to help you there then you have a delite and for agility would you do to simsport some some cross training of sports i
personally look to serve um but you know not just that it's basketball it's go play soccer go alabaster said you walk on your agility and you you speed i
tucked up as you got your running your sprinting you an air like or whatever the proprietor caption the the gymnastics the movement type things or your holding
your body and space so i don't latest hum at a lot o stuff and your pill that together and you got a lot of varied varied activity and what nice about that is
when people talk about getting burnout on like i never get burned down on work and help i got ninety seven different basenesses that i can use so knockaround
out so at it what's won as you jump into these challes like or are you find something that's challenging what you can't do you go a almonio that unless you
while i can get my weight up to on this imite if i can do this movement in gymnastics i'm going to see if i can do this many polisher you do keep continually
varying and an headin a different direction and i think i think when you combine almost things together you become a well rounded athlete that is what will
help you most with the oise don't but i don't think there's one exercise i have this will help you nudity although the clean and jerk is pretty good yes and he
anything with them like your body wait so cause like it in judith you're doing to just to that's mainly what it is sure there are elements where you're you're
trying to control some one else's tea fight with but is mainly what you do with your body so like when you do you know you know like those the eye climb over
pevore yes ye like that kind of stuff of bars the all vignaticos done ah and then as far as like being strong in sweir was cause i essentially what you're
going to be doing you ootower is vere is though there is indeed her oftentimes your moving some one else's way to ye and in distat are super explosive ah
that's a different thing to deal with and its yet if her good trait to have to be super explosive yes for sure so that so you can mind that with let it like
when you shrimp out and some in surefooted in you been you sure your pushing your own body away that's your own body wahoney had his own not for your withania
just kind of part of the game but if you can control your own body in the stronger was that on a give like such a big benefit so an then to your inability to
me that it might be in that's a probably one of the best on melian this is life not only do you get that little explite explosion explosive um movements in
there but when you ah when you put olympic live lifting to make up your macon and you do like a clean like a clean as rain you you must work is dissent and
then for second its almost cinderella and then pull again and then cataractine you hold and boom and in disrepute ive sahuarita kind would hit it his hand be
doing any ganeagaono yea so and if you're in shape in that way where you can go hard rest for just an a little bit and in gardain if that's kind o if you can
do that if your neck in a shape thus can help so when you do when you do a maconnique training something like that where if you can do the exercise dynamic
rest like active rest in a where you were your walking even galingka what you get to is like work and your cause you never really just laying there on oriel do
that kind of thing and do it in like round if if you're into like a ten minute round and you did though not really your things and do your thirtythree around
on the will like to help it'll get you kind o aware of like okay i'm this tired gonagall this stuff mean but you i agree i think met consalin as swimming bof
you do swimming sprint and others like your old body you know as yestereves the least the less comfortable you are in the water the more those swimming things
are gone as a vaigali for you fair when he speaking of the lympic live you know demonolatry were changing them notomise if philisitine don't know mais he's a
really incredibly good rest wrestled in college and in he is a didn't edit make him a pact but he was like a second he almost made me limitem but he's a big
guy so he's you know like two hundred and five pounds and ah he he is he sink he is the most explosive person of ever trained with when i trained with some
unbelievably incredibly explosive people and you'll find that if anybody rattled on a high high level like if they were an if they were a high level college
restores a likely chance that their very explosive he their very exerceamus explosive to a crazy level but the reason here i thought when you settle the cliffs
is one time he was just trying to help i was in take down and he was the way he was exploding into him for an inhaled up he's a you know it's like when you do
a clean ajerk he goes to thieren of it and he's you could see that he's developing so much explosiveness the first time i ever strained with him oh dan de the
aconite game with wit when he sets me to train with somebody hasn't given me a heads up like a oronte you there is like let's say there was a guy does a really
good wrestler and i go i go hey ichogaeshi our hay he's a really good restaurant if you i might even say a man say he annie's a really good rest of andy's got
a sick get so you're like thinking about it right but i give you a little heads up denus dis goes here you should treat with him right that's what demus and so
anyway he did tell me on this occasion he goes hay most common down you got a tramite he's a really sick wrestling and i go also i think it myself i'll cool
you know i i actually for guided didn't wrestle in in high school i have decent take down defense because i've been defending take iolani and i utilized you
justerfication so i'm sprawling in geting for course doing active aggressive giomo people when the tritakup so i'm no i'm i'm not trying to say i have any
major skills there but i'm not a slouched to take down so i figure he i got a good resselah and he wasn't at experience in sheidech tells you came cold manner
you're goin to get tentacion on you he savilian forever but you think a sure thinking that so i i meet moineau know erworben over some move in it i like time
to train and in tuktoo tringham colonia call so you know we slaps and we're doing a and mosetig ready for fight bearn't fighting at all we were just it just
the paniput in contact i and you say monsoon wrestler mo also happens to be the bella tore to effie charybdean or that he wasn't that the time is as befits an
as he was getting into mamook yeah sir one's really actually probably sharper resting at the time because he manot of you know try to be on the olympic ye and
ye he restless at oak lambuth anyway king mo is is hardison and so anyway so we slap hands or ding ready know we we can't square off inuamu know okay do my
thing boom he he does this take out of me his his face his face hit me in the chest in this as in the best than the blink of an eye his face hit me in the
chest and his hands they do grab my legs they just happy legs like the double eggless and a blast of an imiteris knocked me into the air with his face
fattehali your huge ye ye knocked me into the air with with his face i i i fall down to the ground and the funny thing was it was i i got back up amelie he
didn't even eat of me out so fast pretences me to the ground because i was already in a back up really quickly but that was the fastest take down that you know
that i'd felt that is fittest as they do now we have one more go there's a guy coming up right now at the gym ah another sick wrestler but you know you rustled
he's a really good wrestler a sick rest or college rest on all that m taylor can't give you my taranto so payer is another guy who has eaten strength he is he
has a new ten strength on norm is not normal you know i was on taylor and i was going for like a gelatine or a thing as action for christie was but so posidon
know what this is taylor picture tegitur guy on all fours on the ground and some one else is trying to rip their head off okay so that's teller he's almost for
on the ground and i'm trying to get em repressed off with one hand he he he goes up to his knees and lift me into the air and shot puts me to the air all other
und ah and is and then gets across side and i started laughing in like boys shot me put me anything even to a forestroke he didn't get them the strength from
his hips he got it from his upper torso he didn't use leg at all no legs cause he was on his knees i'll anseis has this mass of explosiveness but then in the
fintray about taylor it is that he's adapting he cause it because just because you're good rustler doesn't mean you automatically adapt while the geisterie
people never adapt really well to do giano can see i mean in my may in the use there's plenty of resters that you look at you go ye that i never really
transition didn't you become a comprehensive ground fighter that wasn't comfortable on that his back as a years all is drassilis he is going for submission
there's a guy that we been trimly successful that never made that shashabu they stay on top ground in pound taylor if you watch em roll to you you might not
even know he was arrest until you rotheisel that you can't move him but if he's watching roll you like allow he's going for you know advanced you titmousite
way the training for the last then a year yet there surprisingly am i in regards to that by dee look at him if you look at me but i cababuri his guy and then
you rollic betoken not surprise at this case like this good strong is down and titillate magical balance kind of thing up so when you look at a man on one on
the service but if you know that he's such a accomplished wrestler and ubangi in his experience you think okay his is juguar even his like when he's training
his tuition know you wouldn't expect it to be that doluid like when i rolled with him as i i thought when you were like a tender you can a new guy enter you
you you ever rolled with him an he should row with him because you know he he give good training hourely good so what i'm thinking is good but i'm thinking
this is going to be real wrestling intensive training senario pianoler milial naboths whole sang and you have your wet you will hear you know yeah he was like
i'm here to train a mere you know get good or whatever man an he's in that kind of attitude yours good and he's the man it wasn't you wasn't trinalee okanogan
emelie radetsky he's a weird doing straight up to justin and house you it was clean as good errabunda he's got that super explosive masther that's let me in
level and also striking yeah as eracles and he hasn't been down eighty he sajest a natural african just anyway so at seven we got a bunch of a pipe fitters to
an you got big and the all a ah just in so weediness up the gefangenen good training in ye sure but back to this deal so i was talking to taylor about ankle
brodie you ever like a limpit left and he was he a aguanos her police omont send ah and i was a before i got mine and i i was doin pretty good and i was like a
outdistances i could say i was snatching like three hundred e e i alike what the man by me to the cross the game he did the wrong fit for a man and never
snatch before olesantes three hundred pounds that's the tisane ye so but that and that's what it feels like when you row with somebody that has that kind of
explosive strength it's very very aeitheer good tool to half it alters or the week and go through the entire list of body types strengthen weaknesses because
you know you get you get the lank ye people that are strong and wireless you roofed before right now as he is lanky wiry skinny when he puts a trying on you it
surtout into your nay cause he no no you know a complete toes like that completes a loinlaine how can you sweep and with his armes is basing like for velike
eight feet over there is where his basic so you get back kind of body that you get the real smoke like a stocky a people with no limb sticking out in and you
know the yeah you can't taricheae so anyway we you go through everybody style but an each one of em has a hasn't advantage but the thing that's cool wibaut
explosiveness it is something you can somewhat train right you can some much i know you can't you're not going to be able to naturally get as explosive as a
model or as taylor johnson but he's in its strong ear right you you you stronger so i but but the other thing is where can you defeat them where can you workin
you be better than them maybe you can be more flexible than maybe you can be fastenin a scramble maybe you can be heavier entier so there some athletic things
that you could try and do try to rove to overcome and negate some of their advantages hard dodo he did some people that are mute and reatinians big and
flexible right ellis being so sushing flexible glover is so flexible that you know you have to negate that glover you know he loves training with big muscle
bound gusta's is fettle at easy day for him that's where he likes it you know let's that's he that's he that's the the easiest matter body style for him some
one that's just super superstrong and muscle bound ye and the get meat in lake than i'd say that the kind that can a good way of the putting it mutilator where
he has a wrestle background so he's no stranger that like functioning while he hired a offisair your big explosive strong or whatever topically you're
endurance is not a good typically so if you get all those factors in their flexible and stuff and they have endurance there is your bad day or eight there if
this guy has that other than that if you take one or two different attributes you could always find with like rock paper is as you could alerting one that can
if you just employ this strategy it'll give you more of it is hannigans like the times together to leadership so it's the same same with bearship and what
could be wassailers born a man or you know can you can you develop a leader everybody is born with certain leadership caracteres tics it's just like a video
game where they rank your strength and your elatior delity and all the stuff that we just talked about people have that further leadership capability as well
right or they articulate you know because that some people are ticular and that is the good advantage have can you read people well well that's another thing
that some people are naturally good at can you simplify things that's a talent that some people have now you can go on this list but what you find is that
people some people are are gifted and they have really strong leadership a characteristic leadership traits and that's great and then you get some people that
don't have those answer well got to be the same thing that i have to do in my egeiga how do you develop those things how do you become more articulate how do
you simple fishing how do you recognize that you are a person that makes things more complex and how you focus on making things simplified to still right down
the less so yes you can be boresome natural leadership characteristics but if you are not born with them how do you develop them it it's usually things are
that hard to develop either you know so when you have weaknesses identify them be humble enough to identify them in then see how you can improve upon them and
although they may never become your staple of your game either as a leader urgebant else they can become the the you is not something you have to protect
natatory about it ye can a function in oliver now yes you can be home functional yes and in frinstance if you're not the most articulate person well number one
you can you can study you can listen to people speak you can record yourself speaking you can vidusaka beat practice and become more more to uitan you can that
means o us what i'm a very such a sogenarmten more before i go and brief people i'm goin to go through it exactly where i was saying ever a two times then i'm
going to sound or talaro you can i make up to those those problems and that's all you have or do i figure out how you can for you can make up or how you can
get rid efery can mitigate some of those weaknesses that you have the other thing you could do as you surround yourself with a somebody that's supersolar echo
you're more toulongeon which you put up the word of the troops but dot even though i might be in charge i'll say all right he echoes going to reach this
operation or echoes going to brief this strategy and then boom mister articulate ho gets up there and does it ye maybe not the bestiale but but that's what you
do that's how you want to that etsaou you fill in a holes in your leadership game is and the man by the way you will never have the ability you that if you're
not humbling to admit where you have we assent there there you totally to an and i know you e e backtracked i know you were saying all these things kinda with
it with given that really the main thing to train us how much you know death's real kind of the main satinette noothin till that's all i eleeison because the
question in your omentum erasure oh so yes i listless all these little caparisons like you know the the to me a sight from knowing jugeth the the main strength
or whatever is everyone's even to me the tolerates the advantage that to me that's the most effective advantage that i've seen in tintoretti don't think i
necessarily agree with you what a very tall very lanky guiana is a body type that that you'd come across the least so since you are coming across it it ligety
the least you get to lestrade the least tradendis you have lost tanganyika and by the way they constantly wore on their strange body style because you are
correct in the fact that the lanky body style he is is gives you more moved more unique than any other body style so there's yodewirare more you need to move
that only are you lied or can be light i tallagees then there are in any other body style right and also you can pretty amadei not saying he seven feet tall
i'm saying like but it's a whole stifien up to yell like silian doesn't do it to me well six one can do it if the predestination nano it yet but how to like we
have still to copperplate named at the gym and he has he's tall my kicksies five but he has really developed the lanky guy style that berart used to and it's a
chanler yes so still good example where well hinthial where he's a little bit different because stilted have lankiboy saw that he he went pretty as he is got
he's going pretty hard in that direction where he's a asininities that only he can at single that is what has exactly the point of making right right so my boy
arasmon nobloy styles everybody that's you know five three two you know six oh they all have pretty much to say moight right you know yes oh when i'm talking
about i'm not talking about them i then think there's that that but those are the kind of the outliers it i think over all i mean every one places their
strength in one or another but norseman just it oftens maneque so like with say all three gracy brothers had grace minsis who were doorcase are like six three
six four six you know five type guise we'll take had you for example he doesn't really do any kind of crazy i am tall so i am i can only do this tulare don't
do that yet like you know mortalitatis like i just mount for example tears arm bar set it from the bottom more track from the bottom stuff of its just way
hearted with because he developed such a good base on toofache physically is made for such a good base in other and he an okay and he s a thing about tall
gysin general they are not limited to the music and they can do more or less you all the move so like the dies five three two fifty or not for will divide two
twenty ere you do get maria five eight and sure to two thirty whatever we'll just sit that's a stocky both die he's going to have a hard time doing triangle
churchouse his own side and his weight no vision he prowled moeonian yet that's a trotting memorare of a game move yes you can't be it yet all this don't have
her problem the inneal the moon takeuchi or barstowe and then hell your treesy you know so let like i said that's why think and i and of course then i the
flexable tall lanky guide they do have that but i think we won't do i think it's called or we had like our body style egie us special moony we can do the dif
you out or in stocks jelliffes the bed lest of special moves that i can do with my body style is like to yantes set still can do with his oddity is incident
still setteth ngs though he is tall and lanky and yet fleckless so that's like he has the double in atlanta has the most in their bucket i think day definitely
have the most options on of moveris can't do and you bet again that the main thing is to know the man to his own eginassos that is she that is the amazing
thing to know broghan then that the other part of the carson is a welder's be hardest stage of our jejeune is me i would say the whole thing just in completely
different ways like diverteth first part is i dangyotaki and guides who you know are wastwater know whatever they knew are arobin that kind of thing feeding
you up with no factor whatever yeah and they're like teaching you hates well he did wrong in your sitting there all but lame in my case is like two twenty five
one i started and i'm like sitting there in this little bay umore ber george but he um is a little pepeeta was i was rolling with the lot he taught me but
flygare oh guy i am he is teaching me on to see now we might be muscles any like teaching staff so that can be hard i guess em in getting tired but i think and
then eat you go up blue bell in my particular stranmore was the easiest i think and because nothing really was expected of me and footsoles aforetime atawa
some people the most frustrating yes but it if you're arbell you're going or your bubese know that you know digital ttle bit yet but you not expected to
appendy o ye an if you get tapped out by another rubout or pelborrow out of arisaig deal yes you're let and even a white bell tap you and your like you know
that should happen but then i all of us i hope learn ye yeh totally in and yet that yet and you know how you know when you learn something from the point of
not knowing anything and then you start to learn you learn the most quantity wise at the bottom on the staff for seringals as that's the philosophical want's a
specific with putting it on not singers stages in the mid levels where you were your mind starts to fill up and you start to be able to really obtested do beg
gin than right but in a far digito eternal i mean by like that's a that's a way of putting it may be till optically erbe but it it's because when you're i mean
quantity is meaning flaring the move from easedale black belt unless as his weird specialization out wherever you know all the many know all this stuff it's
not it's about other stuff you gotta learn other stuff timing oh yes will you know approach is in all this more like interstitial stuff but from a loveless
like there's move he had just don't know everitt sore so you learn away quicker if you're interested you know so you're like oh i have no answer to this
gardaine answer mobile lilian escapes so i conceal this i you do you just just luck the eserin your own i automatically not so you just learn more so in my
effrene so i'd danthing to belt with very fishing at all and i i didn't spend much have and then when you had purple about that's when the learning forsation
hit ye cause you're good enough and you kinda have this weird confidence that's developed in and then you and your your doing so well against all these guys in
the just you just hit that one love up where you can do nothing and nobody and you just there for a long time cause it's almost like you got a switch over to
learning different types of things now i got open your brain up open your mind up and open your game up and you got off his befoore you're not a learned
without making yourself on a pootoe to time eh and you know any gain there's a good parleying about beatership i think it's the same thing you are you come
into leadership is ition for the first time and it doesn't take long freelike all capitao this and that's like your bodolfsson feel like in an the more deeply
getman doing the senior leadership position you get put into it a harder situation to get put into you realize that all you got a continued axercise your mind
you had to continue to grow you get a continued to a trynor new information and trying new strategies and tactics and still stick with the fundamentals
cushat's that's one thing that you know the the fundamentals of juge their fundamentally the same for white belt to back belt and yet there tachangu in their
simeoba's rules and their new orenian thing would be near supposition does fundamentals don't change but then how erthe howard those fundamental principles one
and ten aves different situations eh do very challenging we athenades true any and brompton me is more the same as purple belt but just moroni refined you know
so it's it's like less of the frustration but the frustration becomes like more concentricity for me odont know if this is just you know when you remember back
in the past like you forget the bad stuff of the past sure to do what i mean to do have you an do that depends a bed but ye a i am an i know have sat all in
oude were in high school everything was great for i had a hey what we went to college everything was great or you linthelles angola that the point was going we
forget about all the hard stuff on or the poinard one that was bad or whatever didn't work out the way on it to i don't know if it's that but when i talk about
the hardest stage of my guitarery journey it's one big bore funidos nothing where i think backways frustrated the i'm known man and never had that thing that i
go home from the gineralise kind o like good good day training but is found a hot was cooled i burned it or man i can't bleave in her copenhague he's getting
to it or whatever you know now his kind i don't have like these these hard stages to me maybe i'm disaproned really enjoys it along i guess yet in a and i i
would say that that's most people i i analin em the same boat and you know postermost ityania tually you know i don't i don't want to bring yourself in the
public audience but i exactly have seen you he frustrated her titorelli i do i foreway of getting from ready whatever i then i think the same thing with you we
grow all your mistake one time you roll with the and denhead you in a hole dingied or you psychologia he'll be like orleaniste baby you and landings and then
you the more he laughed less you left your game really mad and i remember you venting where you get set up and you were like you likelier ditied to what's
going on your itonian up the heat and demission then he like lee gave his lady that he leaned against the wall and a like oh you can't take me out omegan you
engage a orofenans went down and he got you i think that you at armarni remember it was arboreus i remember thinking hoping ever seen jochanan be with a
ambaric see like a foot locks onerantibus you got you in armagnoise you on the last els like a wowee could call him my crores strassino all thither will these
are mary like little charles old so that frustration no is it possible for it to be called frustration if it brings me joy is it possible because even in the
depths of like frustration man i feel good even the cap out yes the prechen you can reflect on and that's why i don't you said what or when you said um ah you
forget about the bad things you forget about the bad things in a certain kind of discourse if you regard that over all this course as being a good thing then
you'll start yet that i think yes and vice versa but i never go home and say like all man i can't believe that i couldn't get out of there or just couldn't get
in saying at least it's inormem ber a free i give my god i have that feminine so layette and really what they are are just the the challenges that a specific
to certain stages and these disease real general things that probably apply it you know to everybody in one way or another onesta as yet in the tisane thing
with leadership like most of the time even though i have been since such a wagons where i was like a man i didn't do a good job there i could done better
normally i'm not frustrated worms working for somebody that the bosone me do what i wanted to do it i had more maneuvered to get right in to be yes think it
frustranea game i attain yeah micropositos ye if there like microcurie in your muscle you feel em but they're offer like benefit near over almololoaian
injustas me deraison excuse jack you've talked about her getting in her into adversary a relationship is pointless but people always get into adversary o
relationships with me i've been told i'm scary before but never understood why my question is i do i maneuver on this without acting like a little weakling it
folletto appear less threatening day diacet that i rub people the wrong way so his ina questioned my best to answer gastine for definitely time for some self
ornerier the envisaging corson it sounds like you are you know a big a brace of person that is aggressive and intimidates people and i know one lecomte person
cause i could be i could come across as intimidating i know that am i can definitely come across is aggressive i can be aggressive i am aggressive in many ways
a braconnot not necessarily a um categories me because i'm very cautious about not being a bracin because if i'm being a brazen with people in my building a
relationship undermines answers on us now so something this thing is when i hear this type of question i i think that there is some little bit of insecurity
going on her right some little bit of ah that's not an insult that's what i sense cause every one's kind of curious i do everybody does and but but the fact
that you asked this question i hope in that that means you are make some kind of improve it you want to get better and you know i'm a little worried that you
might just be looking for like a reinforcement cause people think jocoseness ive so if i say how big agressive a you know jones and i say it now people are
just scared you and they don't deserve your mercy or you you you house your intimidation patroelus people right that might be what you're looking for but
you're not going to get that here and the reason our not goin t get that here because it's not going to help you not in to help you achieve your goal and you
all up people being scared of you but the fact likely is is that ear the one that scared in inaction said it yourself in that you don't want to appear to be
weak you don't want to appear to be a bit little right that is that feeling that's fair that's fear it's fear of looking weak its fear of looking long its fear
of failure in its far of monorail ity he knows or has a real those are real and if you are you know everybody should be feeling those for yours it some level
but you have to overcome those fierce if you don't but how are you ever going to step up if you are if you're too afraid to be wrong how you've answer question
if you're too afraid to look weak how are you ever going to expose us any weaknesses if you don't expose any weaknesses well just built a bunkum yourself and
sit in their by yourself you so as a leader we know that up and down the china command you need to develop relationships right that's what that's what you're
supposed to do that means you need to communicate with people that means you need to talk and you need to listen and genie to develop trust and one of the best
ways to develop trust with other people is by exposing some boner ability by saying hang on the quiteria hack that can you can you help me with the issue i
have gone on here i don't know how to solve it that way that you build trust and thereby bill relationships and it's hard to do that because you don't want to
look as stupid you don't want to look weak you don't admit you don't know something because you you want to be mister strong and no everything in so your
probably putting up a front on aggressive front and a brace of front it's a wall to keep people intimidated and then in your mind you think it not my fault
etsetra mamas there scared i met there fault because i'm so intimidating so that is not good and then you get the your kind of closing samanhoud you just
accept that i rub people the wrong way you can you can't accept that you rub people the wrong way but then you might as well accept right then and there that
you're never going to be a truly to that your never going to build any relationship at your not reading spire anybody and you're never going to be the leader
of a bad assouvie high performing team probably not far it and the the better thing to do is to humble yourself he is to open yourself up to the pain and the
discomfort of displaying weakness and error and failure and open yourself up to trim be nice to other people instead of being scared and what's going to happen
if you expose yourself go ahead and thrown out there a at pleasant to them so they talked to you without fear and in doing those things you can aforetime
whatever these uninsured i and i don't know what in secure you have it could be any number of things may be don't think you're smart as they are may be don't
think yours well educate is they are may be don't think that they have you have this itineration that they have one everinspirited are in ogowe all got no big
deal but if you stop hiding them and you own them you will become not only a better leader but you become a better man so take a breath and get home and take
another crack at this game you know i think insinger is a huge red flag like have always said at all these will say serenely your temper and i'm nothing
criminal in jesting you're getting mad and displaying that anger well on a really retiredly um which really bad is when people you ilize their temper as a tool
to scare an intimate people go man an a one of sainting to jack in this cause you goin to close his luster rahasine goin crazy hum like that that's that's me
using it as a tool which is not videas you're not building in relationships you're not going to get a emperor people dear you're not respected by the way
people might fear you if you have a bad temper but they don't respect you they're not calling you up and asking you for advice they're not wanting you to run
there their project yes no and there not motivated to do good by you and you not around they are definitely not motivated to do good by you and you're not
around in fact the only reason they do anything is out of fear you whereas if you have relationship with them you could leave for six months and the people
that know you and respect you and care about you everlasting their still bostoners do the best they can for you you glad when you come back to c yenowines like
good so the adversary on relationship being tiawa to look at it is it kind of takes both you to to kind of call to it in ad resurretion ship courageous on you
yes i know it will all get so here am you you keep being a dick to me he will say and if i just keep being nice to you even though you're being a dick to me
you know we have a job to do what it yes on all that i remain tangierine a but i'm keep me nice tit you keep me in a dictum i keep being nice to you after a
while the way that shakes itself out is in being nice you know i know percolator the no loising still getting the job done in whatever but my reason my
response to you if you be addict to me is not be dicta or defend you know it's it's just be left all you know for where is going to say shake out as it shakes
out the one guesde stand so so everyone men cool and when all is said an done we're just dealing with one day whose dick so if you if you if you cultivate the
aversation ship it's like okay you have this competitive soutien now to your unbearded guys that are jerks yestreen port yet and with say you were nice got to
begin with don't become a a jerk now you know mum it's true so and i'm said it because a lot himself you're like a peperere creating adviser relationships with
me you're going to play a part in that relationship you know i yes in nosing with this question and you know i mean even the terminology used which which is
you know how i am never on this without acting like a little bit genovita serious got a figure not not you don't not the most mature person some ingesting a
man you probably twenty two you know twenty four something like that or your heaven eternal in your tony even but you're still caught in that in that game any
think i'm on a time you know a people when they winna meet me or they they learn about me or i show up at their business they think i'm going to be that guy
that's like warblers come and and it's it's always a really cool when people go an ye i didn't think of that it's oh you have this approach that we didn't
expect it i like ye you know and by now most people kind of you know at this stage and fashion on fanwise to more people have listened in a they know where i'm
coming from yet now but you know two years ago you know they expected this purge sergeant slaughter like fine to go down he looks in the alley whip these
people to shape and end of my dancing that unvisual that asked this question was kind of thinking that he would get the moral support for me and i'm trying to
give him or sport cause i wanted to be successful that i wanted to go out and and dominating the world but to go out dominate in the world you have to be a a
chessplayer not a jackers player you got a euganean you got a use the relationship you gotta use indirect warfare to go out there and be blunt for stroma
everybody it it'll get you i'll get you you know i'll get you a card of the way there if you lucky and nation get you the rest away so just just as no big deal
man here you young you got some learning to do that's awesome i wish i would have been smart enough as this question when i was a young stupid twenty three
year old you got some your thinking you recognize that you're a situation so all got to do is just a just start taking a different prochaine bit more than
indirect epoch a little bit more than open mind a little bit more humility don't worry about looking weak at when you the people that are scared to look weak
arteriole that are weak the people that are okay being exposed or if people at a show they like i'm totally comfortable in my leadership capabilities so when i
have an issue my cadaleene bolitical that some exaceration think you can handle this anonatea i know i can't a been a worse ithacian somebody got ye so if
you're paranoid about looking weak it means you people week if you don't care about being looking weaker men to your coming along you doin pretty good solid
yeh sheets you don't need a hard shell if you have a hard core but you need or shell the other thought court yes that is true anything yes did you do make that
of a yet i mean i will have not looking at it like danaidean that he not thinking that but you that is a true aliment if you're if you're fundamentally sound
on the internal and meaningful structure of our of your being then you can withstand attack on you don't need to put up a big wall ran right you know what if
you're fundamentally weak internally and fundamentals of our of your being are weak than you do put up a big telltale go round in bout to people and if a
meersteads up there i really keep the moon you know from gunstone is a handy i all right good next question would love to hear tips from moving to wake up
earlier alarmed and not disturbing your spouse keep an alert throughout the day you know when you wake up early this arestin so if for managing the
implications around making that change to get up earlier while keeping the space or the keeping the speed or keeping a piece at home and work and work in her
to you put that i theodore had for malahide a type over he he's on the inside with it you what that is it not he is that's olinto the bumper ugus accent yes
bazil no it into homatropine portion not the real ones more keitai adding like e a and like yettocome up a year yes it could be dadratted to by certain
branwell in groves bakeshop so i wake up the morning number one of pitstock about in a onepiece destiny too without disturbing his spouses we don't one o we
don't want to make the spouse angry i know adversary relationships with the towel and for their own onofrio co one of things real prale easy one out o the gate
get him escalating a marmot i mean is it starts off quite sure any gets louder getting agressive louder i am a much lighter sleeper zan my wife so taisant that
dig of a deal to me and i can't answer but i've i've i've left with roommates at one tisleton like in the military are you got you got bontet er or whatever
sordet will tis a little bit but it's really no factor didn't ask wating alarm and there were nothing goes off um do you you wake up before it gets too loud to
wait there household be on your side of the bed so i make it happen or you can speak pick a song that starts off nice and mellow as that kind of bills and i
for a long time for this particular reason i used to have em there's a band called the sword sure and roland they have a song called and so on and it starts
off nice and mellow if yo don't get up in time it's coming sir you got it i if so it's like that kind of like a game within the game right there where you got
to beat the clock yes we had all you got to be the glad you got to get up and turn out the gas otherwise it's an aunt and an end and then you're too late what
is it black swan no iron son i in stiff the sort of some beattie cause there's there's silly my life where he i will put like me old tomit joker of the doon
the in my um pilenm play less that if i need to get up and i get up and get on it like there's a song called riprap process by one on dedmon stay that's all
will get you out of that i will get you out of bed and they takes in it just comes a comes at he thinker's like getting the titian explosion happens in your
room a anyrate sung by a great band but anyway so if but in this case you don't want to go with hundred dens no you don't want to go in repeat process and you
want to go with the sword iron son or a escalating in alan now won't you do that you can o have the cerprised the gear has the morning gear has to be pre
states soldier not in the dress it were not point open drawers of slipping on light trop searching for stuff now we've get up and walk out of the room yeah
quietly stealth mode then you get to either the bathroom now if you have the bathroom on sweet may be left in stuff staged in the other bath room in the house
suswa right out of room shepherding your good you may your escape you you know oh i don't tell you know this thing the heads up made sure that you set off your
secondary i mean that you turn off your secondary and your cursorem sir live your life or me or any separatable along park if you leave costebelle right you
know you got you first one i foam bidding under second one batt repowered than you get your third one wine at the wind up as the gnarly last one with the bare
aright right even you leave that thing if you get to shut that the off before you walk out you knew her about it day you neighbour is now when it goes off he
to startle it it doesn't go off i mean most you know fifty percent of time i went before the ombu bayleaves that went on there to start and then then you year
spouses waking up in a panic mode is now they don't know where it is in there's effort there being a tack he cristina's situation so shut off the secondary
intercalates an ingenue room and then you may be even have your tooth brush tifata and another in another bathroom or in the kitchen or whatever gate work out
dears in not in a drawer by the bed where your pan that open making that racket now you just go up and you you leave so then ah betha's are you that's how i do
it and again i will advantage to my wife is a pretty heavy sleeper um she gets mad then when i come home from a trip and late at night i do some on backing and
the night that can be more frustrating for but anyways theses now the next piece of this question was for alertness thoughout the day what do you do to stay
alert the day i think one of the things you do is check your diet right check the diet make sure then my opinion make sure you're not eating jesting a tone of
carbohydrates because those argonauta there going t make you tried or let you fire up for about twenty minutes or no haven't had him a long time for the twenty
men before you eat him legree you actually that's really what there for ye or cut lansinere ye yet so well and they put you to sleep so winden you when you eat
it it's mebasser basic sequence is a antedicti on in the wild to maounting in whatever in a month gather but edison output that expended some matter gaminism
energy and a menetares who when you get this the to energy robideau sir tonantis oechalia's that induced go rest that's the secret that's the rattleton's gave
our insolent ye cause he hasn't one also who away there telifonia you tired too so check your diet the actor dine i sat a guy on toward her a man he's as like
a man of tartured a dragon i am sir oldchester die he's a well i think it's okay i'm drinking a lot of in ogden to the good the energy drinks are addictive yet
they're tasty there addictive and there they fell ever most i tonsure goin t get a major sugar rush and then you're going to crash so you've got to be careful
that the ill so you don't want to be on all the crazy amount a cafe all day and that's going to messiest m as well though the same thing is this that so that
the caffeine rush and then the crash it that's the savage cat ia lomore than sugar yet in in what i'll tell you right now people ask me all time her surprise
that i work out without caffeine in the morning but i'm telling you give it a try if because it'll be harder maybe it's harder for you to get out of bed may be
it's harder for you to to get ready maybe it's harder for you to get into the gym with no caffeine and maybe it's harder for you to start your work out with no
caffeine delancy start to work out a i don't think it's going to be that big of a deal you said any if it is good make your work out harbor you know i don't
think it's that big of a deal so don't become a dictate campin and that's going to be because i can get problematic and then um polenap talked about this
before if he need to you take a little palnatoke six to eight minutes you set your long clarkeville you feel bove your heart you laid down and you black out if
you really tired you six day minutes your feet like bowfell ke o rock star after one of those you agree in another thing you can do if you tired during the day
in the big deal that find a little corner somewhere go bag and push up out go back out o ten beryseh get the blood flows actable there's no way you it's it's
it's physiologically impossible to do beristain tither buries you can tell you you insinse you turn into a physiology major over here and to night if you want
to tell me what that does isyoga i don't know but i do know that if you not yelp and buries in small pots pans small prescription you will not be tired
ferleitner you're not going to be kanburi and then feel tirhoot i can tell you it is elaine's get release by this of a dranke when you know you're going to do
physical activity when you know it you have a venoti a huge a denalai bitterer little bit you going hard of it so that's those are some tips i guess for a
lurider of the day a that i use ye dan forgot a better laneway the way go to better airtight you have got barry remini go to bed like a uslon eleven um i don't
recommend that i don't run recommend going to bed who leven get nothing for thirty no i don't recommend that i recommend go in to bed when you get tired he sat
your computer off at stop looking at the inter webs you now and go to sleep when you know what go lead or actual book cause it may retire you know that will
make you to stake the opposite a buried globe you know and just sit there and you will get more tired yes unless like a roosting or inches in book ten walo
course of course you are don't read bloomered beflead wean your cause you're a fast castle you have that thing or you need domitaleria ye that no sleep thing
that'll get you so quick it'll promptly put you into a crash the next day dear i don't know who you can power i will utter no i if i can go the next man are
even when you had to the latest little baby yes you came in here on a couple of hours sleep yearlin here ready the cord you sat here you got after it ye it's
true and there's all these different little tangible as if an they sure that's how much more you can do i think i ought to people have a lady this and oregon
to this fool subject right now but the other day i did a seventy two hour fast on no food for seventy two hours and there's a bunch of reason we could talk
about it mabel dinapore i will say this though what one small thing if you go seventy two hours without eating et recalibrate your hunger meter because we we
just think oh i haven't had of a donnant hours i'm starved like i know you're not starving you you you're not even hunger on close to hungry so we calibrate
that thing you a fast even if you just don't eat for twenty four hours you realize that most of your hunger signals that are coming your brain are lies ye and
i not saying there lie like oh don't eat but i'm saying you don't need to eat and how liberating is it that i was out as having so refoosin this fast and and
i'm just like don't even need food it don't need to donadieu that's the ultimate control right when i need food fruit is the fruit for forestiere weak you
don't anita type of you get that mentally going in then guess what now you go in a travel day and you go oh man i'm going to be in the airport all day to day
and i don't know what i'm a a dolenti yell you're capable your devotion go out vendetur an i ionides without food so going three days is not that big of a deal
is niven that big of a deal if i did when i just did this seventy two hour fast he was just not like i did everything nor horn with degerando to work down at
it squatted in poliphern thing was no everything was no with not that big crazy deal just we just get so accustomed to to dispeed in a machine all the time and
you crave of you know you got have of meenesters in it so at orating er tips on it so burials you dis what i realise it so inconvenient to have to eat all i no
man he got her accurate so it's kind o nice seditions to day gives appetite old stake on get after it and yet i mean and again hate is all kinds of people in
thersel at now is it onreasonin like talk about this particular topic um is cause'll at like study this and no much about this napolitas so mitaine research
for i know the facts too but i don't i can't roosetem right out have the inn depth knowledge that peter a tea house on fasting you know to me or do again of
those guys their path their doctors amount of doctor how a knuckle heads that was and another things people i will you know what did you do to prepare for your
fast as i i didn't eat ye i was i was with lay for he were on a trip and we had like a lunch and then we did a gig that night in an like to eat before i do a
gagnante that we stayed up a little bit and did some work and then woke the ornerary flight and in he came home and i wanted to train so worked out and i got
to a banana wetted something else in the next thegither hours ago you know what the next day if ye'll tell him to say i own and just how otso it wasn't no
preparation just gone after it gin people don't do this this annedotos check with a physician or whatever to got a due don't want a mayes for as i can
recommendation you should do cause lleonart different and some time or fastidit man but i think really kind of the point that you are making or one of them
anyway i think is absolutely true so you're you know a lot of it is like habitual hunger but it goes beyond just like psycologie habit it's like physiological
is my okay i'm mustagan food everywhere hours in all on the four our mark comes around it physiologically you're you're stomachantem by footoor mutineer my
food and then after walker like hey you don't get through this time to some of your ocasion get food tessonat's kind of attrition and then when the food comes
o camwell you that when that had recoloration real though because i then after i started eating again and then the next gleam in the ungrate something
misionari so why my eating why am i eating from not hungry yeah they siadey mind is controlling me when i should be conjoined yet you know solanet another
thing where am your youthing new right your mind is so strong or whatever so you can trick yourself in the choosers too so if you think that you got nine hours
of sleep you'll be way less tired then it gets of the two people exactly peter identical to it read identically experience whatever one guy believe the next
morning give a both got eight hours sleep one delestang four hours sleep and one golyshino ten hours sleep or her from placebo one rohaut that's how your mind
now he knows like basis your mind accommodating what it thinks the stimuli is so so the other twin the for our sleep believer he's goin to be hematite and he's
in otanethi naps with it for and i need whatever the other when i gif you woke up every day and you were like owning up four hours sleep and we crushed to a
day right i have to and i actually believe our work better and less sleep how you like a mapple exactly itinerant waste my point there where you're like i hold
you i've told you that before yes after i've so i've told the call before that when we're getting ready recorded upon cast the day before i record upon cast
that night i like to sleep a lass like four hours because i feel like it sharpens i'll tell you what it eteoneus honest with it what i think it does it it
brings it it brings my motions a little closer to the surface but like you feel like work i'm kind o under attack to a better wit like i better like pardon
upright now a better like get my two noraita's like not this i would as i can get more like one i'm reading something i more foston it a more into it like
actively a yabase i think when i'm well rested on like a like a like rock solid right was norah yeah when not the when i'm a little where sleep less a little
bit more exposed on a little bit more vulnerable right mentally it and i need that riverites otherwise i just become very um um detached i become very detached
and it's it's i know so i want to when i come in here i want to be on the i want to be on the fringe little bit right or in a in a i want of the exposed i want
to be walking in here bein like mammassudi this is an intense to thing not a walk in the park to the oh this is going to be hard to let it to a non yes i want
to be stressed a little bit when i come in here yeoman dig it and i feel i wiselike picketing in inductive feel better when i must trust to what i'm a little
bit more to little bit more stressed a little more tention a one more pressure on myself i will want to be there were madeleine in a day what i just saw a brig
not there some days where i'm tired when i'm just tired and i just so one ages need power nap so bad imagerially follows sleep you know and i hate that that's
a horrible feeling it you know what elevator feet said her long parfrement boom you gonna make a few nice you permanently kind like when people hit themselves
before they go live because it weitenthal slap them so no genfersee so it alserat looks at all you contingit up that yell why is he getting firedoor
exaceration that you're talking about because if it's like panamik i'm getting the things where i got a kind of boundary im under a tacoignieres under la
journal one rush to right so foilage tesaxa sequences but you're just doing a consciously and instead of slaps its lack of sleep the sorias you there are ill
that's um answer pen every one's goin atack me on soul media for not seeing not eating and all that yet ye ll they arithelli don't know it is all yohoort your
advice i know i should i do now i should see or i do now i should eat you know better am sorry what is that even behindish toward ship what is that even mean
you should it's me anyway that's a whole induced n't be you any more well it's radebe different than you that's what the itswalls the calanthe the choice it
what is a it earlier is just like height what you're saying the like you're not fighting on this science in making claims about like a how the monometer you
are nothing that is not where you're doing it's it is anecdotal and i think the point is that if you push yourself through certain situations and you prove it
to yourself can function just fine with an five hours sleep rather than eight one or two times or or whatever or harming you know that you can do that like
ronow talk about this before where you get kind of dependent on certain things and then tutor point where you believe that you can't function without it
whether it be sleep where the be bump coffee in the morning you know whatever or or eating every four hours like when i was really into like waitin in an
bibbling type stuff i membered thinking man i got it i got a hurry up an eat it for hours or whatever and then catalane on in life and i've got like ivan even
yet to day and it's late in the day room i'm fine you're not i'm not losing my torinese ye whatever galitsina whatever he esoon you prove it yourself it's like
if you stay up all night when you have worked the next day and you didn't and you do your work yet when you go to bed you can do a if i had to i could do that
again that is a milder in adieno about pushing those arvales is what you feel really to go to bed even wakefoot if his really good to eat me one you have an
eat infor for a while you yourii for ye that's that linger i that's true but that's kind of a psycho invoking appreciation nomyun der stood the west o back to
the iron sworn that's he that's the song yes to thirty inderneath now the sword the lord nettlesting what's the best way to handle awful random people say
bunch of intimidating thugs on a bus or of violence scary drunk person well from theirs even more awful random people out there that you might need to look out
for i think this is a you know obviously got people that are pointed criminals that are coming after you got territet might be coming after you or just trying
to do random acts of mass of violence so loser those are particular type i think that this is a question directed for more of of something that could easily
happen yet to be man right random people that are the injuries or fogs or people that are drunken a protocol obviously what are we want to do we want to be
prepared so to start with you want to be in eleotesia condition said you work out you want to be ready to handle yourself physically um you want to know how to
fight names you need to train you giovanni i resting you if you are in a high triarii thread are and you think this stuff is really going to happen i'll there
don't guess what you need to get a fire arm you elean how to shoot a fire amened to train with the fire an you need to understand the ram of vacations of
utilizing a fire arm and then you need to carry it you can protect yourself in those same things go if you decide you're going to carry any kind of weapon
whether it's tapers or a mac or an ass or a knife anything that you're going to carry you better know what you're doing you need prepare with it so that's what
you need to do to be prepared okay that's that that's what ananias this before i said on the same haristoi you you if you do these things if you work in a
physical indignity you work on your fighting if you work on your shooting if you were on your your weapons skills and you never have to use them great i i will
still say it s not been wasted time it has been time that his mad jobee person at benoiston on you congener physical conditioning it's just good for you so we
guardless you should be training in these typefication now once you get to this type of situation first of all how did you get the cause we need to have such
wisions right you how are are you not paying attention to what's going on around you you need to pay attention to what's going on around you and then you watch
for these scenarios that could unfold and you avoid them period so so how are you getting stuck on a bus with a bunch of many a right he then something when
they got on you got off that's the real simple right or you go to get on and you see these noted walk right back off i mean that's that's pretty easy and
alders a bunch on a clearing down the street toward you holcroft the street walked down the other side situation as how you hear him coming up behind you cool
step off cross the street a void we want to be have situation awareness that's going to solve that should solve ninety nine per cent year proves is being aware
of your surroundings understanding your situation planning what about just simple planning like a war you going when you got to come home you know if you took
a subway into the city at night and you know you're going to come at home laid at night and you're alone and you are suspect of what's happening maybe you get
in oberstein a ridin the subway i just plan it that comes in a plays well to avoid these situations now if you do get caught in these situations the hues a
couple recommendations okay my number want is to kind of do your best to detach from from the scenario ritual let's say you're on a bus and there's a bunch of
people acting crazy and they jumped on right after you got on and you couldn't get off in time to your on the bus with him i want you to detach from so that
means you're not looking at me you're not staring at him you're not being on tiridates you want to just attach just do what you would normally do ye ever cares
a pony's days break out your phone start looking at your phone play your paper or sort looking at your paper study he don't have either one o those do you know
look outside look at the passing just just don't entered there world don't become a part of their thing that they have going on because what they want to do
they want you make a comtat they want you his glance over there what they want you do is enter there and orrin cause on them hes nucleate in their own world
and you actually have to penetrate there world if you want to get in there so what you want so when omados im sit remain a moccinigo though there's a
difference okay cause if you give the impression of your dislike cowering and scared well then there that's that entering their word and there ornither going
to recognize then but if you just he said near to doing what you normally doing it's not a big deal you do this all the time you don't care about them don't
care about me leave me alone that's that's where i'm going now if fort of reason made some kind of high contact right now i may be a contact of i've anethe
world i'm going to go and give him to had not you know just a little rare just little regular had not like i would do with you in your fidelitee ed you know
just a little respectful little head nod and not of the right back to what i was in to right back out of the world i acknowledge their world on not going to
give a bunch of a mainland but i not go up aggressive is gonna be respect for it the head nod you know if ever a good night the gum and then go go back to your
business again i just wanted to catch from them that's my attitude i wanted to catch from them and this avoid them saying you know like a if they're looking at
you and you don't look back or or they're just like bearing down on you he will you you know i warn't you why you would no more your whatever you do colume or
something like that so sometimes you go you look well had not it's all good um if if now if they do start now see i meslier estlin if they do start to ask
ilated this thing is like like you know when you look it out or one of those things it's just again where trying to do as your turntable without being
appearing morale you don't so maybe is as you know a no as you there the one just something some ice that now i got um like or will you do it i'll just ride
the bus all you don't have a just real matter of fact just didn't go try and get back to you all play wanted just even try and and and connect little
connection instead of i'm trying to go home because that my piston people off have a home or their home is a bad place so what might be better than saying at
as you don't odette with work now you're just don't work in man right of course you might be doing some one does have a job and lost her job is on saying are
you not going to come up the grotty point here he is just your distant good a try and make simple non confrontation al statements that don't give them anything
to grabblin his lisette want they we want something that is want something to gramont you know ah that's lifted don't want to let that happen now the things
can still continued as alike you know you get someone to determined to be a a a jerk or determinate returned regressive now all tell you that if you train that
you work out and you do you get you and you have skills people know it people people that are belligerence generally can tell even in a drunken state when you
square off with someone or you look at some one and they have an attitude of like look i i do this all the time mum i'm good you want a fight him here not
saying that but just a loan pocatel if if there real trouble makers they can tell now sometimes that's not a good thing cause i mean there goin do the
challenge you know so you got to watch out for that so i think he that that's right even though on the internet it might tell it there make seem like it's
selling a different story you know it's like all dicamfre the wrong i you know guy straight fell confronts you did the master or something in an shows that
they actually thought through a kind of seems like all in all ayont know obviously out there now they let that's rare man and that's why it makes the internet
you lest it typically the tea and this is no gerantur i dersay could tell even before i started doing to jesuit tell somebody was ready a rumble i have
tatoshes like nowell aready to rumble no fight training to a guy who was belligerent to me directly rise um terry was there were working and all i did was act
like i knew i didn't know by the way at like i knew and in front of every body gone was like oh he i'm sorry man my bad dirai believed it a little bit bigger
than me too and all he just said but i was ready to overdo the best fighting i could as the you've kind of go down at that point to you is like you do an i
were you talking as like ye and out from chicago in these like rubbing against me in my face king not like in a fight you but just like like a like collie a
dog would you know scanderbeg against and then whatever you know i i made like okay wore about the fight took on my declare wicker whatever and um and was a
etatis just like or your sane known just romantick all romance do this all the time up it and end the thing i understand that it is on right now when i sat and
then the guy and he surprisingly inieris had a mother my bad roy dad my way front of everybody who is not rising because people that act like that are our weak
and their insecure and their acking on that intense body stands up to them and they look at me think there's goin arcot a fight yet it denotes happen to and by
the way when you do train all the time you do know how remandment fact you're like to all of it you do hold on to us in donation to know that you can be
yourself now well case enounced this continues to ask away and you know he just tryin t keep your distance from people ye on a let em get close you don't
undergo a knife you don't know what kind of disease they are you want to keep away from him yes but eventually you might not be able to back up any more you
might not be with keeping a distance um watch there and keep as much distance you can avenge got to put your hands up and kind of a unconviction away to
protect your face have protect those socapa that's come in um you know you put your hands up to in non contemplation way up of upround your head and continued
the scaean i hear don't don't want or promise you i'm i'm not looking for is you i don't know what you're as yours but i don't have any issue of you i'm just
trying to head home for more you know one of those things and finally if you get to a point where you have no choice well then you utilize the skill that you
have you an arteest in no starving until the three neutralized and you get away then that's now in order to be able to do that yet o go step one prepare ter ye
that some era the ninety nine per cent of situations will be avoided if you're just aware most harteman that was important in a haouse deal so true yet we
would much rather have you do that because any of these situations i could go out on pretty well prepared for anything i could go out to night and absent guy
square off with me and as i'm getting ready to fight him so his body cracked me on the head with a with a bottle and kills me it can happen to night you're not
goin happen ada restaurant to night that could happen so why am i going to tintoretto it domini you square off with somebody you are now you're now a target
for all his friends by the way i've been in some barites where the idiot that is being beligerent doesn't have the common sense or doesn't have the sense that
he surrounded it by you know five my friends an you're just thinking you even you doomed her so luckily the guys that i hang out with a pretty honorable people
that aren't just gin em you know crush somebody skull but you don't noways give us no guarantee that's no guarantee there's murders every day in america and
they're not playing all of em seldomer they planned the stanitsa spokane say oh i think i will get confused with the name because like a lot of people will be
like he echoes you know and at me question and interested this part cast triones other partisan of the like alkahest me but no way willainy so a guy i asked me
like this senorias use at a at a bar or party or something and um and gazebee disrespectable to him an his wife margiret something and then he's like i know
the high road i know the right thing to do quite unclothed is to to do to be done with it you know to leave the situation but when you leave you feel like a
little you know like you fostat or and that's really powerful feeling that you don't want so like fled man how you dishonour reconcile it or should i fight or
under certain circumstantial despite for the honour tinong i what's the thing and so i've always really looked at it this way especially if you're kind of like
if you have mental conlinental over the edition we can be like okay magnify my right is guy or what so when you choose to engage you in a fight the guy
unsaluted the wrong thing to me and i manasquale offer to my life or whatever you know so i'm in a chose to squire off now all you to eat lay in you you took
on all the potential results of that you took all that on a young you on the fine you get rastle everything as he posed to taking on all the potential results
probable you know it that come with not engaging which ingpen going on safe your wife safe everybody save went up to morrow just like you with the other day
and then compare that to jail i'm injured in some way i i can't you know i can function less to morrow if i remain to morrow you know death all this stuff when
you get it consider the outcome that you want in the reason you've got to make one decision over the other i kind o e comes real clear even though at the time
it still powerful because you're like a man to man was out in front everybody or my wife you know is my honor in front of my wife pray you win once you leave
it does want to be like a new hope got the bar fight what will like them so proud of him you know no you kids are like i'm glad you're home do you langdon
that's another thing that comes to it i think with training all the time he is we all know where we stand ye like i i mean if he if there's a person that's
going to beat me in a barlight i know em like he iapetus fight or it's a famous jugerum met is a known public figure that is known for firesides gonna give it
a civilian that doesn't train in the they don't don't they're not going to stand a chance o life the friend shaping a course or you're not missus l but yes yes
the ah the best thing to do is a void but does your wife when your wife nose that you train every day as you get after an every day that your physically fit
physically strong and nose that you could destroy that person does she look down on you when you walk out of their noses like well i'm glad i married an actual
man yes said of an idiot red and it's not did at bindo like a hero if you win a fight here come to this jim i'll be there to morrow at ten o'clock yes i will
go as yet i'm not going to fight out here and he arrested man your ensued by you after you after i put you to sleep and then i make it so you can't use your
arms any more yreve yes and even then i mean really list really admit it even doing that like hey you want to fight i do want to fight you right but i you know
i'm a smart fighter so agin even that of lygandas little boy moved as truly as far as moves up although he look i'm not is some one does that and posted the
internet something like that or comes to come on look vacantly all on to see that and i'll fire as anthematised priam but really at the end of the day that's
not the decision i decision is that you're right because it goes back word said that earlier question if your securing your manhood yet it is not that big of a
deal to go did you drunk and carry on a matter with my wife or gannerac to run house and carry on with our lives i nill people you can find another person
getting a drunk fight with an end up in jail and i had really masseth's you can be honest even as a full grown secure man if you found hisself in that scenario
and you're like nominy wife were going to go home there still small part be course or were so widower especially when you enjoy fighting what is the unratified
at fan tan actually you know um one of the guys at the gym cosa am bonami a hasandach when you are there anyway i mike i don't nade gave you helgoson the
morning eyes usually the ready anyways um he had somebody like say something to it now as somebody something like sumac his girl friends asked like a like he
ran his girlfriend on to into the bar and he doesn't machine course he's dispraise bad as i am he walks in the bar and his guide just straight up just bam slap
his girl friends as he liked turned round boom one two to the head dropped the guide needed the face out with like out bum got arrested the paid eight thousand
dollars or something and did like seventy two hours a jail i mean it was it was the jet like any and he any talk about it every just as shows you like to
different's why like a attitude you know i thought to mind he's a gay you know the guy crossed the line and and i had to put down her like a okayannie since
that's an awesome story but the way give me like a a feral like my comany but let's face it though that wasn't the right move as far as before you do it yea i
mean if you're right because we don't know what could have happened yes we don't we know what the actual oncome as an it up and it was like eight thousand
dollars you and as life girlfriends wife and then on telltale a kid to eat thousand dollars overemotional you know sue um but you know sir i'm saying this is
why the hell respect ye you know cause otherwise you never know your messenian mike dumb look like he's the one big intimidating guide by e chance what is he
wake one seventy something of a different kind a relict want what makes all one seventy he's tough he's a tough bastard do i mean on the mat he's tough but
he's he's a unsafety and you know what he's round one to do really good with a gee and wrestle like he restaining traymore so he's just a tough dot a and you
don't know who your messenwah and boom but the interesting thing is and you know this i know that when you make a contact with another person in a situation
like that you are now if they trained on you know you like all those attraper on in for you know that's going to be is gonna be on you know that's awareness
from the training he but still often story don't do that ye ye no don't do it mike did yes but might keep it up these you see in this king who has you might
don't do it again no don't masonic jock o were you very disciplined as it kid and was there set day or moment when you saw how important discipline was and
decided to do it well as a kid i think i was for the most part a kid i was not so mixture we discipline kid i was i was preston when it came to certain things
which we be some kind of inner early immature form of disipline hove disengaged but i think as i got older i saw the first thing i remember along these lines
is seeing a lack of discipline around me i didn't identify it as people having dispensoit a lack of despiciens i saw drugs i saw alcohol as all laziness an i i
started to get after it a little bit right a little bit a little tiny bit but there was no woman there was no internet that was no guidance i and i didn't have
this sent too to go to the library and in fine bob off men's bulk how to be held papilini didn't know to the esens to do that and so he did some basic things
you know what i mean some push ups you know it in in the pool push a work outside i did when i was thirteen years old or laudable laughable i mean i think if i
did you know i said of fifty push ups i was cold or you don't go on the man right now you are the man thirteen yet it in we deem silly little like kind of
barbel dumb bells cirecan kind of thing now i always liked the military i recognized that as a some kind of a trade of disciplining there and i looked up to
neater veterans i knew one marine corps de instructor an you know anything about rincontrato so now we're talking eighty five eighty six eighty seven there was
any wars going on but you know when you're a kid you decide now he's a maricones he fit the part he was to get just perfect maroboduus dropped her which most
mineros rockers are pretty damn offices have been credible incredibly holding very well choriography enver advertunt red and it's a it's a very fine um
tretyakov is one pitticoate if you could merrington ja and i knew one right when i was a kid and i desertas like a god right less guise and rinser and and of
course angelika sixty eight cambaroora is the man in so now so i got that going on and then then then was the hard core bands it has started listening to and
these seemed to have some kind of it was something there right i recognized something there i recognized something with black flag i recognized something with
the collapse shot they recognized something with the crow mags and i i totersten in there and i and i i the two i couldn't i can't i didn't know what it was
but it was some kind of strength writing some kind of discipline was in there i i didn't politer though they knew as no sort of unified way to go down this
path i didn't i didn't find that a don'tknow if i found it if it went would look like a namaycush that that path was the boy scouts right the boy scouts are a
disciplined group of individuals that learn how to hide in the hanani mean so was that it i don't know i may be i didn't identify that or i didn't have the
right person ality cause i was kind of non conformist rider little bit you know a little bit of a rebel so i didn't put it on the gather em then i had some
little flashes of like being hardcore were some of the things i did that will be like you kinda getting after i love vilifier away some samsoe limiti level of
discipline too but it wasn't until i started training in earnest to join the navy that i started to what we could recognise now as getting after it a little
bit you know it's an engine nothing compared to what people do now what definitely but one antitheatre talking antonine i was running through marshes and being
covered in mud and i was swimming in the ocean and i was doing pull up and pusillanimity upon again is nothing compared to one i do now or even what everybody
does now but i was doing what i could with what i knew appetite an i didn't really have any idea of what i or a brilliant people in genvor capable of i i just
didn't know i didn't know i never would have thought a good popetas five hundred two thousand poles i i i would have thought that you know for me i did three
set to pull up and i was colaynos i just i just didn't did no and i guess i guess you could tell him even have i didn't know to even explore those those outer
limits of what i was capolicon which is a bummer um now i i'll see you remember i didn't even know another person that did pull ups like the will there's a
wasn't like pullets around an wasn't you know about the wood somewhere in the woods in new england there is no pouppe ple people aren't like hey how many post
can you i never heard that question oh and i know anybody at samanthy oenone no one be that did push up work out right i don't know i was just in the sticks
and so when i joined the military i was a blank slate really for all practical purposes and it was really easy they say you do this this is what you do and you
get advanced this switched to be ready this which you do and i realized very quickly that the harbor you worked not the more discipline you wore that easierly
your life was that easier your job was easier they was the easier physical activities would get and when i got to the teams and really going through buds when
you're going through but in a finding that guys that were going to but an we started doing a hundred polesine started doing a hundred and fifty pashico doing
two hundred portamento in it was a oolong a lot of stuff i was getting ready to go to but an you go to bud and i you know you realized that you hate it's not
tisienus like um spiritooal lockout realize how you can do a lot of popes people can it's not that big of ideal and everybody know you can find that on
eatonton to butsire that out you featutes i'm telling you right now i see heynous i have that knowledge but i continued to realize that being disciplined all
these things waking up earlier and working hard and training hard and keeping your dear square away and steadying the materiae supposed to know i realize that
that work that discipline made life easier and it made us freer made me for you and the more time i spent in the teams the more tis came in bettini head and
not only as an individual that i realize he spun i realized this very quickly when i very quickly but as soon i started loveinas asians i realized that the
more disciplined a squaw was of the more disciplined to plutonias the better that water that the town was going to be and that's kind of where will the
evolution the evolution of it amen it's the whole process a finely acacia but right now it's starting to become clear were the whole you know you're going to
pay the price emulate point you're going to pay the price for your actions so if you're going to popilius a montage in shape right you committing to work you
out every day that's you pain a certain price in the like disdaain the discipline to do it you're going to pay the price waking early not comfortable working
all heard every day it's not comfortable your nape little price right there the next day where the you know in regard to the results of that work out in not
paying the price your reaping condored it or you cannot pay the price early with the work out in stuff you still got at that tabitha me so when you allan i do
wear so when it comes results time there is that's that's when you're going to pay your little price there your body your help would ever at some point you're
going to have to pay a price a now or pay later yet men sold and igloo paying now you get way more benefit pasigno one remembers a wolf we do some of us do we
i i don't remember and take pleasure in remembering the time i skipped out work up posi wasn't feeling like doing it you know like that doesn't provide it a
sense of pleasure in my life to think back on those days you know cot giant the same time when i think of like the detriment of doing the work out when i did
it feel like it that doesn't that's not a bad memory to me you know when i do think back of like an worthing even now is like the result of benimeth pe than
the enothereae person or or gentiyo distant gasper whatever bringing in all of roses at one time face said that something that is a sense of pleasure that i
have the freedom to be able to do that one i when i want you know ye an you know else is interesting about this is sometimes i hear this um and you did the
coptites tonight right he people go well ye have that year coloony as if i'm as if i'm not a normation but i not but ye but i'm not the same like you are i
just kind o went through like the story and and if paintpot clear picture that i'm prenolepis yeah right yeah it's pretty normal but i made decisions along the
way that maybe weren't may be opened the doors to being a little bit not normal year but their choices that you could make so so auhaes with my kids too or you
of sletha them i would have friends will say rethatched say you know well yet your that's you you know it is i know of you you were a wind this fight for
instance you and wineshop be goin to do this you got to get after this you got eitel you know it's not that easy and nan that's me that's what you would do but
you're you're you and in that you know it's almost like the act on the gewoehnen it apply to in a anaideia that to me you know my kids and i think it's
actually a pretty big detriment that day think that i m not that that old i do it but but that's because i me and i'm thoughtland true it's not true and so you
know occasionally i i have i hear people say that and i go then this isn't like i guess it is kind of like what we were talking about the other day with some
one saying oh i that's a good picture you took what kind of camera did you use what's kind o like that i'm like you know i i i wake up early it doesn't it's
not just because i was gioia i i work out a lot o did causeur super motivated right illigantist yet i illiouette right no actually i'm a person you know and i
grew up on person yea and so the puttinati clear that these are just choices you can make and you can eaversole true and i would say that it does when i say
one will any time i would say go consciously in meaning fully sable that you is if i would be talking about a way of achieving like the same thing like you we
do it this way i would try to do it this way cinating if i was confident that i could get the the result you know in whatever that but um a wen i say to do
about you sleeping bean't usando the for our sons in or so more so than you can do the four hours to eat in still function i meant you're into the fore hours
five hours fleet sing he which is cool but indiered or some genetic points in there i believe right yet i believe that there are some genetic pointing their i
believe there are some getic points in in everything right and i've told you this i have one of my daughters who is most similar to me both physically and
mentally sweeps about the same as i do if not less ye one of my other daughters who is most physically and mentally well physically more like my wife she
sleeps a lot and so there is a ginny wife sweeps more than i do and so there is a genetic component to it i believe in our red arson people sent me twitter
articles all the time oh you're one of these you know fasters of different on the population all the stuff and i'm just saying okay ye ye that's great but then
people say a well you just work out every day cause your supermanity you gitate time because you're just super motivated in like okay ria that blot great grim
frea youthink you're absolutely correct and even with the sleeping thing that is like to because okay ultimately yeou don't have to sleep as much as the next
person sure that's an advantage of cause you more time that's it it's not like you know someone would would be like hay of other than that reason be like haste
cooler or it somehow more beneficial for me to vorloffe hours rather than my normal eight like so i mean that i put it this way someone wants to choose to
sleep for hours just cause you do it that's kind of weird yeah now that being said what's awesome is there are a bunch of people on all the interims a bunch of
bad as troopers that an have a our or i i retreat almost all this because people go hey you know i'm i lost thirty two pounds hey i lost forty two pounds hey i
you know did my first squat to day with free undred pound so and an inherent difference in what they were doing before and what they do now and fundamentally
in their in their jeans and orther or their physiology what they did if they decided to make these decisions stayed that they were to go out they decided they
were step up pargamensis goin to wake up orleaniste re goin t lean up their diet they decided they were a get after it and we may do that almoadan boom
resumando know what you fast forward like six months you were going well you just do that because you're resurveyed atherley thinking you don't want no no i'm
not i'm a person you know and i choose to get after it milecete's to get after it and anchored stefanino easy an it's not easy there is the nagging weakness
that is pulling you down you we got shaating of alkmaion anthony about this yesterday and always entoned this gate so division making right were wired this to
environment right now were wired to not get after it in our brains were wired for the short term pale fright now in times of scarcity you know eliminate your
wife to you better get it while you can food may rest reever thing you'd better get it when you when you and your body start so dapitan environment causing on
for so long so it's like man if you're tired that's your body telling you something you got to get that rest you see some food some fat a lot of calories
lomboko fat cigar lottery white you better get that you'd better eat it now now physiologically you're like that in imental you're like that you wired that way
so my point i powala discounting all that is is choosing a short term pale over the long term pals affinites on the long term comes erere your shirt tempo
decision moster the time right yeah so it's a spectrum you know there's hemsoe some things are more or less tenements this county is when you choose that
churchee you can trade trace back all your success in failures to making that short term pay of decision over the long term pat but he is nathing here's my
point it brought to oddscods it's it's not easy missus afaint easy because you're not why you have to learn you voering out of discount i propose miscontented
out of it in one weenter weiteren somebody from your environment nor in you know like if everyone if if everyone's eating healthy around you it's very unlikely
that you are going to be like oh this are you doing okay i'm on a not do it you know it's it's it really unlikely so you can get trained by that way being in
my but the point is you yet you have to be trained out of this web thinking because your wired for it and all it is is the shorter affronter pet like i said
you got pay that price somewhere you might as well pay the price short turn out and get the benefits for the long term o ne other than discumber wire against
it so that's why it's not easy put it train yourself otohime you know i turn yourself out of it do it so an get after it yet after you all right the true the
subtlety speaking of instinct is it possible to train instinct and can we trust it wholly in fighting and in leadership well the first alantic as is this is
like a voice and it's a voice that you can listen to in its invoice that you should listen to and you have to get to know your instincts for i yestereen
eastern how accurate they are which ones you should listen to and which ones you shouldn't listen to and it's real it will like with fighting its very obvious
with fighting you train to a point that your instinct knows what to do so in some one gets in deginerated hook on you you you you swim to defend that under a
give some one to get the under hooboo you put on a water right the little instinct and it's good and in its good to have those instincts this perfect now
sometimes even in fighting your instincts are actually wrong and i'll give you a very good example that is lone with a guy by the name of james nelson give
your old james before many many many came so james black belts entrain for ever he's got a different digitizer digito weird gipsy with weird it's different in
the thing that you have to remember when you rolling with james is at your instincts are likely roughhead whither instincts are likely wrong and i know that
that that that a blanket statement in its actually true for instance he wants you to pass garden get across i he he wants you across side which is crazy and
degetus your instinct to get passes guard get across it in deinde with your wit with head control on him and have in his arm he let what he wants you to
because he has a whole sceries of moves that he does from their now much like we were talking of earlier about a long lanky guy that does move that no one used
to james does move that people are not used to and the moose that he does capitalize on our instinct you so for instance when you trapassa from across side and
you want to put your armenian that your instinct he wants you to put his arm hercules gonna get a hold of it trapanese got a sweep or normalians up from there
so that's the thing you have to recognize and you have you can't just blank it obey your instincts all the time because sometimes your instincts are going to
be wrong that's the way it is any definitely the same thing in leadership and it wien using instincts and leadership the first thing that you kind of have to
do as you have to become aware of your instincts and you have to pay attention them and pay attention to what you're thinking and paying tention to what your
instinct is and no your instinct and then look at the after the post mortem and see if your instinct was fracturing and and then you've got to see how often
you were right with your instigator your instincts were wrong or what your natural biases are for instance you got some people that are there there instinct is
to positive right all you know we'll be able to get this done m it had how often you write about getting it done then then you get some people out o two
negative there instinct is negaunee be able to get this done we shouldn't even go no maybe you're wrong there there's some people instinctively they trust
people too much they go all echo i know he's going to handle i'm gonna give em the project he's going to run with it he's got it and there's some people that
instinctively don't trust enough and they go mad not one ecouchard less i got to a contaminant age and so those those two others are examples of learning what
year personal instinctive bias is or so that you can at lorette correctly and that way you can adjust your biases in you can mitigate their impact and you can
you elise them and give credence to them and understand them and you lies them to the best of your ability and both leadership and fighting both of them was
the more you do and the more you pay attention to your instincts the better the book on oboth become now that being he said there's another kind of instinct
that need be on the lookout for and this one is a liar this onishisha tour of this one it a back biter and like the devil himself isa sheep shifter began the
disguise herself and make you think he's got your best interest in mine but he doesn't this is the instinct it says you've had enough is the instinct hates you
you you give it your best shot you can you can stand down you can back off you can take a knee this is the instinct that says you can rest now do not listen to
that instincts do not listen that instinct is a liar and wants to bring you down that that's the instinct that self defense mechanism twisted give you an out a
place to run to low little place sympathy then amnesty little place of a misty where everything is forgiven where all will be as these failures can gather
together in comfort and drown their sorrows in the lives and in deception and they tell each other and no tell you you did the best you god no nothing to back
on the deck the deck was stacked against you and to say it's not your fault and he'll tell you it's okay to stop it so katie it's okay to give up and that is
the instinct you need to fight i need to push back to smash into the ground do not take the easy way out to not give up based on instinct if you are forced to
stand down to retreat so that you can we build and re attack so be it but make that decision based on logic not on the instinct of surrender and defeat and you
need to train that instinct your instinct train it to say get up go fight on and if that is what you become if that becomes your fundamental reaction to
adversity if that becomes fer gun instinct then you will go ercome just about anything the stands in your bath and i think that's about all i've got for the
night so thanks to all of you for listening to this pot cast and for supported the poncas then now echo is going up tilted that in the most efficient way yes
the most fishingly yet will start with an efficient way with it an amazon click through any time you shot an amazon try to remember he coolest click on them
only then do your shopping ye in and view it may seem small were you a little thing percentage but it is true we your at all those little small to
presentashens it provides a sort of pheneatians very supported oliver supportive it may not seem like a big deal but as a group it's very supportive in its
very helpful so and don't feel like you're not doing anything you are absolutely supporting about agonistae and that is yeatara true i see a thing to help you
with that tademait even what man i guess orficial or the cool it's a cool little way to partezon cockboat topertoe chromation for i'm as on just going the
website say a little thing tepetiltan sion click on that candidula southlook extension goes on your brows are automatically supports the but cast when you shot
through it as an see don't even have to remember to click through the website you don't have to go to the website anymore after that does automatically and you
got the two tots pretty cool suffice and it helps help ye how an when he were a dear ye very much ah and an of course e got a support yourself i think some
some good supplements which is saying a lot because there's you know just a lot of not good supplementaries pliments the best it's like it's not even really a
debate more really from her on a one forgetting vein like what work tryin what all of us are trying do here in the europe if you're in the game is leonore so
it's not like you're not going to find them a power gain or five thousand chocolate protein to of powder it's not that it's like legitime alphorn neutral picks
prove him they got all the literature on their two by the way creole the best quality equal friendly produce it anyway the best supplement by farm on it dot
conflusticate an get temper set off so you spare yourself as well shimasare amenity reconsideration story last time about the about the creole enjoins about my
prosewriting ye the quiet oil even if you don't even realize it i didn't even realize it but in after a while when you take your like men ye good holboellia
phil robot um trumpeter ye if you're getting after an hindentity stuff for you know i kind of prolonged period that's goin to help you none of bly you feel it
you housewives like oxygen better in your most something like that i'm not the santissimi obviously you can read about it if you want to those good one anyway
tecal the supplementary temper sent off and there all let and on no if a a warrior barrister a supplement but it's a bar he aforesaid i on its good though a
check down out santolina rest assured you'll like out tasted your soul up zat favor eaters is illnesses also surprised subscribed he picatonica of course if
you feel like leaving her review don't like hesitate turtle the refuge of leave the review just do it like if you feel like doing it you not loan like i could
see this about this whatever thing he oulivarello dwell those guys aren't goin to read it now pored it wear the inmates import and be fired up de is motivating
when people are fired up and leading reviews it's connection you'll animate me go in i want and get to see little bit harder you'll only take a jove articulate
makes jacana be even more tinerant yes it does indeed limed do that and you know it or any helps you to actually help the readings or something with with i can
when there's more refuse so why do we want to have good reading ratings so then it gets bumped up wire want a bumped up some more people is to of wiolent more
people listen to it coswat more people getting after it and we want more people to do better you know want no want more people the game yes i want to get more
feedback in a talk more people you when as brady land tirades judicasse sang i just got after told me loose he lost thirty pounds takes you gittin that's what
we want more of that lie what i went longanimous suminagot why so ultimately it really fears down i i definitely i homstead motivated by atherina am definitely
motivated by the people that are making a romser that have people that are getting better physically by the people that are getting better men to leave that
right mean email or or send me a note as i had to use some had to use some flanking on my boss to day you autem yet that is good to go thousand per cent that's
what i like to hear one silentia echo can i use your in jocka's likeness in a thing on my bulletin board for my students to employ extreme ownership can i do
that just the fact that that's a question you want to ask makes it just just of me when i loneroid anderson to talk about to day i didn't know about getting
after it when i was so often years old imagine somebody being in the class of a being like a you won't get after you i got to you here this here's a couple of
guys they're getting after it you know what why don't you get after it thirteen year old boy thirteen year old girl won't you make something happen you don't
what you noticed people that do five hundred poltrot they don't do twenty eight twenty eight enything round here step up your game so exposing the world so
that people can do better do more be more good to go yet you had more people being less abrasive losing their temper left for less am i exercising extreme
ownerships mandilini at all things pursuing freedom three discipline that is but better place across the board you might even have so far as to say unmitigated
davy discipline in all things elfie the ultimate goal also subscribe to to you want what's more videos on there aside from just the potassio that's more vison
there and we have been have i sank that we not you echo be weetlesse motive you more to make more videos because every time you make a video like when you will
you not just a clip of the poast but when you make a legitimate i'm always like yearning a lot of people say the same thing and is actually litteratur that are
that are making bad as with you as to her was a g gen broderick give roderic makes some cellar these can we put his videos on the doctor parasite i think i did
a tapu withes on there in a while but oh yes we can we should have any well we'll do that so that everybody can see all the trooper there goes out there you
know what it does to her in the small little way where you know the okay you'll say some words you say to her i'll say what you say and i take it a certain
oolite not really hit me at resonated with in other people other words might hit them harder or less hard or or whatever and soul if people have like video
editing skills you know or they know how to ride at it and in stuff like that and put tracks and do that stuff when they put it out it's it's kind of beauties
or representation of how those words hit them now you know is it like a humane decision to put a certain type of tract behind what you're saying whoreson soon
interesting to see dan that's how that hit if you know in this feeeling is it it is yes i dan you kind o get a different to mention of it are will see you
cause it for me i mean i don't hear my words right and i am my words it then i i hear my words with with this anything you're saying like the way it's entering
their brain because in any egidio right we make a video it's reflection of the moat's on in your mind yes and so like some of those videos that gene made i was
like oh yet like a thing on it go it's taking me inside his head and when it appears to be from inside his head which is awesome to here the astonished we
should get those and hit a couple of that went in go through the copy ready material i don't know if he took the wrong songs her some made there was a bemoans
unliteral the yether's part of the battle right there at ingeniero anyways what i was going to say is i think the more people will that are you too to travers
i think the more motivated that you will personally get that's an opinion to make even more that asked videotape what like you think i ate my get like a
competition i make the better one noonoon don't think that i think you are inspired by the video the same way i am that other people make but i'm saying i
think you will just be motivated more the more people like you know when you say of the dean's just then a bloated by jacopo casting a now that it's going to
fifty thousand and you'll be a bumclink boom cut your start gitator yes he hannaper onally i want you to get after it more adinath director protege the prose
one in a one of the original ones that someone else is it hate that i can't remember like the names of the people did it but it's the one it was too on the
pacific contrariant renewal or all eyed man brought drinking one night did i can frame it was yet as long him with a you may drink he that may you drink in it
for more i will denison's plain housekeeping this so deeply right now i played like literally like eight to twelve times to interrogate is so like just cause
you see they're cut from movies in her close from this and it is it's a mass up and you know the the music and he's a thing it's not like hard court music it's
not it's just it's like manages really good um in i think like i said that's like such a good way to see not only just your word but how someone else heard him
interment em em put them back out there and for ylike ding it's like a whole another dimension anyway um yes i i'll get more on the eofor sir i'm already more
on the you are but i'll keep it up keep it up i'll demand a more illustrative and tom on his arm as if videos yes i know all ontologies to also to support this
potest in the event of your being in the mood to support his podcast you can get some cool stuff i think it's cool at jocatore dot com t shirts the wallible
layers tom not thysia ly psychologically philosophically they have multiple aristo all of them some easter eggs to um sure it travelin bumper stickers now new
stuff that's available right now well marino be available in absolute they could be on bacon order it you all other yes um new so rash guards i thought was for
bugeaud therefore every therefore lifting like cross inessentially running is a is a good one like bike liking basically everything that records you know spend
except ure or for surfing i think primarily rowing but lifting whatever em and of course yogeeish if you like on boomken of those or two or whatever to support
and as stickers and then jogies and just patches you know you can so monther iron on but so anisson for you know oh you don't put on your bag what have you get
to patches for you githa's stuff newings coming within the neck what we or two women tenuities actually live pretty soon think so too oh but yes there it is
you know it support that way the up and that's all a all some that we appreciate that support that is a cool way you know to to help us all warnin also another
thing just came out as a little something on well jock a white tea she wanted got some of that the pomegranate and it's somewhat wore came from an in the
winter started you laiving it but have you sit for quite some time now it's live on him as on it is like it lineamenta get all there order it and git your
white tea on this an i'm being so a drink in him if i'm not drinking it alpari drinking white tea and white tears definitely on of drinking during the show so
give it cry you might dig it um it's a veil of bowl on mason he could probably click through unless you have the trooties hit it you know the antifat jock a
white tea which if we've been but you hear retarding about for a long time now he is so i also oh yeah by the way the road above it my brother lay babin if you
want to check that out actually all brought it back on to the best seller list which is awesome and we appreciate it um go ahead pick up copy if you don't have
one if you've got people in your life that you want to help them get in he came there you just will something for you comes teteny box and and you get your you
help somebody thet seats good and of course if you haven't heard yet october twentieth and twenty first in sandeago california were having the extreme
ownership muster two days of gitomir late and me live going deep on comalites on the battle field in business and in life coming in it the amount of teresita
signed up it's going to be killer to have everybody together all different industries companies businesses fire fighters police officers a whole the whole
gamut of people that are in leadership positions that an alert that want a share that want to get better so come on off the muster extreme on the ship coming
get it and as always if you want to keep on kind of kick in it with attorneys we are all up all the interest twitter boom instare up face lookyhere there echo
is at echo charles and i am at jackwell ing and finely to you first those in uniform military police fighter those of you holding the line train hard be
vigilant be aggressive in be balanced in europa ch and also to those are you that are out there working and i i traveled ecoute and i spend time with you folks
as well you folks had out there working that of building that are making things from construction workers building roads and bridges and buildings to those a
you building or remanufacture ing engines or building cars or trucks those you tetraptera building the next generation of tacony hardware and software that's
going to make life better i meet with you all the time i see what should do in the builders the maker thank you for working your assoomed the world and
everything it and to all you troopers out there living life driving and grinding and doing the work give it everything you got put your head down grit your
teeth and get after it so until next time this is echo and jacolot
