that is jacopo case number forty one with a others and me jackwell good evening ah good evening and to night we are lucky to have a guest on the pot cast my
friend my tea mate my brother tony i freddy and i've got to start the podcast by reading a speech that i wrote when tony retired from the teens and for
whatever reason some reason that it all remember that was a worker job or some travel or something i couldn't actually be there to read this myself and that's
the way the team is you do your job that's the priority and an you tony would understand that i wouldn't be there it will be no big deal to him and i acted
like it was no big deal to me but i wanted to be there and i should have been there and i rode to speech and i emailed the two one of our onourin an my brose
another seal master chief and he read it there but i should have been there to read it myself and you will hear that this speeches kind like tony is to draw
its straightforward and real then so here is the speech that i wrote for tonight he retired here we go first of all i apologized to tony that i couldn't be
there out in the desert to day to see you off for those of you that all with him to day no tis dolly you frida is a hero a dirty scrap by rough hard mean
bastard but a hero i've known in fover twenty years and in those twenty years i got to see him in many capacities first as a young hard core beer swillin
muscle car driving machine gun in fist fighting third class petty officer then as an experienced hard core jack daniel swilling fist fighting second class
leading petofe next as a bad as hard core fist fighting knowledge filled first class training cellentest and finally as a seal potosi and we all know that
being a utuntor to mean that you heard cordacem that your experience is supposed to mean that you're tough bastardise to mean that your feelessness to mean
that your tholede of men toforn tely we all know that that isn't always true but with tony it's a hundred per cent true tony is without question the prime more
yield seechee the ultimate senior enlisted leader when i joined the teams i joined a follow guyele tony and unbridled combat into the violent fray in the hall
i was lucky nough to work with tony when he was one of the tunes in our tasking it seated three from two thousand five to two thousand six tasking the bruiser
re started a work up here in the desert the true forging ground of frogmen with a couple of years on me he was the oldest guyin the true and therefore the
primary representative of the old breed and he represented the old breed with honor he immediately proved that he was physically hard or mentally tougher
operation superior to any the young box really it was august a hundred and fifteen plus degrees heading get tired he out shot every one he ran immediate action
droves like earl winram he didn't drink water seriously coffee and copenhagen that's it and desert training was just a beginning he let every evolution through
the entire work up always coming up with the plan always training in venturing the new guys and every one else we trained we trained hard i drew a line in the
sand tony held that line we pushed the envelope and every evolution and prepared for war somehow some way we knew what the future held we deployed to remonia
in april of two thousand and six and to our absolute joy it was an embroiled war zone we have been on the ground about a day when i went to meet the brig but
brigade commander tone was already out in the city in a sniper overwatch position as i walked into the vidette cloperton setter and shook hands with the
colonel john gronski he said one of our snipers just killed him i d in place or up on race track or we lost for him formally three days ago and that is exactly
what he needed us to do he knew that to kill them that night was to me with the first kill of the deployment strict ted to its timing time that opened up the
entire battle space to task unabused and so we fought and fog and killed the enemy by the bushel the toll me was at the front the entire time he never wavered
he never faltered despite the heat despite the danger despite heavy casualties i constantly pushed get out over and over and over again the kill the savages
that were to turn in destroy of merica and coalition forces he never asked for a pause or a break or a night off or a minit off everything that i ever asked of
him every thing he did and he did it with every ounce of commitment and drive inself wisest professionalism that any human could ever muster and we would talk
and laugh and we would discuss what we could do better we'd come up with a plan and in the end tony would give me a head nod and that had not meant he had it
it was done he owned it and i never doubted that ever he never missed an operation and applied himself to each mission with solon gravity as the senior and
lifted leader he pored over maps and imagery he held detailed warning orders he briefed the potion with clarity and directness he led rehearsals he did
everything he could do to be ready in his potion performed magnificently accounting for hundreds of enemy killed when his own men were wounded or killed in
action it only feel his motivation to kill more of the enemy to fight harder to slaughter more of the evil soulless enemy and rid the world of their wretched
kind that is what every seal should aspire to be like in tolley's words be to us a big tough frog man with no fear no hesitation and no mercy just beat beat
the everything like toy did precentor chief frady's courage to termination leadership i will be eternally grateful i owe more than i can ever repay him for
what he did for me for the task unit for the teams and fragrant on let there be no doubt the man before you as a hero the teams are a worse place without his
presence his guidance his leadership his example those that served with him must strive to carry the torch and pass it on so that his spirit burned bright in
the teams for ever i recently washed the movie about limekilns er the lead be leader of the original classic heavy metal thrash band motor head the movie
chronicles the life lemme the hard living rock and roll legend the movie paints a picture of unique individual that will never that can never exist again the
move is called lemme forty nine per cent mother facer fifty one per cent son of a bitch and that seems to suit let me pretty well no not exactly sure how those
numbers would break out for tony but i do know this tony a friday is a hundred per cent frog man always was and always will be tony thanks for everything i'll
see you on the other side be to jocko and we that tony tanico in on the shell tanks lore but kind of forgot about that ere now he that was good and the guy
with talking about right it preordained have like a big saramony or nothing and his waltonian then we got old gum up and it was about it but ah i do appreciate
it man yer good to see a brother curtin you too in your actually up when i told people that you're coming on the show you'll people actually know where you are
from the lift to tell i a and a lay playpen her we talked about you you know told some stories and shet and so ah but a bunch people had a bunch of questions
and before we try and get through some of them we we can won't be aloner all the ones that are got but a picked out some of them and ah let you take a look and
pick out some of them so well meant first and foremost people just want to know kind of who the hell are you and where do you come from as funny as he is back
like a were all in arizona and i took a bunch of the guys and a potion or of my parents else now and sup and every day as wicked for jeremy folds me to sights
like you're actually have paratonnere rock or somewhere and the cazimi that out on oats pretty funny no i'm i'm from new hampshire and i that they's just
probably like you desire it's not so much one to be a sea o i just want of me some different an i couldn't want like a biker ganious as easy you know you know
i figure is this a pretty good chance of staying out of the clink and all this way but not always but a few times in all he far nobbut the teams just soon me
cause everybody is the same everybody you know every where you look guarding what you would do and they act how you would act in is not always great but you
know the you you got recruited though by some of the boys that over in the pit and you yeh yeh i mean i i want to be to see the well as i like thousand per
cent and ill and i was in the philippines and i was like all right i got it do that that's it so i went and got a crates that were there in stupid bay and i
smoked it i then yet they never long pipe line back then i i got there on a friday we at all boomed up and shaved their heads on sunday and we started monday
there was not that was it there i can go you're right actually i i know was talking to the old master chief then actually was the guy that reared you an told
you need to be a team guyandot if you go the day when you were down at his house on the phone he but if i yet he was one of my petunias you know but i told him
i told him the best thing he ever did for the teams was get you go the cadie was laughing and he probably probably the paddedest thing for you i know he here
asked will tazarians solutely but it's just you know it it's the team slate twin us we get but forty six years a team guy life and he and ah it's so had to put
perspectively talk you know we've never been there you'll be wake people don't know that we don't call each other seals dates that you never even now any says
when i joined the navy see you'll eat like that when i became a ten gun you you are i say that every one just like turn her head is tatanemance on you owe your
when you hear a tin guy referred to being an dassell makes you think we await the asiatic must not i actually been in the oucanasta for your toinette
irrigation like what would your hand cock behind your back in he to esther's good let him so i give it drives license a black eye i don't know where that i
don't know where that comes from like where my don't say it i aigues maybe it's i don't i got the tone it was like a dosalo it at you don't have no god i know
no stickers no tsit no not know you don't do any of that i'm sure all the oserais me by don yeasaying well we all thought we were going to venom the andastes
say oh after all like i what happened in the inhalation it man well to let tony grew up in new england like me and you did you ever hear the state spendono
money trying to figure out costantino tree any only literally the old lorrains lest it be got was a gusta wrestled and guys from new england but any wasn't
like a big difference but you know a a a normal person has a twenty six per cent chance of making a through and someone from new england had like a thirty
seven or something like a small optician you know what i think also that this good people are in a country to get me wrong with no england as it pretty strong
work ethic you know it as therese that all lot a lot and then are not the other people don't do the all the guys mostly guys in me from knowing one in the
teams at a pretty good work at it to yeh yeh an he just cold tarogato a cantinelas a matter i think it does cause i i thought gods reformati classic to ashes
kids from florida there was a couple of kitchen florida and they will re know all loud and like they were just big tough guy a they were already in the team's
basically in their own minds and they all conway know that would well like like the first day abides on looking around some of these guys in the mine who hold
craft these guys arly in the same shade and all this stuff i'm still hung over her in rideau know i accept and all of you i made it and early they didn't there
is can't now it's weird said only said this kid of the quipos and in he went and jumped off of a hotel down in san diego kelp himself and i looked at a picture
with a missed the pool or something and now he was no poopendyke himself and he did right you know i don't succeed it but look at it i'll talk into a one of
the gay guy that we know whose instructor over there and i'll look in at a picture that deed and the deed was like dis strapping gil both with the plow
darndest look like a oscan i go man that kind of lickitup and the instructor guide said do they all look like that now can i do have run all these just you
know if the big deal hey i'm on to go in the south income i go on the seething and that's what they're saying so there recruiting is really easy but their
crinolines flood by the dozen matter they uchilishha yeh that's what you know you know that the government wants a more and more dinaousal happen you know it's
not not unless you alertest andard and if that happens in we've all got done or jossers some all right get some of these questions here am i says you're on the
first pocatello discussed a story which tony came up with a strategy for open and tony total a food be better the brief would be better come in from lace and
it says where did you develop this humility and this characteristic of not worry about individual credit verseetile tive so that there has set story in real
quick it was real were out at we were out as the desert training for so wide and we were just planted you wantin some like you know what you iteration training
we at a go down of another goat here's one just one of those and they changed the target or something and you're like okay here's one you do propose over here
put in a watch over here and walk or an my like this and lay sick a sounds good got once you get the hoover and brief him and you said he surging ahead and
brief him that way it sounds better comin from you and that be the way to do it and he was like well all right you know he was ufipa i when i saw you do that i
was like because castitati and i forgot to mention this you and i know each other for a long time were both of your amothen and we had the same friends and we
hung out at the same place as a gayante were never in a patonee no we're never to umtagati i never work together the directly together until we are in tasting
a bruiser so when i had to island i knew your reputation which was which was rock solid but i don't trust anybody about anybody now i conanicut as heresies
know some see you kind of for the first time out there of actually working and the allowance to me i was like damon this guy is totally humble wants to make
his officer look good wants to make his which is only in make up to better tominie everybody better so yet it was awesome and what a great attitude to have it
i gasp that all typology basis is doing this and what i do in my colegiata help ye trying take him up here but will you think it's true to way if people lose
their ego of the walk the credit franosoni you recues all times tiens any was where did you realize that did anybody see to that or where the hell the
dahlonega do that i can read and watch people pretty good and i watched some guys who kind of brought me up in the teams some the guys were the talk and about
early up and i tried to come in a dome but then it cindamine ronsin and i don't know and i will eat the first thing is i was just tired of my voice was gone i
just one wanted to him out there leidenschaft a gallic goin boss the job but i mean some of them guys on up that put on they were already my chums like chris
kibobjee men in desert and there already now i put them through training and then in warfare or nine when mum so they there they know me they'll now and up to
that point has been i was doing a lot of that ship i might not as you do it because basically he's new the to them they are not knowing the team but he was new
and had a fear he got to this more and more more ill and he and he did cost you know lakescape up like a like you gang busters and was great officer but in
that ten beginning stages like a i've already done this a million times i don't i don't care a golowin my advice grate but will come alius get the ball room i
see it and so if that answered the question ye not that that was a anging out was always attitude he had which was he never tried about looking for yourself in
part of that is you just had such a good reputation in the teams that body hindeloopen batter her heegan another nescatila but you know a lot of people so your
listening and your wandering you know what makes what makes somebody a good like a good insoolt of marines rationless in rat make a good into you don't always
have to make yourself shine you don't ways have to be the guide to centration and as a matter of fact generally ten shines through as being a god he wants me
to sideration doubt that of a guide at wants to have a good bulto and is now like a doing it to make rank i said unexpect to make ye five new minisitration ah
all right next question please detail the way you were able to use decentralized command when running casting a bruiser in how was met on the other commanders
so for those other don't know decentralized command me you're going to let your subordinate leadership lead and you're not going to micromanage everybody and
that's definitely what i did and i didn't like her manage well i should i should recast with people need to be micromanage al micromanage to her jack up on
ontoe all in em and exact like your talking about with life and with satanita the other partout of ton commander i might go mansisset when we first got in
cause i just make sure they were on potashery experience in this like gay that he don't trust anybody when you don't know ye and then ah but their goal was to
just have them be able to run on the room and make up happen because a they another thing you can't you can't run everything yourself no body no now and so
you've got a decentralized command and that's what i did was i let you know one when we got on the payment i wasn't micromanage in anything else baroudi of
broad guiding sinico and now and then you guys were running the stuff and make him think happen i mean i would have loved to be on every operation so
physically couldn't because we had multiplane had to split forces so what are you going to do i got no problems with any one it grew the lowest guy running in
on the therewith got he got electric he will out let the boys basically screw up an then you don't know how they're going to react okay to they just sit there
in power mean you go slap more ever or do they okay here's the you did wrong rude that and then i meestare thinking out of fix it as everybody flocks up
everything what's face in mean we are never to always boded anything stiller good much it was better at all and his it doesn't seem like we made mistakes men
really there he itinerates ship is funny because some guys take to it like water and other guys are scared to death of it yea you know lately i've been
realised in that a people way say you don't arles made or born and can you make a person as though a good leader into good leader and i look at it conelike um
when you see these ideo games where people have different strengths and weaknesses and i ana guy might be a strong and i intellect and good agility and an out
on a whatever those games hair posture so with leadership same thing cause there certain elements certain natural things that you can have that make you could
better for instance it is a real simple can you be loud aningait yelping if you can't be loud that's gonna iscanderbeg taoutae you can't just take control room
be like you know hey i've witgenstein's do that people get here you did you got to find a way around that right or are you are ticket can you simplify things
at a compass all these little things that you get rank to you basically all rank that and some guys have they borne low ranking and they either find a waiter
make up for him they learn how to do him better or they compensate by using somebody else you know if like i wasn't lowed i'd be like a tone telephone to get
in her than you could do it right right ah that makes total sense though ye if if some one out disolation awaitest on you know exactly the talking about the
ten sometimes it's you know hey what's the problem no really what's the problem well okay like you said good good i know you identified it go work it out
midn't sit around a cry about edge just to do it and on and you got five minutes ere they take out of it i think the other thing with the centralized command
is an that's important is for everybody didn't know what the limits are like all how far you can go and rag or exeter and i know that you like i was trust did
you go to reno do right thing well like you said early on in that work up you know we to ship at every level and even the junior guides his responsibility to
keep me in check of some is going wrong cause i'm doing some stupid is like a ton but what oh yeah fallotte for all is in all a sometime old sometimes i lose
it once in orleans he not in apologies nice tenting up on de centralized command well it's it's slow easier if you start right from the beginning trina make
everybody understand decentralized comment cause that's the goal it has to be the goal because someone like you you you you can't you got to be somewhere else
you know we we didn't want you on the battle field with his i wanted you on it by the wild every time you were i was like i is was awesome lived really really
needed you back where you watercourse and all in that it was everybody at out like wicked eye level a confidence just no one on your back to take care of
watching her back you know and never sleeping just doing like forty po sweating and in thine eat everything in the havanese it's not it ithiel about his forest
getting every one to know that i understand that from the beginning it is for sure i i mean everybody's got to know that man you know i did i don't want like
my favorite things are going on operation with you go and not do anything now you hegestrates a shooter okamisan the train all that you know that's that's the
way it should be because though leaders are leaving cause lay is doing his job easily me as lady leave me hangs the the breach he is doing their stuff and i'm
just like a cicadas in observer you know now fillpot helene naight as the determinant ah but that's where you want you know and and then when something does
happen you can then handle it you can step and go cahaigue when to back off over here a this this going on and an attatched be so that your gold or to say look
i want my leader sleddin to be doing all the doboy first all oatlike that more confident all make them more capable and then when something does happen then
and they need your assistance you're not bob down with a benchest it make it affect right i think it's a take like iraq afghanistan that's what combat beds
coming back they talk about decentralized command and important because if you just do in the same lake army training an army in it goes over there were they
going to do to a guy's now we're doing de sechelles command later you don't you it'll until that happens you know you got to now they come back a witherin like
this to here's a junior officers and you do hear is our answer you as need do here is already five or you force you know a private there to they need to do the
good all right an next up ah ta talk about with some favor yours in planning leadership and how you built back up now in it we had none of that everything with
perfect you one of the things that i think of entities relater but we were often times make a decision and then in a day or in a week decide that while the
good call being arrived in grand and ever good example that is how we kind of task organized than we split up into different groups of be it okay you guys are
running this are you guys were in the area and the like two weeks are actually know this areas not good were emitation back together i i always felt like
everybody especially as in the leadership you know that we were all like oracle yeah we just made him sacristan play not nine in a mistake but you got change
out at that out you go you got a morphine something it's like if you're doing you nitro then it's it's common no braine didn't go over there and all of a
sudden you know all you you working by yourself bumbum doing a mission great but if you work in split forces in your training indigenous force as you doing
that you have to have doknowye have to and it's not always easy to adjust for because it's like there's a world o difference in aracan aganist on like a world
o difference i mean it's all kind of the same but stuff i did no rack it and do it or ganistan you know and vice the versilia can't do that you know even even
stuff like the weather you know i got your room alison the snowing you know and in the train late people think i racks all does it i mean there is some place
livelihood on clean name you know i can't bodycrack and like wohelo now they were going to walk ommany clicks yet well when you're up do you waste in mud and
all of a sudden that time friends totally off as i didn't you know made him stake i didn't really really read the train to and an ask about it and he has been
up there before she had but really were just to dat no beaaty i think that's a big learn from him a stake yet when it comes to fail here go it's just okay what
do i now the autototototo in camlets let adaptative on ye all right um next one i really want to hear you talk about the battle field that how it made you feel
and the type of situations when the shot hit the fan well a kind of question is pretty easy for me how the battle fields made me feel i i can say as it made me
feel much betaken any other place than the battle field you know i ain't there is everything makes sense on the lowfield very really going forward and organing
going away or defending opposition or moving out to out of that what else is there cause all in things even if you have men down and people wounded still going
to do him a er well aas i sit here figuro this so our obtemperet very high meeting the operation to that load for it to go yet don't know it means me to how
often you doing work and not the uptempo was very high into what sometimes for whatever reason let's say an operation would get cancello push back and all of a
sudden tony would have been in camp for a like two days all the second day like the first day you'd be you know occasioning up with plans that i on else i know
him and lay for that figure something out to do but then the second by the second day he's just just start to get all frustrated all surround the lenape is
this is just to pitahaya i'm going to go to lake the big base and like countryseats in an i sayriousness and i fool into a can i ye and he's guys like all you
just missed i can't remember what counties said they go to concerts the stuff i meet' wrath shitsu up in a mountain on my really all his people doing here a
fire the omartein the bad guys lose gad yes so i tol you would give very frustrated after like two days and in you is comin and i okay do not be here just go
this araound something to do and then you go at makanda for come back it we got something or i go i let you go you go to it though ah on time of is not such a
good thing i mean couple days break now and then but he keep the boys busy then they start thinking and they start getting you know but i mostly did it for me
cause i just wandered get after that ye there's definitely yohem but ah you're right if all the softer sition all the time they is it forshadowed in motion
tends stay a motion in a body at right or sense to say rest ye start lagging and all of a sudden you're going to go to an open every one's kind there
persistence there's the a no not verbal resistance just just like going shrugged the shoulders agoust like a resistance of some unseen resistance in the world
that it wants you to slow down but when the shot hit the fan in all its estrange because it makes me like gold come i think o me not always i had the first
first time irashai i as little general bit but don't oh my god what's going actually i i knew what it was i ellinoi who will what's that as she actually
remember you were a briefing some wegier when it when we were back and you were like um you like hay you know what we didn't work on training when i when i
when we were through training and were it ready to go to remote widin work on on on this aurelia five but this tattheration to be cool yet it's all that bad
stuff disease in the alleging in a ship and you and kallinikon his poney think it the thing i'm set on her before is that the battle field and all these
situations that there digest give you this clear focus in by litning else gives you now that well nothing that i've found me in this like oh we're goin to kill
people or bennet killed ourselves that everything in the world right into matters now he set the cake sitting in camp watching t v that doesn't matter little
would you live with okay you got your rest to you you have your good night he almost go ah sallright next one not to take away from the seriousness of what you
two have achieved in the seals but i would like tony to tell a funny story about jocosities one of your ah of course i don't like to hear an humour or laughter
in the borabu there was a bunch of people that old that said this so i any ways i figured you my evaston like that seriously like a million like a million i
mean that's doing out on your room mate like you ah you like a onisim together and corn at all yet you on taking the out of the big fall of the hour like to
the parian one night were getting good up then your life you know what our our bill was from dominoes at a twenty five hundred dollars is a unmentionables fun
yet of wicked good bodies in you we do have to pretty good pay and one time were out at a island and stood it's like two o'clock in the morning and the
guerillero re up we call at after you done to the work on a vehicles a post you don't post of of echoes not in overclean here all busy doing stuff and i mean
i'd help out if i had to but a man as someone till he be they boys in what to do jeer me had him great opio mania was sitting there mean way and maybe one of
the other jails we see the sheet about something i mean had to do at work because i was old else's there and lay was talkin and quiet kind and you got your arm
on one of the humes and all the sudden you just out of no way of just kicked the dirt you go go to your man you'll like shaken your head and fletcher fire and
like the flat you takin a ball and you just like looked at me smiled and walked away like a watch what what is wrong with you still i figured i was wrong it is
not i i i know more i i remember the just what god dear mitawawa actually getting frustrated that that was a chance we might no god my racey calls so home
scared and horrified of of that it is you know in a dictating to control it but then it just goes lived out it is in other quick one about jacomino know were
there a couple of weeks and remitting were just falling a grooper ating one night i losin his office causes like couldn't sleep whatever and ah he's like we
artisan you shove this shuster goes this is for my wife are you okay you be gone three weeks and we haven't heard anything ramlike a jump you bet you better
any your wife for she get a fly over killinane talk about detachment a lot and now i am no ice you know like i said sometimes you get over there and you got
all that ship going on and on nothing else in world matters by didn't have anything go on back here a matter me at all sorry to my wife there from sure she
remembering that you may anyway and you did know you okay i got eyes ah all right here's one what made you realize one of your guise was really good to go or
was not up to standard not necessarily big things but my croatians are decisions that set something often your mind well i had a lot of guys were going to me
with this and and i mean i really think that in all my brothers latineer one of his good to go even the guys haven't got long with i'd still give my wife for
him second doesn't matter but i want thing that sticks hopes biggles venus ryno as he i i don't i guess i could have been more nice whatever but my man you are
like your fact in fact you better getting fucking shape romantin kill you i'm not in a line right you off and i noted that he nonagon a just physically kill
you and man you know i didn't even know what he was in good shape or not to some people you can't tell ye they like well to let guy and then they just knock
shot out a people that iron marshmallow yes and man that kid did i mean he reely did and like all the sudden of light chum why in say that i was like him i you
know evelyn that was like my praise like on the yi whatever he hierneben the next one on to the next thing to be now but now is really good and hell i eberyone
of my guy there was the piece of equipment one time and now was kind upset with him but it just made me realize that you if we're making a mistake maybe not
this guiseard maybe it's my fault may be every one's fault as it is a team as ananda it's followed us say maybe or take a day or two off and all that kind of
help and you know we handled it but i mean and when other one of my guides he who was courseness you left left the piece of equipment open or i didn't lock
something in the man not wasn't a big deal i could i corrected it right there but the guys are just taken off and christmas leave and i was that nowhere to go
so i was drinking bars in the tea marie i just walked around checking shot out and serenus so i called a guy and he was like three or four hundred miles into
his drive to a western state for christmas and i he was all sorry my dad now prominent i so turn around now and i'll be waiting for you it is dead silence in
the funeste eso he travelled the way back and i stand now a like spot for in morning now i was places pretty lickered up by then and just a few men but he's
like i am sorry i went less in yet peabody i'm sure i'm positive he never did that again that'll do it all as kind of a dinkies but you know i feared it was
the son ilse who suffers remember yet so it's the the the sualtem's when you're storest the warring with guides all the time he definitely start to pick up
saying as he can indicate i'll get out the guys esgaping up you know that's all i was noticed to win when things are going sideways like an a training
operation and you see a guy that start to step up you know that was always a good sign of his loose you is like he's goin to is going to handle so it's like
let's see train decent chastement that's for you what guys make mistakes and scooting up the you know the less you you more you sweaten training was you bleed
and more to doubt that one all right um next one tone you were there situations while in iraq when you disagreed with a leadership decision made by delay or
jocko if so how did you express your disapproval and were you successful in getting your point across em most of the time ninety nine per cent of the time now
i did not there was one big one that i really disagree with you guys on one my ah my request to keep the entire troop there for another year said he couldn't
and i raynor anyway we can't i i why will and i was really really really angry about that but ye i think i think is this a question here is is is from some one
that thinking that doesn't understand how we work it you know and at the bottom ideas i'm not coming down and going all right man this i i want you i who now
know we would just form our own ratell or former operation to her all kind of bouncing ideas of each other the best idea rises through the top i don't care who
would came from one of carefree from me tony from one of the new gushed mattered to me where the idea comes from a war the plan constraint the best idea to
rise the top that's where the best things about our troop was there was no one that was like trying to drive their own rich moruin iliaca now i i literally did
it here and i think part of his like you would meteita somebody operation i had it is you know we just didn't care to call the score you you that oseola you
know may be make this just man may be make that adjustment other than that cool what's executes so i think that's a little bit different then am then what
people would invasion as like i was long commanderies where does not operate like that now this is why i've said to people very flat even though their even
though the demilitarization is definitely a higher archer all structure i mean as the way it's organized there is a true the narrows you know leading patrons
in heresbatch the missile to commander then there's a a a troop commander or attacking to command a there's a a a ten coso there was a structure cusses but the
the this for is how we actually come to plan and stuff like that there is a mean some guidance but the well working as a team to do that and that's what and in
i would say not always like that in fact i know it otasite that because i saw the protons and other troops at and do different ways but ree did operations it
came from art commanding officer elsinore came all the way down to insane some of them were the red god of a tattie he may be the mission of jack it but they
wouldn't be telling us i go in here and all the whole costing one never that's not the way he works so i think that oh i mean this situations when you
disagreed with me as probably eat in one hand you could say never in another and you could say a million times the out your agnomen we shouldn't do that i got
an went not all we should put the reels in her hole a esto get point now yes it that can be voice it by saying i allude to is a alicia's good seed it i
gustabat that like a big so opera leadership i i know not i have a not inever appened and so if you don't have that kind of relationship with people number one
is it your own eagle that is getting involved cause that probably at that a good indicator if you're like will you not my sort of just one under stand on a
really really the wine not okay why not let me not sock is the letter that the attollit good i get i'll mamaei you did better youthe would not understand the
mission on so pretty flat organization we had an refraining perspective we have sat right if you had to pick one driving territorii that separates a dominate
alfitte guy from every one else want in the teams what is it well guiding you got another but lower people ought there don't that lake pretty much every one in
allemao know to go it's like nobody just up the argument ever you know and usually it's you rattle in her fighting and this is an always works itself all but i
think a one thing i retaking about his gimmicks like lot of people in the teams i call it a gimmick everybody's good at everything pretty much in does the job
but some people like just insane sky divers some guys are just phenomenal rock climb or some guys are just like swimming sons of guns you know a runners and
wrestlers and fishplates and the tinsome people just in the guns and in the that's their passion some people who are just phenomenal divers and all and i was
in it was always pretty good at everything but not great yea could not run everybody i could not fight everybody i could not swim everybody could not shoot
everybody and i just i i think mine was like tactics and just being as high as i could and it is i i had i may have remade it look easy but it was in especial
i got older now fonbine team guy when you are forty four you know and you get out eightieth there like a bit retinospora kind makes sense he if you the funning
about that is um because the teams no team guy ever wants to give any credit to a different time i so some one as i eyuivel good shot and in somewhat
immediately by a helvetiorum that i had heard a soul that i always just like some of the ways lanternone going in every thing how did you work you know did you
and if they can't figure something out will be like being an whatever fucacae walk away at what we going and yes the houdon want thing i'll say it is pretty
congiurate up like one of the things that that separate that wouldn't what when i worked you for some one all you like being humble i like men that's that to
me is the characteristic that you can tell the guy is not just a good thing i beterouge when he's humble about what's going on and when i was tonguester and
that now he saw this to the guy that would come through training that thought they were all bad as and thought they couldn't do anything wrong they were always
bad like the neoteric ray and in the guise that war say hey madam you don't look in for the training i know we negotiation and a lull you let me go now when i
can do better those guys they're takin notes they always kick as they always ask a job yet so that being humble is a being humble too as i i read a bunch of
after action reports you know and my tours over there about different situations different things and every time they were well written by some guys but was
you always carry this you always do this never do this always do that and i kind of took that on account when i rode him like a serious after action report for
that the potman i wish it would save it too is a pretty good a first not wormius this is well worked for us in these months the environment this temperature
with this mission set and what we had to do don't use this is or he said that some o do what every time no mean uses a guide at every everything the team is
the toolbox he picked it out when you need it and you use it he put it back away and if it's sits in there for five hundred years it still worth having because
they'll time i pull it out you on to ruin need it with weenah next one in the team is what were the biggest reputation builders or killers the infant don't
know in the teams and i guess it's the same anywhere but i definitely is true in the teams man your reputation is ah is everything it's everything and people
know who you are they know if you do something stupid in a really stupid in the teams and the everybody neverbend was eckener one knows it for ever yea a like
or if you have an accident of this charge with meaning meaning you shoot your gun when you weren't supposed to and there made me some seerious where there's a
little bit of leeway on that but if you just do it in a dumbarton everybody's can no about it freethal you might as well get attaching on your form is as i had
an aid on this day that ye anaboa if you do something stupid you know something that could you get you in trouble like this dumb ye a your your probably going
to just every one's got a know about it hereaways going to say about it if you get if you get fired from a position and you happen to knock it kicked out of
the teams everybody's going to everybody knows i oldest get out you see how it's it's it's it's hot community when it comes to reputation to a else statelified
brutal like you you know every in like a small town to every body knows everything even though you you're on other coasts ye a man i've done a late stupid ship
in my career and i was a jerk of an indutum staff and been an idiot and everybody knows all that ye tell ye me most the stuff that you you did fortunately is
kind of oh it is like on the occasional oh oh we only got talk on a fight at this thing an you not oh yeah douthat's almost you know ixpect acle and the thing
to do with uniforms and stipulate to do with like the things that you can can't do or you can't get away with her to effect your reputation a bad way wouldn't
have more do with how good of a ten intermit you do that in all her i or it has to do with it it's something that hit that helped or is it something that is
operational or not benintendi operational everybody know had like if you i mean even like you'll hear about a guy that gets lost in buds in in you or like gets
lost going through the initial training pony got to the team you gets on land to an land navigation and gets lost and asked to get rescued on intastines stick
with a first ever like the like i remember you know i remember getting like three brief about some guy that i was getting a platoon about where this guy got
lost how stupid i was and it otoit highway he could have walked the highway in a hear the cars every one just made us fectless and the kid got out because i
ethelmaer out of six is hallooooooo head so this question is actually is actually a decent question because the definitely does play a big thing so for me and
it's the basis for a lot o nick names etendue sur an tried something that's a excessively stupid or or or just have bad lot like one of my favorite ones is
bushinesh accost but he he like was perhotin it with first got to the teams in the new guide and in his periere landed in a nuhat kind of bush was as who's
mahometan of a bus with forenoon paris you can all pay a up and he get it stocked there the gineration awesome and i did have her seven bush and landed in the
brother of one thing there's team guys where you don't even know what the real name was actually i was kind o like that nobody knew what might have leonteus
mind was his joco and it would just met with my civilian nick name when my parents gave me but the funniest was it was a gun and i'll distell the story there
was a guide you know omasius i do but a pot anyways is name with owatawetness i always like you know i knew i was out and then he was a heavy weapons
instructor so he called him beg haulteclere big alift count tilsit cow bell of an idea of big outfit tecali for like eight years right and one day i'm like ah
you don't were talking and i would do it some were going on a trip as i know is a name as and a couple put to me an ideal paper yelled let i finally got so
that worshyppe work within his to was also a roopit not me roloffin real quit his aunt sent say much and i went to m doing the paper work and i go he man and
like looking at the lisele it's going i go hayonotes you want on the strip with us so and he's like he's like ye yon going and i go ah you're not on the
manifestor it he goes none comes over repoint out his name and his name is keith yeaning i go i go broke i go your name is keith i go you on that i mistake you
and woleecha because one that's my name and i don't by touch your name was how i go his oloniae and he goes he goes no house not my name of and i don't i go
long o what do you mean why doesn't every single person call you out and he goes flew because well in my first platoon an i was out doing something it was
night and i was i guess i was looking round and move my head a lot like an hour and so the distorted call me howl and then over the next pontoon that changed
from hour just merite all o how and then his name was out and i live not that's oniscus name was out and and he never corrected i just you know very whatever
you call me out colours said performed in so that's big olifaunt you know what his reputation was to day question of repetition his repeats also because he was
solid he was a hosford of redonda i was now that was to nine five oh okay when was in the cool ah but but you know sol reputation so for me and i i guess i
mean it's it's what you do operational is what build you reputation and if you're a good shooter if you're not you know shooteing um not but you know if you
can patrol well if you have good field graf all those things but real things it's kind of cool that's what's kind cool that's one thing that's in the teams at
it's hard for them to a race is not cereal reputation it has a real amritasar or tea guy that the thing that all these people that that kind of come and go in
the teams that it is may be is not they're not real realty guys you can't say that you know and we guys get some guys get shot blown up you know a wounded son
can operate any more is that we be thrown to the wolves they want to stand and panes we keep him tell faroese become phenomenal instructors and out and just go
on to great things now i a god they were going to keep their if if rigoletto say they would keep him a cassopolis oh your blind colegiata work for it you have
got me pity doesn't mean i can listen to me when i say go to the yeah oianthe contrary that obviously the killers are when you ah when you screw up stuffed
operation if the other thing is if you are an arrogant egotistical guide ye be every one's going to hate you dutangada as long because if you are you cos there
are some guys that are to rate skill wither great operators but they're a holding their error did they don't listen to any body they are not humble and those
guys that have a bad reputation to they got wind is on the encanopied you got to if you want to evolve at all but i stay alive you know me you know all right
next one what makes a great end he inflict not the military on into a non commissioned officer the military's broken into two basic basic ah pathways of
advancement and of existence there's officers who are like the managers and the leaders and then there is the list ogus which are the grunt but then as they
get promoted through the rent you vegel become once called the senorita a visor to you don't to caietan about hollywood moves the way they always categories
these two as you got the young junior officer fresh in vietnam fresh out of the exam and then you got but salty old gunnery serge that's the toastest entente
was let it enlisted side that and ah enos they always say is like a back bone of the of the marine course the into the the chief russel teams is the is the
statement right cause the chiefs regie that teakettle at a sou team spec in the old days been a seeming for eight years so you are the continuity and you get
raised so the question is it what makes a great and see and who is or was the best and so you know well familiar what makes a great antiochis i don't think you
can just do it i think it's sir i'm not saying i am a great uncouth i did have great ansioes who taught me lot and they brought me up and he put their foot in
square in my racked on when i needed it and they also took their time to explain things to me when they could see him my eyes i was not in my head yes but i
was really i didn't grasp it now i'm going to do it this way and i would work round my place better word learning disabilities and cause i mean some of the
stuff you can't know your new guy who like boeotia and the like not done relax his haydon that leadership style when a long way with me and her i never forgot
it you this the best in sealyhan or ever known man is so many guys that it is not one and i can't say their names because you know it's not clear i mean but
that's a good thing about nicknames sometimes now i think go i'll have to say over all a mister facilas probably the best an i read and i he was just a whole
school hid as son of a bitch but he was fair as all hell he was fair and you always knew you where you stood with him and i won that that's what i tried to do
weighton like i didn't want to go had had had and then polly taking other direction and just be like easy on the guy so they like me you know i care and i
thought that was much easier in a better way cause mission man as how he should look at things but the mission first and take care your men but sometimes if
you have to sacrifice men and you got to like cayuga die for this mission right rest not coming that's the limitary as it's the paper but yeah mister fack was
probably passion for me yea so that's another when i talked about you and me coming up in the teams and paying it out sane people and being the same but we
were no come together but we did have this scene guise alas does break the same as raised as both and for sure mister fack as you you are can him was a huge
influence on me i mean huge inflate on me everything i was or am iterating i wasn't at emslie is for being professional and like he will go to that all was
taken from fact i allow it was tatooed per cent it and this seriousness that he put towards the job like the the the gravity that he put towards the job and
the gravity to put towards the operation of stuff that we just talked about with for as you know the things that we said makes up your reputation that's what
he cared about a a anything else i aquaticae about in so for sure working for him and that's that's again that's why when we actually started working to get on
this realizing this right now i mean i guess it made sense of it before but when we started work on together that's why we had the same thoughts and vain right
everything was like of course we gonna do that it's like wood bounding back one time somewhere in iraq and i just went even have to say nothing need chilther
would just like the cover and lovingest thing real quick but ane wanted best i had another sea daddy i mind i can see his name can rest in peace him farrell
tim thar's a big big invocation he was in he was a wicked good operator i i can't i don't know anybody as a tougher guy in the teams is just i had hit on guy
and just this really good dude men really good guy and he was also at every everything everything up ye good he was an ought amit everything he did he beat you
at everything out he would beat guise in the swim and he wasn't wantin and they looked maniacal athlete yet an gilsey the way you he would is not like a guide
that was like well you know an timmy or count in to day's not an oothout anything son of a gun he is that oh just just get after us ampliatie yet in farol
first sure was a great gaitered he as he certainly was all right anything about accuracy of fire in combat verses volume of fire alterest his wonted here
toniello soldiers emarine and kingussie from all the time and they always are lessening and now with that at this point but i hate to say it but in america all
right are police forces need to start thinking about this kind of stuff because there's bad stuff happened america were giserie and legite warfare and so
talking about the accuracy of fire verses divinitie well i know it's a double instant slipped the clan depends on the situation but i could tell you the number
of times i fired a rightful and a solarian em fool and fourteen and all that you know a sky on fort is big frigging goose egg you i i can't think of one
situation or if somebody said okay to you're going this room alone and his act guy's point guns you well okay roger had but you know but sometimes you know
volumine gets heads down hearing the street you got to get that fire you do go try to gain fire sperrity an if you don't have that you ain't really move in and
the set that point you're now you're not doing all the things you were tied a breathing you're just getting led down in that direction the cover your ass well
your bodies as sold you can move and making move um but accuracy firing combat you know in good situations if you're under fire in your putting wet down range
so you can move it's real nice to have supporting element in an elevated position there the ones combining these two and tess a pretty good example is pretty
nice no one about four blocks from you you got christie up there talky on the radio hold on sir you see i fall i like the window with a gun you like thanks
brother self peyou pretty confident walking down the street with at that point so now yet the eh the other thing is every we always have master you know fire
power with marfisa more forty sixes or night down the heavy volumes of fire and detained thing oh roger had was saying in here the other day who's in other go
know its past had men to a you and of the grown up with his teams and ah but he sent that they had four sixties it there fourteen men put tonight two stones
three dum four sixties and five stonestreet it was what they carried and aye so so eightyone interesting to the point like with our abolition but the guys like
all of our guns are a gunner's put sight put the cogs on the on the itwhich was yet partly for paid so they could tell to the shoetops further but also man
accuracy yet it's a for power scope yet now and then at night i don't maxina atter a leaftennan anyway so so if any one last thing is that you o'hagan now re
talking to you up i aimed at police officers but also also guyandot you don't have a limited ammunition now so you got to think about that too me me and my
brother just had this conversation and on he's like well i wish i can no concealed weapon carry in all scuticam revolver and he's got away gela six eighty six
stainless p replace now seven shot fifty seven i wonder where he you want a revolver i told him one to be at the head atheniensibus he's like an how she like
what i'm concealed carissima some speed lowers it like old jam is that always convenient no ill you know what you're not gettin a gunfight you're not if you
get in a sombre shooting you as a shoe him or you put down fire and you run it's not your fight some of the jack in your cawarden he put on your shoots but if
you know it's a night club shooting or something you you you blasting your way out of there that's it you not going to sit there you don't have a limited
amarinde the teams we in that was my biggest fear i would hate to die of lack a shootin back when i went to social we never really did run out we got low we
got well a few times but never really run out at scary that's why we kinderen on ah it owe did a lot of that where tyasen as standerton you know you got a
shoots if you run out then you go to her pistol if you are that you go to your nades whatever and then you just be ippeuein you know feringistan fire to lights
like and for gunnison after four mag you are start slow it down start thinking about round condescention saint then with the machine gunners start slow in a
rat's fired down nitial burst micheals and then go down to light you a shorter burst more time looking away you seeing cause if you're out there to hang in
with you as hanging you know and you got in hurons then guess what it's run time and nobody wants to rot that's just the just callemaoho all right ah next one
don't want his tony's perspective as an enlisted an older guy serving close under you as a younger officer so i don't know if this person actually understands
that were about the same age and had been in the teamster anthime and um we were more brothers then like anything else and then ah what was he like what would
you like to work for a compared to other guys you were under well that first pat that first time this pretty easy casimer you and lay with talking like we did
know who was chalky was i i can was walking by the office and sagamore where i stopped like half way through a step and i backed up and i went woodhouse yet
this new a gascoon der we don't know who he is what's his name then i got willing jocko jocko jocko was something like that and i ah we're all set and then
they're all like you now cause there are the two loathesome in life and like following me in as i had in my roadway about it let us go as like we're good to go
my way sure we get into lake yeadon he's used comment i be like to morrow it yet they all right if you tell you something be squared away to morrow and i sat
wyanokee guy and i like not as he is he good to go and i just looked at it went i gave not lulie polly to i know what i'm talking oftener later brainyou better
be on your game but me i'm goin to be hung over the alsatian other i know him freer but that and i what were you like to work for what what you like all this
night and the question is great recessed houris and how we think of it we think the same we would were like minded and ah we like we like to work we really
really will do jobs in her man and our people you know i hate say not love my man this sounds kind of water but i you know i did i really cared about the guy
and that was the best part of being a team guide i'm sure jack backed me up on that the absolute brothers yet no doubt about that no doubt about that i at all
a all right next one please expound in the early days when you and tony were new guise in the tears like a whole nother pot cast a okay go ahead well i don't
know as kind of a different time were new gustate very my first tuneer in a albinolike the first golf war and i thought it was lavengro we really didn't do
much in my potion and you know it something guys all over six months in the war started he was like a month or ever in hand was done blatent irawadi think in
the waiter stages in my career we didn't train his hard but the deportment and hen were still trained to hide but the deployment were hardely more work and
back down if you did it a pointment where it was like a training to pointment cause i was no war going on beside the boy bearleader's no war king guy is still
deplored the same often he and cause we need constantly be around the world case something happens and i but we did a while like had corsetlace lot more be
coniston's work which meant we didn't have vices so we had elpses which are letterario al carriers in ingots now we hamaneeno five calicoes and we do those
ridiculous swims and and he's long dies and do all men really like won like the higher the better min you all got a team the the puttin perspective you goin to
team guy back then a long emeralt leaner you know and then we did lot more run swimming you look at it like a team are now you go to the gym and woodlike gouda
wrastlers you know i mean they do every body's like like stronger and not cause you got to carry more shite do do a lot more direct action stuff but also we
petoot a trade gin and piety that in this silesian diego i did i know that and as we hung a lot together nobody was married you know i don't we had like
sixteen guys in my put on one was married her and he was the alpino one was now at we all hung out together all the time and we all wake lived in peril beach
they like yeast now people live like forty miles away in like every one's married and owns a house nobody on the house with having money and in boxes yet we
eat we have a house like five guys in their partment like one one couch and this disaster guy that you were talking about earlier than i lived in tahconic and
for quite some time we had we in our houses we had we only had one fours it be like if you like a tryout one for us how are we all had a acold go to van that
by another for i give jollytoast was one that was twenty so that when i i whenever one of the big sarrebrueck indite one was was just not you look if people
the eyes cause you notes this reputation and in of gesture get beat down to well you get as the lot o we o feet up we hazed and how you didn't you know you
didn't come in there thinking that the world owed you anything at all that now the only thing they owed you was in it as beating and you know we have some big
monster guise at the time to a ramaekers this one guy who you know a pie of biggest guy as on a morass name again just cause i don't want to jine ye in with a
gay one i am i'm checking it your ma matatini doing over there doing some pushovers something and i see this guy come out of the gym he is literally how alice
sick six taut the six six three hundred how i had a man uses a completely covering tattoos ane's walking it's about a forty meter walks in the back of the team
on building to the through the area where we keep the outporters and stuff and he's walking you lumberin right his lumbering along in about twenty meters into
this height he stopped an he's got a gal in a milk in his hand and he is the stuff a leg stops it uncorked the milk and just sit there drink half a gallon the
milk slowly put it back down put the lid back on to that lumbers that he as her waver but my gun morani's acides him eat me kill me and eat me and so that was
that was definitely the team on a thing when i got to one an i was every one was just big monetou mean badian they were kitten ready to kick your accident time
daily dose and in in i i you know i think you don't know days there's a word one on you know it in so the guide have a different kind of test to head of him
and not to an you know that's different kind of test and it's a harder test that it's it is that that's what we've got to go join team for him so that young
team guys that are coming in a fringing bad as all some absolutely and not i tell you what man people say whatever about what they want to say about the way in
the lanyard all this stuff man i've been to some hanging out with em ten guys especially after some memorials and stuff these young frogmen did the bad as i
that asked etat a ready to die or kill without question and ah so respect and am so glad to see where the teeth of teams maintains that always absol all right
if tony had the right for the history books three cops stories of chine example of b t t getting after it what would they be this give an give me one oh i got
everything artisans got a litter so many good ones um it's hard to say just one guy i know but ah it now i'm one time when me and not dover did that way that's
a yard centerpole those pretty hard to contain an i didn't bother me that was a bad thing that was that was pretty odd frank i mean this is a tactic with two
guys the two of us bringing up the rear of this with extraction you know actually that wasn't extraction as by foot of the wise of the peneplain but we kind of
that they rarely started like covering moving and them guys were just on a dead run but we had to stop goloplok a mile or water it was just terrible i mean i
was sweatin like a teamster man i mean i was just then clusias like at o'clock in the morning though and it's like a hundred and ten degrees out that would
that was pretty good i was a froont i ever go back to the old days with that we didn't see betucked but we should do some horrendous pomps you know hopping to
the civilian world means like marching not marching but portraying and and be latino at the map and we don't weede didn't bedroom the day so the blakeley
nineteen hundy or move out about nineteen thirty and i gets a wenaston at about zero five ternlet a cover i don't know forty cleckley go and a hundred pound
rock acite really calego who you think i couldn't been a plumber or something on oliver ate guy i couldn't have had like one to call in an all an all he you
know you were you kind of talk about the earlier but ah i remember of times were to you guys be out with field for two or three days and meanwhile while you're
in the field were spending up another operate on innovate target for a direct action mission and you guys got back an be like an we got a forgetory bore ronaut
hours so eounnush your guysboro change your dear it had now got the arondelles and our thirty minutes and disguises just torn and burn yet that nobody said lo
really say hinaus do it you know yet my whole that that put to that i had in that deportment i mean him gude be he and especially the sister's kids those guys
were you know we had to new guise with that the older guide knew he had the middle guise you know and you know you know spas and oh there's a world chucky
those guys in racks those guerbet as man he first or i mean they just they didn't they were the meat kind of of the potion and they were the ones that like had
to do like most of the work and you know the new guys helped them and the other older guys were more leadership as it on titan they still worked too but these
guys worked and they just let that rags that and just got after it good do i a after day a car ante after day after day i guarantee all them guys and i
couldn't keep up every one after artie again to all and guys who do well and the career cos defeatist i i do so you and they are all ticking as regular and
good for sure coniston decide what strategies tact is to use on a mission against an enemy curious about your fault process m well first of all the ad figure
out which we were talking about my experience in the savages that we slay killed shot a first of all it's better to shoot some one in the back so you know a
linonians where you can catch him walking away from me is always the best but front usbek you ten figured out a were talking about some so there we are to warn
you i thought he he says we know yourself in your enemy you don't not now don't need to fear a thousand bills will ever well i know myself pre damn good and in
my group pretty dam good and that time the real that stop and figure it out i fired i just hate the enemy will just hate him and that hate will few of my
passion to make the operation as best i can and work at the best i can and learn from the mistakes that the the the or count would that's that kind o when you
when you got that the kind of pyramids down and everything kind works itself out you know and you can't be afraid to try something different because an you
can't be afraid to bounce it off people that's what great about jocko who bound something off of them in only but yet that's good or i go no no way make ye
wouldn't let it go you know the i cannot want me through this again roger going to do that that that and ah i would also really when i'd let other people run
operations or i would work with other groups i would i would just kind o wait for when they glanced over something and i go up owaine ay go now what are you
gonna do there well you know words going to do this i i don't know i don't know what that means pespini to me well and they hadn't really thought about it as i
natchelly gitch in the mission plan is going to gay killed him but you can't you know you can't take a lot it time he plantoon times sometimes it's like a
right and a hat on the salt here we got to go where you're going strong like cowboys or when i go on the prowl windego in seafish entry be real stoutest mes
you can't sometimes it calls for a straight up punch him up on just mix it up and seat he up and all and that's easy to do as you lancashire till everybody's
show us where they go and yet yes i do now that answers a question but i ain't for my perspective i i mean and that you just kind of made it sound like a big
no big deal but tony was always poured over the imagery look in at the mass trying to figure out which ankle trying to figure out what best patron that's what
he's doing all the time just trying to an alias much of cudendae the best plan and and i think also many the experience level you know cause i said right even
even prewar pre nine eleven how many freakiest you and i do training of where we did all this stuff tolhouse is effected oldand so by it i begetter's really
even though these weren't combat operations you get of you we learn a lot from him and there was little to justesse had to make for sure but for the most part
which you learn how to do what you learn how to do as you wenhaston get him to do something it an you learn how to do that okay that that's then you okay you
want to do this go and how to take a group guyandotte do something it doesn't matter with that thing is i can get a group of guys to do something and that's
what's beneficial no that's what all that years of experience helped yellow with a dozen right necessarily help your men didn't help us with with doing the
specific mission that now now custonaci can't cover everything no i mean at that point i had three years as an instructor and land warfare and it was my eight
nine the pointment though i ithen know at puttenham's wherever a not much more i was gonna he now learned from another six months of training at re much as i
mean there's no real thing i was going plainer done this before you know it now kay o ye all right what was the most difficult thing you ever did is a seoul
when was the most fearful moment in your life well i get us a shalot and a day the choir's gotten out in the doyouknow the bombs in the wars in the killing and
stuff it's like i never ever bateta eye skye i beg or static lying jumping in the water jumping at night never bought any one bit you know not at all never
even was scared at all but i don't like getting on the roof and a man like a hate the nopoty foot ladder in a man left you know i work for a landscaping
companies sometimes rapping the man with like man the conoscenti i'm a bit afraid of it said that level and repelling off a building one morning in hong kong
he like a sixty story building and well repelling off and in going through a window and you got a training he get a shoot these targets and stuff and i mean
it's pretty cold but i didn't like it at all i i morning it was windy and a buildings actually moving and i looked down i'm going on repel you know i'm edging
over the side among the populous building and a people look like raisins you know down i and i mean that deal to say i mean i i got to go to the bathroom and
i'm hung over an i was like oh my god but i rather die than be called a posy of i'm going to do it now but i'd rather die than be a plus so that was pretty
much the manner forget that day and i was terrible the most fearful moment a most difficult thing i ever do the seal retire without a doubt under percent
retire nowlett verger her right tony favourite piece of kits in over twenty career what what piece of gear has advanced the most not a gooding nightis which
obviously it proved up to maunch well i'll get to my favorite piece o yer kit but ah evolution a be in no was a couple of things like i say boots but thing is
phenomenal we get such good gear and boots now also you got a look in navigation you i i remember the first gipsie used to call giant pieces of shitaya like
the size of an animal crate the the he thirty huge than they looked like a a telephone from the career war you know and ah but now a days it is bad as so you
know it he would go able positioning systems i mean and also communications the i mean your saddellike communication is absolutely fantastic and everybody was
in the military out there when we had all the old kicks and diana pad and the few remember that rears high frequency and we did lot of fond string enough in
tenallytown harrable literary literally stringing up you know eighty i would an tenassee you could make a communication shot to some other distance station it
more coat literally usimare ascolia absolutely good times but my favorite piece of kit i would have to say is any thing that you get in drive us back in the
day we didn't we didn't use any more ability really everything was on foot and so always do that and the a the three hundred would mag sniper i full suppressed
with a twenty two power night for scope on it is ewie good piece of cant let me tell you what i mean i can read you tasherie good budgeted get all right tony
would didn't number one quality that allows a leader to lead men into uncomfortable conditions and succeed what's uncomfortable iasus badeners tom such a
ration well i think keeping in your mind mission men mission man look guys or not paid to sit here is we got to do what's to do it yes ah it's socks sometimes
is bad but mission manistee they can that that's where paid to the bottom it is you fall you are as the guy body and were kingussie line bliatain has a lot of
waves in it well cause he'll be like a tony with the gladolia's this all right sounds good but at any human time if you go say tony this is what we're doing
rogasen that's it even if it means in cause if you lead by example when your humble and you good to you guys and you know you guys and you let them know you
but you don't wipe their ass and you don't take in a ship from him and they know you they'll follow you you know your humble and you make mistakes and met it
move on and i think that ah i know a few of my guys probably most of would fall me wherever we want you know and now i guess that's just because i never change
that was no they're going to get for me and it's about it steady at you have the other out to a big thing is to make a shiele understand why they're doing what
they're doing because i tony just said man we were going to have discussions about stuff and say hey this is why this withal what is a wife it is to this way
you know it's not just like a goin now there are situations of course where some one goes a go and exalt does now pagoda building he take us over there the
there's times in combat where you got to make those decisions you got to make things happen and that's when you talk that's wood it that's when the import
things that you just talk about having a man just trust right like i i just had trust in my god they trusted me that if i was to resume it was the right thing
to do and by the way if i told tony go take that building over there and he looked at the inset negative not now i knew he was saying that to me for a reason
ye called laodameia front of it reather was a reason why he was telling me that and where i can have that discussion bridoie to do it right right now i say
okewood i get out of here and he can't otro roger and an we'd go so man having that trust boldenough that trust through you know that humility the relationship
all that softest how you end up with a taunt that's how you really that's how you lead tony did you have the same attitude towards death as jocko were you
prepared to dine oh was i prepared dies in a second that is get at all i very way ah i really didn't have an atuat except for you don't make it other people
die the badges then i didn't care about them i didn't i guess i do human eyes them in my mind so wouldn't bother me because it onotarse just they're not people
there to target and you just back em and that's it and now i was was deathly prepared to die matifat you know i thought that would be like the end of my
courier a kind o but ah i thought it would be the one your career the anothuh there was a couple of guys in our case i was not scared and did there was a
couple of guys in artakanna i i did not think we're going to make it because they were just like a analambanein a speech in his fear cause he's a fired up
young kid that does not care about alleys not the other way for those you out there like oh you i didn't do his job he was like a yenikeui just guys that worth
so so far eupatridae even argistis there there wasn't one of them where i thought oh ye he's he wasn't ready for that right he will tidewaters those guys don't
wanted i'd love to have mere they would love to be here but at the moment a truth they they did what i would i would think they would go to gratitoode that i
say oh it's a shame or or anything like that because i was guy's had those attitudes of they were there they were they they loved their job they love doing
their job debelle in what they were doing and that that's the way it was absolutely all right tony's view on training mentoring into grading new guys into the
patonee i've been on the alpoieca i've been on the nottingas at and then on the new guy side have and the chief side of it an a i usually told the guy you know
your on time be motivated cause it's fun beloso that think like the silence me is a thousand times more night thought it would be it's a fucking basaiti
albertus men's club in the warld an a but i said he trying to build these guys have these guys build her own reputation you know confidence nobody has any
confidence in the first day at the team nobody um try to still conference in him and he is to tell me now should be seen not heard carrie a pedant paper beyond
time and shut the fuck aff nobody cares about any stories were you from or narassara you know saint stripes no vental that'll come out and yearns jutias
questions if you need to be on time listen do you jap dinah show the guys the rahway to do things and it's not the right way ye tell im out another difference
shelmadine did for me you know and they look and you look in their eyes and are just like roger but no you don't cantarono show me what i just said the beeka
just say you don't understand you know but that's about it try to be uh you know far willamet that's about it we byamce one thing i i say there is boufaroulado
being steady we had a situation one time when an i was as between chief and were working hard wickedeness suiterble rathan was shot to hell because it was just
googagoo and a guys are getting tired and stuff and he had a meeting about it and don't say anything and raw can just slow down a little bit and on it came
would gitimate bitch i'll to some time as you go go go it that things get in safe and you start making mistakes but we hadn't really made instaces at the
appoint my said the further perspective at this time like dabasenis twenty two twenty three years old i was like thirty eight and i go i used the nalegak we to
say you're only fast as the slow as guy and your patrol maybe the guy that's got more weight carrying more equipment so he sets the pace and i go ligouri with
that ever one a yeah now well we'll take a break when the oldest guy here gets tired and that o me and i'm not tired upset cateract go to work there like
oroose some of the new guys warn some one now yeena dot about that it's a leadin from the front i know it yet no doubt about it all right how does one put the
high of war behind him and his in in are you always searching for it still in other things ah the transition is villianie kind of i shall little i dedicated
terrible like this no action in a does no the ongoing and it who didn't like going to work on a undaring it was the best i mean and you know in that and and by
the way you went to work on sunday you went to work on ignoranter every oh like some of the gussetted no will be at the team were at me working out that we
were in of her dear there were to go out to bear that were to go all to retake it in extorting you give the same thing on sunday there were going on monday
that's what it is dicasteries about what else are you wonota would else you can do like a yegor one night told your friends all my friends or in the heat
nosologies you nothing so otha's it to act whatever failed relationship and had yes so ah the conneftively beatrice i my search in furnishings probably you
know or i don't know i don't at such a high question to a pouting perspective i mean i live in new hampshire on i work forty hours a week i do all right but i
don't there's no yelena and my life is like goniatites the magic the glue that held me together as the teams and on you know i got some good families back
there you know that that helped me out like friends of mine friends of my family and night the murphys now the daniels the downs is living there discantation
get the people back home name am sorry but ah no i get rily good friends that he tried to help me kind o but they're just have no idea like you know there's
one old team gubat that's nice from the seventies who hallandale to him it's like roger you know then as a sagamere thirty yes back there but it's a small town
and it's like my drinkwater a lot too so i'm kind of functioning that way but there's no on ah i guess i'm still looking for something but mister thy wars just
slake and i don't it's i think he could say it's the flocking bastile the best thing albert youknow and what you got done with a big fire fight like that you
want to go back and like wid that again and again and again of so much fun i mean even i mean it sucks it's hid but it's it's it's great i mariedetta about
like they say heroes right that made the real heroes the guys staring a post up there with minimal training that don't want to be there and still do their job
find american soldiers sailors marines no arm and whatever for us that's our profession like you know that's like we didn't even want to go home and like a
boderation ardan ah that's what we want to be so i mean how do you you don't just we do all that stuff for all those years there's goin to be sight of facts
you know there's gunae i'll care imeant going to go i don't go see it counseling his cause i think i'm strong enough that you know i can handle it but it's not
easy now you know it's like when people many people always come up an they say you don't thank you for survey that the ways say that another always say he was
on the sure course to a what i really want to say and sometimes if it's a deeper conversation i like to take me i forgot noiroufle i an't like you guys paid me
to do this like old lie when you're a little bit i ran around the woods and played military stuff and report came a fog put cold black pork on my face and
relations and unshapen and that's what i did all the time as a kid and then i grew up and i turned eighteen and then they sorted pay me money to do the same
thing i know and then they said odosanta guys just go kill him all a they will give you more money and then an so so people say thank you and it it sort of the
definitely make you feel like tam man i got so lucky that day i enlisted in the military i got to so lucky because it was like you know it was like a the
square peg found the square hole basically rag and that that's an a lot of tea guys are like and that's why when all the sudden escorte go gay can't use out
that square hole any more than for you there's a thing there and i think ye yeast yes and hoak yeah it's so true the service to me i want to when i was eight i
listen o seventeen when i when i was eighteen got out when i was with forty five forty four whatever and it never lies him me they always paid me and we'll pay
me the rest of my life and everything they set was true do this the gooooooosh peter's little things but over all the ididn't have to like figure out figure
out like a woman and that yes all wish you wash you about ship and stuffing you know and all that just part of whatever being re man stuffed but they never
liked to me it was always just really really good and so lilies not like that i mean i deal with people in for most part everybody out there is a good person i
believe but i get mad because of the mischief the military now i mean it's so misuse his crazy grab to a hundred thousand bad ass army soldiers and marines
governor issues and smoke these sons of bitches what are we waiting for i i don't get it cause but on the flip conelike we get a pay the death as sick as we
don't want our children to pay it rabbit you warm the flight the war that's what we got the muscle right now ourantur the crochet hopefully all change he
oilcan ah you know what do one more question here how do you keep your head in a game when one of your squaw is killed the you know well i think for me yet the
treat it like mission men in that order and to me there's no use on the milk is on the floor there's no use crying order you know oddest you know defusion arry
went off okay what you got to do is try not to lose any more you mean gay now you just got to do the mission with the dead guy and i know that sounds may be
cruel some very no time to sit there and mourn for do any of that you have to complete your up that's a does i am this plenty of time to mourn his punitive to
figure it woarn or what didn't go wrong or whatever happened when your back that hoops one and that's why we train like that we train a were going through
golding they put a guy down i just step over and clear the house because you don't want to get don't more than one killed and just have to do it even trained
and itinerates pisition it's very high not to you know you can train all your life but with something happens like that very hard not to scotomy god and got
somebody killed you know what happened when appease i take it very personally because it was one of my guns and i racked my brain for a long time and then no i
figured i will that well you know i just got to do my job bellidereii can't let the rest of the bet the guy's down i can't let myself down in my teamhair so i
got to do it i got to do to get out of there and not get out of there but completely off and then figure it out then take care of his best we can and have a
lotteree and that's about that's why i can answer that bel yet you know i i remember a after markdale and he was an obviously estait yew'll kill me racketers
guy that ever worked for me to go killed and i remember a couple of days went by we actually did the memorial ceremony um in lecoup days went by and i was kind
of trying to figure out what to say to the partons specifically what to say to your parturit hand i was sort of a and i realized what i was doing right when i
was doing was the the only thing i knew how to do which is or i and finally i remember i was i rather i that's what i wrote down on a like look mark came into
your pretendin i said hey marks the best mother facer ever yea he will and i do facinorous right now and act you remember as i was talking i started getting
emotional and i i stopped and i was getting a little choked up and i stopped talking i was destryin to get it together then you are sitting there and you like
he mametka he and i was like jack this is what i'm going to do when the work yet and this what we're going to do i work were going to work you know when it
happened i was thinking about that i i never ever once shed one tear and i started getting right concerned like to ave anything my feelings at all and then we
came back from that to pontonier may be i don't know six months later something it may not sound like it may shock you right i used to like cats he silicates
you know you as seem like a cat i like dogs to you all i just me my governor i can and my cat died and i bawled like a little baby for like threehour had just
i think it was just a point me waiting for the come all ye and it okay cause your king guy around that stuff all the time people getting named shot killed and
blown up and you know and then they condoctors in that i got think reno's kind of deep and stuff but wotever i'm not really that deep of a person and it is
came out i was like you now that's kind of cool so maybe alaister like behind thing a little too to busbridge i be that about all we've got for the night and
he dayseye for asking those questions tony you've got me gitting out you want to say any clothing comments now i just shot out till my my chums and i all my
brothers and the teams and you know all the people that know me my family and everybody and he thanks for being so nice to me and the teams thinks torbin so
nice to me let me do all those wicked cool things you know and ah jacopins frame so good to see him a brother all ecco pleasure in the just just phenomenal
they know you don't know how many people watch you show watch this well what fires me up the most exact obviously the military guise on the team guys and a
keen guys that are you know our brows better like any man that was great all ye i learn and i that just gets me a that's why of doing this man yes that's why
i'm doing this and ye that's thatshire's i mean in having you on here obviously is ah is phenomenal so um everybody at his out here that's losenes thanks were
listened the poncaser in it if you do want to support the potato little bit at a charles seldom quickly had it do it actually like actual i do have one o woman
question do i adantino i'll can't you like a hard guy and eliptical and might be kind of an biggest ion but like that example he say it was real hot and your
not even drinking water you drinking coffee in colinette like why is that inhales it it's a spectrum ride like a lot of pet like some people they can be
bigmore in old ten miles no problem all this stuff but they get in certain kind of discomfort physically or whatever they're done or you get these beguer
whatever they miss one meal their dunragheedaghan oyes to you like the roulette i was pale creontes like this fighting rankine cunatai us like being hung over
and stuffle i mean we'd be like hanover go work he work of three hours is so these guys with i knew gussie they could never do that i so we're kindlike bottom
peters so unsheeted with it whatever it i'll i won't make a lenitive that any more when i work i need to drink water ai'm not used to it it was i i was there
were some kind of a genetic component like right like like i i freely admit like i don't sleep a lot right and i understand that is not just cause i i'm just
toss it's because there's some genetic component in there that doesn't require a lot of sleep in any other and you know i have one of my atrottin of my
daughters i'll go to bed like a leven thirty shall be awake and now wake up at fortheringay awake like she's genetically she does in neelie's know i'm kind o
like that too and they're so just why i for toniest ing genetic about the water and take because i mean i did petroleuse with you in yeoman i'm fairly hard but
i need water you know i would need to carry more water than any and you don't never never would i be like a bitch about it like but no you know i i i i
wouldn't need like twice as much water as one would he end i don't wait twice as much i mean i'm whatever i or may be for you forty pounds ever something like
that but so there is some genetic compose that makes you need less water makes me need for these amount of one he so i don't hear also i spent the whole land a
time an island ye ye for the year a height all and i'm not like that now maneater but even leaving over all above him bound just the water situation where and
you're like this to a lot work kind of talking about this work do you think that you don't like if you just sit around indoors and after while you're like
broad got to get out i a a lot of people that not like that the tithe opposite dislike dannosa lot goin on outside a bit o stayin doors an beneven being tough
strong is allowed people right that is it and does it does this kind of fall in line with why you took to the team soul god atalantic not look colyton i would
help it i'll tell you again going back to give credit were read it do man to people that we will raise by the same people lakeman those guys they didn't
complain about anything they showed no weakness ever ever be ever nothing like oh you're tired in you never hear a guy save is tired ever never no no ah you
don't hurt doesn't matter todaro en something no use be quiet that take on a shut out the antha's insuring up that way and i mean it was blatantly obvious when
you got the team scientiae you you just now there was no no this don't complain about anything just beat just suck it up oh this sock yeh don't even admit that
a socon ever do that ye necessities that's probably the best way to explain it he that and make ididn't have anything else but that like a said it wasn't a
best shoot or ellisees guy but he i had that i always had that i remember one time we are training and you know how like after a round is done he like a lot of
people and outfooted you just yeour back and laid on and get your rest you know we want to apron white i long time with to your eyes off your enemies soutar
late the attitude you like you look a little tired there almost like it in when you first kind o started coaching me up a lot erani you look a little tired
there but wasn't a joke do i kind o like as if you really wanted to say prodent do that right there is like stand up walk door like showing weakness like how
like how you do that that was really the tone that was so that i make a lot of sense for it there but that being i think he goes i feel like he goes a little
bit above him beyond just havin skill war or being really good at beable to tolerate baitali just like are you saying i think you know a few ekagrata there
iaowania little bit of pain to show him a live kind of thing i absolutely but like an our case i think it can be catered kinegils that we are a were long a
taksali masticate wants who unowhat this dear frog have quinine if it literatus put to so hard a hundred body eye but we are lucky ye and lucky but i i like it
imperial about earlier i mean all the guys that we talked about mister faciende when he we will come up in the team he was for six forty seven years old he was
of all broken he eat o broken knees broken ankles guess what our on a six and a half mile run i at every single time and what were the complaints none not one
and i ever one just just crush every one and just be actually like a like mister face wouldn't he wouldn't crush people on the run but you seem hobbling ye or
cross the finish line and you'd be like that had to hurt so bad but he did up whatever you pull tape on it while i i never fell out of a helicopter broke my
heel bone on halloween day and i deployed and well i say one over before i reply said the poet o mine an he i got i got a ham at i cut my cast i would the bull
cutters and that wasn't a good idea ah i remember the mass casaman he be he is lady wanted natures go to go to go verses so endeared down a hallway and i'd see
him i walked perfect a amalfitan hurts so bad i you say you doing a stanistreet with him for it go good roger i age going to bath to me going the head
gugenheimer i mean i was still hobbling and we deployed at just the just kind of went away no way i was missing that no way way eliciting most of us are like
that may be to begin with let me be taught like out of it because you don't i mean even in everyday person if they they do something kind a hard or work out or
even on now something like people ill recreation will be like a thing on a run a marathon or something like that so when they do something hard or kind of
painful or some kind of adversity and it's done you feel good i think that's a natural ringlike people like like like like cool scar you know that kind of
thing but i kind of feel like and penalising stuff from the as an outside a little bit here a kind of seems like those shackles of kind of being trained out of
that just didn't happen for you guys then and gisli you you know by a mere viego turning to the other way lay yahooing you know you guys just held on to it you
know i ollie it just a hotherstone's no doubt and there's a bunch of bunch of bad as for augmenting the t yes that's all i ain't you know you know you can go
talk to him rise ary soldiers toughest rolica not lookin so when when he is living here were rolling did you let that thing that cat is like this sin when you
just work out a wiolin a yantarap rabeira ed on my lowly so he gets that by the way and he on it's just from his wrongest friend grown up to to to is best
friends bonaparte gus i tell you there letter oh nice so he's we're wrong you did say he's like going every day of just all days like a noon just doing did you
say he's not he's kind of quiet you know he's like oh we're all done we've been done hard day then like snow the guys who showed up later whatever they are
there still and of a like you an all takasago like that so he never says no then nectitis there is other doctor what of the next week he's like you know that
merapi had a into in a lot of physical out polite and all this is as like a declared lashin it no but in exactly what i'm saying but but no ally that to stop
sigistan wall their training and he's as i no just keep turn yet on he noontide are member one time not he said i call in pentit are he said that but he didn't
say i'm done rolling on on ikey looked tired let and had ye also messlinoleum ah all right and the other questions from malgares now that's it we can um within
go to support i know is radiovisor if you want to support this is hogan in a we talk about getting after it a lad from time to time and the supplementation is
not a formal weakness would your greed tone i would agree right supplement right bets supplements because now the supplements can be kind of lace on it
fortunately some one or on twetwas asking me about a sunetoi oh how does it work in all the is a thing this is i know that it helps or i've heard from credible
source that it helps with oxygen and a utilization so you don't like intensity that you make kind of a prolonged to whatever but you can read on it on the
website they have all the like to act so literature like the tenants steffanone i know an so it's a legit we all know its legit think that's kind of common
alleged by now you need ten per cent off if you want supplements on it dogholes jocko to flash jack get a worry bar as well my my suggestion let a self on the
next way amazon said he shoonoon like we all do pick through the website are website jacobites up come his little link there little banner on the aside and am
i now look you alas or go to amazon through there and of a chorus so scribe to the pot cast on i tones and you to do more video to company and of course
joculator if he liked you me sir so we ah we have we did it i think we expended a lot of mental energy making sure that the shirts are good to go a sister or
as you d say kindest kind adoye but no old wuden't meaning not deserters we said so will genauen layers on you know and you holt's not like he just says he i'm
coolroone it's it it says something and then there i mean something as well right where if you do know what i mean do you just don't know that's one layer you
don't know about it you know this would have couple tarsomeness three just say they're not just normal she and had their quality is well just the good as he
can now judge for yourself as far as how they look jocko store dot com he like complete in a shirt so port that way or a mug bersicker i'll ever parashar or
rash gorges so new things rasadio know already rasheed biking diving swimming surfing body boarding across fit any pet outlyin lifting renee mobility is
actually better in contenir that like i know that men and egisto laughed but not handelian did good and to day you andy on his viginti you heart represent the
at wasn't superfities a bracket by the way as if he erioration he hooked thin and i representing and ached in fact have to persic the what we're talking about
the seventy words seventeen nineteen the sant dear romarino as he and i a wild it might a bossin like opinion of the seat of high to all his clean when you
were the rather i am a blemmyan tremolino know of secretaries have a doctrine in browsing yellowthroat and i okay so new stuff also we have patches i have
telkoennes you know tis like this gination then women stuffed as well they take up a allcot you were going to do to shirttail thank you less for them the nude
she none yes there it is that's the stuff maybe some more some more cool stuff you know the seasons are changing so well put some our stuff on their fears like
dots cold noteware gear but sentially you get it done yes but there it is ye support and thankworthy supported don't if you want to get some of this goodness
right here a little bit of a pomegranate white key a valable on amazon dot com jockie tea the only thing i drink other than a water and milk so jump on the
train also if you haven't a opotee ownership yet which we my brother lay babin roe which has a tonation to night automaton and are time you heard about the
charley button chief for carleton neast does the guy was running it and emathen ah you can put up the hard copy did you copy or the audio book in the late and
i actually read in october twenty if in twenty first and santiago california if you're a leader or you want to be a leader come on out to the extreme ownership
must stir we're going to teach the principles of combat leadership and were to get no weeds on the tactics of how to actually employ them is one thing to no
one but you got on now hollywood poise all the battles you all mistreatin business world or in life so register in the coming gittit and as all ways if you
want to keep kicking it with us echochee and myself were all upon the inter wants twitter instigat and bat face book yet exercitatio charles i at jackwell i
don't think to me has any of that stone no autotoxins esthetical ye can just don't contact me dot canada to all the motivated topers out there especially first
of those in uniform military law enforcement fire fires ents thanks for what you will do thanks working hard for training hard for living hard and for fighting
hard and for a whole being the line and the rest of you folks out there the rest of you troopers in the work force attacking your daily struggles smashing
obstacles keep doing what you are doing and doing it with focus in some ferocity and finally to tony thanks again my brother for common on the show thanks for
the years you put in training fighting and leading thanks for always being there to support me no matter what no matter what yes i thanks what you did for me
for the task in it for the teams for the navy and for the united states of america and you know tony is one of the many veterans from every war who remains in
the shadows who seeks no glory coded what he did as his duty for country and for his brother on his left and now on his right so to all of you veterans like
tony the true quiet professionals thanks to you warriors who had set the example of how serve in of course how get after it so until next time this is echo and
jacko and the original detested thanks brother did not said she in roger roger out
