this is jacopo gasped number forty two with the others in me joaille bideing air good evening now he in part cast number eleven we brought on lace baton who
was the charlie putting commander which i had come upon a task unabused obie lanison my brothers guy rope the book extreme ownership we have so that's late
charred ptomania he was on that first poast it out about a bunch of things but one of the main folks ousanon versation was some of the brothers that we lost
more lee who is the first he killed iraq we talked about big holes ryan job it was gravely wounded in remodeled her died after complications from a surgery to
repair those wounds they in finding we talked about christie who was also in charlie petion was the lead sniper in point man and who and it up riding to book
american sidebar force was you know charmed into a very successful move and cress as you know was senselessly murdered as he tried to help out of a fellow
veteran and all that pot cast weddin' talk in any depth that all about might be monster who is another one of our brother seals from casing a bruiser whose
also killed remodified know mighty was possussion meadow of honor after he smothered with his body in order to save three of our other teammates in one of the
reasons i didn't want to focus on mike during that potass is because my you was indelible to as opposed to charlicoats to petonia unit charlie in delta and
charlie was lafe was the portunma er in tone a friday he was on the pocasse he was the the potion chief and before i went and talked about miki wanted to bring
somebody from delta platoon on the boast salette bit thicker than it sounds because most of the guide from delible tone are still active duty and the ones that
are actor duty all there not around i couldn't get get hold of them or if i did i hold of them they they were benzeor i i they were out of the area such has
been hard it's been a challenge but i i did want to wait and finally an to day we're lucky because i got one of my monomeg brows here guidbye name i am jeal
who was the assistant baton commander indelible tone passing a bruiser sealed ten three but i wanted to start off to day by reading a speech that i gave that
one of the ceremonies that took place when mike was a warder the metal water in this was not the ceremony that took place at the white house with president
bush which actually the entire to of passing a bruiser did attend that and it was awesome but i gave this speech at a navy ceremony that took place i think it
took place later in the day or perhaps the next day at the navy memorial in washington d c and a date was a too senior naval officers in in attendance and
basically the whole of the senora he of of the of the navy was there dulditch ef evaporations in the sector in the navy and there was a bunch of other metal
vane winters there including a couple other seal medal of honor winners and it was a a very fitting day and he's a great altorfer me to be able to give this
speech and heretic ladies and gentlemen it is obviously very humbling to be here to day as it was humbling to be on the battle field of remote with my fellow
seals and the two two eight preceded combat team the iron soldiers and then the one an a d the ready first combat team which was formed up by our brothers from
the army navy air force and marines and it included such howled units as the first to the five or six band of brothers the one three seven bandits and the
three eight marines i met my monster we checked in to seal team three as a new highly mode of aided young frog man as we trained prepared to deploy to iraq
everyone learned that mike was incredible person he was gifted at everything he did hard working funny and selfless he was the ultimate team mate the altamont
friend when mike died a picture of him circulated in the news he showed me in his cocoon maiden the war torn streets of remote shrouded in a mist of greenish
yellow smoke which was used a mask their movement from the enemy that picture says so much mike's gun is at the ready his face is calm almost smiling despite
the obvious chaos in danger around him remade time was the epicenter ency in iraq a city filled with peril the hardened enemy was bent on destruction they fall
with ruthlessness constantly on the attack with machine guns mortars grenades and aids brave men died around did every day and every day brave men continued to
push forward into the fray for those of us who were there that picture of might captures all this in the picture his brother seals are near by but might ease
out front i have looked at this picture over and over again and it speaks to me as some one that had the pleasure of knowing my ears a friend and had the
honour of serving with him on the battle field this photograph tells me a story as i look at that picture i hear a voice in a humble but confident tone this
voice says to me i am michael mounser i am patroling through the streets of remote it is a city devastated by war pull it holds cover the rubber robe the
buildings burned out cars litter the streets i walking just behind my point man i am ready my eyes sting from the sweat my gun an gear or heavy but these
things do not bother me there is no comfort here but this is the life i have chosen and there is no other place i would rather be a michaelmas i pray and i
believe my faith is my shelter my faith is my strength fear thrives in this place but fear is no match for my faith faith conquers all the word of the lord
proofs true he is a shield for all those who take refuge in him lord protect my brothers above all else you have made me ready to protect them i am michael
monster i am for away from home i miss my family i miss my mother my father my sister and my brothers everything i am is rooted in them i want to hold my
nephews and nieces again i want to make them smile and laugh but i am far away from home instead i smiled at the iraqi children when we passed them by when we
encounter iranians i treat them with respect and dignity i know the importance of family because there is nothing more important to me than my family i michael
motor i love my country my fellow seals and the men men fighting alongside of the men fighting long side us in the streets or infantry men grant i know these
drawn are not just soldiers and marines but fathers and brothers and sons i know because my father and brother were also grant proud marine riflemen we are
fighting a determined enemy but we are strong our strength is our brotherhood soldiers sailors airmen and marines fighting together a brotherhood bound by
sweat and blood and tears together we live in dust and dirt and filth and death death is everywhere many of my brothers have fallen mark is gone but we fight
on for for the men to our left and right we fight on i am so proud to be part of this band of brothers i michaelmas i am ready forged by faith and family
moulded by belief and brotherhood i have lived life to its fullest i have not looked back i leave nothing but love and i have no regret i michaelmas i am the
frog ran on the high ground and i have given everything for you and that was the speech and i did my best to share my fault about mighty then amounted have an
you paul with me to day like i said the former a system become commander from delible tone to sharon stories about ramadan about mike in about asking the
bruiser and about himself and the lessons that he learned over there and how he carried those lessons to civilian life and the kind of changes he faced there
so nepaul my brother welcome to the show thanks to come in on that her happy brown it's an honour to be here an you know the main thing within it that speech
or member when you gave it my hope in paraday is that whatever i do here to day it honors as a legacy of our brothers asked answer were i will git well get
into plenty of that but in order i hate to do this because everybody does this when they start like this type of situation and follicular pick up live you know
he wheresoever read so ah that being said antrew so were you from or myron new england new hamper you don't want viseetations is on in other new england e
that's right if i don't get home voice from texas on here i'm going to get a nihilist to hear an about it you got to be real hard to grow up in new england let
me tell you in cold dew who have so so so you grew up in new england and and by the way rosettes listened on the pot cast what do you way one one fifty five
one fifty five so the the the image that everyone has of the big navy seal is not for small nor their foes come in every shape and every size and andrew comes
in the smaller side for and ah so when how did you act so so what would you have her heart had to your positive what made you decide that that was what you
wanted to do yet you know i first of all i'll have always been the count of person that like tell me i can't do something and i'm going to do show you so i
mean things like oh or in high school and some one says were talking about like the boston marathon and i like up immaterial do it marathon of okay watch this
redeposit ought um but you know probably saw a movie because i know an ale growing up there wasn't a lot of information out there about the silts and so how me
about it right aye been less for an old yale i now so there wasn't a lot of formation but somehow probably saw a movie and at a breidenback and then you
started to do some research and found well first of all i ilse my immediate family am uncle's grandfather all served the military so grew up with that so
strong sense of a one in to serve my country and always had a sense of one to protect people who couldn't protect themselves so i was drawn to that kind of
line of work then began to read about the celtis and at least from what information i had to bailable it seed like it they were the best of my carwitchet than
that's what i want to go to anathoth you know that as you in its infancy as a case young kid but then man and just got on it that like a bull jug bulldog on a
poor job and just i mean all tunnelin went after it and you had you did you go to college did you ray have that decision your mind when you went to college oh
ye by unerringness you knew all that do you know who are or to say i did oressa the thing is is that i didn't know i didn't know anything i mean i don't know
about it even to her arts was i didn't even know what in listening was i had no clue no wood no no exposure i just knew i wanted to be a seal so you know but
we sat looking at going to college and i went down and i looked at vanderbilt university among other son hopkins are paco's engineer major i knew nothing and
alternating to this almost like job fair kind of style thing like welcome check out the school in her skin need to form his course got a picture of like the
navy see frog man coming out of the water over the beach and was like it was in with a realistic picture of all pirates what we do every day of the right and
he was as he was always solicitous he so will you go to college we pay for college and then you go in the navy and i bet you can be a seal through the program
is like oh yeah absolutely big lie like they take like sixteen gas a year yet oh yet you can be a seal okay well and to get the straight so i go to college you
pay for it watches i git to go in the navy and i can be a seal yet all like some upsettin out artis retrude just straight truth for gertrude young love at
right yes yes cities you the little did i know so you get down we have a college get your commission you do aretino go to go to but chop a bud that was funny i
showed up so i asked thee or ottentot or he un you know like what surprises for checking in do i just like what should i wear how just where you know propriate
said the inities i i show up to the buds quartered at in like a collared shirt walk on the quarter back and one of the most sadistic instructors possible
happened to be sending there i walked on in my hay up down here to check in like like the allseeing eye just like glances he said what subcheck into buds
wearing the that i like a meshepeshe inower out in my car or your therimenes or your form son light went on put on my ests came back promptly got wet sanehat
how work now as he viselike high level uniform with all the ribbons and all that trap on it and yet you know you take a care of it so when you take that you
wear it down to the ocean and then you jump in he osandon the sand not good bele solatio the good news is as ronald ribbons on their yet sanditon riverso so
and yunith but with life right which people know who ladismith is cool and then you get down with buds aneimea bussines i don't care bout bugs as some funny
like stories though i toobou my borough i got i got in a montanelli for some through forget rolled back start over cloom and then and then lay transferred in
so labas or was our class leader and so me the delible tone commander who one day you'll hear from a and he and i we all went through buds together but they
were both laterans ferd and so they were senarian right there already like j j and the noineteen and oh so there's games and but right like you you're trying
to win so you know we are we were wise to the games already to try to win in late if you know by brother is like life is black and white with my brother lay
okay so i unharbour this one but he so ye it's right and its wrong and there's like this we know were like you know bud for like if you ain't cheat and you
ain't tryin and if he had got a intreating i mean so and there's an element of that in bud ah ously not completed but so you know we're we're pulling all kinds
again and in his book rusling because we are just where cheating to win and um he's getting so passed like after the race lie after classes like a gottenbourgh
i yet as anthetic about you incinerating that sorrow's roll one side a bud spring and always caesar when i went your buds tact told us like least couple
structor relitive that's a little saying it's not true rinthia said if you're cheating your cheating yourself right which is so and then obviously then they
start saying look if you got guys that are cheating here to get through the straining tendon want them in in teams with you no i don't want to git that that
has to cheat to it to complete a run or swim negative yes i mean that this here is a being like cheating like cutting off the run berliere competition you're
not going to other guy whatever to antiope and hitting a guy the face is a paddle just sat typeout done so you at doncas you were junior when you get to the
tendrete three right right the algetin three but you don't get to go on the point with team three they'll cook you up with being a boat you at commander ye so
no one is going to know what that is all right allooed was an in it this is changed thruout the years but like when i checked into tintry there was his brief
parodar was in trade o the time decided that third is in a pultowa a bad idea for ascertainment so is no more third is so basically i was faced with being a a
talk jacky am or going over to you the boat team at least being a jager something to get some leave shook experience all when over the special boat teams
loches part of names bushel warfare and walty when it deployed the deploys part of the task unit and our potassium and if it's all in a greater impart of you
know visit board circassia maritime operations such as a leader tripartition martime interdictions in so the boat unit which is special boat teams um is run
essentially at the ape leadership level by seals so the commenting offered tabnit the executors or creases the boat detained the mark five all it ottmar
fascinare um or or seal officers so look as a brand new officer at least had not portend to deploy in a in a combat on to lead men and into work with my seal
brothers who were conducting operations in ordinary began you inductor vein ousanon as picotin so obviously see old work on water a lot and we we drive our own
little boats on one little you know twelve foot to act boat with fifty five horse power boaters on or thirty five hours to motors on him and whatever but the
bigger boats we don't we don't drive those so anything you know he see any of those vigor boats are are driven by these guys that are called their now calls
sweatmeat warfare combated crew men which are guys that that's it they do their boat drivers to a new do they in certain extract us no drop it drop their earth
boats out of various air craft it so exits illegitimate and the if they do and so you are in charge of a group of les guys took boats on the ployment right to
the arabian gulf and then which you did over there i am burial does is not the gist the dream for the seal young she'll officer to be that to do that but it's
a good lussoo alison your charge some real you know that your wit your on the water and i thought people i stupulated a sales when you're on the water it's a
real world of concise somethin goes wrong when you're in the water i'm not first all you can drown you could and that's an even get lost at all kinds of bad
things to happen so if you don't plan right on the water doesn't matter here and in your not you've got a big giant enemy it's called the ocean and i will kill
you if you're not squared away and they ate that's one of the things that makes feels good as that we work in a water in the wonder said one of the toughest
names you can come to one forgive it on iterating yes so that wraps up that you come home from that to payment up and now you are so titian three or you go
back to see in three ideas technically i and now we form up and you become the delible tone assistant put on commander checking him also work in for the death
of petun command or who you you guys were rose all her broths he we've known to the free years went through bud tagether and lay there you as must die pretty
stoke on that it was cool kindlike get the band back together you know and i sat and let those two guys had just come off if not the greatest appointments
either in terms of you a junior officer slight because they were to play and they were the sistance anders and they were getting stuck with not so fun worked
for it you know so that we were stoked to be all right they were so quicken where the oh i see were not going to be the guy stuck back to in the paper work and
am were going to bandage her and then when we found out you are attacking a commander was like a cause we we all knew we were going to be a potentate and
dashing together we didn't have who are to you commander was going to be yet and then we are all used rumoreggiano get and we heard this guy jocko was coming
over on a haligonians have i and knew who you were through them like one other guys like this o jocko that asked dutycalls red because like we already had an
inkling netlik if if this do is going to be a few commander we had a besotted getting to combat m although we had no idea what was about to happen good
assessment is yet you are repertation was great but you were coming over and accuse from being near admirers cried the amalachite months worth a with the atmic
was a a a rough tor in times of things that normal seal same thing right like to do that's right and i and i you know frinstance is i mean just just straight
up wearing you to form every single day was it you so people don't so people understand in the world when in a don'tknow what it's like this moment to day when
i was in the team on is it so he went to him to silesia we i didn't wear sir i had her i ran almost thirty five year old man making money doing what a family
i'm not worse to work like a man my office colmenares on bertoldo's treat that's it so i do not for my whole life right in alaskie as all it nineteen year old
kid when i got through so i now i have to go to be the amused and i have to wear uniform very day not just one uniform i have to wear tacketed white than blue
in your just in this constant utiful and and see also not good about youniform sat on there just not it's not one of your strong points and so so that's one of
the things that made the job not very fun but at a good lesson there right so here i mean everybody knows you as an incredible leader awesome seal and yet for
this period of time you had to do this job that was not particularly fun panalieu had to over and be the the seal at the boat unit right but do life is full of
things like that and when you were part of the team no matter what you do it to the best for your ability to you didn't awesome job as the admiral's aid not
necessarily what you wanted to do being a tryin wear in front so i got a email from one of the assistant cook tom commanders he and charley patoon not a year
ago and he said hey brow i'm gonna go be the aid the i notturno he he just on and he was laughing he goes or email back in the u said this is going to be very
hard for you because you're not good at this kind of thing and i was pretty good at it so you're a afterwork like extra hard or make no apperantlie and we both
ligious you know i'm talking about ellis not a guy that is all over the the the minutia of course he had a great job culottes game but yeah when you get a
taste something you do it and you do it the best your bility and and you know just a continued that story can i have to say this it was a it was a pain the as
job it wasn't fun for me but man did i learn a lot did i understand the lot did i get to know all all the inner workings of of the community because i was
there with the gay you know with the analytic are of all the seals i was with him for thirty months i mean all day travel you know wake up pet we are just in
every meeting you know so it was a it was a great learning experience for me and i was appreciative and he was a great guy us a great guide now and he really
cared about us he will put to and so witches which is also when a guy puts this no mompert he always talk about look at what's washeeuppee or how to suffecti
elposo then we got in menagerie your first work up right going through work up getting get your game on awesome that time my life is awesome eh anybody is in
the military right now and acted teams a deliathis van just in july at man and joyment ere's other things in life sure but like you can you just you can
replace that time it and there stupid stuff you deal with yes but trust in joy this man you won't find it anywhere else nothing like that possum yet you what
are you i have i i talk about the sometimes so one of the scars that you get from the military from the yelpings if you go if you like to shoot weapons still
are we and you want to go shooting you have to pay for having it in rapacinni's serious i remember times in the sultans where i mean your your tombs are
gaining your forms are literally getting sore from reloading magazines for days and days your shooting all the all the boats you could possibly ever ever ever
want to shoot ever you're in a shoal of men weak or through weeks and so it's it's so funns fun and you know for us and folds don't know see go through at work
up pilacon on the pointment which is now your working together for the first time this is what i'm getting now you guys you guys are granted no me will get in
each other with the whole a hold you if his coming together as a team and this is where the real bond furman you're doing super hard training or your living
together your working out together your working together your party together your eating your meals together it's just a twenty four seven rocker awesomeness
and and that's how that's how it that's how you get to know these guys that's how you get to know you're you're your tea the some me mike and another guy were
the neat word the new gas and that paton one of the gun he saw in a teddy ye ye know just hang there was only three new guys not eton he yet in a feat that in
our end and the independent he needlessly delta and charley were oak slightly different dynamic yes you guys were you guys are a different dynamic a different
just like people have different personalities tiltings have different personalities and teams have different potaties and making more onchange but none the
less a both creations boothia into was only you in making one of the guy the ino the other guines the yentai figather old we only three new guys in the so it
can be a harsh it's if it's a harsh environment to come in to win your when you're a new guesses with song with my dead were doing were choiring we'd do
mobility but we are driving out to the ranges and he's the ah he's a turk right and i say something to im like they went work proaching a road you know you
look at your field to fire it if there's no vehicles coming you know say clear right and so he eat it it once knew clear cleigh no kind of quiet in the hayman
he got sound off the driver shot a drive is got a he got radio on his need to know what's going on and you need to sound off ye and the next intersection cut
his clear right he said it's upland i i thought to myself what a second is he is he you know taking a pass out of me as he is he being sarcastic with that yell
right now and now he was not now i told the yell that he was on yoga we brought here i will yolanda's that's where i work in the other artemidora orites
stories about mike was it is another like new guy related stories i was so you go through sheeting close quarter combat close quarter battle whatever it's
basically shooting in small space is taking down buildings that kind of thing and it's it's a e ay there is there's a lot of instructor focus oh we the men
canning of what you're doing so is a very is a very mechanical thing and if you if you make mistakes is not going to work out that feelin by the way as a new
gate there's such grey but the reality is it doesn't matter if you're new or not like the watching let every indies on me an you could be a third platoon guy
and get can from the platoon persevalli and young in sakhalin two second not there in ethel sectae doesn't take much so and and what pertained is there
territoire stress on right because they want to they want you to handle the stress of they dressed people out by just you know be little minute details of what
you do return and bones with you some of them do man something you like okay that doesn't matter you and and and i know they don't matter cause they they
morper time in all see you know one's face they'll be teaching one thing and then if later though teacher face of teaching other things than later though each
nothings so it not if there's a million different ways to do yes and you could argue that one's better visit there's a million different ways to do it but they
do they pick whatever they're going to choose for that walk a training is what you are going to do and and if you want to sit there and argue with from a boy
is not going to work out good for you see when i told all the new guys and don't enchiridion when the instructor cantering he is telling you to do something or
your yelling at you or there get on your assimulating you just look out of it a robert o god god it roger that end be ussolie roger and that helmet it is you
have right to what you want will you want to be a new guy that's like a no i don't agree with you at extirpers that's the poet you know allitore time no you
don't want to be a guy you might think you're right but notices what you know that's not what you wanted it sucicidal so we're going through the training the
training drake and were direly well our passing the stone grey you know but still as are guermantes whatever and find he the master seeing up rohorse for like
tony and i were friends were all the contree because they're all are rose from being in tens and one of that the leader di he comes up to me he aase's hard but
we had guesthouses hey what i withakioon and i was like otterway what's up he's as been doing a good job was up he goes every time i tell him something all you
got to look at me in a rather backgate you know what he done xactly what i told him though i'd how he really told him the only thing i wanted wanted him to say
to you guys a wanted eight new at at he goes with roger and make an ape so well we were out there there was another platoon that was there the same time dear
remember this they were and and i'm pretty sure that chief got canned from the patentee save ivelcon and there was some and there was that talk and back going
on right like a i've got three to ployments on her my bell and the others a degree of humility and that roger atterson is it that's what it's like it's it's
roger that i'm open to the correction you have for me yes for sure and so and these guys you know him an the punites a balance harmonies leading is put tone
and taking a stand for you know in being in charge but same time like there's a humility and a respect in that response and he was not doing that he telling
you like he screwed some things up and they saved your reviewer a man rebelling a seek you review board for the chief of that pionono or taint but it at his
manor playground now and an exclaims to beright because it's intense a well people don't aasheit you're trying to recreate the intensity of competence can so
they're creating sigh stress situations as stressful possible and let you sit sometimes creating elements at arenary real but just to overload you the number
things you have to process under pressure and i are you going to make good decisions under pressure and that red there is what translates to combat good
decisions under stressing under pressure yeh yeh and you're right though about that he niepce and that was all attitude going through a fright you know what i
may be tween me and tony i don't think there was i'm just trying to think if there's any instructor contra that was putting us through right you don't i can
never to guide it where it is you know in his petits wasn't like there was some one that was just you know had tons more experience and the two of us and yet
we you know both one picked roger dayson's good will will make out adjustment because you don't want any great saverton on the other day he was the same book
even though i learned something new all the time ernestine is and that's the attitude that prevail through the asking it not of hay were the best we don't have
to listen in body but they were on a work as hard as we can we're going to be the best we can but were we on a inistore dy to learn you to all time the fine
line between competent and cocky no doubt about it and in being humble you can be confident you can be sure you can be humble and respectful and open to
learning new things and made by me surprise which you learn yes there's no doubt about that so what else do you remember from work up in terms of at your new
guy your check and in you know tony nighdtmares of what it was like when we were checking into the one i tell is wouldn't we were new guys it was a very
rapidfire ment to roll a do ye the what did you think when you got to you know being a new guy well sir i remember like literally day bristled one that i was
checking into the platoon space i got like the combat of the potins pace right and i went in and i mean brand new and a salmon be protective of my platanones
go in i'm walking out of the potentate may insure that wars locked behind me because ye know other partington and just destroyed other guys potentate were at
er and i'm walking down the hallway and um or l po ho is goes down to the door and he he doesn't have to come bright you go see hohay a woodstone the space so
like i gave him some wyamar out know him no i didn't know him yet aright how that word rendait was hilarious like he he he goes he with to come boose i like
him a can't give that to you and that didn't know is the only ties he used he goes on the god damn elpless a fucking comes of pontefice like rochester one
together than two and now and i'll proceed to walk down the seventh you are all mine will i am de the just i just met the open it was not on good terms a man
that's all and then he entered a thin friends but um that remember were out to a land warfare training and insane in where you know you're cut in the metal
like you said you're getting now each other and you'll go in the petunias tryin to figure out with these new guys like all right what a a what have we got here
what can we rely on you know and ah so one night i remember as doing a little bit of boxing and it was forced boxin guy on new guyou know and a survival
fitness a man there in the end it an in and then it had time it was just three on you know every man for himself and it's just like your heads on a slaveland
it's mike the tick and me and we're just wailing away and it just go and and it's a who's going to continue to fight badinaige and do all everything you know
i'm an officer in the seguitare just you obviously well in a way but my cat man i'm in a just fight to the bitter end and it was it was pretty awesome he did
you the gitter you got you i amegartos i ve make it that you could hold your own i would when i would do the officer of convertees i i didn't do it do any know
but keep in mind the greater than on the east coast when i was in high school and i got in i got into greasy jug like literally like i was already training
when the first yevseyev man out right in a soiree and i that was always a big shocker for people because you are do you are by far smaller any other pushovers
and yet you had the citadel when you have the jugi you never let either woman even a blue bell i don't even know you hennelay might a high level white belt but
at but to be fair like at the time that was all every new like the world of them and made it a is soothely their first as too but at the time like i mean i
even went to in high school with my with my structor who was at ease teacher my school he was into it so he and i would train like five in the morning before
school me rises him much larger man but wellearned just to and then we went and ended seminars with his grace am in up state new york we would drive and a most
gosh i got to get out of school a man right again missus disprove methodists repeal he would i would make these these officers like we ing i find o'clock in
morning and answer ay and i would thermoteron but then i say okay now you you to fight to the death i betrinketed but yet but he was he was honored fifty
pounds he's going against gustato two hundred pounds now they haven't my fifty pounds and tolerant llera and just you know there's you know it just doesn't
work you know you have a yenangyaung and ingons that i wailing guys nor yellin's right that's right like they weren't having me out you know didn't you usually
tap them he choked out a certain gay is good in like that very much so already so hideyoshi thing yet but you know in the in the thing at that time because
they are bigger than me was more by energy conservation i am and so like coming out let a wear themselves out and then they try and getting on me and then i
just sneak my around there auditorem ber you followed caring for the tale also have had an attitude like you have you look like i can a man have a like no
factor what you are to cast me for in it that's right you won't you do see the guise in the copses big tough crazy guy all on piece d and e gets pateris the
tay round throws the thing and he just keeps coming that's what interval had to look on like a gonnot aegis go unitate me bring it let's go i mean he manewhile
put in it i mean i got turned my spot rat and so some somewhere somebody had actually was yellow he had he had one of these things dear and i was like oh as an
i'm a tell you what like it had these like two modes one where you could shoot or you could like put it right up to the guy you know is like eyes go she is
like real on mike go up let's go and then like the old portion like everybody like met down in the back cave and ah there may be a video footsore this won't
had the winter barbs at those guns not a tear as i can far like who till winter bars tahar longer he gets through the magarha down coat yes and um so when of
course he was like what were you not shirt or just now sir i was in a tea shorthand a a legal halls were the bars were down or you have not the like does it go
in they're garret do it eowawa and you know osterhaus looking out for me appreciates noirot this eye pro on all that's a good idea rightsmen and then like like
it's got a leaves on it right to the later of info seem the video like like you agostino like garinter same like going fin pains like obeys its going to happen
raouit do so the sink comes out at like forty five derange and one like goes into my stern on and the other one go below my believing so mike instantly over
all at all that thinking he was just gonnaerea sick not he we reach and thank god we put it mate down yes sirs a man cost he went ridge straight and fell like
a brick yell a room out of it and it is iceicle arly and i remember the soul like it hits you and like a hittite that in a spot in like your hands go to grant
like you've been stung me but hallman my hands get like three quarters of the way there by the time the electricity free the body who so my hands are kinda
like stuck in front of my chest my admit as it tempted to grab the sponsilier and am at the turn the thing off and then um they go to get the thing out some
discooperuit and in the barb power member then do with my arm in a mediaeval lodge to so like to win into the muscle like because like i remember ripping in
coming free but not freak and it was but it was still beneath the skin and a and then it just let just within this is the teams diversified so far when they
show a work i falter to get pays and you can get some the best thing you can do is just a volunteer in a situation like that ah know and just pack a come up
was go ye bring it and then the gale okay right on you know ye wot you did the right thing you sorry didn't work out through west aniething or other great hall
right so we get word we get on with a work up an ounce going to pointment and um gentle deponent and we found out what two weeks before you guys wrong leave
and when we found out we are going to remote instead of were originally supposed to go which was in iraq but we knew i mean i knew remides gennath the best
place to polly to and we shall pover there and that was cool i thought about with with that deployment is the way we ask organized and every basically every
leader got their own element that attean put you guys there was like oh yeah you know you been working for this and we've been all what no you're going out of
your own dear year a charge of and that was that was awesome in a net what made me feel good was that when we were in the work up and we made you guys run
operations even though you were new guys and made you put in and pressure situations and put you in charge of ground force commander while you were you know
most troops didn't do that i wear but i knew that it was a post and furthermore what happens if you know your tuometar gets killed to what happens if i could
kill in you the guy that an you got t be able to step up and run stuff and so we did that through the chincopin and eve we did i will admit to this we made
sure that we had rushed the work up and then it was like okay we've dominated okay now we'd start training the new guys up on how to leave and that was all
that was important to cause it's you want to do well in the work up you want you could that's where your reputation as a asking to come from his how well you
do go in through these very strained holes that's why we earned on the spot to be able to go to iraq great because a thing is is that some gasar going
elsewhere you and and you're all vying what coming your all by because you want to go to combat and some guys are going some place else not in iraq and um you
i do say it but that's not worn of us really wanted to go on nothing at heerabout that if you do this you lame you want to go to war and his right is to it is
rain we all wanted to go to war if that's what we're fighting for we were competing then the cassinis we are competing as attacking it to get top spot to the
most dangerous place on that's where an age that turn out to be reventlow out two from a wusship perspective one remember you know not everybody made it
through the work of em they were gods or were couples um safe dashes not stepping up not leading my pushing that leorier tuny down to the junior officer
whatever and not stepping up were doing something unsafe for just not having what i took and um you know and you know just for a leadership respected you have
to be willing to make that hard decision and reality i know you know you i may talk about it when you've given everybody that guy every opportunity when you
evaluated it you kept notes and you've tried to train and you try to correct if not a hard to certain right not in actually the the cameron i don't know if you
were there but the comedias me we were on deployment and he was you know he jolinson her every one he is you know why should everyone some from the leadership
he says he how are the guys that were at work up maybe weren't performing up to par howarth do it over here is like sir they're not in this as a not here
reiterated makit yes right they in removed a right so yes a great point and again it's hard thing to do because you cause you really be really rackin someone
life well think about it right so this is a guy who is who so there's a guy who's an officer right so your i mean we rely with an claveret hard to gain a spot
to go to budaoni's very competitive guy was an officer who got us poog to buds made it through buds which is hard um made drest got to poltoon this this guy is
not a slouch visita you know i mean like this is not this is not some loser you know this is a guy who not rataria right patriotic detours as right a great guy
who stepped up who made it through something that many many other men could not make it through and had to make a hard to cition um you know andurar with the
delaplaine commander to not have this guy continued with us and so if that can happen even within the saltonstalls right i mean don't you think that's also
possible that within your organization you might have to make a similar kind of casion we also have to make that decision in the silts nor were not exempt for
making that decision yeah and also very much like to certain sector um you know there's a car basically in the military there's a car there's there's human
resource department you can't just walk in danilik this confirm a right no okay well what have you counsel has you pay for work on him as it is he know that
the overall if you write is all these things that's where any way through that whole procedure yet and you know farster case of course you can you can make it
happen but it's going to cost you little bit of political capital because honestly if i your boston you come to be in say hey an fire the sky and i say okay
why well i don't i don't you he's not doing a jobbernoul no not yet but i were firebrass that's going to cost you so political captain actually looking you
don't wait economising his god yet you as a leader an't you step up and train the sky what what are you doing it because it cosecant cop out right hay if i'm
too lazy to train then i were then your coming out as earty done all those things as leader and you can really document that and see that in a god still not
performing then the next warship position is to part with a really is i mean that really is a one of them the best things about the sultans is is when your
raising your guys up when you when you're etchings which you know and your saint hey man is archinto do hey thro here's a tears the way this work here what he
did over here he alyosha do you that's just that's your best your legacy that's julie behind this is he this is what i learned and i want you to his many guys
as i can that's what you're trying to do so if you are late you're not doing that that's jack up do you know bess jacked up as the same thing that a lion
sector you don't hear a good one a i was workin at we were recompenses in ours work when accompanying it the day and any got a day who sort of you know oh well
well maybe he's not the best men tore right but he wants to get promoted of course to every one get pelted so this gun want get the moted and they're trying to
they never had luck saying look you got a bee mentioned you gotta be a better leader you got a brave people up and i i just you know talk to talk to the tivoli
said well asking this question yet you know what i definitely am looking forward to promoting you gimme the three names of people that you prepared to take
your position right do sagrinios on asn't done that that's right so that to kecoony you know he definitely want to you want to be as a leader you should be
looking for your replacement all the time and i with with with late and with a doubter i want to those gasoleny job and as my whole gol and i wanted you to be
able to do my job right and i'll tell you by the time we were on a ponente bring much good to my job so that that was in success for me cause guess what that
allowed me to do on the point locatio up and look out and figure out what he's goin to do accident all that other stuff so that should be your gold from a
leadership perspective for sir and as you just point it out when you get to a situation where you've done the coach and you've done the mentoring you've done
the counseling you've written you set the expectation you have a personation content the mustard you got to go to a hard as is a thing you have to be loyal to
people get mixed up too because it's a loyalty component acid you form of the relation we just talk the round an hour about this big relationship with all
these people will guess what you ever let your apposite about the fire too but then the question becomes are you going to be loyal to that individual as you
need oil to the tea cause you're looking estate as exonerating you so that's that lutterton with a strong bunch of pipe patters all right so we get on the
piment we you you guys we we kind of and this again is something to atone were task organized and we change that we changed it on a fairly regular base okay we
don't want we this areas getting hot meat more does over there and we would just kind of a lot to do than in a lot of denote work to be done with the lot a lot
of bad guys um when you when you look back at your kind of senior first combat pointment what was the thing that struck you as dem like oates's what cause i'll
tell you people asked me that like the first fire fight i got in while my first opponent to iraq and honestly i was like okay i felt like i was a hundred per
cent prepare a greek completions okay cool hey guys chip you know he asked very simple very straightforward so some guy said to me one time and this is an
outside gu and said to okasise meet in this wilkins against you stress and noculation really well and so i would say yes because that is exactly my saint first
fire fought a gotten i was like no bogill and you know look you know whether round or close right like you know what that sounds like and there and no really
close and it's no big deal by the way it's not really very loud when their footing at you right in a year certain so um but then of course he sparmannia lot
but that's awesome has like every drove over done and it was no big deal it was just it was almost habit that that point he can exactly the nero no big deal
that the first the first time i went out in a hummy in remise i keep in my like you said on the interruption we got there guise were getting aided and killed
every single day avery day the message traffic came over and it was cai you know it so first home the ride i go out in and i'm looking out the window and by
the way like you can't really roles windows down he solitudo want to roll his windows down by the wollaroi you want to keep him up right and you know so like
you actually can't sheep back if you want to right the only guy can shoot back as her turn on her and for the first like i would deceive a minute and a half i
was like wincing i was like waiting for this clack tenotomy know and then finally i was like you know what to nothing i can do about it an i literally let it
go right then so i that would that that was like a astron memory like i remember even for all the training and again the first fire fight was no big deal and
am but driving down in a humedean in the back completely helpless i mean you have two choices of life is a lot like this you can sit there and worry yourself
away about it woke is is it the arexion is a desire or just go you know what her idol i can't control it so's gonna be ready so once my tone to bust out this
door of do whatever we got to do to do mediation whatever i'm ready the and the rest of it you just like o you let go cause anything else is not effective
yearyou not you're not yet it's not only just arewe but now you're you're actually doing things bad you're a esteben negative for your ourangoutangs that you
shouldn't be thinking about and it's not helping you it's not helping your team so i like that just a just a kind of some of what you said you are in
remodification for about a minute in thirty sec he and after that i i i and that whatever that's the added debt i think that's the best i i don't know if this
is the right thing to say or not but do except the fact there saying you can't control that you cannot control and that one of those things is you know an i d
a sniper bullet oh i mean keep that and out whether things that you can do to influence us as what we do training we prepare we keep in our eyes peeled or to
taking route that we know have been cleared to the best of our ability when we onetree were moving were moving comforter doing everything that we can but guess
what it does matter that we can do everything right and done mantinean so get blown up you can still get shot that's the way it is so if you sit around and
just think about that old time it's just going to drive you crazy one and number two on a make you do your job worse the potion of the last egressive and i
think you got to stay gressie the saline you you will at afores my ante you don't want yet we'll go make that happen oh there then you lay it in if you were
gettin cannot and get some crown i mean that's just the type of thing that mind said he to mind said i that win set that it it's the winding mind set in if
you're goldstein that you have to recognize a certain thought process are not effective and they take away from your bility to win any as you'll get worried
about sumbat kind of thing right so im e just you take a abangoui want to win it i got said to me one time pay a do you think you think fear is a is a useful
man motion i thought about for semeroe different people talk about fear and noonan and i would save for maybe i'll change this one day but right now this is
red come to on fear i may be for the cave man whose walking through the jungle and they get attacked by the sartiner and that fear that fighter flight response
is enough to make him react in a moment in order to avoid being slashed by the tiger but other than that fear was not effective in battle because you do not
make good decisions when acting in fear and you have a better chance of survival you make better decisions and of a better chance of winning and defeating and
crushing the enemy when you remain calm i do iluit observed orient decided act o ye i've got i got asked the ivories out asked about fear aloan yowes say look
fears the first not a bad thing because it's the thing that makes you go okay nito be ready writing that makes you here it's the thing that makes you say okay
cause you and for me the kin the fear was in about the fear of gekleideten up the fear was always about i wanted not one do bad job o don't want to make a bad
decision that i'll tell you later ship position that is the heaviest ear that you have is i make a stake my keen does something that doesn't doesn't bring
credit a pro upon us as a unit by that i mean doesn't do a good job like you colour just i i i not even know where that comes from it's just one o you a good
job and the fear is he i hope on to anything that gets my gasserian thing that's a bad decision that makes that does that peratical ly as a nation yet those of
the two tears that i think this your hurst make you practice make you reinforced make you aware of what's happening but she can't what you can't do i mean for
me i fear i fear as make me aggressive like oh i think this guy's got a goin to do something he cool'm afraid of him cointac i'm gonna kill him you entitate
him out i'm going to do something you know what i actually see that time and you know i see that name and made to where when you see some one happened you when
they get a little bit they get a little bit rock or something it is day if they let that fear make them back off and go into a defensive modestly what you
descendit makes you into a defense of mode of it's good you're on de personas man you can now vatare you can smell that so when i think the reaction of fear as
i oh i'm afraid ran olcott i have to attack the elect oh i don't feel comfortable up where the true is moving right now it were my squad is moving right now i
don't think it's a good thing to aminta in takes em around when over that's what i felt it yes it had healthier that that healthy but you're also trained and
prepared mentally for that kind of thing most people in the sort acting in fear they start making portisham so at an that sense it's like he got over your
fears because you have to recognize it when you're acting and fear you have a less desirable acumen if you can get over it come down said you know observed or
anician no doubt about it all right what about what about just plain leadership challenges i mean here we are in stressful to ployment tip it was there was the
most stressful to pointment that anybody had had up until that point in iraq humane talkin to you know the vietnam gives this was a stressful deposit the off o
very stressful deployment in the amount of combat that was halting all urban combat at things on the sofa a so what befalleth perspectiva i you was anything
that you didn't expect was the eye less than that god conformed yep so in its funny because you know over time in the deployment you really mature an even in a
short amount of time when i cannot give ye a quick quick story so as it was one of my last offer i left country and there was another unit that had come in to
kandahar pius and ah we went to the shop and so the officer in that and who a good friend of mine by the way ah was it might have been his second combat aright
and so been only be know how many that point and out so we went into the operation and it involved some army units and dove sore singin this position and am so
like classic blunder the army guy who said never a bison the roof top and he smokin a cigarette like like the classic world war two sniper victim smokin a
cigarette trail smoke going up and ah i mean is a classic i mean single cipher shot shoots and it it just i mean it missus his face well one but this way it
took his ear liif right round crackdown us that's it immediately everybody just by blaine just unload fire fight right and dust were calling a mediator the sky
because a conditio cut him forty good and um tring figure of the omare fire whatever situation is so so this guy was like well in my case so time tecali you
reopen get out here is a bollygolla what dude what else do you think is possibly going to come from this and you know i mean i probably would have thought have
maybe we can still get something from this it was on my first resecone right bouse's clear like i mean at this point i mean lowered already got a lot of gas
her on the suplie we've already lost mark and am a few other guys madoera bishos point so um you have to weigh like what what more are you going to gain i mean
first of all disguises just this sniper just got a bead on this guy i mean in by though grace of god he is still alive and we've shot like so what else is an
happen i mean there either just got to set up an get a better position or get another shot but they certainly aren't going to do anything we certainly aren't
going to see anything that they don't want us to see at this point so the botfield is lost i mean this offers a its over it's it's time to pococke so that
anyway the army came an busted out a swallow the fighting beason is alan the reading preluding to a unfittingness a sort of like a clip it i obvious it odious
to me at that point in irony morning come you know quarterback ten years later as a explaining this like anyways listing go wi a obviously time to go right but
you know what year and out position and got the sill trying to get after it and they're still things going on up there you might think we may be there still
something we can do here ye in by the way to there was other times were similar situations happened in different casions were made and they worked out great
you know and so i think you're over all statement is like you gained perspective right over time and terreo at things from a from a better perspective and for
raigrod from a lack of the better way said you will understand what happened on the battlefield more you nowthat definitely something that if people are
listening and it something that they want to become aware itsomething that you can actually act on because that perspective it can be gained through time and
experience but it can also be gained by detachment and saying okay what am i really doing here right now what are we really going to gain and you can make a
faster progress down the line to have to make good judgment calls based on not to experience partioned and and and trying to capture the right perspective at
the right time pesait for the for the skies silly to evolving and an happened after we left so is there anything else that you start that that you are again
that you didn't expect or that was useful for you he from alidoro perspective yes so you know i found myself in the position allowed times of cannes stitching
the poteein it potentate together you know because in an intense situation in certare opinion about things you know they do indeed new and so am so on this
suplement i was not the peticoat er right my good friend was the potichomanie and when you're obsidian shut your making a lot of hard to siddons and otero
always agrees with the decision that gets made and so a lot of times the roll i needed to fill was to back my potenciana and continued to keep the potion
together behind potenciana because he he had you as has with texas a hard sirens so sometimes it was you know sometime you know social just enough i would give
to you is that you may be in a role in a company an organization where the best thing you can do to be part of the team is to help keep the team on focus for
the mission and that might mean but you know spending some time with one or two guys who are over here ah having to segreto the decision or which way things
are going and and truly one of the best ways that you end up having to do that or doing that is number one you bet relationships of the guys rioted known chose
you number two youropean er he is got a lot of stuff on his plate right and so one of the easy his things for him to cut short is the eyes have of explaining
any years while this is going on here have why this going to so you as he intermedian okay i know what he's doin an noise making his isinene explain this down
the chained command to the triana so helpful and so helpful and when you got guys and the puttoo or any where in a sad i perform in order ization that a really
strong willed and have strong opinions and and by the way or an intelligent and can make really articulate points as to withering with something you know again
my roll and that pepita ion was to insure that mission success continued to happen at we were still effective as a unit and that meant me kanofelin the scenes
trito keep keep of gazna he and it's interesting of sir people live no did dialed but would you sit there these different people in sidebone i mean just if you
listen to the pot casati just went did with retired so your chief tony of friday and you you guys personalities are are very very different very very different
and that's just some of what you get in a suit to and you don't want not to some would get miss seton it's tumble what you get any any organization that right
there is no closes there's not people being turned out nikanape the same background making go to the same school they can have the same level experience they
could be totally different people that's the way is not to wait as he silent's war it is everywhere isatis partly or so good reguly get us i think differently
than you have robesart yes but i i like the fact of what you're saying is you had to be you found yourself in the role of okay no one i can make sure that the
guys understand where the two commanders coming from with the god that if they are something that actually makes sense i can think back of concomitance look at
this is one of the guys you not complain in about something here is the legitimate point that being made right and then you guys can have that decussation may
be brings in one of those ondowghted me what you're talking about her and then you guys can move forward and come up with the best possible plan but yeah as a
peace maker for all practical purposes is is what his will you what you end up being and um did no before i had a what the one of the peace makers needed cause
it wasn't a lot of piece over there not lot of base if he had it at one of the stories i think that little mite story here that kind of shows you the level of
violence that was happening in remote so i came to visit ah you ali was a i s on the other side or remote in and the guy from delta first a small section
gestalt in an all of em and in upon the on the estensi remote with the first to five or six band of brothers as some outstanding unit amazing guise to a man
and with an amazing commander but so death to ended up over there well anyways i gone over to to to visit go go do some off with them and so was going on and
when i showed up you know i showed up and and this was a few uproll like a month and a half in a because the guy had taken over some crape building and full
metal mackerel and had built it out as them so if you get seen a movie for metal jacket that's a a a singin the movie where these guys these buildings on blown
out while this building were not not just as yields but a bunch of guys army guys lived in this building and it was all blown out and it looked like this also
in his off with a recondite we first got in there the first won we first went out there it was iritis leyderdorp rimsky's everywhere it was told news this
horrible and now some time that passed and the guys of course he put healsome where of their going adolescent who solaces that we have it is as so these more
life gush to see this we had were phenomenal and we don't know it ses arter they're sort of a young navies version of engineers and there their fanatically
hard workers in the cruder we had with us and made that was devise they were part of our task in it they were just told hard powers as an bust their ass and
makes not happen so they had and he other false he other thing ter do when you castelar to acquire a thing yes feather's a lack of things to a harassed and so
you good see be kin come up with let's call it you know a hundred and twenty sheets of four by eight fiveweight that our master are semesters of young bli got
there do they had they had these racks built out for us in this blown out concrete building said had like shells of snares to go to the upper and dey was also
the tasso they take that that's a one is taken in just built the like into these basically small plywood condiment of oisivete mates and i watch i showed up
their one time and it were hanging out you know the singleness in a little deep reef on stuff and just kind o tell me how things are going and then some one
says a hat did you see my keesoo an i go i go no nalboon's video and so i go okay so they go his rooms back there and what it is room say on all met me mike's
powers for yet when soldier great sorry about mike's palace by the way so to head was over on mighty's now a side said the caves had built the these awesome
ply wood paradise for us and am so you know people sleep with its leave all different times right i mean daytime night to whatever cause the obstacles so
intense and so every was totally blacked out and i got like an odd sleeping style if i could well as a morette have not slightly different it's like so mike he
had a different cycle like everybody would be asleep and i would be awakened back no i always get find like you awake and might so you go in go in he was on
the ground floor and see you go down and he was pitched black and yet in fillery through it all these bunks and then you go down around this corner down his
hallway and you make a sharp right and im and then there'd be the faint and glow coming for mihintale so mitcheson was alas one up against the wall and there
was like an extra like three feet between his uncanonical watered out and so he had like these tabs to streets that his family had sent him hanging from the
wall and i and he'd have like pontelliers all hung out block in the whole thing out and so i was all darings like his little cave and you go back in there and
i don't know where he got em bein a extra pillows on his bunk and like he had in his laptop like like rigged as i a t v screen of the always you watch and
movies and he always had all kinds of get on famously go back in there and i go in in a glow for makes pause i go back in there and i we just sit meeany on
some of the diabetes that's a son as you have like romans rome nels and eat always how ye like a sheeting element for holy ones like you plug into the wall i
came man and the cook up the heating element boiling water right there on romeo i were as hungry and going that i could get down into my espouse i and get some
grub and then i'd hang out watch movie and see and all he was always up weird hours like me and i just comened to ye he was cool pictures posters hanging on
the wall he had that thing do rick ouses yes so these guys are like hay have you seen my desmond i go no sigillo back to my palace it out and so i make my way
back to her same figurement way back there a good dark at the head lion he bent neon or something when i got outside for the places black out any way to get
back there and i'm like mike in an he eat it now i was at that i was after i could or go to he was just the tail you know the like o how your whatever it
ferentina make a son to extremest he was surprised to see the covenant an anyways i like mike he's at all eisenthal chill and i said almsbody man and he gets
us mild or saint my ground this is this must be addressed in so anyways the seracs out his camera shown me the move all in the camera ripe at it's got long tom
an him said i watching it and anyway he the move is it a a big fire fight going on it's just there's this is a big bad fire fight there's machine gun fire
going off and he literally stick in his hand up with the camera above baviere salad be fill an you can see stuff getting shot whatever and ah then the funny
part is he brings the camera down he you know hiding in his roof top and he points the cameron himself and the area of romania they were working in a place
called the malatesti and like many things in the military it had taken on its own little life its own little legends and alabaster and mighty points a camera
himself and he says in the moantain ah so was really funny and and i could do watch this and of course i'm still you know mister big bat jao and and i get on
washing i can emit was iron will you out there i shouldn't be told a stuff you need to be on her gone i mean that's just that's just what you need to be doing
do you is get on your gun and and you need to keep you and be putting out specified and he and he will to me kind sheepishly you know cause he felt bad and he
goes he was a maicasur i was out i am a atana i started laughing because that's probably eight hondred round lanternone probably more probably on robbiole
hundred ye just a mass of a mount origine gun round and he'd gone through and he shot them all that's a winchester means means you shot you at nothing left and
he said you know sir i sorrier i was i was winchester aetorroun old whitwell if you were just made to good roederer the at after it so that if another good my
story so you actually ended up going home early from the ployment and because you had another kenway the gutter he am an innything is as it's like catiline
twenty twenty men you know when when and when the stuff goes like this m m we had politely knew that that was going to be the end of the appointment as he's a
yaou know you just go back with me with the adan for the report and so that was all part of a plan a from the one basaltic im because my first son had been
born on my last opponent so as it was and and by the way so start heading back wife getsburgh early anyway so there you go to to ployments to kids not there
come story for a lot of military gas in a periplaneta you not being there for your for eterou kids a wife she's a cheaper but she was run out a steam um so it
was cool galego back and least try to be there and the gunners always been in a hurry so he came early am i then so ye went back um sir hained a boy and to buy
that he means were some guy comes home from deponere di start basically prepared for us to come home getting ready for all the administrative stuff that trenta
place and and he was that guy there's a god append then there was like three other guys that like the week later came the all of me too so i was isinene end
but a tough but a tough call any way and then am i a ma remember where i was when when i got the word so you know i was back at the team and i was i was
actually chatting with domitian der um the method that we use and he on sunday they were going out and am and i may distinctly remember going all right may get
some it some for me you know and ah so i was home i got to call at like us twelve thirty at night um or come love and up so i knew right away that it was one
of our glass ah there wouldn't know nothing over the you know over the phone specifically but i knew because i had just talked to our gods you know aside
conoys ride raced in to get the college is come to work yet get to work and i like all right so and it minutely i'm a little frantic you know because he's are
my brothers you know and i'm not there that's really hard so you know you can have some survivors guilt over that kind of thing yellow what seems like he look
we got this deployment believer um and go back thinking you're making a right to fission trying to balance stuff with your family am and then for that to
happen to not and you know he is one of my guise his one of my guess and i wasn't there and ah that's hard um you spend almost ten years now and time helps to
yield those kinds of things but i had a lot of goldtooth and um so anyway we come figure out what's going on em i get the brief he and figure out otis so um so
biger now okay so now it's now it's a race for the gitano i met look here to then we live in a twenty four seven news warld um an it's a race to noisily before
they find out for some other means and that he iniziare county we started seminati um and you know admiralskasino and ah it looked this is the second guy that
we have not lost seals on iracoson market in mykenai's going to go phoenician and i mean like i had to like dig my heels at em like listen this is my guy i'm
going and it was at first like a aslake nonno i'm going and thank god i did that because man i wouldn't had it any other way i were racing we put put the gods
together throw the blue one with driving up and um you know look on it when we got to my keeps family's house um you know look at all they wanted was to talk
to somebody who knew my key and the other for gazawee standing there didn't know didn't serve with him didn't work up with him didn't deploy with him and you
know in this grand scheme of god's plan i have to ask you know we pulled over before tonu the up on a to the house and put or blues in literatoor myself okay
we are about to give the worst possible natives to do apparent at the kidded and uh i remembered thinking you know god just use me right now i don't know why
i'm here in this time in um but just we work through me use me you know ah so you know we knocked on their door and and oh you know missus bonsor looked out
and she laid her new ye know that we i mean she took a few minutes to get to the door she looked out and saw five minutes standing there blush so that was very
hard you know you go in and obviously family is upset and you are doing the best you can to keep it together i mean for me this was my guide this was my
brother and i'm standing there giving them the news and trying to keep it together myself and um you know the the good news is as that one by one they serve
looked around and said woodeny body now my oolite yeah i know my is mine and ah so they you know plainly asked everybody to leave but more at me to stay and
just talk about the depotment tell stories about my key what he was like what was going on in you know i want to ah the monsters or an unbelievable family and
i totally wanderest their privacy that i toil and there just there just been so amazing my humble and gracious through this whole hagan i just don't want to
sit here and tell stories about about this right i don't want to do it am one of the things that it thethe only the only thing i'll all say about this again
out of just respect for the monorail um is what when you de sedout about em you tell them what the point that was like well in talking to them one of the
things that they said was there impression of the deportment so so like i said and you gayferos borromini and you could go and you can go on you two and just
put rebudation has and you will see what remote was like that's a matali and it was incredibly violent and crazy and these guys charlie and dumped them or in
the thick of it in the thick of it all a obols daily basis and reason i'm building that up is because the emails that might not sent home to his family were oh
you haven't found not much going on here i don't rabot me were just training some iraqis don't worry about me or were just were just a trying to work on the
inparare don't worry about me as all good here i'll be home in a little bit now these anamals that he was sending home in order to make sure that his family
wasn't word about right and it shows you will kind of a guy that mike was um so so any ither anything else again without without going in to your personal you
know your personal interactions with this incredible family that you want a say and may be from the perspective of as much as i hate to say this there's me
other people are gonado this job being this person that does the education is there anything else that you could give advice to people that have to do this job
or you know if the if that ever befalls people that are you in two and you get a lot of big lodomiria guys that that regum all the time that our active duty
that are doing the work and anything that strikes you as something that you learn from this experience here's that i learn is the worst thing i ever done in my
life and the worst thing and combat itself was a piece of cake compared to this i would love to go back to combat any issues or concerned or anything from my
military service was completely centered around this here is a extremely heavy burden to bear so if you are ever in this position i don't have any good advice
for you there's nothing you can do to prepare yourself for it of this type of situation the only thing i could tell you is reattain it before i will gladly
talk you through it because one of the best souls that i have found for dis kind of pain is hanging out with your brothers and spend in time with him i i will
always have time for some one who had to be a cage always call me what's go out was hanging out i won't suggest rangon to bear but if he fears which you want
to do will do it ambeetion is is that just the intimacy of being around another guidance there is very comforting and so you know we go through thrussel
situation like this do not isolate yourself there are other guys who have been through this and am in a true brother will be will be willing to take the time
for you i'll find the time for you no matter what amount or busy i am and so am i just want to be a resource i know that there's all so many hours in the day
but if you're going through something if you've gone through something like this reach out to your brother's find a connection to another military guy because
nobody can understand it like another military guy and as part of the stress of it part of the stress of it is is that you don't feel like you can possibly
explain what you're dealing with a anybody else there's no way they could possibly understand and comprehend it but other guys been to come back can and we can
sit in the room next lych other even if we sat there and said nothing we would get each other and so you got reach out to each other do not isolate to be
grated vice naturally won't thing that's very interesting to me is that i get emails from gus and that their basically do we not they're goin to do that right
now with us there's young o these guys out there that are that are going okay the end and the message is imean the military guy had been through this kind of
stuff before again i was never take on never on came home but on my guy's you know there was another kind of another kind of misery i guessed to desnoyer just
sending people home thowtful um but ye don't isolate yourself talk to your brothers find em and tell em what you thinkin about the a and and this is also right
because to wit her and face book and messages like this you know we can contarene t you know we can count a talk about doing some cool stuff together whether
it's to giorni a bad as race for doing something to challenge you physically or mentally we all can condove ourselves a electronic high five you know for
something bad as you're still doing to day and you know what he's the thing to transition man from man so so so so we so that happens i'm home and in february
to them seven i got off actor duty and a elenore arn't track in the calendar here mike he died said timber twenty nine three thousand six that whole thing on
fold week out home i got home i was the last boat the last group to leave and we left a remade october twenty first took a couple of days to get home but now
were home we get post appointment leave we re assemble deposed deployment kind of depretiate et postponement leave so now you're talking it's december all of a
sudden december you know october november is now its descent thanksgiving now with undissembled boom and so not much time is going by it's been packed in
february dear get out on on and now warmish cranking by the way so the guys are back to redewater poltoon they're doing pretorian ever do whatever it just
keeps on cranking and and then poof a out of the navy and ah i jump right into the mortgage pisiness cause you know nothing like it natural transition from the
sealed teams and the battle field or of matty to do an thirty year fixed mortgages and it and its huge thousand in sentono teatotal weren't doing fixed
mortgages for thirty years seventeen the more in history for those views that don't know the more industry than two thousand seven was a place where a lot of
people were making a conamorey and it was about to all come to a screen isles nine they in a ton of money how it is like that i was brand new it so i leave
this steady two week they checked brotherhood and the job i'd wanted to do my tire don't life at that point and had just come from great to point men and get
in the more i did that go i need to be home and by the way as much as a struggle was to get out and and i really my heart was truly torn in two opposite
directions i'm man i look back in the last nine ten years that i have had the opportunity to raise in shape my two young boys to be the young men of their
becoming have been absolutely priceless and but you know so i found myself february to sitting in the quiet office of a mortgage office at like six thirty in
the morning causes just how i row i got a key egitto get in their ma figure it out and it no don't poscis i shot up it like nine you know not in a readin
galindos ruinous i've no i've no pay check of no income and so an it got rough i started to struggle i'm struggling financially for one thing i'm sure william
emotionally am as fulanita new relationships and you know kind of like a little bit of a chip on the shoulder and a sort of a little bit of an attitude from
combat to trying to build relationships in the civilian world and it was tough un but i mean there were mornings i sat there quietly and by the way that
picture that you talked about at the beginning of the steel i have that hanging on my wall i look at it every single day and am one of the things that
continued to drive me and familiar gods who were listening on as corney i may sound in the legacy of my brothers is what draws me am the opportunity to help my
fellow veterans in cries me ah because i bending mortgages not super exciting right but sat there quietly trying to figure it out am i i all i got divorced i
lost housetops i shot so another house um there's a time when a lover my young son gunter is a sleeping on the floor in no furniture in the house a house set
days from it aready been for clothes and its days away from the sheriff coming to say get out and uh that drama and i think about my kin the sacrifice at mike
and mark made and entries me because they made a sacrifice and in some ways this is this is bad talker i hear in some ways i bet myself up that i was in on the
roof that day with my i because it was my potentiae home early from my son and then i think well if i had been on that roof may be could have been me and then
they wouldn't be a father there to raise gunner and a restricted into the next generation of warriors and either way the sacrifice at mike made he made that so
that i could live and i have an obligation to use every ounce of my ability to use my mind and my body and my drive that my determination to fight and kick and
scratch every single day to honor his legacy to build into mentor young men to help my fellow veterans in to make this country a greater country and all of
those things the more i do the more i feel like i can honour my ken his legacy and to do anything else would be to slight the great sacrifice that he made and
so take your brother if you are a notary at your out now you have her up i think your brother's honour them and you you and i were having dinner ah acooling
been erased the christening of the u s s michael mont sorosum ship and you are going into that situation and you just kind of rattled it off just now like a
one no big thing riding your kit is sleeping on the floor because you have no bed no furniture you that might away that that paycheck you been accustomed to
getting for whatever five years and then in the navy is gone gieen you get out of the military after five years you hanything you get nothing so you have no
pay check coming in but there is no salary in the mortgage industry ran so it's all a hundred protection your son is sleeping all the four because you have no
furniture you for closed on one house you short sold another house and you're about to get a victed that's your life at this point fright not to mention in the
back of your mind or in the funny your mind you got this thought that mike died and you aren't there row did you look at all that and shall your shoulders grit
your teeth and say i'm going to kick this stings as twenty you start at the very bottom i'd like to think i bounced because i hit so hard never give up the
legacy of items i mean here's a deal i think about guys that earth committing suicide to day or thinking about committing suicide and think about this do you
want to give that nasty enemy even one more victory flock the i in going to win because i am not going to let them defeat me and look at my boys i prayed a lot
for me i'm it's my faith in jesus christ save man soiling and you know what a jest never got a quit never you are not done until your six feet under the ain't
done i'll tell you if i ever found myself in combat where i was shot and dying and often my own in afghanistan or something like that for example i would take
the last grenade i had pulled the pin and laid underneath myself so that when the eneae to try and get my gear they blow themselves up because i am not done
until i am gone and even then if you played the right foundation the legacy leave the messages and what you've done to help the next generation at said obseve
got to quit never he can knock me down and i will get back up be cannot be down elegiac up i will get back up i will get back up they already well one of these
don't know can you don't know andrew he did get back up he absolutely got back up he now rungs of a very successful business and is out kicking ass on a daily
basis and taking names and it's been you know a lot of the etkin what whenever i look at myself and i went on this big little all went on the big kind of
tirade about how you need to men to your people and all that and take care of your brothers were just what you know where i was when i andrew was going through
this ship i was working i was working he didn't call me he didn't tedaidee make myself available you know so you go go you'll taking care of of your friends
goes beyond just when they ask for help you need to seek him out and make sure that they're doing all right because i let him go and that was that yet out of
an avian it was by by and keep in my nose and could come and ask you cause may be as little on the rest you know about him how dire my situation was so for
leader just now just like kids who are going through buds they're on to hide their injuries and right because you know i don't want to come to the guy who i
respect and say hey i am flat at right now brow you know so i'm just going to keep digging and i know we talked about it you are like no one don't you come to
me i don't you know what it was it of my nature to do so the maybe that wasn't the best to cition maybe i should have reached out but oh it away i was going to
quit well that's all some exhausted to see what you've done she regrant like i said kicking asking taking navidad raising two uh bad as young men that had good
boys men the next generation of worries at one of things i become passion about tally know when you get out and you transition it is it's hard because you
leave this brother her you leave this common sense this common goal and you your fighting perfrement for liberty fighting for your brother or sister right love
and an eget into some job where you're sitting in the desk tiennot which is boring em so you have to look here to get you have to find a purpose behind what
you're doing and warais like surly janpan pantings of shouldn't gondin repeaters of a hall highest do thirty or six mortgages i mean wawa i mean how do you how
do you eecitin about that look you don't you don't get excessthat i am gosiute you get excited about it something else behind it and for me it's help him my
fellow better and so has he don't know not isonomy busness i do be alone okay so why because i want to help my fellow veterans nobody will take care of that or
better now well and that's that's that's my montrait if if if a gages on the street you will not be taken care of better than if he comes to me because i am
deeply passionate about helping my fellow veterans and that's how i get passionate about the job that i do now if in purpose behind what i'm doing and so you
might be in some janarit anybody who god is socks you know but find a reason behind it could be a small thing right but they were jogging military that sucked
they were job there in there's parts of every job that sucks he has got to deal with that's life and find a purpose behind what you're doing and then in the
ousel you this is a this is like one of these secrets of life that i had found life is easier when you find a way help somebody else when you find a way to
help somebody else miraculously your problems begin to go away so focus on somebody else's problems and how you can help them and all of a sudden you forget
about yours and so find a way to help other veterans i see guides i see bedroom today who are hot we have been blown up and lost limbs and had been in similar
difficult situations and they are make their doing fantastic because they started organizations were leading organizations or deeply involved in organizations
are helping fellow veterans and the air is it's like this me it's like this miracle you set out to help somebody else and all sudden your problems to seem to
melt away so if you're struggling right now eric out to me face book to enter whatever just share your story connect and in find a way old some one else and do
it no way that your passion about man i mean i am passionate about raising my two boys and to the next generation of warriors i'm i'm passionate about a man
first look over and at the spineless cowards that society is raising to day who is raising the next generation of the war years to keep the america that
greatest country on the planet this generation that says that everybody gets a trophy that you get a freaking graduation certificate when you graduate from
first grade that's bullshit all right so gothico on a kickin the ass the threat you get something when you on something and so raise on my boys and hard young
men to become gentlemen strong warriors men of character who will will have a spine and stand for something that's when need to do it as you guys have been to
combat sir nor military yotted that you don't have kids bindweed valve in the wide school they be little middle school and said be a romaness an example for
some young boys to be the next generation of bad as american warriors who will stand for im protect this country and protect the brady i something cupressi get
passion about that you that's something that everybody needs to get passionate about and like you set a specially the veterans that that no one understand that
and they know one understanding the preciate what real freedom is that right well i think that's always got for to night did give closing comments i think you
just about some dubell person foremost andrew thanks for your service thank you for answering the nations call and i appreciate what you did for me and what
you did for the team and she come on the pot cast and sharing your lessons learned not only about combat but about what comes to after combat then for those
you out there listen to the podcast ain't you want to keep listing the poncas you on a sport to poncas my brother ecchoes could tell you how to do that before
i tell you actually have the question yea iaway light hearted question compared to ungotten ye go into the mortgage industry ye and you know there's other
people in office as well i what did they think about did they know in no your your your past they find out you know but it's hard to right because in the
saltees we have we have a quiet professionalism and so one of the things that i've struggled with is you know look on i'm certainly proud of my service but i
don't want to use my service on my back round this helen is a way to advertise and they are made nardos in the morgues who pray on military duty and and
they've got some great fancy marketing but their hearts not in the right place so relationships little by little it it it sneaks out in fine of other people
know but now i don't walk in there and tell people that he ladevese i mean you have not retain either just bother rain i don't know why we've never talked
about it before i never talk was but like any one that actually calls themselves with ave seal the is like suspecting her hey how's it going of an evasion i
wasn't any of it is so like you that helmet you're going inside and it is guderian arno i at belike you like okay jack awake in we mean jacox and he is the
onowenever he's jocko were going to be kind o like hay are you in navy seal kind o thing when you you're kind of like an every day guy kind of do so you're
like penalised in the movie who they shone work in or whatever and it flashes back to his fascines kind of the superior you know you like one of those kings do
they like deep into they looked at you like that like all yea you're just you know our guide co worker right a thing but and then maybe one guy heard a rumor
and this guy is yenefiti heart in warriors like no no no way look at a inaiyut's um and that's how i'd prefer it i mean i'd rather be old though not knowing
head rather a in the shadow i mean cause look here to deal wi none of us do this for achille none of us do this for a look at me and the guys who advertised
like dousand there suspect as the provident really do it you know em but i say probably one of the best compliments i probably ever got was i i heard about a
conversation that happened when i wasn't there in this gay was like ted did you know that he has a navy seal and the other person said no we'll win can't he's
so nice and he you know my editiorem yes i'd rather be i'd rather be self like that on you don't make tenere interesting it is again will use joust example if
jacana walks in a room and guisnes trouble maker gyffin look at me like a a a no man starting and say beg her in an have been a know a ten die but then you you
don't have that to look at you write or you had not only i say nan you know to get a alittle to me not an leave it more but the tell you need real so makes you
demuth more interesting to me you know i indiscrette you know what i times but i would say more often than not when we if we were out as a poltoon guys would
actually want to start a fight with a gadeloo like jack o because they're they're looking delegates lves ye were as like guys amanuensis his calculation a like
really and of life even extinction my huancane decision on to be and not to count i know exactly what you're saying but like the the facts are boldness be when
about in public the ape's don't but i know exactly were talking about it's always some big guy who tall guy gets only coming up to him and ah in actually you
you and i talk about this too for those your on the pot caste can't you that listening answerest look like stereotypical seal he's a hundred and fifty five
pounds he is or how tell you five seven five seven to look begot your stereo enot i stereotypical seal looking guy now again that the public would set the
public that i got to say there is no stereotype and some of the most bad as guys are and there every size but this is something that andrew said to me one time
which was you know he is a ibarete see me and one o they sank they think all this guy you know he's just going to be knuckle dragger and and he's thinks
everybody needs to be big giant ah you know head smashers right and the fact of matters what i care about is can you do your job in can you do it well are you
tough are you brave can you lead and that's why and ow i i he was like actually surprised like one he went five between even and you know i was kind o for you
might not like me you know because i'm you know smaller and then i don't look like a seal and all like brow is not about how well you look like it's about how
you act and can you do this job he or you brave are you going to step up can you lead great example leshi right like that's what you that's what you thousand
points you focused on wells the kilobit the person your team now with a look like and in some guys can do that right they can then go all you know this for
that ah but you were like hell hell now in this guy he puts out the king a job done he's leading to you now as your kennel like you tom dalton you're born she
rode house no i remember ye when they are like he thought you'd be bigger he is bad as pamshort right to be compares it will that give me killed dick bills or
he does he does it actually a you know look along like patersonia have richer and an ye i'd rather remain stealth you know and and and use that to my advantage
you know em and kind of remained thought that as the under dog you know he won't see me comin my member we were hanging out your house jack one and am and
tristan said he goes he who would win in a fight you were draco how frank thanks boy he right in front of jock and i was like a horse massiliensis and i go
well i'm not stupid enough to start a fight with jocosity to sleep that it entitled al some of glad we're on the same key brother feel but yes if he do want to
support this pot cast there are some way if he if he don't know already ah we didn't talk about supplementation or many things that would require
supplementation but if you into it on in his best ones come in knowledge and oh tempers and off on a dumb flashed jocoseness off if he need insularity of these
supplements like that literature behind it all that stuff it's on there extensively if you want temperses support your self your wallet is well also when you
do amazon shopping m we have no click through link on our web site which supports the podges unknowen shop and a course subscribed places on no i do an you to
leave a revue livery view yet at editionlet me know what's up here let us now what of yea yea those who use are helpful men cause yea like if they're like hay
jocoso saying like like all the time no i don't sir like ranadar's why at why i mean to ye there you go tom but you know perforately you man if you're in the
mood and then i of course jocatore can by some shirts some mugs so rash guards some stickers oh i have women coming out in three days it'll be out by the time
this out it up do your armenia they are in no sir i got to day i like the crowell i used to curl you and anne and a man the like them the much wit set the
radar shrew ye that is gone to work out yet i swear unalike it to ideas i was i will sit you get to governesses let yet yet as if he grow yeh yeh get on it he
is as tell him last night where i started the creel and cataline where when i work out i have stratoniceans but i to have torgote i wake up i just never
thought about that one people fished sore joints and stuff in a just sore male all this and my daughter would jump on my back to wake me up now i got a
walkuere with his drolatic maybe three fortys later no problem i can get up and walking on the stairs easy like noticeably you know singwell shall find it a
also an amazon gotta get some of that jock a white tea right here saying good i step up your game with thee and i axes and my rodosto castine did you rocinante
roland and while you're up there just a ladies go ahead and grab yourself a coin go yourself a copy the tremonts the book at me and my brother lafe bab in rope
and if you already have a copy that's coal is gone one for your boss set won't for your team your mammy dad whoever hard covered digital or if you want to hear
latinitatis for a strait ours get the audio book case at what it is and also if you want even more come out to the extreme onerantur october twenty at ten
twenty first and san diego california as leadership conference will be lead breaking down the fundamental principle of combateth and teaching and talking about
how to employ them on the battle field in business and in life so registered and we'll see there andropogon to be there by the way to day all either echo
charles going to be there by the way rome getting after it come on out and as always if you want to keep kicking it with echo charles and with me were all up
in the inner web twitter instigate and even that fate booke where there echoes at echetus i am at jackwell in an if you want to get in to paul go the indre
maul the andrew and a ball hit on twittered inguinal so if you want to get the inteenal and you can hit him up face book i want face look andrew pole better
and advocate for hold there you go boom boo awesome and ah once again and drew tatooing on that not rot to me have you on here and i really appreciate you
coming on and now the everybody listening people in uniform people in business suits people in coveralls anbeter one we talk to day about miemon and a one of
leave you with this mighty monster was named after saint like say michaelis the war your archangel that lad havens army against satan saint michael was known
as the principle of the anjelico in the seen as a protector against the darkness they in the christian religion specifically in the anglican and a catholic in
the little trenchers september twenty ninth september twenty ninth is now as michael mass or saint michael's day and that day september twenty ninth two
thousand and to six was the day that orsanmichele wickied in iraq the city relate sacrificing his life to save the lives of three of his team mates for as
brothers three befriends and i would ask you this when september tony nine confeound remember and i would ask that while you honour the hero and you honour the
warrior that michael mansor was pleased also remember then my he was a parson he was a smiling kid he was jokester you was a determined man a brother a son i'm
uncle a friend and michael monster were was a young man with hopes and plans and aspirations and dreams dreams for his future and dreams for his life and in
that moment of truth he gave them all all those hopes and all those dreams he gave them all to us repeat in the till next time missus echo and jocko in my
brother and the palm how to
