this is jack past number forty three with actors and me jackwell all the lads had gone out to play at being soldiers far away they won't be back for many a day
and some won't be back any morning all the lasses who laughing were when hearts were light and lads were here they go sad eyed wandering hither and there they
pray in watch for the morning every house has its vacant bed every night when sounds are dead some woman yearns for the pillowed head of him who marched out in
the morning of all the lads who gone out to play the some return and some whole stay there some will be back most any day but some won't wake up in the morning
good evening ago good evening that polight there is called the lads away in its from a book called the glory of the trenches but connings be dusenall got this
book in original copy of this book from a trooper from a jesse trooper up and canada seven his buck and he like i had a thought actual first printing do you
fucoidal that smell of right that old book a musty smell at one of those books were you can actually summate age and you can smell the lessons learned and you
can smell the wisdom and side of it and it's a different view of the different feel and i found it to be very fascinating and the the into to the book
laceratin by dassent so that so the interlocking of dawson's a guy that wrote the book calling to be dardanus the guy that wrote the book will his dad wrote
the intruder the book and he kind of kicks it off an herisson of the high lights of that he says i've already stated the conditions under which this book of my
sons was produced he was wounded in the end of june nineteen seventeen in the fierce struggle before lens he was at once removed to a base hospital later to a
a military hospital in london there was in grave danger of amputation of the right arm with this was happily avoided as soon as he could use his hand he was
commandeered by the lord high commissioner of canada to right an important paper detailing the history of the canadian forces in france and flanders negontisk
about how they came up with a name of the book and i go through different cul of entitles in the night they set along this distil the glory of the chance
trenches lastly we decided on the glory of the trenches as the most expressive of his aim he felt that a great deal too much had been said about the squawlish
discomfort and suffering of the trenches now clearly that stuff that i've talked about and to this shuttle you that's enticing about this a different take a
world war one because he said lockyer enough about the squalid he felt that this comfortable about the glory of the churches he pointed out the very pope
little warm book which we were weeding had to six paragraphs in the first sixty pages which described in unpleasant detail the verminous condition of the men
as if there were this were the chief thing to be remarked concerning them he held that it was a mistake for a writer to lay too much on the st too much stress
on the hollers of war the effect was bad physiologically it frightened the parents of soldiers it was equally bad for the enlisted man himself for created a
false impression in his mind we all knew that war was horrible but as a rule the soldier thought little of his feature in this lot the real soldiers thoughts
were concerned with other things he was engaged in spiritual act and zonitoides cut he was accomplishing spiritual purposes as truly as the murger of faith and
religion he was moved by spiritual impot impulses the obviating of duty the loyal dependence of comradeship the spirit of sacrifice the complete surrender of
the body to the will of the soul this is the side of war which men needed most to recognize they needed it not only because it was the true side but because
nothing else could kindle and sustain the enduring flame of harism in men's hearts to his looking at the still nicolete in this what happens in the trenches is
like a is like a religion is like a spiritual thing which when other thing that drew me to this is cause you know i talk all the time about how there is the
most beautiful things and warm and there's no a most horrible things but there's also these beautiful things in so i can see he's very focused on what those
things are m wall some erred in exhibiting nothing but the boots holidies of war others erred by sentiment tizing war he admitted that it was perfectly
possible to paint a porter of a soldier with an area of a saint but it would not be a representative portrait it would be eclectic the result of selection and
elimination so he said like on the one hand get these books that paint this crazy brutal side of war the other side you get them painting soldiers as saints
and neither one is you witch i will totally agree with you know we we do have a dedefile tendency to do that in literature or people that write about war or
they want to write about onontake everyone look like the best guy ever none of us are none of us are we all have faults back to the book the ordinary soldiers
intense reached human creature with an endearing blend of faults and virtues the romantic method of portraying him not only misrepresented him but its result
is far less impressive than a portrait painted in the firm lines of reality so they do all this to make the guy look like a saint but the watch real is
actually more amazing there's an off steer grandeur in the reality of what he is and does which needs no fine gilding from the sentimentalist to depict him as
sir galahad in holy olentis a serious offense as to exhibit him as a caliban were is it from as from shakespeare from the temptee i e the ultimate bad guy in
the shakespeare's play the tent the tempest with a total beast um three you can't portray the person's delhay can't you can you know bagain portrayment the
same each method fails of truth and all that the soldier needs to be known about him that men should honour him is the truth war a hot new air which men
breathed produce new energies in forms of fought men were rediscovering themselves their own forgotten nobilities the latent nobilities in all men bound
together in the daily obedience of self surrender urged by conditions of their pastorer dutiable confronted by the pitiless destruction of the body they were
forced into recognition of the spiritual values of life so faced with what they were facing all or one we talked about that over over again your facing death
and these guys these soldiers are are forced to look at their spiritual self in the common conventional use of the term these men were not religious there was
much in their speech in an their conduct which would outrage the standards of narrow pietism so pay his guard not good it uses traditional creeds and forms of
faith had scant authority for them but they had made their own a sure faith than lives in creeds so what they discover on the battle field is even stronger
than in what the didn't what the churches say it was an it was expressed not in words but as they had freed their souls from the tyrannies of time and the fear
of death they had accomplished indeed that very emancipation of the soul which is the assential doctrine of all religions which all religions urge on men but
which few men really achieve however earnestly they profess forms of pious faith a pretty amazing as a pretty amazing viewpoint that what you find all on the
battle field is spiritual spiritually stronger in what you find in the church back to the book this was the true glory of the trenches they were the cavalries
of a new redemption being wrought out from men by soiled unconscious christs as of the soldiers were soiled dirty unconscious me they don't even know it christ
and as from that ancient cavalry with its agony of shame torture and dereliction there flowed a flood of light which made a new dawn for the world so for the
obscure crucifixions there would come to men anew revelation of the splendour of the human soul the true divinity that dwells in man but god made manifest in
the flesh by acts of valour heroism and self sacrifice which transcend the instincts and promptings of the flesh and bear witness to the indestructible life of
the spirit that heavy sedatest eight like a sad this view point is i i can to me understand where it's coming from and it expresses a lot of the things that i
think i haven't thought about it to this degree though you know calling that the basically calling the deaths of soldiers on the battlefield crucifiction it
and that god is made manifest in the flesh at these guys when they make these sacrifices it's like a glimpse of god these acts of valor and heroism and and
it's just in very doleful now that's traps up in the the insular than that obviously um but now we're going to go to the book itself which again is written by
this soldier dason and it actually starts with his training so an he was he was from england and he lived in canada and but he ends up joining the military
because you know canada was a was a supporting and helping britain in the war and he actually travelled in new york he lived all over the place and but now
he's a easington and will take it back to the book when i had been medically examined passed as fit had donned the uniform and commenced my training i learnt
what the enduring of hardship was no experience on active service has equalled the humiliation and severity of those first months of soldiering we were sneered
at clean stables groomed horses rode stripped saddles strip saddle for twelve miles at the trot attended lectures studied till past midnight and were up all
the first parade it six o'clock no previous civilian efficiency or prominence stood us in any stead we started robbed of all importance elthet we started
robbed of all ritorno that fanatico yet he can just get rid of that and only gained a new importance by our power to hang on and develop a new efficiency as
soldiers you've heard me say that before like when i joined a military that's one of my favorite things not as i was like a blank slate like everything you did
in your past all the all the stuff you've been through the trouble things you've done salon what matters now is what you do here when men went sick they would
label scrimshankers and struck off the course they was enough fence it was enough sanctoe your body interfere with your duty if it tried to you must ignore it
if a man caught cold in kingston what would he not catch in the trenches very many went down under physical under the physical ordeal of the class that started
i don't think more than a third past the lukewarm soldier and the pink tea hero simply wanted to swank a uniform were eventually choked off it was a test of
pluck even more than of strength or intelligence the same test that a man would be subjected to all the time at the front in a word it sorted out the fellows
who had got god isn't a particularly polite word but i have come increasingly to appreciate its splendid significance the possessor of this much coveted
quality is the kind of edith when his legs are smitten will fight upon his stumps and actually was whereat is a lakeman will with his or some archaic term of
idiot wise using that word and now was none like means that's what you mean is it a guianesa that he'll turn like ever going to be stupid you got to be tough
and at kind o wildly saying like these guys will go and they will not stop it that's what gutis the thames and a slang word for the british soldiers whom we
were going to command would be like that if we weren't like it we wouldn't be any good as officers this artillery school had a violent way of sifting out of
man's moral worth you hadn't much conceit left by the end of it so what a the i i can only imagine you know we have a very politically correct military system
now and it's getting the i can't imagine what these soldiers wantonest undulating these veterans on tom coming out and trying to get them ready for war i
better we brutal and it sounds like it was brutal and it sounds like it did it very effective job of getting rid of the week of making our of ego completely go
away you know getting rid of any former conceit that you had now he continues on the book but in rennes move a little bit forward here to hear his moving
towards the front wall ebate book after trudging about six miles we arrived at the camp and found that it was out of food and that all the tenth rock pied we
stretched out our sleeping bags on the ground and went to bed supperless we had had no food all day next morning we were told that we ought to jump on an
ammunition lorry if we wanted to go any further on our journey nobody seemed to want us particularly and no one could give us the least in for information as
to where our division was it was another lesson if that were needed of our total unimportance so you guys are looking to find whether supposed to report you
thing to fight in a war and we will in a aganoor you you'll figure it out while we were reading on the roadside an australian brigade of artillery passed by
the men's faces were derry with fatigue the gunners were dismounted and marched as in a trance the harness was muddy the steel rusty the horses lean and
discouraged we understood that they were pulling out from an offensive in which they had received the bad cutting up to my overstrained imagination it seemed
that the men had the vision of death in their eyes towards the evening left under of the gun to swell in the toomanu wooer we passed through villages
disfigured by shell fire civilians became more rare and more aged cattle disappeared utterly from the landscape fields were furrowed with a band on transoms in
in front of which hung entanglements of wire mounted orderly splashed along sullen roads at an impatient trot here and there became across improvised be of
actor infantry far away against the horizon towards which we travelled hun flares and rockets were going up hopeless stoicism unutterable desolation that was
my first impression the landscape was ginerally muddy it it became a sea of mud dispathies on motor bikes travelled werelade feet dragging to save themselves
from falling everything was splashed with filth and corruption one marvel that the cleanliness of the sky trees were blasted and seemed to be sinking out of
sight in his war created sledded we came to a brow of a hill in the valley was something that i recognized blast i might seen it was an an etching in a shop
window in newark new jersey it was a town from the midst of whose battle ruins a splintered tower struck ordains the sky leaning far out from the tower so that
it seemed she must drop was a statue of the virgin with the christ in her arms it was a superstition with the french and i remembered that so long as she did
not fall things would go well with the allies as we watched a shell screamed over the gaping roofs and a call of smoke went up as we entered the streets
tommies more polluted than miners crept out from the skeletons of houses they leant listlessly against sagging doorways to watch us pass if we asked for
information as to where our division was they shook their heads stupidly too indifferent with weariness to reply for the next three nights we slept by our wits
and gotter food by foraging so we know i mean we know this is a world where one we know it's a night we know it's an absolute nightmare it's an absolute
nightmare and i the altis surprised me to the scissorer and he has no idea what he is doing he is the walking around and people are so desponded from the war
the vegetarian care an back to the book there was a headquarters near by whose battalion was in the line i struck up lee's on with its officers and at times
went into their crowded tent which was their message warm runners would come there at all hours of day and night bringing messages from the front they were
usually well spent sometimes they gasped but they had but they all had the invincible determination to carry on after they delivered their message they would
lie down in the mud and go to sleep like dogs the moment the reply was ready they would lerche feet throwing off the weariness as if it were a thing to be
conquered and despised go ahead read that one again the thesis are dog tired they did lay down the mud somebody preparing a reply for these messages and then
the moment the reply was met it ready they would learn to their feet throwing off their weariness as though it were a thing to be comforted and despised i
appreciate now as never before i appreciated now as never before the lesson of god that i have been taught at kingston the other side of the town the ravages
of the war were far more marked all the way along the road side were comte little crosses french english german planted above the hurried graves of brave
fellows who had fallen an plon's ambulances were picking their way wearily turning with the last night's toll of wounded we saw newly dead men and horses
pulled to one side who had been caught in the darkness by the enemy's harassing fire in places in places the country had hold of size of quarries where mines
had exploded and shells from large calibre guns had detonated bedlam was raging up front shells went screaming over us seeking out victims in the back country
to been there by oneself would have been most disturbing but the men about me seemed to regard it as perfectly ordinary and normal i steadied myself by their
example it's it's it's interests were talking about this and it sounds like hallander yet do not one foine this is behind that some also were talking about to
day like you can see these guys whatever pain and suffering their feeling they're not showing it now in the anthens he can't show it and that kind of bolsters
that alan makes them all stronger n back to the book about seven o'clock as we were resting the evening hate commenced in those days the evening hate was a
regular habit with the hun he knew our country better than we did for he had retired from it every evening he used to search out all communication trenches and
likely battery positions with any canit of shells so seven o ocont the germans would just fine all the positions cause they had surrendered up so that they
were distorted dropping bombs dropping artillery on the known positions that they knew they knew the trenoweth built horrible his idea was to rob us of our
moral i wish he might have seen how a busily how much how a busily he failed to do it down our narrow valley like a flight of arrows that shell screamed and
whistles where they struck the ground looked like reserection day with the dead elbowing their way into daylight and forcing back the earth from their eyes
there were actually many dead men just beneath the surface and as the ground was ploughed up the smell of corruption became distinctly unpleasant so these guys
are buried their burden wotever for five feet dark and these shells come in and dig em up presently the shells begin to go dud so imagine that you you hear
nathanael's had there there's no explosion you know that means i mean to gas we realized that these were gashes of thin bluish vapour spread throughout the
valley and breathing became oppressive then like stallions kicking in the stalls the heavy guns on the ridge above us opened up an not the friendly gun start
to open up it was fine to hear them stamping their defiance that made one want to get trips with his aggressors in the brief silences one could hear our chaps
laughing so i want to do magnetises also you're getting shelled you get crushed there is dead bodies coming up from the soil there is gas in the air and an
here we go in the brief silences one could hear our chaps laughing the danger seemed to fill them with a wild excitement every time a shell came near them and
miss they would taunt the unseen huns for their purport gunnery giving what they considered necessary corrections five minutes more left old cock if you d only
drop fifty you'd get us so he's giving corrections to the guns these men didn't know what fear was or if they did they kept it to themselves and these were the
chaps whom eye was to order the river her too much about that then you know toni's to tony lay talked about it you don't be in being good shot out in being at
really close calls situations and like every one's laughing and it's it does happen were or one don't hear much about it for you you go on believableness part
away that military that you do not snowroad you get about situation you know a little humour goes aronson way a little humor goes a long way back to the book
we entered a trench and this is by the way this is i'm obviously not reading the entire book on going to some high light so there's a little bit of a skip you
know a time here as they as a move towards the more towards the front back oteo we entered a trench holes were scooped out in the side of it just large enough
to shelter a man crouching each hole contained a sleeping soldier who looked as dead as the acumen occupant of a caticom some of the holes had been blown in
all you saw of the late occupant was approaching arm or leg at best there was a horrid similarity between the dead and the living it seemed that the walls of
the trenches had been built out of corpses for one recognised the uniforms of french and the huns she her industries but an your protective somewhat but you
got a gigante hole into the wall of the trench and some of those guys get buried and killed and the bodies of his there really i mean talk about hell you know
hell back to the book the enemy shelling was growing more intense as was always the way on the sons or there at the sun the bow was on when we are bringing in
our buyer bringing out on undid a good many of our trenches were directly on the lad and if you don't know what that is on flately if you can imagine a line of
people and you are shooting down the line of people and how much more exposed you are in that situation so picture if i told you to shoot ten a some of these
tin cans and i lined em up in a straight line perpendicular to you you have to amateuria one and you might hit it you might not if we put them all a big line
where there are where their parallel to you are there there they go down the same gun target line that you have to you can if you get one you might hit two you
might have three might at all the wild one shot and so this is a bad situation to be in m we never want to have the enemy spiralen your flank and your line up
for them to shoot at you insidiatore shells burst just behind the parapet when they didn't burst on it when they didn't burst on it he was about this point in
my breaking in that i received a blow to the head and thank god for the man who invented the steel helmet so he's getting it with some shrapnel night came down
and we found that our carriage had no lights it must have been nearing dawn when i was away and again i i skipped a little bit but he here we are obviously as
in a carriage it must have been nearing dawn when i was wakened by the distant thunder of guns i crouched in my corner cold and cramped trying to visualise the
terror of it i asked myself whether i was afraid not of death i told myself but of being a fraid yes most horribly he was most horribly afraid not of bath for
being well yet he was afraid of being afraid of me do this first experience in no man's land did away with my last flabby fear that if i was afraid i would
show it one is often afraid and he soldier who was searched the contrary may not be a liar but he certainly does not speak the truth physical fear is too
deeply rooted to be overcome by any amount of training it remains then to train a man in spiritual pride so that when he fears nobody knows that cowardice is
contagious it is been said that no battalion is braver than its least brave member military courage therefore is a form of unselfishness current is a form of
unselfishness it is practised that it may save the weaker men's lives and uphold their honour but worse than you can say of a man out on the front is he
doesn't play the game that doesn't of necessity mean he fails to do his duty listen o this that doesn't mean it fails to do his duty what it means is that he
fails to do a bit more than his duty when a man plays the game he does things which it requires a braver man than himself to accomplish he never knows when
he's done he acknowledges no limit to his cheerfulness and strength whatever his rank he holds his life less valuable than that of the humblest he laughs at
danger not because he does not dread it but because he had learnt that there are ailments more terrible and less curable than death ailments more terrible and
less curable than death and that ailment is cowardice until i became a part of the war i was a doubter of the nobility in others and a sceptic as regards to
myself the growth of my personal vision was complete when i recognised that the capacity of heroism is latent in everybody in only awaits the bigness of the
opportunity to call it out different take different take and and obviously you know ah when stacked about or old war one and a less mean abuses not doing
personate this way about things any if he if this was at least a a fairly normal attitude to have there's no way that will or one could continued on the way it
did these people would have been saying no tisico us ridiculous we just lost another eighty thousand casualties we all other hundred season these are bottles
were tens of thousands of people or casualties in one day and two days so if people that have the kitoti de that this was their duty the it they wouldn't have
been able to maintain that type of that type of face and i don't even know whether to say i am impressed by that or disgusted by it or disturve not discussed
but disturbed by it disturbed by it and i ecelino the war that i will i i would not won't want to fight it went on to find it because this is the attitude is
okay your duty is to go get killed when we call and it's desmoterion good i fatsister could you tackier does now good overshute you are doesn't matter how god
of a leader you are because when we say go you're going to get your troops men i do we say on golloping a charging chingas and gadgeting mowed down now he goes
into a a little bit more about some of the bottle back to the book all this april high above the shouting of the guns are larks the larks sang joyously the
scarlet of the poppies the song of the larks the lamp shining on the altar are the only external signs of the unconquerable happy religion which lies in the
hearts of our men their religion is the religion of heroism which they have learned in the glory of the trenches there was a line from william william morris's
earthly paradise which is like a long epic pontoonlike a novel which you to haunt me especially in the early days when i was first experiencing what war relied
meant it reads as follows of heaven or hell i have no power to sing i cannot ease the burden of your fears or make quick coming death a little thing it's the
last line that makes me smile rather quietly or make quick coming death a little thing i smiled because the souls who were cake an learned to do just that
these guys this fear of death that people have and this poem that says he you can't make a quick death quick coming death i can't make that into a little thing
is going to be huge and amanus gweat as gorove back to the book how typical he is of the days before the war when the people had only pin pricks to endure and
consequently didn't exert themselves to be brave a big sacrifice which bankrupts one's life is always more bearable than the little inevitable annoyances of
sickness disappointment and dying in a bed the burden of our fears has slipped from our shoulders in our attempt to do something for others the unbelievable in
long coveted miracle has happened at last to every soul who has grasped his chance of harism quick coming death has become a fifth rate calamity fig about that
quick ominate whenever whenever you no big deal to me your fifth rate college back the book in saying this i do not mean to glorify war war can never be
anything but beale and damnable it deep at it dates back to the jungle but there are two kinds of war there's a kind that highway men wages we pounces from the
bushes and a saltontale woman then there is also the kind where you wage when you go to rescue her behaga man can expect to come out of that fight with a
loftier morality but you can our chaps never wanted to fight they hate fighting it's that hatred of the thing they are compelled to do that makes them so
terrible he goes back a talking now about that wooden figure of christ that it seemed the wooden christ gazed down from them on his cross when he suffering
which two thousand years ago he had shared the terrible pity of his silence seemed to be telling them that they had become one with him in their final
sacrifice they hadn't lived his life far from it but unknowingly they had died his death that's a part of the glory of the trenches that a man who is not the
ben good can coifi himself and hang beside christ in the end got on the battlefield and you sacrificed your life you will you're your ball your sins are gone
your wash away and you you hang beside christ in the end god as we see him and do we see him i think so but not always consciously he moves among us in the
forms of our brother men we see him most evidently when danger is most threatening and courage is at its highest we often don't recognize him out loud our
chaps don't use that there his fellow campaigners there too humble minded in the inarticulate for that there sent gods all round us i see in the guise there
there is campaigners but but they don't even onsaha don't say we're doing the work of god they don't say we're still living like god or well living like jesus
christ now there too humble minded and inarticulate for that there were they are because they wanted you there bit their duty he carefully disguised instinct
of honour brought them there doing their bit in bible language means laying down their lives for their friends doing their bit that covers everything here's an
example of how god walks among us in one of our talks on the sum all the observers up for were uncertain as to what had happened we had no whether our infantry
atapee objective failed or gone beyond it the battle field as far as the eye could reach was a bath of mud is extremely easy in the excitement of an offensive
when all landmarks are blotted out for storming parties to lose their direction if this happens a number of dangers may result of italian may find itself up in
the air which means that it failed to connect with the battalions on its left and right its flanks are then exposed to the enemy it may advance too far and
start digging itself in at a point where it was previously arranged that artillery should place their protective wall the fire we being forward artillery
advert observers are the eyes of the army is our business to watch for such contingencies to keep in touch with the situation as it progresses and descend our
information back as quickly as possible we were peering through our glasses from our point of vantage when far away in the thickest of the battle smoke we saw
a white flag waving sending back messages a flag waving was petey desperate it was evident that no one had replied and probable that no one had picked up the
messages a signal who was with us read the language for us accompanied infantry had advanced too far they they were most of them wounded very many of them dead
and were in danger of being surrounded they asked for our tillery to place a curtain of fire and fun of them and for reinforcements to be sent up so there are
her trench sturdy artillery eyes they're looking out they see flag which is how the ontotheology s they had for signaling in communicating duty's different
angles you could spell out words and so they're getting a signal back from the group that they might get surrounded we need to mortellerie here we at once
foamed the orders through to our artilery and notified the infantry headquarters of his of the division that was holding the front but it was necessary to let
those chaps now that we were aware of the predicament they hang on if they knew that otherwise without orders our signaller was getting his flags ready he had
to he hopped out on to the trench he had out of the trench and on to the parapet he didn't stand a fifty fifty chance the hun was familiar with her observation
station and straight it with persistent regularity the signal are turned to the sea or of uprisen what shall i send them tell him their messages have been
received and it helped his coming out the chap scrambled a flag on either hand he was nothing but a boy he ran crouching like a rabbit to a hump of mud where
his figure was short against the sky his flags commenced waving messages received health coming they didn't see him at first he had to repeat the words we
watched him breathlessly we knew what would happen at last it did happen a hun observer spotted him and flashed the target back to his guns all about him the
mud commenced to leap up and bubble he went on signalling the good word to those stranded men up front messager ceived help coming at least they'd seen him
they were signaling o k it was at that moment that a was bang lifted him off his feet and landed him all of a huddle his bit it was what he'd volunteered to do
when he came from canada the signal o k in the battle smoke was like a testimony to his character so like i said this had to be a common attitude in its
dishart for us to understand this mistafor me it was in the military for twenty years to understand this attitude that you know what it's your time to die now
step up and go past this tingling back to them then i'm not saying that you know modern military guys don't take rest obviously take em normous rising we've
got taken drastic castles but it is is is definitely a different mentality there is no doubt about it i mean obviously to different mentality when you losing
millions of men millions of men back to the book and this is missus vast wore little bit to kind of discoving a little more insight about what their outlook
was out perfane reached to tell each other fairy tales of how he would spend the first year of life when the war was ended one man had a baby he would never
see another of girl whom he was anxious to marry my dream was more prosaic but no less ecstatic it began and ended with a large white bed and a large white
bath for the first three hundred and sixty five mornings after peace had been declared i was to be awakened by the sound of my bath being filled water was to
be so plentiful that i could tumble off to sleep again without even troubling to turn off the tap in france when as to go dirty so often that the dream of
always being cleaned seems as unrealisable as romance or drinking waters frequently brought up to us at the risk of men's lives carried through the mud in
petrol cans strapped a pack horses to use it carelessly would be like washing in men's blood in his another little paragraph about again giving some more
insight you wouldn't think that the men who would go to war to learn how to be kind but they do there is no kind of creature in the whole wide world than the
average tommy he makes a friend of any stray animal he can find he shares his last frank with a chap who isn't his pal he risked his life to die inconsequently
to rescue any one whose wounded he's gone over the top with the bomb and band that for the express purpose of doing in the hun but he makes a comrade of the
frizettes you'll seem coming down the battered trenches and some scared lad of a german at his side now he is as i said beginning less we eetion in at this
point he's been wounded and now he's heading the blighty which we talked about this performances were blood he was slaying for going back to england back to
the book never enough my never in all my fortnight's journey to blady that i hear a word of self pity or complaining this going with a bunch of wounded people
his not hearing any complaining on the contrary the most severely wounded men would profess themselves grateful that they had got off so lightly since the war
started the term light he has become exceedingly comparative i suppose a man is justified in saying he's got off lightly when what you expected was death i
remember a big highland officer who had been shot in the kneecap he been operated on and the neaped been found be so supplanted it had to be removed of this he
was on aware for the first day as he lay in bed he kept wondering aloud how long it would be before he could read join his battalion perhaps he suspected his
condition and was trying to find out all those hearts seemed sad at once on getting back into the fighting next morning he plucked up the curbs to ask for
doctor and received the answer he had dreaded never you won't be going back old chap next time he spoke his voice was a bit throaty will it stiffen you've lost
the knee joint the doctor said but with luck will save the leg his voice sank to a whisper if you do it won't be much good will it not much said the doctrine
he lay for a couple hours silent readjusting his mind to meet the new conditions then he commenced talking with cheerfulness about returning to his family the
habit of courage had conquered the habit of courage which grows out of the knowledge that you let your pals down by showing cowardice so took a couple of hours
to a just said okay looks like to get to go back to my family now we have another type of casualty here talking about men that have had major disfigurement to
their faces and there they they would wrap their whole faces up doctor book in these days that followed i saw several of these masked men the worst cases were
not allowed to walk about the ones i saw were invariable invariably dressed with the most scrupulous care in the smartest uniforms sam browns the best of
beltis of your shoulder polished buttons shiny they had hope and took a pride in themselves a splendid sign perhaps you ask why the faces kept the face cases
should be kept in france so that the guise that had major facial did de a disfigurement they would stay in france i was not told but i can guess because they
dread going back to england to their girls until they got rid of their disfigurements surface years through their bandages they watch the train pull out for
blighty while the damage which was done to them in a fragment of a second is repaired at a base hospital you see something what he don't see a casualty station
sisters mothers sweethearts and wives sitting beside the beds there allowed to come over from england when their man is dying one of the wonderful things to me
was to observe how les women in the hour of their tragedy catch this soldier spirit their very quiet very cheerful very helpful walhallas in through the ward
they get to know some of the other patients and remember them when they bring their own man flowers sometimes when their own man is asleep they slip over other
bedsides and do something kind for the solitary fellows battle army all over military discipline is based on unselfishness these women who have been sent to
see their men die catch from them the spirit of undistressed sacrifice in and roll themselves as soldiers you discover the spirit of the man when you've heard
him wandering in delirium he talked a little bit about the obviously guys that are suffering from shell shock as what they call it what they used to call it a
world war one guys that are having some mental issues all night in the shadowy ward with its coded lamps he would be giving orders for the comfort of his men
sometimes he'd be proposing to go forward and self to a place where a company was having a hot time apparently one of his officers were trying to dissuade him
danger be damned he exclaimed in a wonderfully strong voice it'll buck em up to see me splendid chaps splendid chaps for the soldier it seemed that the war has
always been and that they will never cease to being soldiers for them both the fast the past and the future are utterly obliterated they would not have it
otherwise because they are doing their duty they are contented the only time the subject is ever touched on is when some one expresses the hope that all last
long enough for them to recover from his wounds and get back to the line that use me starts another man who will never be any good never be any more good for
the trenches wondering whether he can get into the flying corleone ultimate hope of all these shattered wrecks who are being hurried to blighty they have
dreamt of as that they may see service again then we still hear that we still hear that to this day we still hear that and i here that know i i talked about
here not for ringo's blind and he's back at americans let me come back my first guy that i ever had would get wounded bad and and i i went to see him in the in
the medical outstation and i just went down to like shake his hand and he was on more pinion he'd been shot a leg us didn't know he's going to lose the lagoon
and like i went down and gave you know i like went to shake his hand and he anapoda he's like let me stay and i was just like you man what an awesome brother
ride there so this is not rare the still appenweir this all the time and you don't what we there's guys in thus military that to go back to combat with you on
one leg with one hand ah i mean even jodi was like talking about you know when he woke up and found joy medical woods the parkeswith he woke up and he found
out that they took both of his legs he was pissed because one leg you can still go back on the limit but two legant do it so jodda oasis no look moon while my
gontouts of us will be back in the fighting and jolly glad of it others are doomed to remain in the trenches for the rest of their lives not the trenches of
the front line where they've been strafed by the hun but the trenches of physical curtailment where self pity will launch wave after wave of attack against
them it won't be easy not to get the wind up it'll be difficult to maintain normal cheerfulness but they are not the men they were before they went to war out
there they've learned something their game they'll remain soldiers whatever happens thidore guys that are arcadelt back and he saying terentine hard form but
he seeing that their game when they're going to bring it cause there regenererai soldiers regardless of what happens now this is a pretty interesting piece
where he goes back to new york where like i said he expensive time there and he started he talking a little bottatot one at likin new york he says there's one
person of missed since my return to new york i've conclin of him disappearing around corners but he dodges i think he's a bit ashamed to meet me that person is
my old civilian self what of full blown egoist to used to be how full of golden plans for his own advancement how terrified of failure of disease of money
losses of death of all the temporary external non essential things that have nothing to do with this spirit war in itself is damnable it extravagant wasteful
use of resources a misuse of accumulated brain stuff of the centuries nevertheless there's many a man who has no love of war who previous the war had cramped
his soul with littleness and was chased by the band enof duty into the blood stained largeness of the trenches who has learnt to say thank god for this or he
thanks god not because of the carnage but because when the wine press ive new ideals was being trodden he was born in an age where he could do his share often
at the front i thought of christ's explanation of his own on the sailor rouble piece an explanation given to his disciples at the last supper be of good cheer
i have overcome the world overcoming the world as i understand it is overcoming fear fear in its final analysis is nothing but selfishness a man who is afraid
in the attack isn't thinking of his powels of his paws and how quickly terror spreads he isn't thinking of the glory which we will accrue to his regiment or
division if the attack is a success he isn't thinking of what he can do to contribute to that success he isn't thinking of the splendour of forcing his spirit
to triumph over weariness and nerves and the abominations that the huns are chucking at him he's nearly thinking of how he can save his worthless skin and
conduct his entirely unimportant body to a place where there aren't any shells in london as i saw the work day unconscious nobility of the main enwound the
words i have overcome the world took an added depth all these men have i of overcome the world look in their faces it is comparatively easy for a soldier with
traditions and ideals to get back to face death calmly to be calm in the face of life as these chaps are takes graver courage what has happened to them this
attitude of mind or greatness of soul whatever you like to call it was learned in the trenches where everything outward is polluted and damnable the experience
at the fun has given them one in the army language is known as got gods or currents and attitude of mind towards calamity an attitude of mind which makes the
honourable accomplishing of duty more permanently satisfying than the preservation of self like i said on i picked this off this is a different titipu angle to
look at these things in and i have talked about this is well and i don't feel same harassed me you i was saying that he war shows you a lot of beauty in a
eserengila see these in incredible capacity of humanity and he said yet you know you say that but i'm also her you describe wares as horrible and you know what
kind of gave me an answer about you know as i said he have if ever known bits drive cancer and he said yes and i like ye and when they survive in a wad of them
say it it opened my mind he freed me from being the fraid and it did all these wonderful things and i'm not i would never wish it only money but they don't pay
don't wish that it didn't happen either they alone so much for in an that's how i feel about war in that's kind of what what i read in a lot of this is daring
look you are so changed by this and regardless of the horrors the change is positive and opens your eyes in a way that nothing else can back to the book that's
the kind of peep god we got on the western front it is in the sad peep either when men die for something worth while death loses all its terror its petering
ellen bed from sickness or old age so horrifying many a man whose cowardice is at loggerheads with his sense of duty comes to the front as a non combatant he
compromises with his conscious and takes a bomb proof job in some service whose place is well behind the lines so saying like okay latagus though i hey you
know i am kind of scared did just want to be no disgise a immense job this you know i don't want to get killed back to book he doesn't stop there long if he's
a decent search sort having on more than he ever guessed before about the boodling that shall fire can do to you he transfers into a fighting unit why because
danger doesn't appal it allures and hold the challenge estings one pride it urges one to seek out ascending scales of risk just to prove to himself he is an
flabbyarse never worn but i looked up this older connected what the real meaning is and endorse definition another definition is lacking strength in
termination now this is this is classic the safe job is the old major for which there is no competition in fighting units you have to persuade men to be grooms
or cooks or batmen if you're seeking bunters for a chance at a nailin you'll have to cast lots to avoid the offence of rejecting all of this is inexplicable to
civilians and again to something i saw with my own two eyes i talk about this imeretian speech in remoter is okay we volunteers who wants to go over and live
in his houshold and ease ramadan go on on operations were on be taken castide's going to be nightmareridden but blood sweat and tears colihan to go on that
open if you an go there not not for one operation but a putcher for six months so who you know if you want that put your name on the board every single guide
does it every single guides and as exact etsectly what he's talking about her exact as a matter of fact i'll it up with his troop for down a new eland giola er
and ah we were talking to his and using the usine in the commandos in the room ring commandos forty commando and he was gunning moved to being a cook restour
year duty as a cook is one he's going to get past with an he got out got out of the rat got all the room or inescation at the omaha be a cook you know i am a
warrior yea i want to go and get after it so it's like it you see that did this modern day you don't talk about how different i was back then but maybe you
wasn't differences i think it is a cold we still got to percentages willing to stop up all the time and that's that's one thing it's awesome you know it again
for my experience in in the in the in the selians you know what i want when i there was no war going on i kind of thought that there was but there wasn't but
these guys these kids are come in now they know where they're going they know there's a war going on they know they're going to get after it and there ingenues
crazy home many people i see there reason to join is to go fight these bad guys it's not cause that don't have anything better on you or not like no anna i
want to quit my job and orites no doubt about it no doubt about it now i like this because we start amberdon some philosophers a little bit no offence to a
decoupee margaret made cause he's big fontego and no heine where you're at cooper uh i'm in omeer with noon this one to her eye back to buck if civilian
philosophers fail to explain us we can explain them inter world they are the centre of their universe they look inward instead of outward lesson rises in
satanist to their particular happiness if they die the stars would vanish we understand the few months ago we too were like that what makes us reckless of
death is our intense gratitude that we have altered we want to prove ourselves in excess how utterly changed we are from what we were in his secret heart the
egoist is a self despiser can you imagine what a difference it works in a man after years of self contempt at least for one brief moment to approve of himself
ever since we can remember we are changed to the prison house of our bodies weave live the feet are bodies to clothe our bodies to preserve that bodies to
minister to their passions now we know that our bodies are mere flimsy shells in which our souls are paramount we can fling them aside that he met it they
become a noble the moment the soul has departed we have proof often as zeroeem whole populations of cities go over the top and vanish leaving behind their
bloody rags we should go mad if we did not believe in immortality we know that the physical is not the essential part how better can a man shake off his flesh
than at the hour when his spirit is motioning the exact day when he dies does not matter to morrow or fifty years hence the vital concern is not win but how
the civilian philosopher considers what we've lost he forgets that it could never have been ours for long given up the self noetism is in and i'm no buddhist
monk but there's a lot of an philosophy of her to your completely surrendering yourself ye an atapuerca powerful thing you look like you really like that last
porthraite and here's here he kinda goes down the same vein because he's comparing civilian life and sagous whist on him up civilian philosophers and now he's
going to go into detail about the civilian even i even how how civilian spend their life and how he used to spend his life so he reedbuck to buck we probably
called a train and every morning the same train we went to a business where we sat in a desk neither the business nor the desk ever altered we received the
same strafing from the same employer or if we were the employer we administered the same strafing we only did these things that we might eat bread our dreams
were all selfish of more clothes morosest more food bigger houses the least part of the day we vote devote to the people and the things we really cared for
then the people we loved we weren't always even nice to them then then he bracelets into what it what it is being a soldier he says being a soldier's doing a
man's job doing it for some one else and on afraid to meet god in now's about to go in and discuss where this comes from nevertheless it is true it isn't
natural to be brave how then have multitudes of men acquired this sudden knack of courage they have acquired it through discipline and training when you have
subjected yourself to discipline you cease to think of yourself you are not you be part of a company of men if you don't do your duty you throw the whole
machine out you soon learn the hard lesson that every man's life and every man service belong to other people of this the organization of an army is a vivid
illustration take the infantry for instance they can't fight by themselves their depending on the support of your tiller there the artilery and turn would be
terribly clipped were it not for the gallantry of the air service if the infatuate the guns have to go back if the infantry advanced the guns have to be told
forward this close interdependence of service on service division on the vision be talian on battery follows right down through the army till it reaches the
individual so that each man feels that the day will be lost if he fails his imagination becomes intrigued by the immensity of the stakes for which he plays any
physical calamity which may happen to himself becomes trifling when compared with the disgrace he would bring upon his regiment if he were not courageous now
about to ride a piece that it's just a story he tells it a story within a story and we'll go right to it a few months ago i was handling old i was handing over
abattises in a fairly warm place the major who came up to take over from me brought with him a subaltern and just enough men to run the guns within half an
hour of their arrival a stray shell came in and caught the subaltern and five of the gun detachment does plain at once that the subaltern was dying his name
must have been written on the shell as we say in france we gatacre cher and made all haste to rush about to address estation just as he was leaving he asked to
speak with his major i'm sorry sir i didn't mean to get wounded he whispered a last word he sent back from the dressing station where he died was tell the
major i didn't mean to do it that's the discipline he didn't think of himself all he thought of was that his major would be left short handed then the ease
apetala nother story that is i well miss gained it last spring the night before an attack a man was brought into battalion headquarters dug out under arrest
the colonel and the agitant were busy attending the last details of their preparations the agitant looked up eartily what is it the nco of the guard answered
we found this man sir in a communication trench his company has been in the front line for two hours he was sitting down with his equipment thrown away and
evidently has no intention of going up the aguent go ahead coldly at the prisoner what have you to say for yourself so you understand the so there's a the they
found this soldier he was his true were up been fight on front eye for two hours bake find him he's got his radio strewn about and they say or unago fight with
your men and he says he's not going to go so the ageing glanced coldly at the prisoner what have you to say for yourself the man was ghastly white and shaking
like an aspen sir i'm not the man i was since i saw my best friend jimmie with his head blown off and lying in his hands it's kind of got me i can't face up to
it the agitant was silent for a few seconds then he said you have a double choice you can either be shot up in there doing your duty or behind the lines as a
coward it's for you to choose i don't care the interview is ended he turned again to the colonel the man slowly straightened himself so luted like a soldier
and marched out alone to the front that's what discipline does for a man whose going back on himself in like i said i am not even a life insurance how i feel
about that story i actually don't know um you you got a guide you hack or talks about this dick winters talked about this ere you get guys that they their
broken and you got a given a break and you know what at this guy been through god only knows you know obvious he saw his friend get killed i'm sure he was near
death over and over again and the colonel de says no you either get out there and dig or you die back here as a coward it's it's the o'kin of there's like a
part of me that is that that is filled with admiration cause the gay obviously overcome his fears and there's also a part of me that filled with horror because
he overcomes his weary and to give that to give that final order and for the soldier to give that final sold it is all of it the bravery and at the same time
the cowleses and at the same time the fear and at the same time the courage and the dedication to do the and yet its dedication to madness and again it's ex
window into human nature then what people go through and what people will do in one doin what takes to get em there back to the book one of the big influences
that help keep a soldier's soul sanitary is what's known in the british army as spit in polished directly we plotters restore to working burnishing and washing
the chaps may have shown the most brilliant courage and self sacrificing and during a counts for nothing if they're untidy the first morning no matter what are
the weather conditions we hold an inspection every man has to show up with his chin shaved hair cut leather polished and buttons shining if he doesn't he gets
hell don't macary restored about this since day on the discipline and maintaining this pen in here these guys come in off the front lines from the trenches or
it cooled marmorean inspections of it your dear together and polish boots back to the book there's a lot in it you bring a man out from a tight corner where
he's been in hourly contact with death he's apt to think what the use in taking pride of myself i'm likely to be done in any day it'll all be the same if i'm
dead but if he doesn't keep clean in his body he won't keep clean in his mind the man who has his buttons shining brightly in his leather polished is usually
the man who is brightly polished on the inside spittin polished teaches a man to come out of the trenches from seeing his pale killed than carry on as though
nothing abnormal had happened it educates him in an impersonal attitude towards calamity which makes it bearable it forces him not to regard anything too
tragically the you can stand aside from yourself and poke fun at your own tragedy and tragedy always has its humors aspects that helps we were sometimes we
were in the som for several months the mud was up to our knees almost all the time we were perishingly cold and very rarely dry there was no natural cover when
we went up forward to observe we stand in water to our knees for twenty four hours rousing going to the dug outs they were so filled with vermin and battened
flies wounded and strayed men often drowned on their but journey back from the front line many the dead never got buried lives couldn't be risin turning it
them out we were so weary but the sight of those who rested for ever only stirred in us quiet envy for emotions were too exhausted for hatred they usually are
unless some new hunnishness had roused them when we were having a bad time we'd glanced across no man's land and say poor old fritzy he's getting the worst of
it that thought helps in this is a peace where he cockboat in somebody's not holding the line when somebody's a quitter for you come to consider it a quitter
is always a selfish man it's selfishness that makes a man a coward or a deserter if he's in a dangerous place and run away all he's doing is thinking of
himself and he goes on to say here i've been supposed to been talking about god as we see him i don't know whether i have as a matter of fact if you ask me
when i was out there whether there was any religion in the trenches i should have replied certainly not now that i've been out of the fighting for a while i
see that there is religion there all religion which will dominate the world when the war is ended the religion of heroism it's a religion in which men don't
pray much with me before i went to the front prayer was a habit out there i lost the habit what one was doing seemed sufficient i got the feeling that i might
be meeting god ed any moment so i didn't need to be wiring him all the time hanging on to spiritual telephone and feeling slightly slighted if he didn't answer
me directly when i rang him up if god was really interested in me he didn't need constant reminding weena world to manage it seemed best not to interrupt him
with servulus petitions but to put my prayers into my work that's how we all feel out there i've learnt discipline and my own total unimportance in the army
discipline gets possession of your soul you learn to suppress yourself to obey implicitly to think of others before yourself you learn to jump at an order to
forsake your own convenience at any hour of the day or night to go forward on the most lonely and dangerous errands without complaining you learn to feel that
there is only one thing that counts in life and only one thing you can make out of it the spirit you have developed in encountering difficulties your body is
nothing it can be smashed in a minute how frail it is you never realized until you seen men smashed so you learn to tolerate the body to despise death and to
place all your alliance on courage which when is found at its best is the power to endure for the sake of others is closing out here the religion of the
trenches is not a religion which analyses god with impertinent speculation so so in this religion the traces god is not standing in some kind of in
authoritarian judgment it isn't a religion which takes up much of his time it's a religion which teaches men to carry on stoutly and to say i've tried to do my
bit as best i know how that's the simple religion of the trenches as i have learnt it a religion not without glory the carrion as bravely as you know how and
to trust god without worrying him when the last line all read from the glory that trenches dosin says it's funny you go away to the most damnable undertaking
ever invented and you come back cleaner spirit in again i will tell you that from my perspective and from what i've been through which by the way i want to say
that what i've been through in my military commers absolutely nothing nothing compared to what a soldier world war one liveth but when i did go through i will
say this i don't think war took anything away from me or impacted me in a negative way i think war made me better i think war made me a better man a better
person and in the words of dosani think it absolutely cleaned my spirit and i am i am thankful for that and i guess that the question becomes how can we clean
our spirits without warm alabado that and i think they answered again in this is something that i do manihik is at a comes from discipline that's what i talk
about all the time it's about setting aside comfort setting aside weakness setting aside fear in having the discipline to endure in door the challenges in the
hardship in pain in order to become better to tom suffer the glory of the discipline to become stronger and faster and smarter and better and and now from a
leadership perspective is to then put the put others before yourself but try and do some good in the world for others to lead them down the right path not not
for you but for the and while war certainly taught me those things and in graineoige into my mind if they were already there i don't think you need to go to
war to learn them but i do think that you have to discipline yourself yet to gutsie your comfort on in you have to push yourself beyond what you thought you
could ever do to get to get that glimpse of the truth and i get that glimpse of the glory in the touches heavy one and again thanks to jessie for sentiments
book outstanding old copy printed in nineteen eighteen and i actually type it all out so i didn't have to a mess up this bewtiful book i learned a lot from it
desoupitude it and echoed charles i save me and talk talabot something more like her anything yet but like for instance people just listen to this and uh maybe
one to listen to more of it sir how could they help that occur in the world helped that process alone yet we could all we could just talk about jacklett for
like ten minutes we could defecat jo i wasn't really that into ely actually i was im into tea every one in a while i actually went on estate lot of the tea
from the officers now messiani you like a you know a mellow night i should just call it and good obed or something then i'd make like in one with the the male
one came my whatever yet i'm not into taliesin so like all right well hey you don't jactet cool i'm cool i am as that work in a laying on the lido by times
like a random saturday and i was like a man to do like hell you do put it on ice and be i can't get my refresh on you know outside it whatever and um so i put
it in i put in this ten callias nice laniabant be in such heed little bit tarsome out she has heard too like a wait as cool men we are going through it very
quickly because there hope i was getting after right any young kids she but yeah a you know what all some outdoor few far gone go on to amazon do come and read
the review that he thoreau all get on or a half to bring out some of those at a lead them he also till their funny as hell and there great so everyone is right
i refused for jock jock white tea i appreciate it as often and and got you larger the back as well about you know everyone likes a case great and in antonie
real good he makes you feel until little glory a little glory in a cup to gloria it is tecolote you over like instructions him so let me just in case he don't
eat an eat only instructions i think they're pretty straight for it at once we ever had tea near people know but if you took the ten to read instructions if
this is what you would would rebruise boil eight ounces water poor water over one bag of jackaway he brow for three or five minutes enjoy over or enjoy a hot
or over ice get after it to get after it is part of the instruction it was forty people are are in its real luck you will really like have to get after it in
hinnran so let enough was funny as people are saying it's me it's release and when you get it in your brain you will be like howling knock out or projects
maybe do a little mat con maybe go little the man whatever no no it is good i might just pose whether pool now we don't do that that's not getting out at it
that makes one of the asinelli after them the pool howefer i guess i hear proved imprudence then am i like i said i it may be even more in to tea to this like
it it's like one you get into or i did i'm not going to say this is what happens but i'm saying you like okay i like to teeth i like to brand you know so you
and then you are appreciated the experience when when it goes down you know you're more familiar with it now now when i see people drinking to you my yearly
who do some people emailed answered who is it where you least like jocolate too in early ye had had a restorative a few months to make a get up i'd send back
on no makin a little bit more this a little bit less of that eventually when i got the the right combination dan then it was okay and what they're like okay
we'll for marketing what you want do i go oh it's alters the marketing a a mister marketing over your eating the black box oh what shall we call it oh i think
of a good original til jacot how's that i love gayer we got janalee the is and that's my marketing strategian nine like it a wotsisname in company to come in
and do assessment of our customers guessworks omers route kick as they don't want all this craft it they want something that's going to make them crush the
world aye there you go we don't get put any you know images of whatever on it yet doing some kind of demographic you not even on what container est in your
who's mutarango i don't care he's i loetare market is a taranaka is mob sleepit there there are getting after it there's a target market in a had to hope you
ain't got on i just to hope this doesn't fall into the wrong hands at what is criminal cullinder people or people that are um you know have evil fates may be
if they start you antonietta then we have the arable ye we might have to bolster up and drink more wine footstove to the old discipline le freedom kind of
situation and you know untapered ally that could be something done and i elisions slip looks good yet you retain good leave her cool jockie he yet you order
name was on dat come after you click through quick to earith i don't we know what there's a whole tale behind the click the right now he dwead kind of only we
have to make sure but that's one of the men was a sport the poncas is to click through but if in the past you saved a personal if you had the trooper that you
patois non void we have shut down by amazon it was listed say they didn't really like it to the didn't like that much tis i i was i've been proved wrong in the
world this is one the times have been wrong there is such a thing as getting after it too much and a parly rear getting after it true peter getting after it
too much with the troop to so they shut down the trooper to okay so if you still have the top to ottanoonsis work on of it if you still have any think you're
using your not you're not supporting upon cast is a what you have to do and also if you have your old blink saved that would lick you into a amassona you
thought i disused this ontassete with acamacari if you made it a roof if you book marked it then you got it you raced that book mark you getting a back to
jacopo's dotcom or back to jack's to noncom and you've got em make new book mark that has the new click through the amazon so we can get amazan back in the
game said hornitas again so continuity thing all cancrous house that short period time to click through and that where we can sport the poncas that way we can
buy more knives for the table you'll elias to all look into de yeah and am a little bit mad enough they were just like a trooper tolsto heavy and we have it
it's like wind ah what was it was that book we just did where the germans were mad but the cans weren't getting afterleach allayed this is unethical like your
annulo amazons perspective lighted like the notes they thought man the other getting out out as you solitude thing is we met rest ye s no more triptogon save a
new book mark to bohaira pokas dot com or from the the jackeroo all right so that's good that is not in as a really good inelegant by the way the thought or in
the notes is good in not trollest in not chantait was ashes in relation to a well you know what they're there it's a great pet actual you relies to isarog am i
really as a great mill ram or so this very support of a lass and it's caramanians doctor amazon i loveliest and doing it through in a web site makes me feel
good seefelder excuse to just buy more bucks in minook at a redowas ray right now it's actually its almost embarrassing to many bucks on by the albero
recommends me a book and i used to say while maybe i'll took a look at it out of time to get him on nowsaree little just bring it to me and was on the wanted
to say yeeeehaha nam amazon pine same day to livery priming my book on so no elterlein so i was going to mark up the book the glory turns but i want to work it
up obviously cause in the old beautiful copy so i bought a new one okay now when you when you buy these certain books from amazon there they print them
immediately already right yet so that a girl has got printed on the twenty second of september for me and then i as order so i could mark this one up a
itineris before i went on my trip so i did it on another copy so anyway a year we will put a lot of these books that were bringing out that are rare books that
are old books that are out of pimples they just repentees you you can get a book printed now bringing the the ones out here on the onthespot or printed
sambenito coleoni samburg new and he's all and what you order it the drive it down that day but he don't know what man i know is also something yes it's a gol
yeh yeh yeh he is if you want to support this boast in that way to which is a great way and we were really appreciate that's awesome stuff it's it's it
definitely helps us do what we do yeh yeh think fell be a it's on jocatore outcome and jucatan clicked through what other ways came people support this pot gas
well obviously they the obvious ways subscribed to it on on um an ituri to be of an already and then an awful l u tu again and sideshot put it moved on there
its cool quill put little excerpts and you know where cause he pointed and stuff they'll be like he can you dusticoat this one egero know the mark lest speech
that you know just random ones they'll say where they'll be like have really sis excoriata make of a video you know and you can get the video from e to
constipate episode i know forty oianthe last closing pang i sit at so i'll put stuff not just exerts but other videos other than the whole episode of the pot
cast and when a lot of insane to those sometimes there just axes but sometimes there's a the things happening in those erasure i mean some o you make full new
video laying the good video yes where is this bocono yes yes i think just and i'll speak for the voice of every one else myself included and every one else
that listened his podcast that's not named echoed we all want to see more gold heelanman i sition i'm trying to make that hint you at the govern make it will i
know it's hard work the ah you lad alminy don wattisfield you know will you here for you know the less nurse and i and hope ere we all want to see little bit
more activity it end ah and i think i personator people are subscribing a outer to the more motive late you're going to get ye yet i i hate to say relying on
motivation no no because i know i relied on me and i wish you would like it on my desk wonesome making you know one vide every two weeks behind each one
destroyed really from the imitate go i will he were one step closer ye an you know expect it may be not to day maybe not to morrow but a monet or money like
that speak it to be in on it oh look what he is there i i i e vitonae ah okay so on it this is supplements we all know that a lot of people a lot of people
don't think that i work out just because they don't they don't see me they hear my voice so like a clove soon work out o jacob viously works out so we do say
take supplements this opepe that old why does jock jock rise crime jacintito come and jackets alphabet he is strong on is from on it from an age there right
there you go so yet these are actual supplements i think the exact same thing and not the strong boy set for the strong men i left one o what seeds some ah you
get your data he had the time arising and i actually we trained to day it is one day we trained to day we turned in i heard i did not take her object to day
and i didn't feel like i brought my age gave the way i wanted to so to bed yes oh not early was good enough but i but i think oh you know like i was freezing
ordered good roast to day he echoed tell hersir yes he's win as he compete neither like some were here an take ye this early on to even if you was a little
early on um anyway we'll talk about etoroo te we need more rose but ye get kid in his best of omens we all know that all he git cause a loss of human straight
up don't work the sum supplements are really on the placebo effect literally rely on that and like that its effectiveness that's why effective because of
plicitly not on it he find out about this stuff on the website but if you want them percent off those supposent that you're goin to get quiet dot pump slashed
jocko him person off but i like him so he had to that man support yourself at the same time the filipino about those ah i what jock was storer tuckletonian so
oh he is a very iglook on integram he posted picture to day i did i did yes but now today is relative because when this process comes out of won't be sure yes
no one time the uptrend of people are in the track the date okay basketloads birthday the way to that happy birthday echoes father at the birthday by william
charles june your avouching the god let buns on civedad love you oh so on my dad's birthday jacobite on in tigrana to her second and one of the comments i just
read it little i am it says he were waged that good shirt or where do i get a jocoser oh that's interesting question in there because there's only one place in
one den get that tea and i and we say the last but not the less that in one's obligated to listen to me talk about could really do people fast forward when the
testing about cry would they not surprised if people do i not superadding some nugent caressing some information or some information i think are mittens good
terms sonaput tensely sure yes so the her having in an old was bess birthday okoneto dar ye go after them a yeah great point ye sonoita so i would say so on
fast forward three these but to what you like you know what if you are on your way to go do some poops something in you like the book done were done with the
book on to do some pullets then let be cayou don with a do when you listen to other potass well specifically like if he listen a gooweeras which i which i do
someone is they're just straight talking yet not a witches which is what we're doing right now rent we are talking about it is inclosed round some subject
matter said he talking about was to support the pod cast so ye but it's still like i said there's some nuggets in there sure it had or important yet any
venison portant with funny is the litholeomargarine the tarthian i think it's cool is when i when i give i travel a lot and i've been travelin on starting to
meet dislike troopers every where yeh everywhere i was all over the world all the way from new zealand to the east coast up and down these costive meet meet in
troopers everywhere and when i meet people all as if like eight like friends that you have inside jokes with a like every other i need you know they make
cracks about this and you know about that it is all for the boast on so that's kind of cool it is not just a gent your gin etucated about life leadership
business war you know an let's have some inside jokes will we can all have that each other at one when i show up at you know your your whatever you work then
you some work myself i'll yell people came to the gin and otell me good evening even if its gate that oh he lay hid eive least um a cord of the reviews for
jacatra with good evening accatastare then know what started that i mean i was i said it i think you started it'll idole started but but at some point i mean i
i have done how else to introduce you right under than to say giving one you just kept you sort of dust kept doing it yet then you your responses now stand or
too well what else don't say you know gatestone can't say much not i be one man a yeasay house it i'm in a elastick with good evening i think i like that dares
but to answer a question let's say but say someone else had that question where do i get a jocose i'll tell you where you get a junker jocatore do at gain love
the marketing on that path frigate and on on the store from jock it's on line to come tapestried come yes monsieur there ah we have travel mug you know the
kind yuenking with you or not the song as we and you can put your jackaway to sure hay up if you choose to yer exactness some bumper stickers there can a cool
there on jocatore out come his well on this motherson their cool we are patches okay his a thing about the patch up but bates foreninst he get the dolopathos
and and a man i'm just not as the mir with it all groaned had these other two the hatches one is the judicia and the other one is it you just best but it's all
purpose patch you know you can ere now and but you so itfor inches by three inches the pelopaei that's a good idea that they'll go patch let me get the same
for it's four by three the havel cropt so it's cool for that but you explained to me those veloche are interchangeable a standard is three by two you three
across so just understand that belcovitch currently right now is for my three to entreindre yes so i got a you know any final iseut the they come in pretty
quick so just now just be aware of the the dimensions the patch is on to do the interchangeable i guess technically you could put the for my three but we're
not doing that now i'll get the two by three and one courage that he gasiharon on the letter there on death of stories well uh the giesbach there too like i
said rathgar and there be time all on the job will store sommerard but near there insulters and their good five emails tita sang the felletin per cent
verepoint allegedly was no legend about it he araneidaean at elegant people as actually felt the different a law that this dust redingotes actions what they
said i wasn't there to witness it oh but if the one way in i tell you they are to nineteen percent of proven if they did not have leggit that it was an
allegation i don't support your sapiniere foun out a grace sirenwood tells me to got nineteen percent improving with the rash stars tibet a sack i oh no i was
a little in diaries taking me my money back i do get a nineteen percent out on a good but that to so very good boys and we have women's tanked up and i
understand its fall were going into winter soon tanked up in again i or our southern hemisphere people sure he tehetuer down there scenes time soon down down
in new zealand and australia in south america ye and and the white people as well perhaps from the howe to know about that kind and that's why you were you say
you don't understand what a wood is he from quiet like we kind o we know what other he is in his owatonna yet you were raking her yes yes so i may we made it
with consultation from joan and some new england people as we got hoodie's on the ways well and women's tea shirts as well ye i was just plain to echo that
came doing and like a hood is is like something you wear every single day before nine months out of the year you were one i'm waking up and putting on her
yeates's got to make me to weep or make him awesome said the people will be fired up and representing with their holy and i'll be tells ye warm he let's
interesting for lacaenian my wife is one of the those hoody people you know the kind words to where the heverything that even one it's not cold to be like a
it's like a comfort one thing you know of you is a poncho heminent how many she even took great trains victory hoodie oh she's out thou sick one of her many
anathothites that those are good is yea yea i agrees so ah master it is we're going to have that coming out that would be within the next two or three weeks i
think that's a fair mount of time to say and it be accurate umsila there it is jocatore dot com in the event of you wanting to support this pot cast in that
way get some stuff gowns being too things whatever you want want gin appreciate all that support it also if you want if you don't have a book that presentait a
guide named lay bathed my brother and myself are on a book called the ownership even more pickit up you can pick it up you did only a son or anywhere else at
they sell books and get wit so much good for back on it it's awesome appreciate all the positive heat back you know people read it and they say this roy help
me you know not just with the way i'm doing my business but like with a normal stuff in the life and other co things in people buy it for their team you or the
by it for the boss in times so and pick up a tree or ship we did he add you to if you want to read it if you don't want to read it because you have time
useless into it while you're in in the trapaga then just by the autunois you'll be giogo so preciate that and they all so if you dig that extreme oldershot you
do that concept for you can come out to isometry were having here in sutinary in san diego called the muster the extreme eldership muster were going to be
talking out leadership or ruetli about how do take the less of an we earning combat which had been politicon and how you can apply those same lessons doing
leadership in business leadership in life so we got a bunch of you are comin alsos an i had somebody a email me the other day and it said said he lesson i just
wanted to let you know i'm coming the master but in in the event i don't get to meet you there then you anson to let you know i really appreciate you know the
poast and the book and all that and i didn't even respond yet i don't think i got a lot of mails but let me take something if you come to the master were
hanging out it is not going to be with these gigs where you know im back in the green room waiton em getting a character well no i at this is my character and
i won't be back stage i'll be in alisting at a table with you i'll be talking i'll be there in lame doin the same thing so that's one of the major oh
differentiators we want to have in this thing is that cause you know late go to these events all the time because we speak it them that you know leadership of
anson confines all that the biggest differentiator that we want to make as we want to be we want to have the contact we won't have the face to face so if your
common that not only your unamended going to kick it were gonter be open dinner lunch we're going going over problems of me talking about solutions so don't
think that i'm going to be um they in ataata is going to be all hidin in the background no or going to be there i'll be meeting you well we do no work out also
some people want to then if you train the gittin you come out here i come out here a little bitterly or i or stay a little bit late and we're going to go to
the gym binder the cream a may and you can challenge echecles to death match and we alone love there will be there rolling so um you know if you if you stay if
you stay friday if you stay saturday if you say someday i will be there friday night i'll be there saturday day i'll be there sunday day and we'll be getting
on so come on out for that for that master and that'll be that easton also if you can't come up to mister but you just want to cina kick it and keep these
things going on and you want to join the crew then all you got to do is get on social metalic which i added really understand social meeting a year ago you
know i didn't know what it was all about but now when i know as i get to talk to people and i get it get to grow in my knowledge from other people who who can
communicate things who asked a really good questions that i got to give researches to it then after something else and so so that's awesome and funny bonhoola
post all kinds of funny stuff on getting entertained and were getting you know a crow and having a bunch of people there that are like minded and is is is fun
to have and so i preciate it if you want to find us on social media echo is by the way he's at achochre and that's on instigation twitter that's on a fat book
i and i and i am also on social media and i am at alawela on tower on instigate on the book i am also there and i guess that's about it for this week we don't
think we have time for the cuna well push that and in the meantime you know again i know we got a i met and people all over the place and thank thank you all
first supporting his poast thank you offer doing what you do meet and fire fighters or came with fire fighters meet police officers workin please all sorts the
military folks that are email in me but gustate overseas right now fighting terror thank all of you all you uniform folks for what you do for hold the line
overseas and here at home and for everybody else that i'm being meaning people from all kinds of business as all of you have goals your trying to make things
happen your trunk you're not calling you're not calling us up or not calatini opeless your trying to dominate so we love the fact that we get to go to places
where you got people that are out there trying to kick as trying to contrast and that's what propels american keep our country strong keep our country free so
thank you for what year doing in all those jobs all you in the work force it's awesome we appreciate it and there's one thing we want back from you and as we
want to make sure that you keep getting after it in so until next time this is echo and jocato
