this is jacopo cast number forty four with echo charles and me joaille good evening i gideon and the last pot casts number forty three when a little bit long
sir we did not get to the cuna it that's one of the nice things about having a pot cast having a farm that we actually owned it and can do it over we want with
it it goes long that's cool what is let it go long we can go down that road now some people might say you went too far down that road okay that's fine pressed
the go proceed from where else some people say i wish you would gone further down that road so where is gongong off with instinct here what to me by coquet
think look tack we went far enough down that road were good there but we did not get to cute and so that's working new today do some cuna questions from me
inter wept tis always good lot of people tantoque tions definitely appreciate all the questions that are coming through and i'm i apologized i can't get to all
of them i will say this a factor some sumpter press out in the field and there there there like it we know what you're going to say like one of question comes
which is awesome that means i'm working myself out of a job if you're out there that you are now what they ask requestin is that's awesome that means cool you
figured out deaconing excite some one go help some lego so it's cool that people are starting to understand i think the the holistic mind set that's going on
here and that's very positive to me now that the in said there's always questions i come through sometimes even on goatlet me think about that one in some of
more really obvious i got on you know i got one on twittered the other day so late asked me somebody said he what have you learned about people or about human
since you you know kind of entered the world of social medina on the large scale and i wrote back that i've figured out that humans don't google things before
they ask you the question on twenties sometimes people deas me you know the distance tion that you could do go faster that me about em you know just some
quotes in the now on my clothes but a shakespeare quote or a book or a military unit you know um m me man goglet don't ask me if you want to have me its
specific question that i might know some of the school that's awesome i'm more happy to answer also i get asked twelve times a day what time do you go to sleep
at night so i disraelian and people aren't laughed about that anyway we wrought them off of course one from the interwebbed other thing is cold but answered
questions from the inter webs i is it does make of me think about that but sift situation that someone's in and a have i experienced to before which may be i
have may be half an i've at least probably seen it before or some version of it but then once you answer a question about it it quantifies in you bring that
solidifies in your brain and now i i assaust ion again imaum i can answer it more i can answer with a little more authority because of seen it before ye that
makes it better so i basically one saying this when i get forced to an answer questions i am learning just like one of reading loooong when i was a question
one year like you teach it move a when you take a moving to get through you give that rat that move no doubt about it and that that's why it is beneficial for
me and i appreciate all these questions that everybody asked me because they make messmate and so all right brackanolls question number one the son felipe you
and that harris said harrison that's right that marster by the way but the question is i would like to start de j j training but worry about injury what are
your thoughts now i actually we had these cousins prepared for the answer on the tail end of forty three and an say this people want to know what to my mind
said his beatings you know one of my thinking years one thing an you might notice this pattern if you if you pay attention close tenenos you might notice is a
pattern that usually after these crazy dark books ritually roll that first question in the question the answer period is about begetter leg let the young
recalling little bit o yes somebody posted us some in beehive mancando ole yes and some one was telling me some one that i know was telling me like the ass my
friend saw the picture the video of you rolling and they were like he looks like the happiest i've ever seen him and all like wells on the map to fortha's the
very hot shetline between let's just go from the intensity generally of a combat situation from a book into all right now we can take a wrap off and we can
talk about digitaline that ye me since so betraying any word about interest that makes us act i got her up got asked this question a few times people that rely
on their hands to work a angusses i sold two guys were professional tatarian there skepton doing togs ah anybody that has a job that relied on a lot of
physicality you you are at rescuer beans board no injury is absolutely happened in you git it it is a contact sport and you can get injured wire doing it you
can get injured in the any sport that she do you in any orthodox to me the worst my i hurt my knee i had eighteen ten my amsel did i survecu know ben heel
hooked by dean muster of thousands but more thousands and thousands of times never had a new injury about serving and her my knee so you can get her doing
anything but set you have to be careful right and i think one of the best of willems critical ways to be careful introduces by make sure that you picked the
right training partners he cause there's some knuckle had training partners yet every jim and near the tent twenty two year old mael a who has a lot of test
astro and has a very sensitive ego and so he's looking just a crush every one so you watch out for that gay and and i'd actually i shouldn't i should actually
paint that so proper ibecause there's plenty of people that are that are older people with the day ego and younger petis people there is basically got a watch
out from his knuckles it ere going to go crazy yes some people don't know better too you know they're just they just happen to be big in strong and they're not
really not lear they're just like ye they're getting it you know they will call me to grab the arm and pull i'm trying to pass that guard on don't know that
must take meek i'm dis going to go hard yet now that you're right ditherer not intentionally being aggressive but did issue gresse port and if you happen to be
two hundred and sixty pounds i be problem out axe you want to fit in in i know it sounds were of good wondersome prop a belt that is going to run through me
actually you do i have about the chance of you getting her by a parcel bout a adinfin et le less then you getting her by a white but ansley true and the higher
you go up the more accurate is unless of course you're you're a you're a problem right or you a bully and there needs to be a regular tory situation half in
and wacate a black bell does not one of you know yet of the he won't endure you till that's the theoretiker i think when you enter fighting sports punishment
isn't being beat up you get me that this part of the ganot's more it's more of like in embarrassment bang or like to see my only way ye like they're going to
wear you out you know or make you look like you safer i'm not it's it's it's more of like a lesson pang in that way then not like jeter with you now another
piece of this and i i disgust reality okay doing stand up you have a higher tips getting her like doing take down in or take down spaiter do no tittle take
down to all resting south take down you have a higher chance of beating any and droningly there's no doubt about it so he be careful just think about what
you're doing there m w with withstand up you know if you're a person that you know you got a gettle absolutely but do you need to step in there night after
night and get your full long rest in practice together at as you if you are a forty three year old person that you know you're forty three year old combats
work in a beat you you know you need not take out don't get me wrong need to train him you knew studying a new meuron o do do you need the outwrestled you know
in a wrestling situation probably not you know you're you're knocking a need to get so just you use caution with take down um make you not a doom but as you
get to where you want to knock an injured is your pomoeria i thought it is raining then just be careful to stand up um obviously do good warm up in missus
something i am lost just a bore a perpetrator of not on me up well if i like to warm up by rolling so it actually now i do usually do one round wormest kind of
showing and just kind of rolling slow by a usage do that it is a clap hands and go to don't you that all is to keep your ego in check and i'll say the thing in
that is talking about this bretrothed day cause great dranpop popped is rib yeh and he was just saying to me his bribes recovered now but he was saying to me
you know he's a i think you don't get injured because you work out all the time and i'm like i agree with you on a present you know so i believe that you
should work out on the regulation as some may ask me do you train and left on the same days and as yet absolutely a train left i turned it every day in so get
your work out program going on you know nature you maintain that some people when they start to intuitu their tour going so crazy that they use all this muscle
and so they go a cookin because i'm just getting a work out no wrong answer he working out a matter of fact you should and i always encourage working out
lifting doing your mat condo whatever before you do you iterates what i do i want to be tired when i shall cogito in flight in a worse scenario the now make it
harder for myself i don't want to show up and and be all fresh and like that's going to happen every day no i like to be tired worn out stresses and then show
up and still get after on the mats yet that parts pretty advent though to do it like that got us i mean being knew as the question i i've done that though
holati yea and in i've done that too before and good you do you work out after you left weight to after you than you to her i've done both okewood you normally
i do one and like i don't do two days nor molly oh so when you rollant the matulator in a matter of a hinrichsen i would be if i did a work out before you or
clothed that way that one knoware now that is he is just for sure but i before and even when i was training for competition and stuff o and even yet like me
like two years three years ago maybe a yet work out i do the work of first and then go rolliken in i think a sup plan am as much as you can work on your
flexibility and this is something that i again missus a bay fail area in my buck i'm not flexibles i should be and if you are my facial your injury levels are
going to go down you so you stretch and it's real easy stuff that you know every one says to do you know when you're sitting there on the mat even were it in
the map that teachers teaching to no thing to loisson try your just you stretch your hardenow if you're sitting around just stretch while sitting around while
your work on under computer sit in a way that you're getting some kind of stretch o so i stretched be flexible much as you can now another thing i i kind o
talk to but guitarists and anybody don't assurgit any botha's working with their hands and wants refectoire fingers i would recommend maybe emphasizing more
nogee were not grabbing on to that all the time her ear and getting fingers get caught up in there any tests i hear and the ankle in a entier time pretty much
it was very common in i actually my worst finger injures actually no geet so late and i only did it all a couple of months ago which is just in it was just a
bizarre it is one of those things so it that's why each really hard for me to to straight up in courage somebody that needs there fingers the noonoon worry you
noctuno not you take it or now i've had one finger injury you know significant finger and dry in twenty plus years so you can get a finger in dry cotton a
territory know in the kitchen is so you know you got to be careful but there's no guarantee that shot in a hurt and not say any other thing is i always say
this you've got some chance of getting injured right but there's also some massive physical and mental benefits that will like le outweigh the injuries the
perceived injuries of the possible iners that you might get so you just be healthier your your your fingers are going to be stronger and i mean you you might
get some injured finger is a but you are also going to have fingers that are stronger your grip is going to be stronger so that's beneficial your mind is
westover your card ask us asinometer o the lot of benefits to git that out way in my mind the possibility of having an injury yes i mean a possibility of
having a catastrophic injury is pretty small especially if you train smart and really is a grey blue eyes and when you think about it even of the people that
you know over twenty of that a lot of people that you know who had a any kind of major injury well if you count it testout as major injury but you know with
you blow your knee i mean you're goin down to you to be six months of surgery or whatever surgery and six months a rehabitation three months or where you as
you know that's a year yet and and that could be some people consider that catastrophic injury i know i would be dead the stated but at the same time i know
irigod next surgery i was out for a bit tonyare ber it now flashing a pan who cares whatever ye deal with it i played moratoria time you don't have mean good
time yet in the end in a intrepeters men this is anything you do guides on the bestibal court call a tooloolee tional basketball pick ugan weekend whatever
botany ankle whatever you know i had i mean i've been in the game what twelve years i had won coueging nuts and turnament by septerion jury the alfred you know
year whatever but other than that a never been injured because of that of miss hatari ing too yes a in full speed training competed like everything in its
first emission holds go never been injured he in a submission you know how it goes i do geohackers we shot definitely if you're hearsedrivers injured from some
decrying to smith on you could you can yes you tap in le it's not going to not hurt you know if he topolaya it's just yet hurt may your shoulders kind of
whatever for a week or we you can still train it's not an injury but if dat way of you know and even if even if you're you're big small i think that's pretty
common it's really rare that is he all i might say all his aliofio maybe in competition could er try to live in to you arent trying to tap the few okay but i
danishin it's surprising almost that it's that safe in a task well ancetterer you here with the objective of the canister ak and destroyed people's limbs i the
fact that it rarely happens in like afterall happens on so yes be careful there is no guarantees but trained back to the training partners part you when you
and the first on where you are saying um be careful you train with an stuff like that so sometimes especially like wittaker older or am even if you are a girl
and you go in and and you know you're the only girl and you know some people the eyelike a lifted doesn't know anybody you're going hard you can tell when he
starts to go hard sometimes he can be awkward to kinotah you know like respectfuly on to an rowth you and because of you know it it kinda like asking someone
to dance in them saying no deealet rejection to his awkward so sometimes you people will just tuffett and be like all just credantur i think if you can fit you
know if you can go through that and really look out for yourself where in all the guys going nuts he obviously usually he's not trying to go not to hurt
ineidits pretty rare but they don't know any better there lifebelt or in a whatever and they're just beer and stronger would ever end and they're going nuts he
got as you got to find the good tactful way to be like he airspeed you but i'm concerned about like just my engineer autority know what i ha sorry i only
roehelle under one thirty cause i have love you know ye injured rip ye aegeus of us that a white lie may be it is but i don't think it's a malicious satelites
fine when you framary apologise for a telling people to tell little white light save the bitartrate officers yelagin it's like telling some one no one they ask
ye to death he can tell white lies the act is you know metromania adonais on yeh but it might be okata all was sorry um i'm here with billy over there and and
so i can't dance with you and that's actually an make you feel better than just a a don't actually i don't like you ye ye you kinaesae me so i'm not dancing
with you walk away readiness to do that probably not maybe is a little white lies okay elgin sam harris pologizing line ill like thing like i'm not going to
say it you're a span you're a liability you might hurt me because of what you don't know how to do i'm not going to wait etouffer en you know you may everyone
the gutter most likely so actually worth were actually talking about that while you are on the guitman doing physical judgement you got to throw a little
mental tutto in no situation and jaganmata been mentality of your training partners and out and that is in the spirit of safety indeed goshanashin jollier said
i anybody can be like all your spattering it all if i'm not mistaken i got a fee with the people o next question when dealing with new groups of for a bob
brefort you got it by the way sometimes you should train miromenil the spats and harder and bigger than you you should do that sometimes now you see is gone
you do it maybe you can get that i would rather if my like my son if i'm goin t have a tramontana strong empty with you amachanon yes because i know that you
guys will give him enough strength to you know but your not going to hurt him cause he's only honorary pounds yes but i don't want to give the impression
you're like some one you got a roll with that some as yet or with some of that big strong and doesn't know what they're doing just so you otoyo and i know
what's do there but if you're on a blue belt in or are ye ye're a boo belt and a big restless show in you a a hundred sixty five pounds and a rest or shows up
that was to forty and it is third day and your young eye you know it's it good idea roswitha person because there to do things you want expecting they are
really stronger we tried really hard and you want to be you want be you on a train for yourself for the unexpected so basically don't just lead i'm not saying
we were sad you know watch your turning partners i'm not saying for a normal person as training crawlingest bubble yet while you're on the map now especially
people that are you know young and fit you should be training with every nursin you can every different body style try him out big restless small people like
you people turn with all costage you you all those different pieasure your game ye i'm saying if you are very concerned about injuries be crasy have a job that
rip wires you to you know use your hands or walk or whatever then you go kaeounan take the long the long vision here in the law fight the long war and really
be selected on my triebner that's really correct yes just like her i can just like other question is i'm i want to start jitten i'm worried about it so exact
gagie your beauty as reatly but just like i say when you get to about blue belt you got a start introducing more callendered ways and absolutely correct man
cause if if you do you do an you can let's say you're not used to the thing you used to same treat and partners on tineman you trained with you know do belt
for a belt there is specific and various active judicious four other jugatinus right so is it like don't turn your back all these rules that are pretty fun to
mental that rarely should be broken and we all know him so you roderhausen third days athletic wrestler he doesn't know those rules and let now so he put you
outside of the whole for manage you just do and if you don't know it is the digitaline you didn't not really work that good if you're not used to it but if you
are used to it you be like all kindlich a good technique to use with people right would not being with people people like people's personalities people have a
personality that they would not how they deal with things and they get people they fondled people into their world so if you have to break that you step
outside their world by gongora into people's worlds right don't give john an the people strength mesopotame don't be drawn into their strength on podra news
their way of fighting is because it's not you're not going to go the wind about a cause you do it all day long right so discometer m a different angle usually
disarm some cow as had been confutation a witness is just normal stuff but said to be a compotation somebody take a little flank and maybe you know message let
it but that it exact same thing it'll if if people have a way of doing things and you can get outside their pattern you have a better chance of getting a
victory yet conical when dealing with new groups of folks when do you do decentralize command right away or gradually as in slowly give them trust or slowly
take it away as needed doogan's a good solid question this is something that people ask on a fairly regular basis and it's a pretty straightforward answer i'm
okay you can't obviously just write away just just give people full all atome because you have to build it up somewhat incrementally give them the opportunity
to be on their own now and what what what you're really building what you're really building with these entries command is your building trust and and that
that's what you're trying to do and as of said before the best way to build trust is to give trust but before you give trust you've got a set expects you got a
set standard you i guess cause his pertectur just in insane person you that they might be a big might be a crazy they might be incompetent they might have a
totally different vision of what o cathan you might they might be on ascalon kinds of things that they might be that you cannot allow for so what you have to
do is set those standards set those guidelines and put those put those guardrails in place so that you make sure that this person is atical make sure that they
do are professional make sure that they do have the same standards make sure that they understand the expectations you set form and that's that's when you can
start to hand out more slack and more owners of good or of my crematories another about telling people exactly out of do it but let let's say you i saw workin
together and you are my subordinate it if we fast forward two years from now i'd be like hey go his warworn to get down make an happen i'll you know check back
with me when it delimitate how much leave a i'm giving you unganda for when we first start working together i manbuttoo here's a wantage done can you come up
with a plan and then and then let me know that he take a little which you're going to do boom now i'm still letting you fully on the plan by a medelicke sure
that it's the right geminate it's a good plan to make sure just marlaire handles are our resources correctly so all the things i'm just going to end in the
more we work together the more we build the trust the more you understand the extrications the less guidons gonna give you the less oversight i'm goin to give
you no cause i'm got built up because you built up trustie and i'll built up trust with you so that's important i also want you to the eldama your own
decisions because i don't want to be making decisions on time you know so i even when you even in the first serio when i've been workin you for a long time you
don't have to a cooing out you you go hand it you get it done when we first sat working together you may condemnation i hit this wall what you may do here what
do you think i'm going to say tertius out i'm as a ham an i i on with your butcher best gas or how would you do it all you know if we knew each other little
the better as a hamando come after me those questions go figure that out o cara you do it just get around that wall omand were done and it now that the other
one other keep art of this is often times if you take over a new team you may want to you may want you start off by setting the example by running the perfect
operation by going from end to end with some project that you set this standard on how you want things to be so every look in osaka that's how okahahwis that
woke he he wants that done oh he holds the line on that so that way everybody knows what the standards so there's in an i would always you know the i mean i
would always when i start off i telerpeton take over squad like okay for what one operation call here's our i would run it very distinctly very clearly be the
guy and then as time goes on and trust developed omit become less and less did di and more and more the de decentralized leader nat stepping back and let in
the front entrepreneurship make open um as always when you do start with a new group real easy be humble listened take advice as asked questions as quest good
asked good questions about things as you just some one stand asked the question no big deal make the slow incremental trains like hack work talks about instead
my old areassigned to things a day no contagalli can't do it so he's got a change two things a day that being said he also did some major to member if you
remember this hack work he gets in here to guy's have radios and they got good tales i got all the stuff and he goes yet poosee middle of compound it's out of
your tomorrow right that was a major change so he went and kundasova little bit but then he goes okay now i got to go to long war machine to little things to
day and that's what he did so sometimes its combination of those too said nogai to send i shock of value like a new sheriff in town that's aye to say in the
hiltonites commanding all seed come over if he would do so lotteries they do something to a sir there present nugae now no more parking in the back lot you
know what i mean horses to take us new seal i just took over no more wearing this uniform to this place okay so i will go in now sheriff in town let let's let
him get this out of his system and i look to sidetable and react in no way where they're like like that's i feel you're doing there and friday miracol pretty
much as you'll see me that oh i would be like a key in hand you share findon and wilcome to no real for us of all and so we know is here cortat was all you
won't not like all his stint like some resentment or nominated a less macerata word but many guys that aren't quite as in the game were like real you do in
this poor yet a abroad or by his new sheraton he's on you got he let us know where he had his her ye's got it yeah we got it so we're all good eesah but a
casions a please get somebody that that comes in of notice a thing that i just said were were fairly relevant like i don't wear this outporter don't park in
this part whatever those are fairly in consequence things and those things are are o caxley but occasion you see somebody come in and try and do it you know
execute some kind of of a fundamental change and that's where you go way a second man you've been here for a day and a half and you and as cute of fundamental
change and what we're doing here there's a bee of a problem with that we as we as the troops have a problem without because you don't know how do you know i do
i've been doing this for i was at felton for eight years you know you no show if i been here for five years ago tell me how it's better to do this and and i
that might not be the right attitude from a young guy like myself a half but that the attitude that you're going to generate if you come in and try make
fundamental changes without assessing ye so show some tactical patience when you come in and say okay let me check us up again to refer about to the hack of
the hack word sorry hack worth was going to take over italian that was all jacked up they were called the hopeless right and he wanted to turn in the hard core
so his his shocking thing that he did was meant to shock and it was also meant to square them away he was also the right thing to do and they also had a bad
reputation if he went in an intercoral good battalion he wouldn't go in there with the same shock and all to treatment is a onneeded is so you got a you got to
think about what you're doing but the vinot cases unless you're taking over some kind of a problem situation vere you might have use alshacca over nomasho
situation all bosomed you're going to go into it gave going to roenne problem come in there be humanistes dad as you see fit makes me small and mental changes
yet like the shock and of thing will probably work against you in a initial situation oh yeah it'll definitely weren't the answer i definitely work in you now
you now cause now you think about now your imposing a plan on people featfully to have plans imposed upon them they don't like it that they don't like it even
that even the big controlled military wherever yone's in our decana no of no one in a military likes to have bigness imposed upon them without fought and
without assessment and without exinanition and outcalling people wise no you don't do that ye and that what you want and the more you want to do is by doing
all those things by building that trust by setting the standards by setting the guidelines by putting the garrulence by listening by respecting by being humble
what you will do as you will leave people to lead themselves gannat's what you want an ye claiming wife feel like that may be an under appreciated thing a day
what it's not under appreciated my baaaaaattle that is the cornuticus o ye evening people waterton you could go in and the marileha you couldn't go in and
change some fundamental thing if you explain why in a antrones like old that makes sense but just like her you say an if you if you roll in and you're just you
make a pond the aniline ever will take browe were doing it that way for a reason in you is came in changed by the explaining makes him a sand you got one back
christmases you said is a wrong decision i have you might be saying something that's like but you know what you didn't think that true really all that well
yeah that you get it scutts with the with the troops and figure out what they re assessment of of your call is yet again one of those things were one talk
about like this like a thames perfect that but it's an annouchka's just as an example we talked fairly shortly about going to the pot cast once every two weeks
right i didn't really give a good explanation of why and you know what she back i got it was a a e got a getting me no one is then comes out on wednesday
jocolino promis to pan cast comes out on one day and i had i got that feed back from numerous people um not only on social media but also in a pace to face
you'll heel that taxed me and called me and said bro you can't go to once a week at there was melesindra you if you're good to do that done to set some kind of
warning you need to let any o o we live him to a host as it was funny but the essential thing that i did not do it said he yes here's what's going on here is a
why i would want to do this in a different way and i didn't really expend that you we just kind of cut was an unadaptable decision i was getting mad it was a
consideration the consideration has been revoked by the wan werewolf malieah the line and when we do have to do that which may or may not happen but it will i
will explain why in great detail serener sands are going from what as on one to leave anybody hanging than he doesn't don't they be like he joliffe like you
don't really understand what's going on you know on the from mine you don't hollisteritis for that part campanologistic june what are some worked out to
progress in becoming more relaxed in the water i need to own my heart rate okay again this is a a good question is actually a little bit of a universal
question that's why i get i like to take questions at apply universally to multiple things becoming conferable a waters very important water makes you better
water makes you a better person and i'll tell you said this before missiles one of the things that makes us goodness you can so we have to deal with water and
water as a pain in the ass it who in things at bludston e stops in its stops guns from working it toprails from working at opshun from working you drown in it
its water is very tough to deal with it's a very harsh environs the ocean water i i used to say that every time you go in to water it's a real roboplanes you
mekellacane you kill the ocean to day and if you make the wrong moose so you definitely need to be comfortable in the water now first things first water will
kill you water will kill you you will die if you make mistakes in the water you will die so whoever is wrote the question and whoever's going a head my vice
here note and be advised that water will kill you so when you swim you got to have a life gardener's a couple examples a guy a in my hat when i went through
fetridge was a stud but complete study he was the honor man of my buds class and a great gumanos anna's cold to be honor man reeder good athlete this got was
also beyond that was just a great guy extremely motivates keith camera and he was practising breath holds as he was used know afterward ricordi and he get gone
to saltensee an it come back to be a selinunte and he was practicing breath holds during a adoring an evolution for the students and all all that was going on
you know the dunstonite students and he's down their practice raffleian his own kind he was on his withes in the group but on his own effect makes sense a
little big evolution going on and while the pig evolution going on heat kind of don his own thing very greatness and he died so was doing breathes he stayed
down there he had a shallower black out and he he died and was awful i mean on a water incredible incredible gue um we also had some seals the thousand fifteen
um that worth a invertine you know young studs skitter a training super hard and that they both died in inteenal and virginia beach and again you know these
are frogman these gaarons themselves and you know try to make themselves better and they pushed that all flopit's do and they pushed it and they went over the
line and unfortunately they were training together at the same time so he got to be safe you you've got don't train alone in don't train with some one that's
doing the same thing as you thtay can't ye ter the same thing together you know it's a real its it's a real simple role to one up one down so if it's your turn
to train i stay out and in you do your evolutions and then when you're done okay now it's my turn or train you stay out and you watch me it's one up one down
that's the that has to be the standard again people don't don't play round the water you don't i've had shallower black out and you keep me vagus come and
that's it you're unconscious in and if you if some one out there to drag you out you're going to try your and died on it and then again it's sort of you you
can tell that they're coming a little bit and you get used to em but it's oelianae down you get yet you know you've been choked out before right em any time
yes so you think you're going to make it yea and in and then you don't any can push it to that's a thing as chawen you're training like when i'm sending it
stronger at like jokes and you want to be eayyum fight in you you know you want to be able to to to fight you know so you you push it along him such an you
have experience in bush or a little bit and then sometimes cause you just got to go you can feel the back o come in but once you go right massador can't tap
any more and you go out you know you get to say cause usually the guy confido out on a layout but hopin the water it's like you know what you venaison is in a
black hole i eat little nursing the iodine your don not exactly what happens with your consciousness you you you you you can see that line you're watching
ancoutahan to make it and then all union in your line your in the black hole and that is it so be very very careful in your doing this always have a swim body
so i the life gone all that stuff em now the question back to the question beyond the safety portion is how do you more come from the water we spent time in
the water swam serf spear fishing snorting scooped diving sir rival floating breath old treading water just that's how you get come from inwards by being the
one to some poganne swim with swing with teachers and your hands simwa your clothes on swim did jack all you not just all those langstone to be in the water
and do things and swim and that's a you get more come from a later and you'll rapidly increase your ability to be in the water and headliner you'll be much
more caminate and the reason i said this is a universal question is because it's the same thing with just about everything else it you're going to do the same
thing with swimming at the same thing with doing put you on a going to pull de moron you want to get better of public speaking get up and start doing public
speaking sainting was shooting like old people first start shooting in our own teminated by fire arms it's because they're not used to himself spend time
shooting spend time around gone took a use of the mailfast used to look concussion of the noise and you will be more comfortable so that's what it is to do in
the water you spend more time in the water and and you'll get better out of you yet more comfortable again be careful in your doing it she wanted to arkindale
oh ah it's a term me that's far as i know confront buds from seal training where when you put your scooped gear on they call it joking up so jack up in your
guaranteein in this seal teams it becomes its it's a term that means any type of getting a clothes on getting your heron guinea or clothes on getting dressed
put your duckstand know nothing what it is i don't know if that's word comes from i think you can but they used to play you know they remember that like little
kids came an man ye were you fell in the letters well whenever the class would make a mistake they would put the have jacopone on the board and the repute
letter in and when you spell out all of jackup then they would make you jack up drills which are not fabulists putting on such your dear yes but the jack up
drills involve ridiculously stupid and hard callisthenic work out with your entire dear load out afther willowes to an you don't bear crawling as ear yes you
could bear crawl with twin seventy two tanks on she you know we bear crawl to the show all i mean it's a mile five and i think i fioritures on trouble for
mainstairs without do that in you man gemeine a convention called a broken elewation football we had to there was an incident in camp in football at ouatanon
um where we're supposed to be you know sleeping you know like outwater dear and they a guy who will remain anolaima whose like one of the young olifant
bollemand he am i i can say i am now cause he admitted it afterwards but before there lay isould had to keep his comonly classified top again after lady
aborigine what he do we okay so people were messing about were supposed to be in bed so security comes or whatever and like we ought and one hides me sing we a
one o me in doing it and some one threw a sandwich at the security guard hit him and is this big incident the same inn in and of itself doing time to see
curtois more funny anything but were supposed to be a bahadoor politiano can do that you know so you was like an who i who was this if no one admits it
everyone's going to get punished so of course everyone gets punished were doing barcarolos the feel nonstop m so you was like i can relate to the bar croth
chalit wasn't like okay barcato here and then drills like your going all the way don't even know how many times we did one guy was like crows crying cisive
take fish up crying grown men cried i i like that guy onless i ybarra were prologo but i think jackino is because you wear your jack tar when you get in the
game like a doctor jack you know may be one old eutyches that lessens the parasol contact me and let me know where jack up came from yet that my my i'd my
onion that cause of john gear enus her up jock shapes like the the manly earth i not elinor going down this road for i not as one that i'm already down to the
olio do that have you alone my going to agree with you i i think you're wrong they go yes at right oh yes are you go tetrastyle go to the next question i talk
about that watermore you is ouasi me on it what the day caught at me in having an ego when is it good and wind of the get to a point where you have to check
your ego or so did i conomy is pretty clear m e go drive you absolutely it makes you want to win it makes you want to perform well it makes you proud of your
amendment you want to be number one and those routing and i've fully fully have those myself i mean my ego will keep me up at night trying to win it some
ridiculously meaningless thing in the world especially in was younger it was kind of stupid um but the ego can also get you in trouble teaching trouble really
really quickly for instance i mean what will you can you egan make you sabotage your coworker that's all the same pen as you so that you can outshine him
retinendae down a plan a better plan because that plan it isn't yours materio you can chase some material items some things of them that you don't really need
may be in some cases it might it be something that you don't actually even want em and it's just fenore which is which is a really bizarre thing to see i can
make you step on your subordinates right i can make you under cut your peers cause that eagle flares up i can make you remanded on some stupid ideas that
you've had those to kennethi that eagle doing all those things are negative so that's pretty clear to me where ego starts going side was in and i would save no
like my eagles held meet it through two on a wind but i never was that out of control or i was like screechin people over because i wanted to win now i
wouldn't do that that wasn't part of my personality was i'm not that prose i've never really naturally good it much so it wasn't like i was going to wear it
only where i could be people and things was but at work in them yes other that it would be hard for me yes olthat kind of person who like you women the two
kinds of you want who who is down till like screw some one over and more basically cheat you do a cheating nohow you doing it's like i want to be here i they
don't necessarily want to quit a hope wind because if you cheat a that really weaning eota whole minifie of winning is like overcoming certain things you know
but when you choose like notanecta you know whatever so it's less about it's more about you understanding really what waning is and that's what you like the
winning you know yes yes i solitoode heneche into the stuff it's like they don't want to win in a lady give case infit on i remember when when i was going to
seal trading there was people there was kicketh would like brag about it they were going through same seal training class mesauba me but they would like
baragat it and i geveterlin to let say soridan person look yet well on the seal training i wasn't bright about that hole like him ameluke i'm here and i
realized that losel quit neither were comfortable they they just been able to say like she training they were a good with it charlie i i did what i'm supposed
to do yeh so me i i want a onto do that i don't want to say anything until i meet the rough ye and so am yes so on i'm saying is similar what you're saying
they were sad as five just by bengale to throw that out there rat was enough for them so for some one that's windesheim when or their e there welded step on
some one battifolle to me but never felt good to me like i got step on someone unwanted kind of want them victory don't want it so the it's like they want o
some people want to look like they want and other people want to really win ye of course that's really the different dear there there so that to eagle point
when you start feeling like your doing some of those negative things that's when you've got up put your enchecks at's what you got a support your coworker
instead of sabotage that's when you've got to pick the best plan out there instead of picking your own that's when you said no what i'm happy with what i have
in sadofski things that i don't even need you don't talk the people like if you were there spent something that you wanted even though you actually didn't even
really want to what you just wanted just because you've giafer of your ego yet the lewen you're in the wake rowell in grind up like lifting away some into do
this work they'd be lifting lay and he it feel out of times in these like like a twenty four fitness situation or you be leviticall be lifting away and then
one gousset's looking kind of a lot you'll see some one all of a sudden be doing that same exercise like tranto live more than that he doesn't know him not
lifting with him he wasn't even doing that exercise so as he inistore up a hill like try to do it you know royou when he intimates you weren't doing bench to
day you and now you don't vant you know takes in something you don't even more on even one day day don't need to test that ah yes another big one is like when
i talk about subordinance instead of cut down your subordinates you start lifting them start making them shine you start given them the credit making them
shine even brighter than yourself that's that's the beautiful thing when you can put your ego in check and you can make that happen making your own boss look
good he having an open mind to new ideas those of the things as to how you put your ego and check those or the things that those are the those are the hall
marks of having your ego a check now sometimes people don't know when they need to put their egosthena think there is one really easy indicator to now when you
need it just at least like a donasse of your ego and that is when you come to conflict with other person causeuse percentage of conflict that you have to opole
or ego are the ego and so when you feel that conflict whether it's about positioning whether it's about an idea whether it's about a plan whether it's about
elmer's about but if i'm in conflict with you on something immediately anitorgis you taking no are you is it his business or is this eagon if you do that you
will find yourself you any form of frustration or anger that you have just check your ego and has a good chance of your abeelities that thing get a hold of it
and agressive put it in check its heart your eglisau master you know your eglantine wants the spot light it wants to shine it wants the gory and it's it's
driven you know that's a lot of you be hiesiger out there that's a driving you and it's not a bad thing so when it comes time to hardness that bad boy it can
be a challenge but it's very ruwenga it's it's rewarding in a long term gratification it's not amelia gratification is generally you know you're given you're
giving your support it all the credit for some for some project at they did day and you know that you could actually know that you did the bulk of the work
would you give it away that's not gratifying he mediately the mediately as agiari put the actuates on my head as that that's immediate gratification that you
lookin for no he say he bolshukha don't put the athletes on my head looking my team let's crown them because they really get a great job you know i'm just here
to help that there's no gravitation that but when you get feet back a week later a month later six months later people want to come and work for your team now
your team gets picked for another project that's the long term gratification that you get when you keep your ego in check a adyanced people ye the seratok
extreme ownership over every detail and mistake one of the roof in company i was starting but instead of inspiring my employees they discontentit led because
of the because of this the business almost ran into the ground in addition i thought so worn down that my result almost collapsed in your estimation when they
do wrong so this is an example i don't see this all the time but i do see it sometimes and what we have here is it clearly guy steps up until you know what i'm
to take on a ship on taking stream or ship which is what i'm always encouraging people to do is latiniste book we call the book extreme ownership because that
is the fundamental principle that we see is the common trade that makes people successful when they're taken orders it is the blame in other people so that's
what this guide did with the roofing company hamatan oneship of altodale now the problem there is with the diconce of extreme ownership it means taking
ownership of the mistakes taking ownership of the problems but it doesn't stop there that is simply where you start cause the real true ownership that you need
to take as you need take extreme ownership of the solutions of implementing the solutions of creating an implementing this wise that's whaite owner too so in a
situation like this like for instance oh i took eldership of everything so my ten became entitled now now first of all in in that statement in the one right if
i say hey we failed because my pen became entitled what an i dudelay blame them eriong entitled why the becoming time i allowed them to what am i going to do
save that i er have to train to him treating him maybe there's a couple of cancers in there that have that attitude ninety to fire those people all replace
them or git them retrained put some ownership on them so that they realize okay oh i'm going to get i'lle my job if we're on orginal with mission or to
companies go out of us if i don't do this right so you've got a that's the mistake there what do i see you identified the probable taking ownership of it pay
we we may we got to make sure we get our jobs done on time okay boss well you didn't order the gear and time and you didn't do this and now we're behind so is
not our fall heavy the way pay me if that's the attitude your employees have you got a promise leader so what is the problem how do you fix that problem um the
the the thing is about ownership is taking ownership of the problem doesn't fix the problem right it doesn't fix the problem you still have to come up with the
solution so that's what it is when we talk about it streamers ip were definitely not to stockpot owning the problems but like i said only miss lucentio me of
pontitian and actually carried to it to its furthest stretched to its furthest out come as we have to take a tree moshiest is the most important part and
obviously i need make this clear enough because this should be something that avfenia ly understands he is arbiter the most important part for you to own as a
leader is the outcome is the end state if you are not meeting your and state that's what you have to take aldershot of that what you have to make happen so as
it you know when you're when you're companies not doing the right thing galoot to take on him or them sakes it happen you got you got employees that are acting
wrong ye hey it's my fault at their acting wrong you got dead lines that your missing yes it's my fault that we've missed the dead lines now you got to go back
and ask yourself the question how do i make the dead lines how do i fix those employes you got to solve those problems at er out there all therwise extreme
ownership doesn't do anything for you and we talked about this before as well and that is that taking aldershot of things is not eight it's not a a shelter
revenoit it doesn't provide shelter it doesn't it and some people think does he go herodote miss up we must we we fail on her mission my fault okay so you know
it's move on no no no actually no we don't move on you fail in your mission you affix it extorsi does not does not give you any mercy whatsoever that's what's
hard about it and by the way the thing that the thing that extreme ownership that makes it hard is because the the previous question in a tacere because when
you say hey gytha is my fault you're not just saying he is is my fault less move on your saying this is truly my fault we failed because of me and these the
things were to fix it and i'm goin on it until we get it done ye then ye that it kind of makes sense like it is one of those all enough in things you know
where exceeds this funny how you put it you know where you're like i did my extreme ownership there at his left to kisoona thing he can't really do that in
this question is is is it really good question and i preciate because you can see the guy he um that asked it he clearly is motivated wild you well but he he i
began my fault for not explaining is well enough he thought that just taking oder ship would solve the problem no you have to take ownership and solve the
problem the ameretat that the taking eldership part is the initial part that let the rest of it happened and and that's why we emphasize it so much because
most people they just don't take on her in close ye be this guide he's close he take it eldership now he's got to realize okay i took on hership i realize it's
my fault and it can it not just in sin hawell much my company so is my fault an so i i hope this works out now i hope anything you fixed it you make a
halfpenny brogan i appreciate this quescas i could see in his earnest asking of the question like he's a man what ellidi do wrong i do wrong here's what he did
wrong you know you you need the first step which is the hardest at that positive here on the most positing about this guy is he's made the hardest step which
is okay this is my fault the follow on is what he missed now how i fixed it on o i do templement you got lacetania entitled them foes that is your fault so how
do you fix them visit your lax days going the time round me that means i'm no is a man i mean you don't erstand the mission you don't stand why we're doing
what we're doing you don't derstand why import to meet the dead line on this roof we can move on to another one that we can collect money to pay for our next
one there's all kinds of reasons that you could tell people why these things are important and if you have people that you they know exactly why they're doing
what they're doing and they still aren't getting in the game you need to find some more people to come and work for you some different people some people would
better attitude and bring them on board with the right attitude yet this sum even to add too widely asses such a good question is this is it exactly what
people are scared of with the extremities clettini i take it she ownership over everything they're goin t take a bandage or they are going to you know be
entitled to whatever is the i think i mean even thinking about it that's what i'd be afraid of the i am afraid of you know and and i will tell you having done
this my whole career when you take ownership of things people don't there there is a small chance there's a couple knuckle heads like these idiots of this guy
has worked in form that are entitled and now or i should say that because he may have provided the environment runnymede like he might have been easy but and
every time they say a boss i can't find a gay a boss i can't come in late to day can you finish up that roof by yourself and if he had he no amantine aldershot
he was on comitate overshine but i got it now he does that for days in a row he's worked sixteen hour days he started get broken mentally and physically you're
goin roping before a reader as hard the work especially in the summer time when the blaze and son you fourteen sixteen hour day i to do i pulled the chimney
off my a little chimney off my brow on time i found a mile dispatch the roof now i had to strip like a third of my roof from my house and then i'm up there we
arranged one come and do come of your odegaard as old vigon the next one as it eighteen hours get sum yeah so roofing is hard work is there and if if you don't
take that if you don't if you don't get these employees in the right mind set he tarop of the team if they're not on board how you gonna fix that if you and
when i was going to say as if you become the easy button all the time then that allows them e fosters the attitude of hay you know what ah the thissun meslin
actually henleyites you know i pay you regardless of what you do well eventually i don't pay you anything cause you don't work here and i don't have a business
any more so if that's where you're at donowat you here and i will do this myself and i'll i'll schedule my jobs of properly so i can do it on myself if you
want to get in the game and be part of this team which you should then this one for you here's the expectations this is why because next year this year we did
fourteen roofs next year i wanted to double that and i mean maget you a cool that's got to work for you and your maumau little bit i'm beget you move along and
get you promotable you'll have two or three teams workin for you do you want to do that or you want to continue being the guide that's hole and shingles all
day are you in the game with me or not are you part of this gig see see you got to get in their heads you got to get them out of that mine set and into the
right mind said said that you can dominate yet feel like that extreme ownership kind of provided that too you know where if like how you always said if you're
like blaming him overtly blaming them they're like all his canonite they have that feeling but if they're let you use taking the repulses like at angerstein of
on my team yet do on to do all that aloyac extorris ample if i approach you on like echo dude you're just in titledeeds don't have a good outeat now ye what
what it did to you now or your life oh what talkin about him and titled e i'm titled ye your damn right of man tild because both web ben do it up and no where
as if i if i take a different approach with you and say man look at the got a lot of potential you know i say you got a lot of new year lot of things going on
at home and i got that girl friend and now you're doing this and that but you know what i thought so potential to your let me there you it's on lead you know i
know you don't want to be carried shinglestrand all your knees smacking nails right but maybe you could be running crow and this is how i want grow do you kind
o want to get in the game with me as i make you might you very undervally understand me yes a good question thanks and good luck with that company small
business owners get after its hard runners small business the tarok you are the buck stops of you whether you like it or not is even if you hate no one if you
know one to take extreme lorship in your small business owner to eventually yohiogany on you it's on you it is on you so it's it's a it's great i love i love
the small business owners get after an out there next question thought on how to deal with toxic flash negative people those people yes so first all interior
ant to recognize it those people exeest everywhere in everybody's got to deal with me if you run into one of these people don't get all surprised as if there
are alone ranger out there being native non there's negative rangers all over the flanso i we got to the young hotel and it's so so you do want one like that
first long confronting them of course as you can probably protect is not usually the best option because all you dingier your attack in their heavily defended
position which which is not good so aware of the technique that i use when be when with these kind of people is i of disorbed the i absorb there crikke
disorbed there poesy i absorbed there negativity now obviously the stakes will be strength right you can't be taken stuff personally you have to in order to
learn how to absorb in ye evictos for the team right but it looks like for instance when they say all this is horrible i don't see no not horrible i don't
distort back out if i say the anwat we definitely got them room for improvement right i and i just deflection as of elora right odor bit a little bit because
what they weren't o that rushing out right there trainent they like those explosions they like to see it hit something and blow up they as i their doing that's
how they roll so you're going to observe in catch it pull it in right so it when they're like all we never do this i don't say we can absolutely do this no
cause you didn't you just go you're going to create the explosion that they're looking for in ten it you don't want we went up hill to rome how mona give in
and we can be a good solid try we montravit with just the flex this is a little bit in the giorgione negative thing and you know we say say fishes stupid i
don't say no this is a most brilliant thing of ever seen i don't do that once had to head i'm going to say you know what there's definitely some room for
improvement the next time around your right a hunter percent oh yeah you just got the election those reactions the disarmed these old tupongati people and it
kind of takes there there fight from the men at all so makes them look like emotional extremes so with the group right when i calls it out on the group then a
comicos all extreme and you just a sorbet and the gate little bit it a gate the view or it i shouldn't say a gateman meately late cross up when you just
absorbed it and deflected a little bit the rest of the team does on you you know oh echoes the supermortal he's an minative they see him for what he is which
help is helpful for you right and then once in one of desering their attacks and taken some of those shots no big deal that i want to start to over ride them
somewhat with some with some positivity which is going to be directed at them right to they were all negative but on to say i want you to darewell work we or
you know what a you cold job on mazanderan never could figure that out like you did strike so in start start given in their head a little bit and start feeling
their head were some positive stuff that's right that's an ado than you figgered that out better than any body nicely done and i'm bringing them from the dark
side over the night as from doering a mover and act as had the funniest of a one of my favorite guise in the seal teams he was my yes my first upon the track
he was the senior of listed guy in our task in it's in and actually were just probus when one of us would start getting a little off the reservation on
something like eating all that dicted to some idea or something the other one we were to love be look at like i be tellin like weed to do this and this is
bolshawe did you and he look at me like eventooate man come back to life mooweesuk were all going to be okay so when i would tak it a negative hutesium me back
to the light riasan thing with with me with him he would again ye wud get all you know get all manafacter he's the guy um member we talked about well i blairee
aha no simple fine amplified repeat that ayesha he would also have to bring me back from the dark side and at the do it to him too if he started getting a
little too negative umvoti es but it then the more i think i want to do with some one that's been supernegative is i am actually one i want to give them some
ownership wantage them so eldership some ability to make changes some ability to have some kind of a positive impact on the mission trampit something that i
think they can step up and handle right something that is within their grasp and realm and ability and a man to give it to him and and then i'm goin to give em
i'm going to give him on the kind overload him with help and with assistance and with guidance to make sure that they win and atheist or suspending them in a
more positive direction you know so that's my waited deal with the big negative people out there just absorb and yet over counter i like that or you may be
like a holy figure that out benoist before but a good one is to be like to say he at my like about you you're real whatever excise you know you not feel like
elsa that to me that i i obotrites you know and it makes you want to like continue to be that they all in you i can he think of you know a problem so our
sometim going to be aware and scotinus to solve problems you know you you put the self fulfilling prophecy in their own hayahing that you want them to do well
exactly yet it on jack next question next question janet i'm in i n t j personality my drive flash ideas often caused friction with superiors a play use my
strength without creating division okay i so foison i can head to look up this stuff to remember exactly what it was is and that like the iron t r i and j
stuff is in introverted in two ative thinking judging this is part of this sum may risberg type indicator that refers to one of sixteen psychological types
tried so it sort of a gag that you can figure out these what type of of sixteen different psychological types that there are and so so foisone in particular
this and j t which i i said is introverted in two ative thinking and judging and i went to the inter webs for this sir and it said that as an iron t j your
primary mode of living is focused in turner internally where you take things in primarily view or intuition your secondary mode is external where you deal with
things rashly and lancilly so speaking of self fulfilling prophecy this is kind of one of them and a aruncan at your personality in any one's personality is
not set in stone by by any stretching of course can you have some natural tendencies as a person of course you you do have some natural tendencies and if your
brain was on auto pilot you would steer towards those personality traits even more but luckily our brain is not on autopilot and you have your hands on the
wheel had you can control your mind and you can in this case you know step back and and and get a grip on things that you according the question that caused
friction right if i as it if as an i enator supposedly to demanding in these are little closet then if you're too demanding or not open other people or not
open other ideas here's what you do real simple yet less demanding right elsyou have a hard time listening to other people listened other people if you and
this is another corridor the eye and jeppesen out matrix if you are supposed to have a low tolerance of emotion in others then get more tolerance for emotions
in others this isn't hard you identified what the issues are you've heard me say this all time listened other people treat them with respect these things are
not doing that so do the that's that's really simple there's no reason to you for you to fulfill this prophecy of being a person that not open others ideas
person that's not as low tones for other people there's there's no reason for you to be overly demanding you don't have to be this way just because that your
personality type allegedly that the man you have to be the way it was his kind of like em you know the the the horrorscope signed right sure and i of heleven
talk about those any more is and no man dead well what is it horse cope were astrolatry right these at the same thing he nesarei you lead your horse go to the
azuba on a stallion to the magic of a stroll you ye ah you people still do that so soon when i went a gone i tidied hasn't happened been a while but when i was
younger um people would say you look or what signor you and i say oh you know i must scorpio and then oh i herhor a score o i i yea tolly pegged out a scorpion
that i actually am a moroland i'd say you know actually amelia and they go all out don't know no i have yet or sure you're a liberal olloway definitely because
you have this and you're that and i go actually i'm getting em i'm a actually forgo and then they wouldn't trust me any more till i was a bastard and whatever
but of my point is according to some random zodiac colour it's you can place those like overlays on anybody and you can kind of make em fit and i have to him
saying is like i'm not saying that the that the yanneps or element ope whatever i'm not saying that the myers briging is just wrong i think it's i think it's
good to have a frame were annis fine to have a frame work than say oh yeah i recognized this stratton myself or you i recognize that trade myself or i reckon
is that trait and some one else and then you can deal with it i think that's good but what i don't what i don't accept is saying this is what i am and
therefore am i'm not going to change no wrong answer if we all just accept it who we are you know you do not going to make any progress you know so you find
the weaknesses in your personality and he fixem that's haters that yourself volve get better stop creating fiction friction stop creating division be unblessed
taken put all those things in alt one last thing is if you really are a me the i n t j did not mean at your smart he met your thinking immature pragmatic it
manjurico person you're supposed to be althouse things so if you are then realize that nordred be successful member the team eaten to put almost little
characteristics in the check pragmatically and make it happen lennard ing about that very recently about in javelineers crying hoverseer extrovert and yes so
there's that framework and in but as it turns out it's like a bell curve where most before somewhere in the middle and you kind of bounce in the middle there
so there's extreme interveres extreme it extroverts but usually it's you you're in the middle you know the whole testerment cool another thing with that is is
just like her to the self facilities a actinias like say this just to my friends whatever the different like feeling a certain way ye i don't think you should
have too much guilt in feeling a certain way like you know sometimes i'll be like dying i i felt like i now i felt prejudiced or something like that and is
because those feelings come from a bunch of things that that allowed them became control but behavior is a different so you can see one thing and behave if
your behavior is just bassrah up on your feelings and that's like that's kind of whack you know you got to be smarter were oyera feelings cool so you're a
internatter and yosemite tend to have certain types of feelings or lack of polar for this or are not tolerant for you know this of that so when you're like hey
i'm this therefore it gives me a pastophoria can't do that man an if you're intuitive but shooting you kind o know that so i guess i'll i think i would hope so
but yes again the difference between like feelings and behaviour and usually i would be in how you say like ye you want to touch it if you want to be tougher
be tougher yes a lot of times i'd be like well i marthana really but now in this case in a way brooken really look at it literally like that if you have a lack
of tolerance for emotion protestant it pelouse i think people do self diagnose and and give themselves a path and i know we kith think we do it naturally too
because i know this competitive usually cause on call in one ill but that i know the family where the little girls growing up there like a they kept telling
your hat your acting this way cause you have a onfort'nate or such an devastating yes from to you'll oh that's just you and they didn't like cultivate any
thing they were just like the real dismiss of about it i i and then the now every time she acted up she wouldn't like try to curb her behavior she'll act up
and be like that's just my whatever my aspergers or whatever buttonses like you embrace it still behaved you know in whatever wish she felt like beating and
then to put it on the aspers yea you can it's mine control men mind control you got i mean obviously you get some people that have some just significant you
know a mental problem okay understand but like this person that's writing a logical question then got my control they just need you say you know what ominate
more open other people's emotions on the listen other peoples ideas reading he at now yes oh i'm rejecting the echoes echoes idea at point blank range okay
that's a signal i need did not do that route i am open to ideal of a year it's that easy the just my intact in up an i got it you know i got a check that yet a
feelings verses beating em as i think is well it's one of those things where it when you know the problem that's like because this person obviously had a game
guy no there i know they know they are what's causing okay i can you know i can identify when i feel it stuff coming on very recusant in a note ailment good
still at no next west next question it is the last one on orientalis the last one of the jack we all know bad things happen to good people sometimes how do you
deal how you deal when those things happen to people around you very true that sometimes bad things horrible things happen to to good people and i don't i
don't know why but life isn't fair that that's necessary ality and dies cancer and m s and a horrible disease is an accident in these things at a good person
in the wrong place in the wrong time ken and up just a victim of of of fate and at of reality and i can be horrible and heartrending but when those bad things
at the people around you one are you going to do now how are you going to lead are you going to get angry are you going to get frustrated or you're going to
lash out at people who who you goin to last out at anywheres or are you going to start going down the spiral of negativity are you good let this all abolition
dick take the way you feel and the way you handle it are you gonna fallover and fall down follart or or are you going to lead arigin to face this issue with
courage with resolution i say lead led step up to the challenge be one that other people look to absorb that impact absorbed that negativity draw fire draw
fire that's that's what a member of a platoon for potations to the steps into the open to draw enemy fire may be to give another part of his team the chance to
move her or to strap the enemy but that's what i say draw fire bring that pain to me i can handle it when when maybe others cannot and when when bad things are
happening i am going to try and be the one good thing the being standing tall that can be relied upon because i know that that attitude will spread it will
bolster olearon me and and we will fight and in fighting we will win and if not the battle and if not the war we will win because our spirit it will never
surrender in that that is the ultimate victory to hold your head high and even even in the face of inescapable defeat stand and to fight that is to win in i
think that's all of god for tonight echo is let's close this thing out a little bit before we do that though but talk about how the people that are listening
to this if you want to listen to more of it let a best way to support a podcast what's the best way to get in the game here with the boys o'tentillo the thing
out was a best where to go i went wallaroo to get in the game means a lot yes cause it's you're getting in the game and forcing in the game really and to do
that you may minuted solimin ation if he do who you like the sicilian with her what do you call like a transition anyway um so supplementation right i need
more creil by the way you should told me that before we met to day the teapot a right now room none the less one on a vessel ems are well knows that i think i
think everyone is it by now but if you want to present off and your new to own it were you in honesty in you'll just when you're getting more you en temperant
off look on it do come lashed jocote per cent off if you really want to step up your supplementation game i think i mentioned this like one before but none the
less it's called stay on it it so you know how i don't have crellin i diden stay on it loonies boom you have it's like the monthly record yea yea if he and in
this case it's like em it's good because it is one of those things that you need to come back to every man need you need trow ye every month he montani warrior
bars need varying levels he a warrior bars prince inimies for sometimes a senseless to put ye in dunfish all tempers no don't cacolet very good also amazan
true wool does not work any more the true ingleesi yemiore the ark which you know it had a good run and you know of cool but none the less we are still doing
the avaunting and people do support through amazon witches good very good sassatyes so what is it cost them a support upon castilian a cough three seconds of
their time that's appreciated and that's just the old one time investment potentially if you you know you save to eat quick on the cohesive cocoas upon or
doctor a click on the amazon line before he do you shopping it'll take you in now to them to mean save that save the resulting olenin like a book mark is a
favorite vorarbeiten where can support every time you should you shot than costinoi that he is hell three seconds or your life you know a lot of people been
doing that in that that's solid right there thank you oh but yes do that way in support and all so subscribed and i do as you have it already and subscribe
onoto i know i been saying this to enter her actually um truslove no man here you start in to cross yourself there i know right think it's my fault actually no
man even even giving me trust and brave i been thrown back as one that i don't know none the less i know the saying it were you're getting as you're going to
make more ideomotor to now i yes i'm in to tell you just trust me in this everybody that listens spokes wants you to make more videos no feeling a pressure
about that maister not you may be you just don't you know you don't want to make it happen that's okay it all we want you to know that we all all of us we all
want you to make more videos that's the vote from us true persevere you got your thing you know hopefully five coloboma es him bad as videos allait thanks for
calling him bad at the wild they all that's the brow that's motivating ranks to a well open motivate you ought intended a pin to make some more ready as for
for us a gay i'll i'll do it am but yet said i to subcurate fact cast right you got so prabhavati asinini tonia yet that's the most basic level of of joining
ye do move me he or is that tuesday night oh may be around eleven o'clock depending on where you are depending on where you are maybe it's two o'clock in the
morning when saile i can come up with a one next to it you got a new abacactes to which is which is good to go yet that one is a article it's like a cue or
something in what they expect is with called the variable reward in it it's olivetti onless you will get on up a very able reward go what is it like the
indurating we see you can all excite it he cut down several reeflike when you like a the really the iconic cases any like faithful cowherd you see the one that
does the alert i do and i something i don't know what it is it could be some one talking good about me it could be some one invited me to play a game it's a
very able reward like it could be of no of someday could be loathesome thing you know i don't know what it is it well that is i do want to pick on an case i'm
going to go and say i i know is going to be high value reward you as to that little one and as i guess he listened the faces in a nowise people said lower
ellison epatkas i asked is the parasite talked about be what we could do better you see where i need to get better he all those things so i got a listenes i'm
too even when people will you know like a a lot times ka the pocket comes out the next day a lot of loot lot of leniter are bringing up stutter you said or or
what i so whatever and i i all we i didn't know it came off like that whether it's true or not or whatever you like so when you listen to your like way more in
tune now this might be a back handed compliment or not a man sir but we you say something cool on podcast every body loves it ever goes not yet i'm not trying
to say that you don't say cool things off in case i i think you say localities they let the ones that people cater and they go a yetsisewanenyadanyon webs with
echo charleses dankness ye you know what that's like it's like one or two year old says like a word or like a one and half year old says a word to alamode say
i not alineations an the fact is not much what is you say to forward you set something like pre ligiere we recorded to day what did you say anne you do know
what you said and i say again he sold all the people again way had it been something about the junk store it was a jam at emember o ka always record always
record and alantoin out there you know exactly what i'm talking about a right none the less jocasta could talk about that that's a good way to get in the game
for sir that's why in the sherton stuff are at caesarea bill to obliterate and here's the thing about the shirt i try to put some emphasis on multiple layers
of shirts you know how what's on the shirt there's an there's a heat in or not so heated meaning so you know a lot of times you know you know the meaning you
know if you listen to this your penny in the game you know the meaning you know but it's not just a shirt with the design does meaning the end it so that's the
why i say so so if you listen norit that i write you if you olesantes no sense ah it makes less than put it that way but yet you exactly right there's cause
also there could be some sure that make no sense to anybody yet what ye and that is dead you see a torii put out the amold band when i was a kid and i treated
this picture of eyester that we had made my body had the silk screen still so i held it up to life i took a picture i posted it the name of the band was
bronzen children as in charles rancour who when i was a kid tolerance i lie off and he was a man and a poutsma can all some movies but the docebo that he was a
warrior he was as you know he's in the four of our two you purple heart he was a tale gone just a just a a bad as ey and so we mean my boys we thought charles
brandon was the man we demanded a bronze eso we run that shirt to the lad be somethin people are going to make but who's goin to look that and now have any
idea what they're going to be like an a kind to look like charles ronchetti look which alesage up looks like joanie went on not to annotate state of charles
brandon i don't know its likeness ye we'd be definitely using his wine ye yet but italy met at wife then you ireland she she died his long noose i know i don't
know i left the brandon family and i know maybe we could defy good way to get in contact with him he are producing their shirts and get so fieubet soul
bronson's children would get sooted canonou know cause you're brentingville reward there oh there ye okay i think the shirts are cool currently the franconian
will not that's a good that the deep one to the good um but then they have layers like i said and i'm saying that's a good way to support henlike shot some
kisses i would say and go gold that got jocatore up come go there look at the shirts i don't like them don't get nothing to just look could you get a rash
carfare if you are so inclined to get her as varying get er ask er for so the resurgo i think that's almost like on a fatal love where they're good well
there's a lot of people that are or to have experienced the nineteen per cent increase in their egistance kills yet or strength will and running so i had a
disallow all my turning partners or at least a lot of em are wearing trooper rash card as in a fight me to i ahavin to fight these guys that are coming at me
they all look the same third monster gives with true portier or true parashar on is not for getting beat up by my own people yet nineteen persons more than you
were to add not present more on through men is wronging joosting the um but yet the resurged good culican mal conversation and am telling me how wisepate
morning does it run resenting where it was but the just kind of the serenity contrasted with the trooper resort of his knife none the less you know to the rash
horse good if you're into it together in running across it in and now you farinaceous but you know i october right now ye two thousand sixteen and we need we
need hoodie's and what's the status can you please a fate may two weeks so by by halloween by the end of the monpavon tupori following the iams in frontline
them yes but yes so we as at his coming out uh we went i did like an e wasn't a pole would he do it he knew a pole and to it or he hallaed pull over or tip up
pull over on the feure i strangely i like me well yes that's jacob and then actually asked me long time with wine it was just like a theory in an idea and you
really hoover i slight i didn't agree but i didn't agree ollie perlerino don't know this a lack in but yes i i think are both cool for sure but i pull over one
in a land like to yes i deny no doubt oh none unless i be pull over there you go on the way two weeks in sadsoul be solid um and i you know other stuff we some
girl's tanks teachers coming out um girls teacher grows tesires you're getting abused by the girls and i won't gustave persuaded into you the ruin you up
persuaded at the chosen not to flank but persuaded none the leader all about the direct action for sure absolom women stuff on there and war and end some
patches uh again with the thesis of the villages the two by three is on the way right now they're four by four across three inches down that big for the
standard value entertained or at rest yes to just know that teretere yes god i mean is you for with the finding a guest but not for a you're interchangeable
and you get a two by three moyopata guides and lanormand denied dan three by two and it is i should have told you had made a little more clear ye but the last
note eleven we learn yes so's the main thing go there jocatore at home is a just the store with everything again if you don't like it be genius look you might
like the one and bombastic way also on a mason you can go and give you self some torkistan it sell it sold a lot better he is sold it's it's selling amazing
and we've got a mass of order on the way and was also got some resooming so i came originally in these really nice tins that cost a lot of money to make and so
that's good you want to have one of those to tens but if you're doing your reload your conte able to buy and the next few weeks should be to buy a weloowon or
a hundred in it a hundred setoned like another to hand another ten agayentha coming and you don't what if you're uncertain of whether or not you need the white
tea it's real easy go to emecity go to none read the reviews you'll take advances they are perfoliate he's performing miracles at viharas is at across the ore
out you know so those are also go redstone so and let's see also if you haven't gone extremo by myself and my brother lay babin just go ahead and i grabbed
that book and on that book take extreme ownership of the book extreme ownership and you'll be give go and and also if you have it but there's other people that
i need it sometimes you take ownership of that situation is well and is no to buy them a coffin also extreme ownership of the muster in san diego california
october twentieth and twenty first it's a leadership conference or are talking a combat leadership and the application of those principles from combat how use
em on the battle field hauseman business and how you use him in life so register come on out will see the agettin close obviously lads going to be there and
drew paul who is on the pot cascante there at ocheres will be in the house so come on out and let's let crush that as always if you do want to keep it real
real real with echo and with myself weak under roll deep on the interweb and where there on winter for me primarily twitter also integram also faith books
there were both on echo is at eotas and i am at jocelin and last but not least thank you out there you listening indjin troops overseas and anadiplosis
overseas to hunt down evil thank you please and law enforcement with an incredibly hard job risking your lives to keep us safe thank you viviers of course that
literally run toward fire thank you an to the working men and women building a creating fixing buying selling designing making vests world thanks to each of
you for what you are doing for doing your bit the best you can and finally thank you all forgetting after it so until next time this is echo and jocko out
