this is jacopo cast number forty five with the others at me joaille widening a giddying i often think that if i were an indian i would greatly prefer to cast
my lot among those of my people who had here to give free open plains rather than submit to the confined limits of reservation there to be the recipient of the
blessed gifts of civilization when its vices thrown in without stint or measure and that is a cloak from a book called my life on the plains published in
eighteen seventy six by guinane general custer who wrote that okers published a few months before he died at the at the battle of little big horn but we were
not going to look at that book to day given though that battle the battle of little big one is something we'll definitely deal into there's a ton a lessons
learn there you know a whole though all those all the american soldiers were killed in this one unit of general custer's there was no survivors from it see you
atoned guys all them himself included in it was there was some survivors from some of the other companies that were along with him um is guiding major reno in
another guineaman ben ten and they had people at surviving her combattero survived but none of none of colonel costers or gin will cost her crocosus troops
survived in as i was a thinking about doing that battle cause her so many good lessons to learn about a lot of lessonland about arrogant and over confidence
and splitting forces on really bunch a good tactical lessons to learn from it and as i dove into it i ended up coming across another first hand account from an
indian now i use the term indian because intendatur nave americans probably the the which is the correct nomenclature but in this book that that we're going to
go over to night it's from a native american who name is wooden leg and throughout the book he calls himself an indian he calls all his fellow native americans
calls mollenhauer to hear me call indians ah throughout this evening now what why i found though it as i wanted to learn more about the battle i started kitten
into the whole native american what what they went through what they were like and that culture and so this book did a great job of kind of exploring that in
this the shy in warrior like i said named wouldn't leg and the name of the book is wouldn't leg a warrior who fought custer but like i said that's actually a
small portion of the book but it gives us some good in sight as to what life was like for these native americans back on the plains in that transitional period
where they were going from being living open on the plants again moved on the reservations and some of the fighting that they did now the lenoir this came from
there was the author of this book who was a guide that was a doctor and served a few months as a as an agent see physician for the northern shins so that's the
tribe that was allied with the sioux indians and in they were around and park of the annihilation of of contra and this doctor doctor marquis actually learned
the language and so when he was up there living on the reservation he would constantly ask now hey dodenfort coster was a untestable to endius not just
constables you know specifically interesting that one since i was no i witnessed survivors from the american side one to find out what happened and as he
interviewed all these different indians eventually got to this guy wouldn't leg and i'll go to the book here his wooden leg became the author's favorite
narrator it seemed that his life time biography should surround his special battle story so that readers might learn what kind of people were the hostile
indians of that day so this is again marquis the doctor livin up on the reservation at work and on people and learned the language communicated with him and
one of his favorite old time warriors and talk to us as guide by the name of wooden blangin and i'll start without he ended up with that name would in leg and
i'm going to the book this crow shyanne indian man was a wonderful traveler on foot even as a boy he could out walk and wear down most of the young men who
journeyed with him his capabilities in this regard were so noticeable that people said his legs must be made of wood since he never becomes tired then they
fixed upon the name wooden leg i was also a youthful wonder in the matter of walking by the tirsode leg himself talking so he was describing some one else was
actually a relative of his and he resonabat himself by the time i was fifteen years old i could go all day following in the footsteps though my uncle wooden
leg i was tall and gone and i grew tolerant young manhood friends began jokingly to apply me the name of this endearing of during enduring uncle who then had
become a middle aged or elderly man i'd like the name i like the man who bore it and i like the honor of comparison with him i told my father i wished to be
known as a wooden leg it was a common custom to pass down names to do your relatives my father told me that when the time was right he would confer that new
name upon me the time came when i was about seventeen years old so that's where they arregent the origin is named comes from an agregate the part where he
actually takes the full name and that becomes his name would legitera eventful we'll say an eventful time period so you're some a little bit about being raised
out there again shyanne country when i was six years old i asked my father will you give me a horse yes you may have any horse of mine that you want but you
must catch him he gave me a raw hide lariat rope so there he yellownose co here's a rope to catch one he and my mother and smother people laughed about it but
i took the matter seriously with the larry at lupin coil by went out among the herd to search for horses belonging to my father so he goes out he finds a small
pony and eventually he got it he gets it captures it and when it quieted down i followed carefully along the line talking soothingly until they allowed me to
pat its neck after a while i got its mouth a round the lower jaw a loop of the raw hide according to the old indian way of making a bright when it had calmed
after this new advance i began to make strokes on its back then i talked the long coil into my belt the same as i had seen men do and i climbed quickly upon
the animal it shied and i fell off but i still had my rope this uncoiling from my belt as the pony moved away i seized the tether and followed again its
guidance to the coveted mount more petting and soothing talk another attempt at riding off again before making a third try i spent a long time at the gentle
taming procedures nevertheless the pony shied and then bucked after i had noted it but i grabbed its mane and stuck to my seat with it a few minutes i had
control i rode to my father's lodge yes that is your pony to keep he told me bands of us boys went out a time on horseback to hunt wolves we had only bows and
arrows we killed many wolves with arrows my father give me a good bone a supply of hers when i was nine or ten years old we were then in black hills countries
country so that men this is a i know we have we have people in america definitely that still are hunting at a very young age but it's pretty cool that your six
years old breaking horses and then out hunting with bows and arrows by the way unwares awsome so back to the book my mother said to me we have no meat another
boy and i set off to hunt we were about the same age fifteen years old we had an a shirt leggings and moccasins all of buckskin or other skin the leggings had
no set in them as was the indian way of clothing the lower limbs we had no head coverings nor any mittens for our hands although we are accustomed to hardship
this was a cold day for us we waited and wallowed through snow up to her knees and fives so he again met nowadays we got smart wall hats and gore tax jackets
when you just got it so easy and here you go you're in moccasins and you got bear asked got a bear is at your distitute leggings on just get in after it and ye
deep snow this hard court you know hard court goes a little to be continued this one and then back to book a dear jumped out and stood looking up the first
shot for my rifle brought it down we rushed it and cut it through we hurly cutten the body and jammed her hands inside to get warmth ye the shoshones the crows
and the panes were tribes we fought most during my time of growing up to manhood to isnot er thing that they talked about a lowness but his that the the the
native americans were fighting each other all the time they were at war they were at war with each other and he talks about that a lot back to the book my own
youthful warrior experiences were mostly in combat against the crows in the shoshonies one incident out of many in this kind of warfare will show you you how
it was carried on a bandishes is came at night and stole some of our horses we were camped on a divide between the upper part of the tongue river and the
little bighorn snow deep and winter weather i was sixteen years old i went with the party of shinansha of the fives after travelling all day and into the night
we found a small camp as showshoes most of them alarmed by their dogs had fled when we made our attack upon them but repeated shots kept coming from a single
certain lodge we concentrated our salon this lodge two shins were killed and another one mortally wounded before we could suppress this destructive defence
white wolf eleven years older than i was that i was and yet living as my neighbour on tongue river was the brave warrior who dealt the final blow to that she
shone white wolf crept the long the ground into the lodge he added his right hand a six shooter it was totally dark in there and he fumbled about the interior
seeking whom ever he might find his gun bumpings and he pulled the trigger later developments relieve revealed this is the only occupant of the lodge the
victim was an old man he was the only shoshone we killed in that fight so far as we could learn but we won the battle and got back on our horses we caught up
the body of the old shoshone man we caught off his hands his feet his head we ripped open his breast and belly i stood there and looked at his heart and liver
we tore down the lodge built a bonfire of its contents and piled the remnants of the dead body upon this bonfire we stayed there until nothing was left but
ashes and coals so is asagotter it there definitely a hand which really cos i am i didn't want to break up this but you you got her so happening you've got a
soul happening this is the same this could be a discord be a story about you know american soldiers going against you caliban fighters in afghanistan or
insurgents in iraq were taken down a small village and their people and there's enemy in there there abuilding in this concentrated fire coming from there you
get a guy that low crawls up amantissi is just be is straight water you mean is it is amazing how that story could translate until will they need modern are
with when you have guns set the part where they cut off the hands of the haccept for the part where they cut off the hands cut off the feet cut off the head
rippen the breast and the belly yes the taken it huge to different level right there in in in you know i think it's a d put that in arming he he's telling me
stories in it in offers you an insight as to what their attitude was of what they were going to do if you got captured year it had on in its toback the book
little wolf had been a big tribal tie the most influential on for about two years before that time in his earlier manhood he was for a long time chosen over
and over again as the leading chief of the elk gorier society if during any time any shyanne was looked upon as the bravest of man of all he was the man he was
never afraid to speak the truth the people all believed in him he was a gentle and charitable man but if insulted the anger he was likely to hurt somebody in
either disturbed or undisturbed mood everybody knew he meant just what he said he was my uncle by marriage one of his two wives being a sister of my father he
used to tell me many thrilling stories both at his lodge in my father's logs i recall one in particular we had a hand to hand combat with a shoshone each had a
sheath knife they grapple and wrestled and slashed one another finally little wolf panion arms in the shoshoni through him to the ground plunged upon him and
stabbed into death you gave me a great deal of good advice both as to warfare and as to how to carry myself uprightly as a man among my own people my conduct
all throughout my life has been influenced by his teachings more than by those of any other preceptor except my own father sat little little wolf was the bad
as little wolf of the big bad ass and i thought it was important to karatak about his characteristics he spoke the truth people believed him he was gentle and
charitable but if he was angered he singer you so this is the guy that they choose as the leader back to the book i think my body grew more rapidly than my
mind did this is not uncommon for for for medanos right your body grows before your mind as absolutely back the book by the time i was eighteen years old i was
a tallest men of the tribe i believe there were two who stood a little above me both of these were killed in the great battle against the soldiers of custer my
friend the white man doctor measures me now it's six feet two inches and weighs me at two hundred and thirty five pounds so were talking about a big dueane was
no joke and we don't know like i grew up in new england and when you go to hold houses in new england that were built in the seventeen hundreds there addoo if
you know this but there the ceilings are lower the doors are lower because people were shorter and like all people were shorter so can you imagine being you
know where at the avertit is probably five five and wouldn't legassit two monster guy you know so now there there he sallitt but about just again this
continued on with his life living in the black hills here we hunted the game and the enemy cross and shoshonies and here we lived in every way the life of the
plains indians of those times it was not an idol existence we were busy much of the time fighting or enemies or gathering food and clothing and sheltering
skins as we were camped on the lower tongue river when i was about nine years old one morning a harold started to cry out all in horses are gone the
fallowfield stir among the young men a party of them mounted on a few horses that have been overlooked by the raiders and hurried away on the trail a thin snow
help them in the late afternoon they caught up with the lost her apparently abandoned but after a search of the vicinity they discovered that somebody was in a
canyon cave there one of the shians crawled into the cave in an endeavour to far afy the supposition the verification came in the form of an arrow that hit him
in the right eye he quickly backed out every boddy bring wood the shynee ordered they built a fire at the caves opening with blankets they fanned the flames
and the smoke into the hole the prisoner's fanned outward and thrust sticks at the fire heap to push it away bring more wood the leader called the one sided
contest went on until the two crowings out from the cave with holostomata and in desperation the first one was beaten and stabbed a death by their surrounding
shians the second one got past them sprang upon one of their horses and dashed away the shan's pursued him he happened to melt a slow animal so it was not long
before the chase developed into a beating by pony with an handbills the crow suddenly jerked as mount to his sand still at the same moment he flashed out a
sheaf knife and made a vicious sideway stab the blade buried itself from the breast of a shinnel dead the other shines rushed upon the crow in a twinkling he
had received many death blows from various weapons somebody scouted them and they caught off his feet hands and head again as its interesting at what lay there
going to guide in a in a situation you know the gotthardt handed to get em out of their hole that we do nowadays oh maybe we throw some tear gas in there well
one they do build a fire smoke em out a little bit more about the life of the shins competitive sports used to interest us horse races foot races wrestling
matches target shooting with guns or arrows tossing the arrows by hand swimming jumping or other light contest were entered upon in the tribe such competition
was usually between men representing the three warrior societies to insinse the the tribe there was three separate warrior societies like three different clubs
basically back the boolee the elorrio the crazy dog warriors and the fox warriors if any so tribe are big band camp jointly or big band jointly camp jointly
with us the matches were between representatives of the two tribes bets were made on every kind of contest the stakes were of guns and munitions bows arrows
blankets horses robes jewelry shirts leggings mocassins everything in the line of personal property the bedding always was on even terms articles were piled
upon a blanket matched articles in opposition to another the winters took all and shouted over the victory so these guys were heavily involved in complication
cause competition makes you better determines me the sultans at everything in the elphinstone tition i'm getaway you're doing you get you your boy is he you
want to go for just a mellow run on the beach i go ashore oromanes your a your throwin up for in the end because you pushed each other so are every thing every
time you get on the range it's a shooting contest every time you go every everything you do isn't you you go for sky do oh how close did you get to the tea you
when you land is as everything is a contest and that's how these guys are doing the what keeps him sharp they back to the book of good wrestler and general
strong man was a little hawk and so this this one here the little hawk and no dinnuh and brave wolf they they go round and they they meet up with another tribe
they rollinses we need meet they announced your drying poles or too full and we think our wants could be supplied here little hawk wants to wrestle for it if
anybody here can throw him we shall not take any food from the lodge nobody wanted to accept this challenge the young men took some meat and went on to another
tepee there they made the same kind of announcement in proposition there likewise all the men present feared to grapple with little hawk and there also the
three joking robbers help themselves from the bountiful store at the next he pe the transaction was more complex after some exchange of talk the spokesman of
the lodge said big sighs here he says he will rest you now i'll tell you right now i want to wrestle big fight right now i tie on like he's got some game the
conditions of the match were agreed upon the two men stripped the breech cloths a group of all lookers assembled the group soon became a great crowd big fire
and little hawk appear to equally confident both of them rushed into the grapple they tugged and shoved and tripped the advantage seemed to shift back and
forth the throng of spectators whooped and danced there was some partisan cheering but most of it was merely the expression of delight as witnessing this
tribal championship battle after several minutes of fierce and continuous struggling little hawk begin to weaken and will being sigh pinion the arms of his
antagonist and bore in face downward to the ground to back the victor sat astride the back of the vanquished and sprinkled handfuls of dirt upon him he also
picked up a folded blanket nearing by near by and used this as a soft club in pretense at a beating into complete submission the defeated little awed as a
legitimate far got the cat the back got the back mount you know got the submission well he took it a little far with them the rolled up blanket dear but yet
but i was still only a blanket he was beat out it he didn't you know did cut his head hands and feet all in all the that's for sure so another thing that's
that's the interesting it just how they were organized and they and their leadership the way they were set up so he recoba to both the warrior societies were
the foundation of tribal government among the shins that is the number the members of the warrior societies elected the chiefs who governed the people every
ten years the whole tribe would get together for the special purpose of choosing forty big chiefs these forty would then select four past chiefs or old men
chiefs to serve as supreme advisers to them and the tribe there were not any hereditary chiefs among the shins so as precast em like that system i think i like
that system better than our system granow the end up in the bay they kind of elected forty chiefs and then from those forty chiefs those forty chiefs take
three more for more to make the old men chief so it one point they decide that they're going to move camp which they do from time to time and they do the
leaders in the morning they make an announcement in her is all shinano your ears unless on to morrow morning we moved to tongue river have your lodges down in
yourselves and horses ready the fox wore yours will lead us the next morning as we all prepared for the move the fox warriors assembled out ford in the
direction of the intended movement the old man heralded instructed them you are the leaders to day make all the people obey you make them stay in their proper
places if any of them disobey or ordinary rules of travel you may pony whip them you may shoot their horses you may kill their dogs you may break their guns or
their bows you may punish them in any way that seems to you best except you are not allowed to kill any shine does one of the rules you can hear that
throughout their not obicular the matter what in but elisium kind of an iron hand way of rufino a line on this road martorana do you're going to feel the pain
so not on to get much resistance now speaking of weapons and other pack about breakages and this is just kind of give you some inside on what they use for
weapons the arrow was the preferred weapon went on a tribal hunt in buffalo herd on a large party were joined in pursuit each rider shot arrow after arrow into
one of her animal was convenient to him during the tumult of the running chase when it ended he had one or two more arrows in various dead buffalo scattered
over the area by the flight of the herd every man kept his own arrows and always marked in some peculiar manner near whereby they could be identified so when
the field was reviewed after the termination of the killing he could find out which buffalo he had killed or at helped to kill it could be learned in such
instants which are was the fatal one and which were of little or no one portance thus the claims to the skin and meat could be settled in case of a
disagreement the chief decided to question gunbelt could not be distinguished from one another so that guns were used only when one man was hunting alone on a
small party of special friends hunted together the guns also had to have powder and lead and caps which we did not always have on hand we could make arrows or
we often recovered them from the dead animal so that this damaging you go to these being a herd of buffalos a bunch a bunch of indians go in there their
shooting and with all these digisted every aniseeded then eventually find out which ones are dead you jackanapes as mine got him in the heart and get the men
up there if i that's good to other people like men you and i and you know forty other guys were shooting to shoot ten arrows in there eight different i shot
this one we all get it very and then they can destination allen hit the heart the so you're the man godounow dan get the skin okay other weapons spears were
used by the shands the long and slender points might be of metal or they might be of stone or bone great care was taken in its coloring and general design the
sioux had nice sticks for fighting these had long shafts the same as a spear but instead of the apache point at the end there were three blades at the shaft
side so it's canonique looking weapon yea the counsel's mad maxis yell a long spear with three knives stick in one year in canned that two or in nile
differently put the sharp the sharati yet pretty to animate him with the sharp cheatin tarantelle bit of the dress the earrings of an indian often indicated
his trile stock a shiner had but one piercy only one ring and this ring was looped directly through or close up to the ear the sioux or necklaces regularly in
signal strands egal feathers stuck up from the back hair of many a sioux the number of such feathers worn by any one man was supposed to note the number of
enemies he had killed the shine's never adopted this custom all the best clothing was taken along with him when any warrior words i set out in search for a
conflict the articles were put into a special bag ordinarily a beautifully breathed beaded buckskin pouch but perhaps a raw hide one and this was slung at one
side of his horse the bag also contained extra moccasins beaded moccasins war bonnets paints a mirror special medicine projects or anything else this nature if
a battle seemed about to occur the warriors first important preparatory act was to jerk off all his ordinary clothing he then hurriedly got out his fine
garments if he had time to do so he rebraided his hair painted his face in his own peculiar way did everything needful to prepare himself for presenting his
most splendid personal appearance that is he got himself ready to die the idea of full dress and preparation for battle comes not from a belief that it will
add to the fighting ability the preparation is for death in case that should be the result of the conflict war bonnets were not worn by all warriors in fact
there only a few such distinguished men and each warrior society of our tribe it was expected that one should be a student of the fighting art for several
years or else that he being unusually apt later before he should put the crown of eagle feathers he then did so upon his own initiative or perhaps because the
come commander urgings of his seniors the acmen profession of fully acquired ability in warfare a claim of special accomplishment in using cunning and common
sense and cool calculation coupled with the bravery attributed to all warriors so you are at that big bad as head dress a lot is peter give it yourself you
know now people can tell you should you deserve it but you you make the claim you say yet i'm the man and it's interesting i'm going to regos again it means
you have acquired ability in warfare in using cunning common sense cool calculation coupled with bravery very very good definition of a warrior right back to
the book the war was a supposed never to ask mercy in battle if some immature young man pretended to such high standing before it seemed to his companions that
he ought to do so he was twitted and shamed into a waiting his proper time i first put on my war bonnet when i was thirty three years old fourteen years after
i had quit the roaming life after a man had been accepted as a war bonnet man he remained so throughout his lifetime war chief and tribal chiefs ordinarily
wore or bonnet men but this was not a requirement for these positions pure modesty might keep the bravest and most capable fighter from making the clean also
and it mattedly worthy were of the war but it might not be chosen for a might refuse all the ficial positions the head the feathered headpiece then was not a
sign of public office it was a token of individual and personal feeling as to his own fighting capabilities interesting is interesting that he be he obviously
thought about the fact that some guys were too humble to claim the war bonnet and an he actually says some of the best and bravest and most capable in under a
which is which is in keeping with what we know of no humility being the trait and the most critical state of some one's success and is also interesting that
some of people that were great fighters weren't necessarily goin to be good leaders that's that's a reality a reality to this day he is a little bit about they
wait the the the way they treat each other fighting between shyan either man or woman women was forbidden by loobies in case of a fight some chief near at hand
would call out warrior separate these fighters and whip them the warrior policemen then on duty would re espound to the call a band of them would give such
punishment as seemed to them fitting if the fighters renewed their strife they might have punishment added might have their teepes torn down their horses
killed property damage done to them and some of the way and he suitablenesse punishment except no policeman warrior nor any one else could lawfully kill a shin
pony wept either the lashes on the heavy stick handles were not customary attacking weapons in a personal fight chianti not use fists as white people do not
often did any two women fight if they did they merely scratched and pulled hair it was more of a comic show than an alarming sight to see two women clawing
each other i never heard of any shinawari killing another normalities ly killing a man nor did the men kill women i used to hear old people talk about a shyam
a wounded elk who had beaten his wife and then shot her killing her i never heard of any other case like that the incident happened before i was born suicides
were not uncommon among us men shot themselves women hung themselves foolish ones yet do such acts it's interesting you says that they the shins did not use
their fists as white people do using were talking straight grappling yeah right no strikes is not all right penny noman or is he is he saying that they struck
in a different like omodeo something ye on ther mayn't want to break their hands a primative again a little bit more culture and in this is one is in wrapping
a little story two youths brothers found one time a wolf's den one of them took his lariat and crawled into the hill side cave to get pops he felt about in the
darkness got the rope about a pup's hind feet and dragged it out they knocked in the head and he went in after another one this time either a pap or an old
wolf did his hand he retreated outside he got a fork stick with this projecting out in the front of them he returned to attack upon the wolf the fork and the
fork and had gotten gauged in the hair and skin of the wolf the youth twisted and tugged backing out and dragging after him the snarling and snapping animal
the brother stood with his rifle poised and ready to shoot limbs of brushed of verted his arm and the bullet crashed into the head of the other boy the shock
and weeping brother put the dead body on a horse and took it to their home lodge people flocked to see and hear you killed him in anger somebody accused no it
was an accident he saw out and he explained how it had occurred a group of worried a pliceman went with him out to the wolf's den and there he reversed for
their observation all the incidents of the happening they became fully satisfied that he had no intention to kill his brother that it was truly accidental the
youth was released with no penalty whatsoever gottlieb there even the native americans experienced the boom boo situations in the chaos and confusion it is
pretty sicotte two little kids crawl in the cave to kill wolves into a wolf den as also for warrior culture pure warrior colter a love it now we get into a gas
i guess you'd call it their religion right and they call it the great medicine that is what is what wouldn't leg refers to an think the best as i looked up and
tried to research what they mean by the word medicine i think the closest thing i got is is sorelie spirit spirituality spirit that that's kind of a word that
it means to me as i try to figure out exactly what it meant unknow there's a great but you can see from the context what he means by it you sir he rioba to
book i made medicine for the first time when i was seventeen years old and eighteen seventy five to make medicine is to engage upon a special period of fasting
thanks giving prayer and self the nile even of self torture the procedure is an entirely devotional exercise the purpose is to subdue the passions of the flesh
and to improve the spiritual self the bodily abstinence and the mental concentration upon lofty thoughts cleanses both the body and the soul and put them into
or keeps them in health then the individual mind gets closer toward conformity with the mind of the great medicine above us so that that's just awesome you
know he sackatou fasting he tracket focus and on on larger things he's talking about punishing yourself and in you know us the term self torture the discipline
so he goes to his medicine man again eered haired bear red haired bear i want to make medicine i told him how he responded in courage in the that's not a
question it's like the statement of how how he responded encourage what number of days do you think you can endure the whole four days i replied confidently
how he quoted i will help people so he's going to ask that stuff i guess that's the maxillaries they go for heads so it's four straight days by the way on your
own no food no water that's what the deal is can you bear the the elements you gamble it like a little tent ah but you're going to bar the elements as he's
preparing to do it her ego back to book the medicine man painted my whole body red clay mixed into water in a dish was used for most of the painting with the
black paint he made first a circle about my face including the forehead the chin and the cheeks black wristlets and black anklets were next form on the middle
of my breast he painted a black sun on my left shoulder blade he put a black moon this is going to be a hard trial for you the hardest trial you've ever had
throughout the four days you will have neither food nor water your desires will distress you other distresses may be piled upon these you may retreat now and
postpone it for another time if you want to do so what say you i dread it i confessed but i know it will not kill me i do not want to wait i want to go on
right now i shall keep my courage from failing by fixing my thoughts upon being a good man let go into the into the ceremony a little bit here is hot thirsty
yet more hot and more thirsty i pray particularly for the strength of body and firmness of heart to carry me through to the end of the trial i loaded my pipe
for a solacing smoke but it was not a solace that he burned my already parching tongue i tried to sleep maybe i did sleep i do not know i made attempts to
meditate quietly i do not know whether i was actually thinking or following dreams racing through my mind mind all i could shoulder about was that i resedit
ing down or lying down all the time in and by the way when they smoke the pipe from when i configure out either pretty much smoking generally tobacco with
sometimes other herbs that they sometimes would sit with a tobacco willow bark so a white sage just kind of other plants and herbs back to book oh how long me
i was i loaded lit my pipe no it was not good my mouth and throw on burning water water but the great medicine seized me i kept thinking my fought world and
chased each other rapidly in circles i dreamt that i heard the footsteps of a horse pay wouldn't leg hey this is the day happiness almost filled my heart the
only hindrance was in the thirst and hot body after i'd been let out we smoked together it was a torture to my tongue but i did not complain we went then to my
father's lodge in the camp my father called out an invitation to old men friends they came and sat in a circle upon the robe spread over the lodges floor i sat
with them by the side of my father my mother brought a bucketful of water and set her off a little distance from me i suppressed a strong desire to plunge my
face into it but i could not keep my eyes from staring at it wouldn't leg you have been four days about water now you may drink for sits as seized the sides of
the bucket the forceps were four long drawn mouthfuls i waited for more advice wouldn't leg you have been four days without meat take four sliced off bits one
for each day of the fast i selected a chunk from the plate i stuck the end of it faint my mouth and with a sheath knife i caught it off i was the chewing was
vigorous and i soon had it swallowed the trunk was pushed a second time into my mouth and its end to caught off there a third and fourth mouthful taken in the
same manner after a few minutes more meat was allowed to me then still more all i cared to eat it was the best meat i ever tasted and i talked about that the
other day if like the retaliation of knowing what it like to actually feel hungry and then how good food tastes when you have an eatin for a while is good
athlete feeling the best meat ever day stitit there boom now that's a one little ceremony that he went through and he did he just some more of that the second
medicine experience he does was a loud month after that one and he did two days instead of four so it something that you kindah warriors old kind of
continually keep up with and an back to the book here first third season of warrior discipline i went one morning at dawn to the top of the hill there i fasted
prayed meditated and dreamed all day another disciplinary means for subduing the flesh was to stand upright all day from sunrise to sunset on a hill the
devoted not moved during that time except to keep his face turned at all times towards the sun he might keep his eyes closed or shaded but his countenance had
to be presented ever towards the venerated token of the great medicines existence he prayed her otherwise kept his thoughts fixed on a high plain this system
of self the nile was varied by attitude taken one might stand all day or sit in one position all day or lie down during all the time but the attitude of some
at the beginning must be kept to the end my all day supplications were made while sitting down standing upright in water from some rise to sun set was one way
of putting the body under the rule of the spirit the water had to be in to up to the neck or the upper breast not any drink of it was taken it was not
permissible to move the body except for keeping the face towards the sun so just go get in the water near these eternue the generman tanicolam tangueray i i
don't care if it's the middle of summer the water in mapaniland ye the not cowan's not coaita's also interesting that you in aldiff rent military units do this
kind of stuff you know just going out and standing at attention which they make you do in the military which is when your standing you don't erect with your
hands at your side your not automo you that hours and hours and hours it's interesting in it that's that's not just a coincidence is a you know what i mean as
very a discipline erastais aline of the body in doing that and i put you in touch with your sole stand long enough if i like i goshorn you you don't think you
spend some time neck deep in water desiderating in being real and enduring absolutely men i mean yoginan be that you know like certain poses i mean it to
compare the disposeth magnitudes different but easily do that you heranika sit ye oratate one man where it feels his physical banateen of the day its mental
yet like you just want to be a camp one but i think you don't eat you can endure it but it's the calotte wall soveraine full after a while and then he goes on
to say the bodily torture incident to the full standard great medicine dance what the white people called the sun dance was the most severe test of hardihood
so it was looked upon as the highest form of self skeringes undertook this extreme steps so the sundance thing about that it's like a almoadan fast with
physical exertion with the like border line self towards like the uperten and slave the skin open of initiates hard core and any goban for a while and it will
no one ah the natives don't want people to like watch it or recording cause it's doon personal thing so they was you could probably do more research on its
comparson dance but they do all kinds of really really hard course i would just you know so you know dear the stating hard stuff to go through that hard your
so love and then it is one more interesting thing here back to the book the face painting as it was done for me by red haired bear bear at my first medicine
making was adopted as my fixed mode of battle preparation in this regard it was a black ring about my face including lower forehead chin and cheeks in its
circle all the surface in closed in that circle was painted yellow i kept at all times right at hand a supply of charcoal and yellow clay pan it did not take
long for me to ply them when an occasion for their need might come when this preparation with my best clothing my shield my eagle wing bone whistle myself and
my horse protected by the grass seed medicine i was almost fearless i was not entirely so but almost in every time of danger i tried to keep myself thinking
the great medicine seized me now amte's there's a note i'll historical note that's written down going out of the out of wooden legs voice and it's going into a
doctor marquis the translator and he's going to put a little note here a man a read it back to book in december eighteen seventy five pursuant to our
governmental policy general sherman then commander in chief of the united states army issued an important general order he proclaimed that all indians found
off the reservations after the last day of january eighteen seventy six would be regarded as hostile to be fought by military forces it being evident that not
many of the dakota roomers in montana would return to reservations until they were forced to do so bodies of soldiers were set in motion for seeking out and
driving these wanders back within their assigned territorial bounds the active military field leaders ness campaign wore brigerdeers terry bringer general
crook colonel gibbon and lieutenant colonel custer each of these four officers had been brevetted major general volunteers during the civil war and with that
brevedent it's like you get a temporary promotion to fill a billet but you're not getting paid for it and then after it you get put back but the contracting of
the army after war set each of them back to a lower ranking terry had infantry from fort rice and costers seventh cavalry from fort lincoln dakota great afore
of cavalry and infantry at fort fetterman wyoming gave i had infantry from fort shaw and cavalry from fort ellis montana from there three basic points in
dakota and wyoming and montana the three bodies of soldiers moved toward a common central area between powder between the powder and bighorn rivers in montana
where the indians being sought were roaming the details of these military movements are too extensive for review here the most thrilling phase of a campaign
began when coster and in seventh cavalry set off up rose bud valley to follow a recent indian trail the result of this subsidiary proceeding was this supreme
tragedy in the annals of our american frontier warfare their course that was the the battle at little big horn now like i like it like it just stated you had
these the props and trout in the plains and there i guess tracking each other or least did the soldiers that us soldiers a conary attacking the indians and
here we go back to the book and this is back to the voice of our man wooden leg we found the soldiers about the seven or eight o'clock in the morning i believe
we had slept only a little or forces were very tired so we did not hurry our attack but always in such cases there are eager or foolish ones who begin too soon
not long after we arrived there was a fighting on the hill sides and on the little valley we of the soldier camped in this early fighting one of the young
shintoist charged two foreign some indians belonging to the soldiers got after him so i maritain in this early fighting one young shintoo charged too far and
some indians belonging to the soldiers got after him so you have in this whole this whole war is there's there's indians or native americans that are on both
sides ye there is native americans at a working with the with the u s cavalry and the anatolie's and then their fighting against other native american tribes
so back to the book they shot and crippled his horse ay and some other siendo back the pursuers i took the young man behind me on my horse and we hurried away
to main body of our warriors jack redcloud the son of an of the old ogalala chief red cloud was wearing a war bonnet his horse was killed according to the
indian way in such case the warrior supposed to stop and take off the bridle from his killed horse to show how cool he could conduct himself but young red
cloud forgot to do this he would running as soon as his horse fell three crows on horseback followed him lashed him with their pony with and jerked off and
captiwate they did not try to kill him they only teased him telling it he was a boy and not not to be warring a war bonnet some of his so friends interfered in
the crows went away the suit told us that young red cloud was crying and asking for mercy from the crows he was my same age eighteen years old white wolf a
shinansha years old hatering rifle and drawing his weapon from its scabbard at his left side it was accidently just discharged the bullet broke his left five
bone he finally recovered in and his yet living this was a nineteen thirty he still limped on account of that accent a wood was a two just little he first of
all you know young red cloud who is wearing a warm bonnet and any supposed to show how cool he is if his horse could shot take that bridal with you he heeded
not do that yes and then again the son aconites charge which the it does happen occasionally it's it's really bad to acadica obviously especially when you
shoot yourself in the leg horful so they stay the inane they continue moving around and they start to move towards little big horn this this river and back the
book six approve a rapaho men came to the shinansha we were at this place they said they were afraid of soldiers as they had killed a white man on powder river
and so now you start to get in a magination ah moving quickly right now but there is now a multiple tribes are starting to come together in this in this
location multiple tribes each back the book each tribe operated its own internal government the same as if it were entirely separated from the others the
chiefs of the different tribes met together as equals there was only one who is considered as being above all others this was sitting bull he was recognized as
the one old man chief of all the camps combined almost all of our northern shintie were with us on legal little bighorn only a few of her forty big chiefs were
were absent and it is this interesting because of a lot of controversy about how many indians were there and he and some people send up wasn't at any piece in
all he said all at least all the shy and were there and there was more than just the shineth had to be a bunch of them a bunch of em there now we get into it
some of these different tribes and chiefs that were there the principal chiefs of the various camps were for the for the hoopoes was sitting bull the old
ahalas was crazy horse which we all emporterez horse the minikin was lame deer another thieullen arrows all gone and they had important chief called humpo
there was the black feet which which wouldn't let didn't know who is their chief and then you had the cat dish i ants so that a bunch o men a mass of number of
native american warriors talking about the armament back the book guns were not plentiful among us most of our hunting had been with bows an arrows of the
shins to moons and white wolf each at repeating rifle some others had single shot breech loading rifles but there was not much ammunition for the good guns so
you there there mostly using boleros right that's that's kind of what they have and at one point they kind of take their horses and they put him out to graze
and they think that they they had a little bead gunwale scrap with the soldiers and the indolente not bad but they desert of beat him and it seemed like the
soldiers retreated and so they put their soldiers out i mean they put their horses out to pasture it seems like things are going pretty mellow nilebank to book
i had no thought then of any fighting to be done in near future we driven away the soldiers on the upper rose bed seven days ago it seemed likely they would be
gone a long time before they would trouble us again my mind was occupied mostly by such thoughts as regularly are uppermost in the minds of young men i was
eighteen years old and i like girls that night we had a dance it was entirely social affair for young people not ceremony not a ceremony or war dance so
therushing otterup seven days ago they feel like her pretty safe they put their horses out to pasture and then he starts thinking about the ladies and they
basically parted through the whole night back to the book at the first sign of dawn the dance and did and in him and his brother they the kind of take off and
they go down by the river and falsely and that's the end of their night back to the book in my sleep i dream that a great crowd of people were making lots of
noise something in the noise startled me i found myself wide awake sitting up and listening my brother to awaken it we both jumped to our feet a great
commotion was going on among the camps we are shooting we hurried across we heard out from the trees so we might see as well as here the shooting was somewhere
at the upper part of the camp circles it looked as if all the indians were there there were running away toward the hills to the westward or down toward our
endeth village women were screaming and men were letting out war cries to it all we could hear old men calling soldiers are here young men go out and fight
them so that they go they thought they were peaceful but there about to get it on and as he talked about before what is he do to prepare for battle he rego
back to the book i jerked off my ordinary clothing i jerked on a pair of new breeches that had been given to me by another so i had a good cough shirt and i
put it on my old mosinski ked off in a pair of beaded marcassin substituted for them my father strapped a blanket upon my horse and arranged my raw hide lariat
into a bridle he stood holding my mouth hurry here me i was hurrying but i was not yet ready i got my pains in my little mirror i the blue black circle soon
appeared around my face the red and yellow colorings were plied on all skin of the insinsible i come my hair it properly should have been oiled and braided
neatly but my father was again saying hurry so i just looked to buckskin sang about it and tied it up close the back of my head to to foot loose from there my
bullets caps and powder horn put me into full readiness in a moment afterward i was on my horse going as fast as that could run to wear all the rest of the
young men were going my brother had already gone he got his horse before i got mine and his dressing was only a bucketing shirt fringed with crow indian air
the haired been taking from a crow and a past battle with them the air was so full of dust i could not see where to go but it was not needful that i see that
far i kept my horse head in the direction of movement by the crowd of indians on horseback i was led out and around and far beyond the camp circle many
hundreds of indians on horse backward dad dashing to and fro front of the soldiers the soldiers were on level ground the soldiers were on the level valley
ground and were shooting with rifles not many bullets were being sent back at them but thousands of arrows were falling among them i went with a throng of so
until we got beyond and behind the white men so you got a flight going on and the start mister round the white men by this time though they had mounted their
horses were hiding themselves in the timber a band of indians were there with the soldiers it appeared they were crow or so shone most of the indians had fled
back up the valley somewhere across east of the river and were riding away over beyond the hills so there you go this is what happens he wakes woken up and get
his war gear on and he's going into battle in interestingly the only dog about their other indians that their fighting the crosshouses it sounds like most of
them are bailing back to the book or indian crowded down towards the timber where one of the soldiers more and more of forepeople kept coming almost all them
were so there only a few shians arose were showered into the timber bullets whistled out of the out toward the sun shines but we stayed far back while we
extended our curve line further and further around the big drove trees so there in circling them some dead soldiers had been left among the grass and sage but
brush when they had first fought us it seemed to me the remainder of them would not live many hours longer so were creeping forward to set fire to the timber
terefore to the woods that there hiding in back to book suddenly the hidden soldiers came tearing out on horseback from the wood i was around on that side
where they came out i worldly horse round and lashed it into a dash to escape from them all all others of my companions did the same but we soon discovered
that they were not following us they were running away from us they were going as fast as their tired horses could carry them across the open valley space and
towards the river we stopped looked a moment and then we whipped our ponies in a swift pursuit a great fan of frog of soeder also coming after them my distant
position put me among the leaders in the chase the soldiers horses moved slowly as if they were tired ours were very lively we gained rapidly on them i fired
four shots at my six shooter i do not know whether any of my bullets did harm i saw supputation o the back of a soldier's head another arrow went down into his
shoulder he tumbled from his horse vigneron others fell dead either from arrows or stabbings or dabbings from or blows from war clubs of the sioux horses
limped or stat limped or staggered or sprawled out dead or dying or war cries and war songs were mingled with the many during calls such as your only boys you
ought not to be fighting we whipped you an rose bud you should have brought more crows or sir sons with you to do your fighting little bird and i were after
one certain soldier little burdens wearing a trailing war bonnet he was he was at the right and i was at the left of the fleeing man we were lashing him and
his horse with our pony webs it seemed not brave to shoot him besides i did not want to waste any of my bullets he pointed back to his revolver he pointed back
his revolver though and sent a bullet into little birds die immediately i whacked a white man fighter on his head with a heavy alcorn hand of my pony whip the
blow dazed him i seized the rifle strapped on his back i wrenched it to the ground i ranched it and dragged dragged a looping strap over his head as i was
getting possession of this weapon he fell to the ground i did not harm him further i do not know what became of him the jam of oncoming indian swept me on but
i now had a good soldier rifle yet i had not any cartridges for it three soldiers on horses got separated from the others and started up the valley in the
direction from where they had come three shyanne's sunbare eagle tail feather and little son joined some so in pursuit of the three white men the shins told
afterward about the outcome of this pursuit one of the soldiers turned his horse eastward toward the river and escaped into the timber the other two kept on
southward of these two one went off to the right up a small gulch to the top of the bench there he was caught and killed the remaining one rode on toward the
mouth of reno creek as he neared that point he swerved to the right he made a circle upon the valley and returned to the timber just across west from the mouth
of reno creek here he dismounted from his exhausted horse and got himself into the bush the sioux and shinnied him and killed him they told that he fought
bravely to his last making use of his six shooter a war bonnet indian belonging with soldiers was chased by crooked nose a shine some other so the chase was a
foot across a wet slow and in distemper northward from where the soldiers had been hidden a few minutes after many exchanges of shots after much dodging and
shifting of position the enemy indian was killed there just a ration fight just a crazy flight i mean it is like stuff that you see and in minaret ern movies
the people ponch other offer horses shooting people in the head with bonario horse that's just crazy and brutal and it nately there's some really good accounts
and i i started to go down this road so if anybody that's listening is a is a student of the battle of little big horn there is um do lots of different stories
about it and there's also some really detailed accounts and i started trying to pull out and match up what was happening in this account with other accounts
really historically accurate documented accounts and as he started to the said no i am not in a go down this road of trying to figure out exactly which
situation he stacking up there was multiple small battles out there there was like i said reno and bend a benten who survived with their soldiers and they made
manoeuvres in a lot of people blame them some people don't blame them you know some people say that they should have gone to help some people say that they did
have a chance there's all kinds of those things and as i started to try and figure out which was which i said you know what i'm knocking to go that deep into
this account was important about this account to me is the reality of the ground combat that's what that's what i'm interested in in this account and i'm sure
maybe at some point in my life would have more time i would love the mary up the two in salems been in this situation in this must've been this person in this
must have been this maneuver he must have seen this manoeuvre the from the cavalry i be fond to do that especially go out and walk the ground and do it that
would be really good but anyway if you're a person that's fully into this i'm not gone down that road right now but i will go back to the book riveter enemy
indian was behind a little sage brush oleson as at us his shots were returned i and some others went around and got behind him to this all day what wouldn't
legal about flanking people you notice that he's just flanking people all over the place i in smothers went around and got behind him we dismounted and crept
toward him as we came close upon up to him he felt a bullet had hit him he raised himself up though and swung his rifle round toward us we rushed upon him i
crashed a blow of my rifle barrel upon his head others beat and stabed into death i also got his gun it was the same as the one i had taken from the other
soldier but the indian tone had a longer barrel one of the so scalped the dead man different ones took his clothing i took nothing except the gun continuing on
somebody said to me look yonder other soldiers i saw them on a distant hill down the river and on our same side of it the news of them spread quickly among us
indians began to ride in that direction and so they are now going to begin this is where i do want to try and figure out exactly what vitality said there
there's another portion to battle taking place i know in my head wares going foot will you say there's he sees other soldiers to go after apprecier the same
going after custer and as he's going towards this other towards his other battle its taking place he passes through the camp again and head his dad and he says
my father was the only person at our lodge i told him of the fight up in the valley i told him of having helped in the killing of the enemy indian ansom
soldiers in the river i gave to him the tobacco i had taken i showed him my gun and all the cartridges you have been brave he cheered me you've done enough for
the day now you should rest no i want to go and fight the other soldiers i can fight better now with this gun you horse is tired he argued yes but i want to
ride the other one so i wouldn't leg eh had a good demorant so far got after it but he sees fighting going on and causes a warrior he says no i'm getting back
in the game back to the book as we approached the place of battle each one chose his own personal course all the indians had come out on horseback almost all
of them dismounted crept along a golis a foot after the arrival near the soldiers and he got there is not the reason i highlighted that is because you got
people do in decentralized command oh you see where the battle is get there right you're not we on a line up we don't have to march together bestowed about a
less get there on your own personal course make it happen most of the indians were working around the ridge now occupied by the soldiers we were laying down in
gullies and behind sage brush hill locks the shooting at first was at a distance but we kept creeping in closer all around the ridge bosin arrows were used
more than guns from the hiding places of the indians the arrows could be shot high and long curve to fall upon the soldiers or neuroses in inyosi a gun had to
jump on up and expose himself long to hoe the arrows falling upon the horses stuck in their backs and caused them to go plunging here and there knocking down
the soldier so missus classic you know you think that that will be the the rifle is the better weapon but the rifle you have to expose yourself to shoot while
the indians are just hunkered down behind a knoll or behind some brush or behind a valley and they're just lowing like a mortal round thousands of more teron
just hitting in to where the soldiers are in the social came dunting to the long distance fighting was kept up for about an cournal i believe the indians all
the time could see where the soldiers were because the white men were mostly on a ridge in their horses were with them but the soldiers could not see our
warriors as they had left their ponies and were crawling through the goes in the sage brush a warrior jump up shoot jerkins down quickly and then crawled a
little forward a little further forward all around the soldier ridge or men were doing this so not many of them got hit by soldier bullets during this time of
fighting this is bootiful this is beautiful is exactly what you know what we teach what the whole what the what the military teachers individual movement you
know you shoot you get up you get back down you crawl you get up again so the enemy might see you right where you take a shot then you duck and then we pop up
agin your not misantla or if you were aiming where they were they're not there any more this is this is beautiful face in a few minutes the warriors were all
around these soldiers then lame man laying the white man that an indian lame white men called out come we can kill all of them all around the indians began
jumping up running forward dodging down jumping up again down again all the time towards the soldiers right away all the white men want crazy inset of fighting
us they turned their guns upon themselves almost before we could get to them every one of them was dead they killed themselves the indians took the guns of
these soldiers and used them for shooting at the soldiers on the high ridge i went back to got my horse and rode around beyond the east end of the rich by the
time i got there all the soldiers were dead the indians told me they had killed only a few of those men and that the man at shot each other and shot themselves
and this is this is very controversial you know whether these guys kill themselves and attentat god for so segesta up most people don't believe that and oh i
don't know i don't know i don't know what the answer is but we know that one thing we do know they're all dead unmack to the book i saw one so walking after it
now i'm sure that somebody that's less into this is going to give us the full retardation actually i have books i have books and this is not um this is not the
same account i had this is different and that killing ameles so i know that but we alnot this book right now some gone with a i saw one so walking slowly
toward the gulch going away from where were the soldiers he wabbled bisily as he moved along he fell down got up fell down got up again as he passed near to
where i was i saw that his whole lower jaw was shot away the sight of him made me sick i had to vomit i did not know him and i did not learn whether he died or
not the shops quick coming from the soldiers warriors who had crept close to them began to call out in all the white men were dead all the indians then jumped
up and rushed forward all the boys and the old men on their horses came tearing into the crowd the air was full of smoke and dust everybody was greatly excited
and looked like thousands of dogs might look if they were mixed together in a fight all of the indians were saying that these soldiers went so crazy they
killed themselves i do not know i could not see them but i believe they did so again so he doesn't even know what the the real deal is there but like i said
what we do know is that not one of them lived i took one scalp as i went walking and leading my horse among the dead i observed one face that interested me the
dead man had a long beard growing from both sides of his face and extending several inches below the chin he also had a full mustache all of the beard hair was
of a light yellow color as i now recall it most of the soldiers had beard growing in different legs but this is the longest one i saw among them i think the
dead man may have been thirty or more years old here is a new kind of scout i said to a companion i skinned one side of the face and half of the chin so as to
keep the long beard yet on the part removed i got an arrow shaft and tied the strange stoup to the end of it this i carried in a hand as i went looking further
somebody told me noisy walking was badly wounded it was another indian nemedian i went to where he was said to be down in the gulch where the band of soldiers
nearest the river had been killed and the earlier part of the battle he was my same age and often we had been companions since our small boyhood white bull and
important medicine man was as father noisy walking had been hit by three different bullets one of them having passed through his body he also had some stab
wounds in his side i asked the young man how are you he replied good but he did not look well one young shy and took something from a dead soldier just after
all of them had been killed he was puzzled by it some others looked at it i was with them it was made of white metal and had glass on one side on the side were
marks of some kind while the shine was looking at it he got it up towards his ear then he put it up close as a live he said others put it to their ears and
listened i put it to mine take tick tick tick tick tick was saying we talked about is used we generally agreed that it was a soldier special medicine many
indians came and wondered about it the young man decided to keep it for his own medicine to the titonwan on one of the soldiers a little wind up pocket
watching to me this is just a really good example of of the you know the cultural differences they didn't they'd never seen a watch before and and said a word
surprised and demon or stain wood it was or that it was not actually wide we just a mechanical a watch back to the book noisy walking died during the night
after the great battle sick shins had been killed another man opened belly was badly wounded and was expected to die he was about thirty years old but he had
neither wife nor children the six dead were lame white man limber bones black bear noisy backing hump nose when warin in then after that battle during the
afternoon it was learned that yet another band of white men were coming up the little big horn valley all the young men wanted to fight accounts of chiefs was
held they decided we should continue in our same course and not fight in the soldiers if we could get away without doing so all of the indians and got ready to
move probably a smart move so then after that they have they go to the sahara that's called cesira and there they have a little a little war dance a little
sort of a i guess you call a ceremony or celebration back to book charcoal bearer medicine chief brought the buffalo skin from the sacred tie pin put it on top
of a pole the senora camp circle we danced round this pole no women took part in the dancing many of them had sore to legs from morning consent won they lose
there there husband they would cut themselves or dance as not carried very far into the night it was mostly a short telling of experiencing a counting of co my
father told in a few words what his two sons had done when he ended the telling of my warrior act he said the name of this son of mine his wooden leg up to
this time people still use my boyhood name eat from his hand but now this old name was entirely gone so after that battle a bit little big horn is when wooden
leg became wooden leg now they proceed and together all the big mass of tribes and at this point there about to separate their tribes and start going in their
own directions and the nigger report soldiers are coming the two bands of indians began to come together again the warrior the warriors mingled themselves as
being one tried the women and children and older men but of both sets of people moved together up the tongue river the young men put themselves behind their
fleeing people somebody said to me they have captured some women your sister is one of them my heart jumped when this news came to me i lashed my horse into a
run tornare it was said they had been captured there i saw the tracks of soldier horses the trail led me to the river of ice on the opposite side of the river
the west side were soldiers they began shooting at me i had to get away i did not see any of the women so i suppose they had been killed my heart then became
bitter toward these white men i hid my horse in the brush at the foot of the ridge where some warriors were on its top i walked up there many indians were
hidden behind rocks or were shooting toward the soldiers i chose for myself a place of hiding and did the same i had my soldier rifle and plenty of cartridges
many soldiers were coming across the ice to fight us but we had the advantage because our position was high and on a rocky ridge so tender esting that he he
doesn't become bitter towards the soldiers until they do something to his sister and then all of a sudden he bitter towards the white man and all soon pourtray
and goethe high ground got to get the high ground that's literally the only reason that i put that in there swan tabor those you out there that are in the
military that are fighting yet the high ground it gives you a mass of advantage over the enemy so after this the kind of settle up the tongue river and there a
goak to be we found plenty of buffalo there we went on west to the the upper little big horn after camping in hunting there we went farther to the big horn at
the mouth of rotten grass creek we did not stay there long we were turned a little big horn most of last part of winter was spent in a camp in this valley all
the time during a expements we had good hunting soldiers did not trouble us nor did we trouble them all the people had good lodges in every way we were living
yet according to our customary habits we were not bothering any white people we did not want to see any of them we felt we were on our land we had killed only
such people as had come for drop at come for driving us away from it so on hearts were clean from any feeling of guilt so the kind of living the canigon back
to just live in their own there the way that they were used to live it and this is where you know this next chapter chapter sevenscore the surrender of the
shiant just before the grass began to show itself nearly partirent two visitors arrived at our camp on little big horn one of these was our old capture was our
captured old woman sweet woman the other was a half breed so we called white each had a horse to ride and each was leading a pack horse in their packs were
tobacco and other things for gifts to the principal chiefs the visitor said they've been sent out from the soldier fort at the mouth of tongue river to invite
to tacon there and surrender peaceably they brought us a promise from bare coat the soldier chief there that we should not be harmed and should be given plenty
of food so start to get in ties starting get in ticed by some by eat me basically true tobacco back to book the fortune came back to us at this powder river
camp white bowl was not with them they told us he had stayed with the soldiers to scout for them in a hunting indians this news did not please us as we looked
at it the surrendering to the soldiers was good if one felt like doing this but an offer to help them to kill friend showed a bad heart i was more affected
though by other news the chief brought it was turning concerning my sister crooked nose one of the captives when the chiefs wore only a part of the first day
out and coming back from the fort some yfalle them to tell them about her she had been very sad in the heart because it we believe should never again see her
people she had felt better when the chiefs came but when they went away again she fell into a deep grief my sorrow was so great her sorrow was so great that
she had got out her hidden six shooter i'd given to her and she sowthers dead my heart almost stopped beating when i heard about her death this way she had
been a good sister kind to everybody seven shines from the agency came to the camp on powder river one of them had a teep lodge but no women were with them
they came only to tell us we ought to surrender at the agency they said all the indians there were being well fed well being well treated in every way no we
was being punished in any manner for past conduct in warfare against the soldiers so they're getting told basically this another group there as they concerned
eat the fort the army for or they concerned the indian agency which is all swirled by the soldiers and of course i i just read that part about wouldn't let
sister committing suicide so just a devastating blow to him now as his continues the decision gets made by the chiefs to surrender actually at first to find
out a little bit more gattermole intenser little wolf and the other principal chiefs chose to go out to the agency and then when they come back they say that
it's pretty good to go and when they hear this they hear about the food that her about the whisky they hear about the the shelter they decide that the main
body of the tribe set off towards the agency to sir render back to the book but not all the shiny ends were ready yet to surrender at any place fourteen or
fifteen men six or seven under a having wiser children separated off to go westward white hawk a little chief of the el warriors was with them i joined another
band still desiring the most freedom we considered to be ours by right thirty four shians made up this dancers a couple of a separate groups that break off i
decided that in a continued pushing and as their doing that when they get in these smaller groups if you can imagine a man just like a any any group if you
break it down enough you start to lose your efficiency and that's what happened with these smaller groups they just weren't as efficient any more because they
had less people new cake count catches many you can't work in co operation to hunt buffalo and so they didn't do well on their own back the book we were having
a good many days of hunger our horses had plenty of grass but our own ribs were becoming thin our clothing was wearing out and we could not get enough skins to
renew them and keep our beds and our lodges and go to order my soldier coat and breeches were gone and my last shirt and cough breeches were almost in tatters
the only good article of where i had now as my bag white hat i captured at the rose bud battle a shinane yellow eagle added himself to us he had been at the
agency not before not long before we decided to have him and white bird go there and spy out the conditions they went in a week or so they were back among us
good treatment plenty of food blankets everything nobody punished they reported we started right away for the agency so when they split apart into these
smaller groups that was definitely problematic and now they go from being out there kind of on their own hungry running out of food don't have good equipment
any more and somebody they send somebody to do ye agency to jack it out and they get the report back to their plenty of food and blankets and warm and all the
going to do there is good and give up as an away they move in they started heading towards the agents and when they get there back the book it made us all feel
good to see hundreds of the indian lodges as we came near to the agency we galloped our horses forward we cheered and fired gunshots in the air some soldiers
came running out of their tents but they soon saw we re friendly and only celebrating a noted fine or people we had come so they are and they and a white man
married to shine woman was acting as interpreter for the soldiers his name was rolling but white hat did not need in the interpreter in talking as he could
make the sign talk so well after the general hand shaking white hat said now you men must give me your guns and your horses we were not expecting this but we
trusted him so he began to do as he asked i'm telling you got to be careful in this situation and you start giving up your guns this is not a recommended
course of action you know if you're coming in peace why are you not allowed to keep your weapons this is not missus not i not agree with this anerio back to
the book they we had one big chief standing elk he kept saying it would be better if we should go there so the train i get them to push towards the south lie
towards oklahoma or be or would be oklahoma and there kind of against it they don't want to walk yore and they feel like they heavum here we we were supposed
to be here there are saying no no you know we're going to win a move guys south and there are say no we don't want to so that's what standing at castalian
about so standing elk who kept saying it will be better we should go there i think there were not as many as ten shians re whole tribe who agreed with him
there was a feeling that he was talking this way only to make himself a big indian among the white people the white men chief would not talk much to any shin
chief but him i gave him extra present and treated him as if he were the only driveth only chief in the tribe but he was but one of our forty travel big chiefs
one day he would about telling everybody all right get ready to move at soldiers are going to take us from here to morrow baasha's were angry we understood
that when we surrendered we were to live on our same white river reservation we had given up our guns and our horses and i quit fighting because of this
promise now after we had put herselves at this great disadvantage the promise was to be broken but we could not do anything except thobh so three sleeps after
my small banded come to what we thought was to be our home the whole tribe was on its way to what we now call oklahoma so gin that's why we don't give up our
guns for you give up your guns you give up your strength you give up your leverage give up your billing to fight the soldier leader of our movement was south
was known as tall white man he was a good man always kind to the indians to ehad to do what every he said we must do but he talked good to our chiefs so all us
were pleased to have him guiding us he had with him a band of soldiers i do not know how many but i think there may have been almost a hundred of them our
horses that have been taken away from us at the agency were returned to us still many shines did not own any old people who had no animal to ride were provided
with them from the soldier heard or very old or sick people were allowed to ride in the soldier wagons young men who own no horses had to walk or borrow from
friends i own for i had three of them lone out most of the time so as actually that the treatment at this point by tall white man was fairly good and it sounds
like the kind of got along with the soldiers at this point and here is an example that soldiers hunted with the indians all the soldiers were friendly and good
to us they were good shooters and they killed lots a game they gave us most of the meat i became specifically friendly with two or three of them i like to be
with them and they appeared to like me i went at times to their camp in the evening and visited with them when we were about half way along it a journey i
asked one of them let me take your gun to morrow yes you may take it ahold me so i i think that reason i i i wanted to bring that up as when you get you know
soldiers and warriors and you put it together and you get rid of the politics that's what they get along oh we like shooting we like counting or warriors were
going to get along in like the german planes clintock and sawaheli we take the politics down of it and we sonano have a couple of cigarettes may be a glass of
scotch and collingood now when they get down to oklahoma they kind o set in in in the south and he rebeck to book i learned in the south of white man name of
long hair the soldier big chief we had killed all me little big horn i was told he was called general custer i had heard his name spoken at the white river
yancy but had not understand clearly who was meant by it the southern shins knew of him because of his having fought against them before he had come into our
northern country they had surrendered to him after we been a year on this reservation many more people begin to be asked to be taken back to the north there
was no game here and we were not allowed to go off the reservation for hunting and we were not given food as it had been promised we should be given at times
some a young men would violate the orders and which slip away from the reservation to get a buffalo or some other animal good to eat some white people said the
indians were killing their cattle i do not know i did not do this i stayed all the time on the reservation but if any indians did kill the white men cattle
they did so because they were very hungry i could not find any wild game we ate the beef because it was the best we could get we always liked much better the
wild game there was much sickness among the northern shins to us it was a new kind of sickness chills and fever and aching of the bones drag down most of us to
find and weak bodies our people died died and kept falling each another following one another out of this world finally little wolf declared that he for one
was moving back north whether the white people consented or not others said they would follow him the agent told them that the soldiers were going to trail
would kill them they were promised more food they waited for it but it did not come more people flocked a little wolf side donnissan he would go to latin the
summer more than half the tribe started out little wolf last message to taginas the soldiers may kill all of us but they cannot make us stay in this country
the soldiers were after them other soldiers from other places were sent out the head them off the siens were hunted from all directions they were found many
times but each time the shinto off their pursuers and kept moving northward many of our people were killed but most of them got back to their old home country
and were allowed to stay there from the southern shins i learned a great deal about general custer's dealing with them in that country all of them said he had
smoked the peace pipe with them at that time that they had surrendered to him seven years before he was killed according to the custom among us this was
understood as a promised by him that never again would he fight against the shins when they learned that he had been killed by our people in the sioux they
considered him as having deserved that kind of death on account of his failure to keep his piece of i got a wife from the southern shinin sheeping a girl at
the shyanne at the washita river when castanier's came there and killed many shins and burned their lodges and november of night every king sixty eight chief
black pot was one of the one killed the women and children fled same as ours had done at powder river it was winter and there was many a annotata time a deep
snow for that country soldiers chased the women and children killed many of them as well as the men my wife at that time a girl was barefooted as others were
also they had been surprised in the early morning she stopped and cutoff pieces of buffalo of her buffalo robe to tie about her feet to keep them warm as she
ran when they got to the camp at of snake indians further down the river my wife told me she was also with the chians when they surrendered to general custer
in eighteen sixty nine after heat smoke the pipe with their chiefs when they surrendered some of the chiefs were putting to prison and had chains upon their
ankles when i heard all of this from my wife as well as from many of the other southern shins it seemed the great medicine may have directed custer to his
death as punishment for having broken his promise to the shins so eventually they do go back north and they re establish a reservations up in the north and
eventually wooden leg proceeds up there as well and when he gets up there he seems it seems like things are in a pretty bad way back to the book the most awful
new condition we found in coming back to our shinun try was in the case of little wolf himself some white man about the four were selling or giving whisky to
the indians one night little wolf got a bottle of whiskey right away he drank all of it he went into the fort traders store and leaned forward upon the counter
he was quiet but he was dizzy and stumbling here and there the trader said little wolf you'd better go to your lodge but he said no i want to stay here some
shaneen women were playing cards at a table in the store famished elk a young man sergeant of the scouts was with them he talked a little wolf but the old
chief paid no attention to his talk saisho took hold of little wolf's arm and said come i will help you to get you to your lodge he spoke and acted
respectfully but little wolf was angered because of the taking hold of him he pulled himself away his eyes blazed like fire he stood a moment looking at the
young man then he said i will kill you he staggered alone on out from the storm finished out returned to sit in the car game nobody was expecting any further
trouble but not long afterward the door was opened in a little wolf stumbled into the room he straightened himself out leveled a rifle and fired famished elk
sank down dead upon the floor the old chief went back to his lodge and told his two wives would he had done we must go he added the three of them went out into
the darkness of the night soldiers and shiner for them they searched during the next day and the next the missing man and his two wives appeared in miles city
and sat themselves down on a place in plain view of the people there a cap in and some soldiers went to him the captain we knew as little chief he told little
wolf what it was he had done he said he further told them you are no more a chief of the chians that is true and just little roof agreed he was not punished in
any other way but he further punished himself before he and his wives had left their watches smashed into pieces his medicine pipe or old trivial laws required
this it was not allowable for him afterward to smoke it was allowable for him afterward to smoke all alone in any small and short stemmed pipe such as might be
made from a deer leg bone but he did not do this he denied himself all smoking he never made any offer even to sit in the company of other shinski together
white men offered him sometimes cigarettes but he always refused them after a time he learned to shoot tobacco a habit never followed by the old time shining
it seemed he did this deliberately for self humiliation he never tried to intrude himself on any trouble trial public affairs the people remembered his great
services in past times but nobody consulted him on trial manners in present times truly in every way he was never more a chief among the shins so alcohol not
good not good for your decision making processes back to the book when i was thirty one years old in eighteen eighty nine i enlisted with other sins to form a
new band of scouts for the soldiers at fort keel for a long time we did not do much except drill and work a getting out logs from the timber that building
houses for herself so he joined their my he joins the army becomes a becomes a scout we shy ancon to not get in any battle at one time we were all dressed and
ready but the officers made a stop behind the hill while the soldiers went on and killed many so a camp on a little valley just over the hill a so started that
fight by killing an officer whose taking all the guns from them the soldiers began to shoot and many women and children were killed as well this trouble was on
a wounded knee creek at the time of wardance up the hill i was wearing a war bonnet for the first time in any battle so these stockinette were present at the
at the massacre at wounded at wounded knee which was a horrible massacre come committed you can hear there was the tenure and fifteen three hundred so were
killed by soldiers and it included a probably by half of them were were women and children and the later he talking about tom dreams had he as back the book i
believe i slept but i'm not sure whether i was sleeping and dreaming for as only lying there and thinking i kept my cartridge belt buckled on me and i hugged
my rifle to my body it seemed that angry so indians were all about me they were searching for me to kill me some of them were striking at me with war clubs and
slashing at me with knives i heard them calling my name wooden leg i jumped up and stood there wide awake there have nightmares are massacre happens and he
feels like obviously subconsciously he's got some some nightmares about that now back to the story of little wolf the the chief that that shot the hother
indian at the cargamen back the book one day i saw the old man little wolf at the camp is is years later i said to my wife i see little wolf he is my relative
one of his wives is a sister of my father i think i ought to invite him to eat it or lodge i am glad to hear you say that she answered tell to come now it away
be she began to prepare bread and meat and a confed when i brought little wolf round i found he was partly drunk he fumbled the food and he sat in at he ate
freely as though he were very hungry he kept quiet and kept looking downward during all the time when he was down eating i told him of my sympathy with him in
his great trouble he then told me all about the affair i loved the young man and all of his people i was crazy when i shot him at this time in a conversation
little wolf was about seventy years old this man gave away all of his horses after he been put out of his position as our greatest chief after that all this
travelling was done a foot sometimes he went alone sometimes wonder both of his wives accompany him they took a long wonota they could carry and they slept in
temporary shelters or with no shelter he went at times to visit the crows he visit also the arapahos and wyoming walking two hundred miles or more back in
again he died in nineteen o four at the age of eighty three years his wives and close friends stood his body upright on a high hill overlooking the rose bud
valley where many shians had their reservation homes a great heap of stones was built to inclose him thus standing upright twenty four years later his bones
were brought to the agency cemetery and put into a grave there bird the old time indian story white men who as a new york had a stone put at the head of this
agency grave even in the nearest of relatives of even the nearest relatives of famished del never kept bad hearts against little wolf at different times i have
heard talk of him from baldy a brother of the young men killed baldiges little wolf did not kill my brother it was the white man whisky that did it now he fast
forward thirty years after the great battle against costenos a gathering of the indians and white people at little big horn the shyness mother indians went
with a few soldiers to fort custer not fallen from the place where the great battle had been the soldiers at the fort shook hands with all of us we gathered
together in some friendly speeches were made by the officers and indians all i said was a long time ago we were enemies to day we are friends then going even
further and to the adult fifty years old now wouldn't leg says i was baptized by the priest at tongue river mission when i was almost fifty years old my wife
and our two daughters were baptized too i think the white people pray to the same great medicine we do in our old shiny i do not go to church often but i do go
sometimes i think the white church people are good but do not believe all the stories they tell about what happened the long time ago the way they tell us all
the good people the old times will white people be glad to have the white man churches among us but i feel more satisfied when i make my prayers in the way i
was taught to make them my heart is much more contented when i sit alone with my medicine pipe and talk with the great medicine about one ever may be troubling
me we had good medicine men in the old times it may be that they did not know of as much about the sickness as the white men doctors no but our doctors knew
more about indians and how i talked to them our people then did not die young as they somewhat as they do now now wouldn't leg had a couple of daughters and he
talks about them here the younger daughter fell into an illness when she was about fourteen years old we expected she would soon be herself again but she grew
worse instead of better she became so weak she could not stay at school any longer she continued to go downward after re broader into our home finally her
spirit went back to the great medicine all of our love was now fixed upon the other daughter she advanced to full young woman or she could read the white man
books she could write letters to our friends far away but she too became ill same as her younger sister during all of one winter she gradually wasted away
every afternoon her body burned with fever every night her bed was so with sweating every morning she coughed almost a strangling neither the medicines of the
agency physician nor the prayers of her own medicine man could help her just one to spring grass was coming up she was buried in our mission cemetery my heart
fell down to the ground i decided then that the white man school is not good for indian children i think they do not get enough of meat at the boarding school
i think that they are kept in school too much during the year they ought to be out and free to go as they pleased during all the good weather of the autumn and
the spring in the book closes out in the last years of wooden legs life and he's he's old and is respected then he's living safely on a reservation they says
it is comfortable to live in peace on the reservation it is pleasant to be situated where i can sleep soundly every night without fear that my horses may be
stolen or that myself or my friends may be crept upon and killed but i like to think about the old times when every man had to be brave i wish i could live
again through some of the past days when it was first thought of every prospering indian the first thought of every prospering indian was to send out the call
a whole friends come come home i have plenty of buffalo meat i have coffee i have sugar i have tobacco come france ceased and smoke with me in our tell you
that i miss those days too when every man had to be brave when comfort was no guarantee when life itself wasn't a guaranty and i think that is one of the
lessons to be taken from wooden leg is something you hear me say often is that you have to cherish it cherish the struggle the contest the suffering the rest
don't shy away from it but instead cherish and another piece that i find so important so reinforcing to what i see in the world is look at how basins were
beaten there wasn't wasn't in a war there wasn't in battle they they weren't defeated by the white man's guns or the white man's tactics no they were slowly
taken apartment ovened and thence to take an easier path and enticed by the comfort of the reservation where food shelter and tobacco went out cohol or all
readily available they were the feedin in some dedicative battle by weapons or by war they were the feeted and controlled by one tiny seemingly insignificant
surrender at a time giving up their land and in giving up their horses and in giving up their guns and they were tracked they were lied to and the world was
not captain promises were not capped but they gave up their ability to fight back then it's hard they guard against that it's hard to even see it happening
because it's like trying watch an hour hand move you don't see it you don't see it from then you turn around and this this beautiful and this magnificent
warrior culture is relegated to whisky and dependency and entrapment for reservations and i think that's an important message i tentation message for our
culture this culture that we have now a culture of creativity and open mindedness and of strength and of individual freedom that we need the stay vigilant we
need to stand guard against small infractions that may seem meaningless and insignificant but that wolf chip away that holy as a people and is a culture and
the native americans i mean we could go on and on about the bravery that those warriors showed even pass his peridon world war two their story upon story about
the bravery that they showed in the vietnam war native americans that served with honour and courage we have to learn more than just that and i think it the
same thing on an individual level was well because it's not that disotto we as people shawes an individual a person of the chacu one day you decide that it i
give up one going to be weak now i'm do going to just surrender everything to be comfortable we we don't do that in one day it doesn't happen some one decision
it's a slow incremental process that just chips away chips a water wheel and ships away or discipline we wake up a little bit later and we miss a work out that
we miss another one that we start to eat and we shouldn't he eat we start to drink all we shouldn't drink in without even realizing it one day you wake up and
you become something that you never would have allowed any stead of being strong you weak and that of being disappointed you are disorganized and you are lost
and i said of moving forward and progressing you are moving backward and you are decay and that happens without us even a set below us or recognizing it so you
have to be vigilant you have to be on guard you have to hold the line even on the seemingly insignificant little things things that shouldn't matter but those
things do matter instead of going backward instead of decaying get stronger get beggar grow and learn and develop and live in live in such a way that you don't
remember the old days with sorrow that they are gone but with pride and with gratitude that those old days led you to wear you aren't to day the place of
wisdom and a place of knowledge and a place of experience in a place of peace and i certainly hope that wooden leg found his piece with the great medicine you
don't how in innominato probably one of the few people that i know anyway that probably didn't go through high school and think about his three class think
lena i ever gonna use than a lot of thin thought that and like discomture like actual step history to history the shot of an incline history class and it
probably was yes you had to have worded about a battle little big horn yes you you had to have you made out remember it i don't remember for my school that was
whatever forty something you indeed mean rings a bell right you know yet so that was probably that it formosian we need this why do we that a noise you know
seventeen seventy six like what a god in what a whole is going to help me in my job that amine you know a doctor whatever you goin aonias rations so this that
last part oh he just said but that's that's why for all the what on part what do men of the whole part of home roatan where you're like o kaylin here's word
how is explained to me by my mamma dead his res important because you have all the people that you learn about all the events you learn about you learn lessons
out of it of course as a kid you like all right well you know i'm just memorizing dates and events here but they like now you learn lashings like history you
know the abaris all this is is is all like settle problems he at an learn lessons from mister my art i get it this i think on an in like unagreeable he can
learn a lot less and of course from history but on an individual level everybody machine now it's like a thing about this tea given word one driving on with
the pumpkin patch right and the part of assistants a it's really cool it so is sanine's e wasn't like a built one on a parking rodigo through was like a legit
one and i'm hardly any one there and my obvious run around came and um you know my wife comes from the country and stuff so she is like see this kind of on of
kin patch is great compared to the ones that built in the hearkening that's where we are toder ill not a pumpkin pathless cabillo upon combats like that's how
moolit le really we have to do or building abominates susie can go experience upon compact of on pavement yes and in aparting living upon a year done within a
bolting we get you know yet shows on t v i was her penalty be but men as is the reality punchit where we have time now the time and the inclination decitan
watch hours of just other people living their nerves that it baraomatae are to day am nothing well do it but i'm saying we can we want yes we can we want
that's where we are we so consider that that's the opposite of this that's like basically what you're talking about rateres where you like okay the more like
canalised n't lay the void luxury enough like dat but basically your keep keep your cape of bility and check you'll like i don't want to miss the old days when
i was capable you know because i gave it up to be more comfortable that's he that's the lesson i think they can learn individually yeh no doubt and i think
even you know the the culture were talking ollerdays warriors for ye that the note they got over run by the right man right over on by the white man now there
was brutal battles and we're going to go i mean the you could spend all day talking about but we're a i'm just i'm just speaking at one aspect of this you had
incredible warrior cultures that it lived this way for unknown amount of time thousands of years and in what fifty years or something a hundred years it was
completely different from them and yet in a i'm saying is you think that they got ostersoeen there was his battle like now if you if you hear that story it
wasn't a fight to the death it was a slow just crumbling away of their of their culture the way they had it in you know a from up from a perspective of i mean
another less nekean away from this that that's noretta about this all time that was a isitsoornot ation right listen he dorot just come come a little bit
further you don't smooth a little bit for the name of novelettes have a lot in fortune to bath and um ye that's what i that's my point is be careful and pay
tention to what you're giving up you from your from your individual life and from your culture as a as a group right in america right i'm so ambeing now from
my culture as an american that's our culture anarete gonna give up where is it going that's what we need to look out for because at some point we could look
around annie's one thing if we don't have the coacher any more we don't we have a different culture but the thing that untaking about in an it's okay for
american culture to more and to grow that's okay but what i do what we do have to watch out for is if we ever give up the strength riesen ourselves men say you
know what okay you cross the line e and we are not going to do what you're saying right now ye you know that's what we need to be careful of we menever give up
you know somebody asked me on towandahoc day and when you know in a hundred and forty characters what should our foreign policy be and i did it in one word our
fourvoie should be strength to strength should be our formal we should be strong and i'm telling you right now and we talked about this before when you are
strong and you can defend yourself and you know that you can handle any problem that comes your way you're not going to have any proper searight it's not going
to happen it's when you're weak it's when you let your guard down that's when you have from yeah the in strength it sentially capaceety right that's an i'm
nothing i'm not talkin about the form policy think i all you liodon that path with me no i mean not now but no no it careful you know like like cross it for
example m right oh ye ca well by strength i don't just mean strang of hard having estoient the lafeuillade a wave this yet reap cause i stand corrected a and i
i mean the curate course i don't have to like it or like that and i'm uncontributing you know was the one but you know how am i a saw i remember when
crossfield onto the scene in people got really into it and sometimes people get criticized a plan your doing this all that this crazy worthiest getting good
working out by you in to get into this crazy shape for nothing like what are you training for you not to train for swart you just training i mean i'm sure you
could actually think could kind o be said about you your waking up every day trying a hard like for what and you're like for life ray re sere your training for
capability not a capable are you give and what levels capability do you have you know so people who've spent like a and this by no means is any kind of
judgment but if you spent your life neglecting your health or your capability you know you me left while i not going to be the well so with that there is that
caution i thesis the tale a cautionary to one of the many probably over history where if you are capable ouiatenon seem like you're environment is testing that
heavily powhattan er yes test the capability yourself he atis what you got in taste capability yourself that's good thing too and they in about spending two
can titol the system and this but especially now i i said like the life is loriner us where you can back in the day your hunting for food your restoration here
like too much for example when your examples from before so like its luxury so even even like con consumption right what like what you spend your money on and
know spend money on entertainment seems not really in lions with improving your capability you know like that or i remember when we moved mathiole a home jim
and it was pretty expensive like what i wanted but he was easily justifiable dansereau an i wasn't thinking in these specific terms but really basically that's
what i was thinking like this is going to help me in life is going to be for sure help me be more keepable way more and are hot to you membership but you want
a home neasden more capable of over all and desist if you know like light them that alone can justify like certain types of consumption for sure yeah if you're
absolutely i mean think when it tenatores to me to the speaking expenditures on things are going to make me better to ether's not even like i don't hesitate on
those things in all the trigger you i may it happen to play round the gondola round and i been known to be pretty tight with the money he at not when it comes
to something is going to make me better i wanted to you yet for sure an well it um mazing book amazing life picked his book up on amazon dat com the books
called wooden leg a warrior who fought custer maybe later will do some more they will do to the other side of this battle and maybe get a little bit more into
the battle like a set is plenty of lessons learned from posture as plenty of lessons learned there and there's a lot of controversy round at the natural i
tried to avoid the controversy i tried to stick with just what being said by wood leg himself there's a lot of controversy about this battle and who did what
and who is to blame and what mistakes were made and there are what what what i take from all those things all learn from all of them all learn from every
theory all learn from all the tatsing but will definitely get into that um this book is a gistures read the month more you can fill your head up with different
perspectives and of the more you can pay attention to the innate of american and learn more about their culture of some culture warrior culture yes a warrior
culture love that and like i said ah you know sir with honor in all our wars here you know which is to be reached praythee podcast about about native americans
fighting in world war two and be it now and in the current conflicts we have so i can pick that up on him as on on the inter webs in if you want to help upon
cast you can act my do little click through an was on yelaya mill put that book link on the website click on the picrate book for and as far as amazonian ral
do the click down the website soul for this a matter what you're going to buy correct from him was on if you want to support the podcast right that's you know
essentially what ye want to under that three to five seconds opening that page and clicking through it or a part portalegre way in no it doesn't come uspennie
yet getting in the game making yourself as everyone really more gaeble yes hooroosh pe of totila stuff you quick through amazon boom a cold website click
through and at saint the tear favorites a little trick little efficient tricks support them actively passirac i dressed in dressily um also speaking of making
yourself capable supplementation um man i still haven't gotten a creole ettle make that order to night with gil oil is no longer on me ye ione you know we took
the steps yet he was doing it yes yes it's a it was always on melissa's fun to put it on your giannole follol is would you say that's the main one ma'am i've
been a been all cowering samaniego i there is a crooil warrior bars these are just ones i'm recommending calestano it on it to come less you just as that's for
ten per cent off but if you didn't now what on it is it's it's just the best supplies this mother colston the tobit eating at the one to i think that's the new
stuff coming out to it talk about that next i amasondo it you valuation on the one oh but yer honiton um and of course so described to the podasokus if you
have already yet that's a good interlopin yet till your friend and here's a telal your friends both of them yeah you subscribe you the poncas here's a estein's
i mean i guess it's kind of obvious for us to the hay tell your friends about our pages in olthat makes sense but he will you tell your friends about like
ogasawara who has a friend or friends two of them the livestock on a window and for long time they listened and they tell their other friend i didn't know this
but i see an face book thank you for delamere but gaston all this stuff for so his repeople that no aspittannu the paduan toba wonota people knew us news but
as an bepainted had told them people he is candidatial here's a thing the more people who act like one taking any thing you talk to extremest will in anybody
looked by the wogood good but just that to the contempt extreme odious get somebody implementing extreme ownership by a factor of ten per cent in their life
and their in your life that's an improve life that is it proves that's why you i would say that's that reasonin is good tansil some about the buttes ye yet at
no i mean i hear from people that say the pocasset helped them out rightly which is the best tis wi were sitting here the i cause if i if i i hear that for
anybody if we got no feet anon maybe we wouldn't be doing poncaser now maybe we wouldn't not to learn about a wooden leg to night and you leo so yet tell your
friends not the pot cast yet give him in the game for sure and tell about that you too can for you to be all cried you dianomotheteo good i'll go put in up
videos almost on a pale radiolite don't i am working on a good un knoyle get up for the next week or so but it be it'd be good oh i yes i do promise i'll put
more videos on their but so all in romish be you heard that folks above him beyond just a potassamide browary the way i amorites on that atones soreheaded that
and of course if you into toshers got a doctor or rash gardining about the rash gartin a santissinia lly but you know the nineteen per cent improvement nor of
performance if you if you wear the rationata that we met starting to look like that is factual yea yea so umihalo call in at provenu what ye call it confirmed
confiture feed fighter nine year better in you a tepid currently fight in the ouse come firmed it confirmed convergence brought if any one can tell you can
tell measurable scientific scientific go water you say his name good i more cause the while and saying that some kinds of line should i say nemesho miller j we
know who it is a man recall go merged confirm yet that he is dug was nineteen per cent nottington the mat and not confirm converted again that's you know if
you were going to bed in some kind of a scientific experiment you on some kind of a doctor if you know somebody with a pedestrian of expert now you got your
expert right there on the young got cold miller thick you gifted by the way yes yes you insist he feels nineteen per cent up proof it you strain it with
trinitarian yet he had that a few can i i trained with that guy what train with him one time and he and atlanta yet that was like the first time ever went into
a place and i walked in elsingham in swinton and he he loitering out into rongone cornering and um he knew as i too but i should his hand and this was a ten
years ago or something as she is handles a came in good to meet you sir a train can cantering on your baths and he's like ye are you a black felt he asked me
that will like the eye and i don't know how he could tell it is young do he's like a black palisadoes do this but he's an awesome guy to maneaters permissu but
um hopefully maybe we need get in rushcote amandine's not just virginia to it for um you know the whatever any sincerity that you need some some way call range
of motion that that if that means something to you get the ashdales dolt too for people who who have a ascertain level of esthetic standard for those of you
that care ye about that kind of self now i know he nilratan on dig it careless did it manage it yet in respect for that but in the event of you carrying what
you look like we got many many compliments on the look of the asper so just look at it jocatore out come look at the rest guard look at a shirt if you like him
glad get one in the port that way ye that's good when they can don't ee i don't my money this look at him if you like em gohagen there go life you get when you
go to buy unforseeing i'm not saying eitelheimer's check it up what can you like comedy looked in too if you like what they say in the main feel pencouet or if
you just straight up need night temper sent provender eyegate to yenyontatenoutshine but that's true all we have for you too by the way come out on two weeks
to more one more lever ratleicus right i yet some patches coming out to some velossity the thissom good stuff on the check it out if you like consonant might
have some tea and the little i know we do have the we you have jock a white tea and while you we didn't expect jackaway tea since sail like crazy egress but it
is so you got all that listenest you guys got after it and although i tasconia for that oberon it in you once that day you took it completely offer and was on
they pulled it down yes they did it i want to because i was going to was going to sweat out some of the often reviews that i got her sorry like on you will at
her now dead lifting eight thousand pots ither way no this fact is regidores his is dead left in from four o five you know four hundred and five pounds to
eight thousand pounds with jocolate so there you have it that's worth it in it on right someone you always lay on it supplementation is good i don't see him oh
you know what seven thousand five hundred pound approvement so ah yes so jockied out right now but by the well there's more common and depending on when you
listen as i'm this is odoacer fifteenth yes it's october fifteenth so right now it sold out it'll be back and full stock and not only do we have the tin the
delucidate you can buy but in newness be able to buy a road just a box with a hundred a hundred count in there and some people some one wrote a boat review on
amazon good anne said he your prices too high brow i love i love the pocasse can't sell me this jockie tie for this amount of money that's not cool and so i
talk to my tea people sir and i said the people and le or our prices too high what we goin to do about this and she said well your price as i could you want to
get this special hard core in the serveti and i will like beacuse we make you know we gribelin right sir and so we want to have something that is like tough so
we got the ten and she had what i ten constaunce money to make and get sent over here and all the other stuff and i said okay we'll have made at the er so well
on a box with a hundred in it up the volume lowered the price so now no no one's going to able to complain about the price conington a poverty other white tea
except for it's going to make you beltonleigh sousand hounds yet that's a windowseat will an i pay for my pay peripatetician yes sir can jackie tea and it sir
every it's it did so out and read his old out is caspilier it they bought one and then they but five more a taste so good if he foredating it pre jujitsu
drinking it in the morning drinking it before a tasting time it just taste good it replaces every other substance you need to drink pretty soon there on otto a
club and his people can be like o getting at you drink certain they'll take a jack a white keeping of calanthe going at one tapoosa interesting to you called
the ten a what you call it delator luxury when he do coalholes arable and now you're a you nithing he said like luxuriance pinole said something love your
thereto enough something like that and on the less will play back to take none the less this is like is like a bunker more it's not luke oh yeah yeah it's what
we don't we we we don't make things will early horse you know any force that's an reinforceth coles guess and hold the pen on the pens on my desk now yet one
of these gasoline nails out my flags one of these as it fifty that is hard gloriouth other day like things that have doupos as ousetops i eye some elsewhere
you though a thelittle book i can get called a tree monteschi did not come at let her ship if you like the town cast jack up the book and also in camp the
audio book that lay faintheart the book with me you we read it so it is more or less talking jacket out that's extreme ownership and also of course if you feel
like you want to keep talking to echoed charles and i you you love it not you can just do it you can talk to us where are there and were on the interweavement
where i'm henesee we can communicate to think called twenner on twitter aconita eclares i am at joaille and remember what i said i was ionack off twitter i
been home a line on through it or urticaria just hammer when i get what i do on a travel but drive i said in a point no montoni don't walk around in circles i
don't i don't watch movies no i either read for the potassium to enter so yet that's what's going on so good to do for of this you for obvious reasons but it
it kind of keeps you informed not halliburton's all is giving to too many humorously follows you know so they there if you get a certain numb people falling
you carry pondering a can't read so a lot of lotoides people will be like hay came higher someone to do that you know he or or it hey you know i'm not going to
spend her time on there whatever because i'm too busy so instead of just maybe you know a little delescope tely not shingon an you know ye they'll post up in
the just kind of be it that'll be it but i hear you're in touch now you know it's going on ye and i get a larger fee back lodgique tion al galata good
questions and so much work that seewan a that yet sweater answera and poky reboth on there as long aland that is indweller at with this whole gig now i guess
to close it out to night sweet or attire for questions um you don't i want a thank everybody for less than benkruptcy you're givin me he o'mearas much from
first of all military guys military service members that are out getting after it guisers is right now then are crushing the enemy god speed keep getting after
it stayed dressing absolutely stay safe to presairve townfolk here you guys tank what you do thankee in a safe i i came in imagine having that job to be honest
with you i can't imagine that we not job i don't have to tempermental not for me and for those you that do that job stayton i don't it's hard times right now i
waterest there a lot of aggressiveness of you guys are in a stremely precarious position every single day by the way every single call every single moment so
thank you for what you do firefighters of course sane thing you guys get after it and jist running towards fire right that's overcoming an instinct that's what
you do for a living so thankye for what you do then of course we have all the war force out there that is building in creating things and making things happen
and you are grinding and you are building a year world in your billina and sell thank you for doing that and of course and most important as you roll through
and as you continue think about wouldn't leg think about living hard think about holding the line think about being vigilant and he say stay on comfortable
stay true and stay ford ford of the decay and you do that by getting out there getting after it so until next time this is echo and jacko out
