this is jacopo cast number forty six with that eternal and me joaille good evening he lit evening there is a little survival instinct in its very subtle but i
would notice it sometimes enough combat situation when eyes are thinking that enemy fire any time could open up an kill them you see as some guy subconsciously
they just the disjoined make themselves a little bit of a smaller target is kinda slouched their backs down a little bit in it just kind of bow her head just a
tad is not a sonabad thing to do i don't think is actually think about it i don't think they consciously do it i think it just kind of happens bethaven when
you think you could get shot at any moment it likely a good instinct to have in when we first got to remote were out on patrol in our so one of my guide on a
real patrols my first time seeing this particular guy on a real patrol and it was in the malatesti of remote which was distant enemy controlled cess pool of
violets with threats everywhere and as i saw this guy he was standing straight up distending straight up his head was held high a weapon was at the ready he
was scanning he was hunting there was no louis back there was no lowering of his head there was no fear apparent honest face or in his posture he was just
boldly facing the threat standing down now you've heard me talk about some of my dies and tasking it bruiser that i word about i just some guys i i i fought
that day basically had too much courage too much bravery and and i just didn't seem like that kind of attitude was sir viable day after day after day after
bloody day in remanding but somehow some way through some divine providence dis particular brave soul did survive an actually driven in that environment in the
battle of a body with asking a bruce now casting a bruiser was made up of two seal batuscha paten and dealt a tune and that between we talked about before lay
famine was the potenciana er to er freddy whose dead on the pot cast bettony he was the potion chief i and the lead sniper for charlie parton was was prisca
and in the other patoon delton where andrew paul whose also been on the poast he was the assistant potenciana er and the point man and sniper the lead point
men and lead sniper for debt a tune was was that guy was the guide that i just described walking to the literal valley of death with his head held high and his
name is jeremy had bene also known as j p nell that's what i was called him and we have him as a guest on the pocasset now when j p was in asking a brute he
was a kit when we when we were worked up at the distent two years the old when we deployed he was twenty three years old and i thought j he was like a brother
and to be quite ostenelli brought to me and i loved his aggressiveness and when we were going through work up he would just distrained up execute anything i
told him to do anything like a like a hyper agressive terminator robe i will look out on a say take take out room won't take he get on the high ground toward
jairite out here he would just get after it and make it happen and to destroy your outmaneuver anything that was in his way a what one time we were going
through mountaining which is urban warfare so are in the kind of a fake city with buildings and all this and there is a building across the street in your
taken massive paint ball fire there gainst a training but where can shot up with paint ball and in my mind of thinking at where where if it's a real were
getting killed and i know that we need to get aggressive to stop this as am kind o give the command of hay we need is at the lacrosse the street and it like as
the last word is coming out of my mouth as he just busted out of the door the building wearing go running across the street with his gun blazing discive man
smashed through the door of the target building gogo to her there to die mullah as he's just machine gun in people and i thought to myself oka j p can bring it
at least he can bring it during traineaus courage against paint ball in training is actually not that big of a deal at all in fact it's border line meaningless
but it is an indication dalcour age in sustained combat is another thing and j p proved himself as a true warrior over and over and over again during the
battle remain in a hotter to have my brother j dinewan the podcast today jap welcomed the shell thankyer here and we have to start with trying to understand
where you come from how much time do we have an wangewaha all that and it's pretty cool i mean i know i know your mom and dad and of actually grappled against
your dad teunis i light he loves that he talks about all the time bigaroon strong man scary strong ye like well and how tolieu um he is fifty four fifty five
no kidding eh sir ten years ago he was my age ye see what i've grapevine was my age and i thought he was all old now and red now if he told the old i'd be
pissed yea i know you would be so mister nellipogo idalian in he day no he dragged the whole of my head and he and any werish now that's crazy isn't it a sorry
entertain that sard so talk to tidore you come from a osion up all that stuff am i had a good life my parents are awesome you know am very hard workers um you
know grew up tied on money you owe my my dad dick construction of framing in the eighties and my mom taught step arabic not a lot of money there yet so but ah
that they just they cost only worked for our family it was also now we he know every sunday were a church a young not have lot of money to go out and do stuff
we'd go for for drives you know that's what we did our family we give for drives and just go you know see the hearin rather california sarcomata within twenty
minutes he can be in the foot hills and this is beautiful we go to my grandparents property um you know my dad's parents were vague very big part of art or
life as well grown up on grandfather's old world were two that was on the destroyer on a ashore am a grandmother is amazing woman you know wake up every
morning start five im to pray for everybody in the family ah they have five acres up in the foot in the pastures horses for kids is awesome um no brother and
sister am my parents you know they didn't wait for having kids you know i ad me and had yet i was like fifteen or not seventeen months later my brother comes
and seventeen months later it that my sister come so it ought i adadnirari shed twins they called up yearly tombolo ah you awesome you my brother my sister
like to my closest best friend still you know um you we saw he said grow up playing navy seal in no land do where did you get eragon into the neck of him which
which i am always curious is how did you hear about the tees ammata my brother saw something on t v to some special about the forming of the seals and the
young cave speech and all this stuff and he had my parents record it and we would had watched that every morning that we could know where young yell a tryal my
brother's populated if he had the beard and so every week and we definitely washed it and then we would you dress up in canes and pain our faces and stuff that
we got from old army navy surplus store or just from grade sails and we would go play navy sales you know and i we got to grandparents as like a haven you it's
funny now like i didn't know what i was doing but i used to like to make up little gilly suits and i would have my parents in your hot me off at the front
entrance of my grandparents property i'd wait until i got up to the house and i say ham want i want to see if he can see me seek in up there how we try to
stock up to my cranae's house your trinity and ah yes i would yes really good life you know all my oh my aunts and uncles and cousins you know we're all really
close and am just reclose family now my uncle oh well my cross uncle's emesa cop a backward we grew up and you know he spoke still certainly communities i
would get that asked yes i i surrounded by a lot of good people that didn't know anything other than working hard like you just have to work hard to there is
no excuse for that is no hand outs like you've just got to get after it and now the tuscan about the teams and you as you get older and high school you kind o
forget about that stuff but that was pretty good solid base there's the right life did you enlist read at a high school yes he i was in am lessines ah what an
you break in leg or have some weird sinewyarmed look a head as all my hand was in a cast i don't how to do that well let it hoisting that you you tell the
story of this kind of a ah you know picture perfect childhood with all this goodness around you but just i'll just going to straight up tell people j p my
crack as you people what once a while if they need it would he as a young kid athamant now ran out looking for in starting it but it's the hushallsost it in
bodies and ah goshus like cohan out the house and i don't know i happened some guys i gootheridge five brook perham um don't oh you know like a smart young man
don't go to hostile that night my hands like blooming up well you know the next day were in a white at a raging yongman i can't not do that with all my friends
so i just put my hand on the river the whole time so like an like ice right i get home i thought mamma was going to do beat me ashes a short little justin
outlighted woman and i was just like profitearis going to do some step robins on your head yes xactly it she's going to get after it am and i i i go you know
so she's like geworen on wool and then on we go there now i get you broken not all as balan fractured the rest of like oka so get in a cast of course my dad's
pissed off you know and am he's decided to you now just heleine yearning close graduation and there was no talk of college ah i played water polo my senior
year and one of the jacare my coach had hay you know if you go to the j c c davis you you could be gone over and plant over there i just knew college was it
what i wanted to do at the time it just wasn't for me i wasn't in a waste time or money doing something i just wasn't driven to do and am you know i not what
do you no do what do you do with your life and i was like honorably be a white water afin guide and live up it up in the mountains and he like what do you in
to you lie lunette an with that but you know he's like no i hear no and ah come my best friends did that and which it is his corn to lie still it seems coyle
great for the salt or i and a sannyasi my downs like what about the military like what about being a navy still you saw is talk about it and at the time i
could think about was just like the regular fleet navy recruiters that would come the high school and this is penolver so nobody's really very motivated and
you know they they would come the high school but they never really engaged with the students or anything has light ah that's the navy out on now i'm go to
work that next day and because i'm in a cast had me up the front register and for first time ever i noticed across the tree is a navy recruiting office was a
colgong there sienite of course i i well you goin to do to a ball what do ye here for is a i was think about john the navy one to be may sell the all start
laughing sake check i would pass like i was like omadhawn you know all the seal wanted these have to talk to you pete off or so and so and yet do you meet said
the siwanoa i was fired up at the gas and we can't do anything that your cast on me it rose that thou know if you wanted come talk to him he'll be on thursday
he saw on tuesday so i go go back to work i'm just staring at the new recruiting office in one time just stewing so i am like damaged shape you know like i'm
very good athlete like on condo this and go back home and i to my dad my datscha you know i was worked my good as a camp join the navy and i can't go do
anything for but camp with this cast all i i don't know like you my mind i mane her bruggam morrows i like the riotously go go start the bath tub start soakin
out in get some tools at the garage because he then so my dad comes in there and he as like some might sheepmen sheers and something else i am i saw a hare and
we just got after him he caught my cask dead i thought my mom or beat my dad is she like what i of course i was like you i'm doing the navy i ogontena sell all
sudden i cut off my cast and how her or baby boys leaving to you know gordon the military and shot my poor man you know i am so i go back on thursday i walk in
they look at me they look at my cast not being there to like you need to put alison so my current runs that it so but to start the rest of process and am a
year at my parents had a calf am they saw that on so mean my dad could do construction together to send as much time together as possible and my mom was able
pen time with her mam that was consiny and i tie read my hand and ah my dad would actually wrap my hand up in some of my old checkpoint raps and boxing wraps
take it up and then we would take the hammer to my hand as i couldn't grip it no i could not give it anything and you know that's what he did cueillant to work
with a cast on and he would have to take tools to his cast yet or i mean your dad's not the kind of guy that's going to let broken glim son had forgettory a
work he now take that to your body you make some manhattan with me in an it was awesome in no fine i wanted to go to vasanas going to go to butt and so he
would push me to my absolute limit every day at work like i mean every day meant an it be passed sometimes for line crying and i so mad not like tears i like
you pain or ere i was so mad at him and he'd see it and he thrown aback a little bit and he'd make no or some days like now i had come in to work come over
sometimes a heavy i can eoeut pound jack hammer there was no need for a ninety pound jackanapes the sujeck ever your brains the adjuration other for eight
hours i would be jack hampering concrete with a ninety pound jack came while he was doing his doing and then i mean there was often though i mean he would push
me about when i and my mom and hammer also with communications and help me out with staff and it was good and saw that i awailed september fit two thousand one
i had to contract to i was in bud in caring but camp when nine eleven happened and ah you know is this war i was i'm so passed to day tell you that's about it
heated were all locked down and there i ca the nation being attacked you he has more impure but course you have all the weak minded people in there that start
cry like i'm i'm eighteen right like barely eighteen and there's just grown men crying i didn't say up for this i like i get in fireflies up said dale like i'm
just like looking for a battle axe and the point he might how i go to bed right now do i have refinished macassari just got you do but yes i was in brocatelle
happen and i always felt like on in it feel like i knew that being a navy ses what i needed to do what i wanted to do in swatow wanted me to do and oh just
everything to fell into place you know is pretty awesome so so then you ah go to but you you went to bud's right around the same time is late for andrew paul
this one class behind them they are class two forty one i was close to forty two and the out you d n up in skipwith those gay as the other asses riches the
which is like the training after you through the basic filtrating buds which is ready pushpin all that stuff and the epouvantable but on your head an all that
stuff and but people quit that you got to something a limit more advanced called scout will you actually learn some seal scales fat and that jacinto team and
then you get to you jack in a teetery yet chekitan three and knock out your first bound is a new guy when we like it is i i was god it was cool i checked in
team three and ah you know is a key when he to banterers i got a driving school set off road homer racing and not ication school is like how do get my hand out
fascinator that has just worked out great like i literally checked him to the team the teams ridiculous it in a year aileen years old either like a rose you
all rode racing school for free or i much money to go there by the seen by good meal sat ernemont e straight is in the offer of driving racing and to esgabe
navigation as i at lies you i just come back from corylas who were donald rather daring so i was up there is gone for a month come back legitimately for a
couple of days and you know i giralte the call your back and so happy and then all set on a wave in from morrow and i mean it was a slight i i'll just happy
you know as i cast is awesome this is legion the team like a getting to do stuff you know and am i went out there is a freedom war going on ye and our just
wanted to be as well as quite as possible and a hen my good brodie dare benson you know he was a kilnertin seventeen ah he's from northern california as well
and he was one butscha o me sight he adjacent tea bitter pride and me we both went that driving school together and i that's where we just became light best
friend you know i was so salses good time out there you know learned to latin um in eros ordered him as up there too you know that i got a actually interact
with and you know just guides out from my patens they weren't so hard on the assentior the same time like i was just learning the balance with the team cause i
more amovere nice and social ke to talk to everybody and be everybody's friend and when you're new guy in the fieldses had usually not the best thing with you
like hey ho are you doing many another i shut up campieri why you talking to be on my just was gonna be friend a like un wardeth let's be friends you know so i
am that is good nay am i come back and am then all side were headed off on our first trip and were had out to show to do shooting school and am a mere getting
ready to fly out there and i just see the huge native american teamin i will be so my puteoli your drawn delight just awesome warrior looking guys right asius
very stoic and just as like dodalay potel and he was in my boy steve trialogus and dim he and he is an awesome old god out in the wittekind then rest other the
other guys on the turn am you know they're sick duty a among and dropped the names am you my boy pepperidge he was like the perfect or gothas could he was so
hard on you like you just waiting for him to whip your ass but he also meant or in guided you and i and actually taught you staff you know it wasn't just a
others your new guys like i'm a harry cause your new dye but show you what you need to be doing in the wide what you did was wrong in sais fired up superfined
up so we got out to the chase her lyof trip super overwhelming you your dissolutions navan told us i ha this is usually a trip where you wanted to be half way
or towards the end so you get us all a grass you're going and grow ah but we got after it is awesome like i said although you know the older gus am for solid
ah we had a really weak al po and ah he usually got fired on that trip i sold just you know concerning to me at first my cloak he is learned at pinen he's a
complete turn it's one of the oh miss oh definitely of his otesias when you come at eighty think every guy is a hardened compotores hanou get in i looked at
them guys and you go with a second that's not that's not ruestow's thinking i was goin be working rest ye hae course i'll be other interspace meek as religion
to be like that guy so she your you guys draped through that work up an old your first appointment how is that first upon you to rapping the first porterites
off for a second half first half when the comic from this heartening now my too is war going on has got to war how call he's on a gottom but you now it's part
of the hyoides part of it you know part of mishe paroissien wanted it yet begin military people deploy all over the world all the time to maintain to bility in
that includes all united the military unspecialise rations so seals sometimes you get to placate to whether no you know really visible for it now and it's not
what seals generally wanted to ye so we we did trainers train with comederunt ries um you know some other puttini went to the pit were in clam you know we went
to tie into work with a tie fields from nine days and i may as cogente how i a countries do southennan that led back at it did give me a much bigger picture
you know overdistant time like im i even twenty one like in swanage after it you know and ah i didn't i for the first appetence reprime got a ratlines going a
rack well i knew we were headed over there to do bias hoping we there be you know to go to jolo a different stuff and i have done a personal security mufrone
higher dignitaries over there during the elections and i mean it it was cool yeah what you looking back now you look what you did and put down your resumed
people like what will he did that on the to me i was thinking of you it sucked you know but it didn't it was also very good as a very good learning experience
um and it was part of the mission in the problem is when they had a agap in that protection he sometimes came to do it and temanite do and they just knocked
out the parks or guess what time gaditanas in for that and ah but it was cooking out with worked with assendent union some marines and army guys and they were
for norma over there as well and it was as awesome gillaree you know guys are denon there you know complete poments already in the worst hasn't really really
kicked off and am that was good um you are and then are chief got five tupseeah but the head shows so like our o i see alice who became or the doubtful to
commander m solidity so what they we decide to weed out some lowenwalde eithe nature that vision you know his defence and odont want to be on the fence
everbright i will be lost since for i want to be so is a tough nastagio for the guys do mean to my of course you you'd never know this from there from there
professionalism and but no one was saying jumping up down ten hay gray we weep be on defence ye'll the time he for a long period of time and the fact that the
guy's did perform so well and if we kept the mision of gain like you said we kept the missions we did a good job not that we were jumping up and down excited
about doing esent have to be on defence we want to be on offertorium in yet i look back on my kisoona i did get a do a pretty cold thing there am and then i
mean we got to see all of our rack you know he got a goupenor than iracundus stand and oh you have because those dignitaries were traveled round what he used
curdish and housed from oh carnota's up that you know an we actually seen you know so i do come to jesus talk with them while older guise to you used this kind
real me back in cloud iowas and her happy i was past that other guys are i doing direct action days and i want to be doing that and you know my boy pepper you
know you talked to me sat my down he's like medicis big picture thing you know and this is part of it he like and you're a new guy he's like a night you want
to get after and know your grass is but it's a good deal you know like yes is not the ideal thing that we want to do she's like but this is not a bad deal you
know were inside clothes and fully armored as house you don't get in to thorold this guy and he just was like he just needed change in midsection he's like you
need say focus because after the appointment it might be something to poldie you know and he's like just stay the course stay focus and you know get the
mission done and in that was awesome talk i noted that you notes need to a guidance inventories young you know for sure ever's alder guided has a good amount
of experience and am now you just you just knew what i needed to hear it young rough me up a little bit i continued a man it was good it was awesome learn a
lot from it so yet so you could back from that department the upend this is when you start reisat we forgot the water to work in together yes sir and you
bruise or yet again he went tom back from the or goat hill back from the pit and then all suns like her wee needs snipers in my how hast slangvreter you know
and i literally gone like again within a week and ah when through the innistor course ah which you we didn't get our clappersgate from that because we didn't
do everything but i didn't care you're giving me said i for john your peonies him to do in i get a kill savages okay you know um ye what's great is it i rember
when he used to try and they had rules about how much we could be gone from home yet else they always violent and it was the free vited is temptin young guys
in the teams at an allotted guys too that they lively raised their hand for everything like a reaction of your man all your sentiat corrosive another deponent
in its weird because there's some people that you know a guy married has a family to there they want to do that any more and they shoot malto but the blank it
applied to rules across the board everybody cause a taut when you are nineteen years old and you're in the yeopims you don't want to be at home any night of
the week you want to be either on to ployment or getting train to get after it in as war's awsome now but they they plan is those rules which is a bummer yes i
mean i was just fired out and to go bellatores dillie cause um you know the medea i i i so i tidied my will tell and on the order guys in the button still
active as in the tents holes name but he is well maregolds i really looked up to him we didn't asonis ion together that that first appointment and i are you
talkin about ye he's on my favorite guys the bad ouranbad your and am now he's just this awesome gone he's a sniper you know lewald always talk to me about
little things and obvious it even for away he was like teaching his staff and as i can you know this is this so don't know if he had to say and me going there
or what we want i was super excited and then also chris you know chris was a big imposes while as you know he is a successful slipperton that his second
portiere there frontenay to her about what he doing lusion i like please please lord luck i just want to do this so badly and you hear chris you know to
stories and her other people tell in sorest chris you know and i i i even had a buddy who was back from sacramento he was a marine who he was a marine officer
in charge of christmas gazer that so he tell me stories that were just like i like what we legislative got we got to a short pause am it would as it was
legionum round the mountains and desert doing every thing as a black and out on their stocks because it's hard twenty degrees and you try to for our stock and
gilly set in but a which you lost some cause it prepared as for remidy it's like deetower staff he all your is okay you know and um you know adigrat time then
struck you you pretty solid you know and am then all sudden knows like because we had a contented work up you know that i had we gotta get gone so normally
what you would take eighteen months we had to condense into a lovenant ah you all said men were had it out to our desert tonsures train for so deforrest try
but that's where that's where we met for the first course met all i heard about the sky jacket and guys we fired up cause i do disguise for en up he's just had
not a owaissa ye this bigger stoat guide that with professional who had a good amount of experience than teams and who just wanted to get in the fight is like
castalio he was perty apparent when i first met you that you wanted to get in the fight to get it then and as job or will that from smashing out a car window
yeah but ah you know yes and some idiots down town and um then we went all like what were you saying it was a do you what i would i saw that she and you saw it
a year i came jocosity now are as like as that a chalky and ah you're like so it up the rest in like ah got cusachs ye for what he was like i you know smashed
out a car windows my elbow and a got cohesion he stopped doing a sheepish like ye he said you need be trading here with the guides and with us and focused on
work out an he hongi you want to fight we like you know is like rush let say he was like him when i go work out he arose walking to the gym he i just changed
out the bandages i had stitches and staples in my arm i had all bandaged up and trying to get after us didn't go work out and there i see the silver back of
realities altemus get here just at a set the president to a you set the tone for he yeah it's colette aggressive and want to fight and get after it but you do
it in the right place and the right time and don't forget you know at the end of the day we're going to war to kill a bad guys that's the number one focus and
it was just like that just kind of real opened up is so it's cool yea and not work up was not work up was awesome were reserved that it was some one fin i mean
just just the energy there i may everyone was ready to get after it and you you drove in all of us you know i remember you come up to me when we're in between
it and you're like hate every time like some one get a door i want you the the duke that as loud as possible you told me to go put to tape j p on the back of
my helmet you i always want the other find you and a yell maybe i did maybe didn't but one in idea i've that's the legit right there to hey i'll tell it now i
say this old time why should i should say stay i say this all the time but there's people that i've certain qualities right certain qualities whether the lear
of qualities of weather there he still sat or or at speaking or at basketball right people as certain qualities yet yet good ability you yet a great ability to
get command of something and make something happened very quickly right and that's the a a because your loud in your loud nother one never to your agressive
number three you can take whatever that problem isn't like get it it is some quick words you can simplify it into something quickly and say it is so i saw that
you could do that because we have to get people to perform fairly complex things in tonic situations but when i saw that you had that skill i said o k he's a
guy that i can use and that his patooan er can you lie and at the bete whole shop can you eyes to handle such certain situations when there's some chasing on
and somebody's sano so when i want to do is take some raiders tape in a want you to write japon your helmet or whatever looking round all my night vision of
work or during the day time and as you houseman to helmeth look as an now i know japonico a cog make this happen right here and jaime at aerial have that
element with the tape to sit in my grade on the shelf that's all uncalloused get we get obviously orders to re prototypon that will go on to remind we have we
had fought were going somewhere out with our lot to bag down with that were going to have kind of a cookie cutter appointment of what the team had been doing
for a few years and we find out two weeks before the poet that were going made and what what how did you find out that i call to it he did as delton commanded
the chief call you to have you find out we going to monitaya won leave um you remember i don't i don't think they even as to out barbecue nineteen o us what
was going on he er that he one i don't you know i don't think they told us out an tell i only had no i told you know the the leaders yea and so he guys stand
by to get some their member we found out were on leave we came home came back to san diego and were getting a roll out and that's when we found out what were
going and we are getting right in we had all had our families we had a families you know the day were shipping off to say good bye and there's a couple of guys
like reading like news reports and articles about the area were going to a like trying to like pallialia so should have it here to this you know me and my dad
like listening like getting fired out like as i elidar you could tell us a father he's very excited for me my mom's terrified her gas but my dad was nervous as
well rightly saw you don't like your son's going off the war home that boy he was just it was just mixtions for him and sorry you tried trying to hide like the
nervousness by saying when he leaving come on we've been waiting its bottom for you to go on my daughter here too if i just remembered when i got told when
they said they went with the commanding officer brought me in and he's a a an he was trying to sell to me going to remodeled a going to bagdad he is a
proposing it as a cane that this could be good an inside on like a fiendlike so and and i remembered i bargain for something or something there's something
that i said well well we want this if we can do this that it would we can make half a thinker or some kind of gear swamp we did them but anyway i remember that
trying to sell it to me and i knew i was in such a good position because i like someone trying to sell you free money you know what i mean i was like oh you
want to re money oakey o let me think about that first second in inside i'm going don't don't blow it just at colthorpe's tendered to you now maybe you might
be able to let or something just relax inside but local think we can make it happen i i need a little bit of this and might eat a couple more support personal
out there to give us a hand getting acclimated and getting to turn over done but if i can get five or six more presumptuous gathering logistics support for my
true that what i was bargaining for a fall i was at gathered with just the cursitor proceeding more seem to come help us and more intelligent liaisons we could
have this and that and he's a gay i'll i'll talk to them most evermade it happen and it happened yes um the seas also solid ye yetta i remember after i got in
trouble on a maleae during christmas time and i see some kind of a pattered of trouble here if i or you know if you ansata you don't let beget you yet of my
best friend and have the outlets one of my best friends in the hiltner i was younger right we were the same way we are me ax and one time he got the really big
trouble and the the petitioner whose one of my favorite guys in the guide inspired me to go the officer out because he was a priest a guide who was not gien he
was made the paudacotos that gives an unthinking he's going to eat must be so angry at my buddy that gotten big trouble like borderline international incident
an i can asad he you know or are you mad at tim for what happened or what do you think of this and he goes he said something along the lines of he's a warrior
you can't stop these things from happening it's it's in your guises blood we have to just deal with it the best we can do and you go dead away in low is a
goaeteias my attitude you know i look back now in thirty three in a line man but you know you learn from your mistakes and you may shoot an we onpatient you
know i got i was up and renagate for em you know that older gestatio with me my friend i was witenagemotes or super passive guys and he's older like much
bigger guy you know and am yes come out he had a bottle in his hand and just yet anyway do some danish to him he ends up in the hall spoor a long time i get
rode off i get a rest did i go there they're looking to my wallet like security clearance stultity and a like her nicotera widing you tell me this one were out
there he's like it a dropped you offer in the corner i was a glad didn't want you know not going to try to pull that carloman mistake he's like will your here
now so we have to deal with it so i go home i remember i and i tell e the alport is a gate at the tell chef and she took her we go to mesilla i go tell the
command most chief command as chief yeahlin almasch ef it press on and brow to fun nominally i may just run didn't get better higher less and leaders a ride or
so of course he ought to hear in the story and they kind o like give me the run down in him you know monseers on gods save think you the first team guy to get
a rest to her fighting is let me tell you some stories a just cause i hate it just got was out of fix this you know means like obvious clearly self to fence
and he's like whatever you need for us there that was good cat whatever what i do is i make the mistake is i go back home on christmas leave shortly after that
and i got away the reckless so not a you i but you know what i close enough i was an idiot and ah no i'm super man you i'm i'm only twenty two you ll not even
twenty three yet and am young we were crushing the work up so it was i i was but i thought even better about life and everything else i that i we know we're
going to war and he just made mistake and um you don't pay the consequences you know i come home i like a da what do i do in like they're going to tell me i
was like i'm i'm possibly not gondola i remember i broke down like i just broke down like emotionally on mine i just how everything away you know like to what
you now as really upset and i went and told the badger no about it first as i came out i had need some advice i was like you know i hear you take leave and
take care of this omen and everything he knows ye i think we can he's like but if not you otto big risk you know he's a dude we have solid leadership right now
now is it time that you just get your but kicked for this and is gilt with it he on he's like to just take what comes out you i mind i brotois like sick to my
stomach anslie won't i don't know how this contorno we got the lodestone i bobolink it yet right go chief chief anthing ay i see sandeau and your puchero
really like he was dishwater is how disability one is disappointed like you better than that and i was you know and then so we go back over there to go talk to
last the agrarian and i was just like i was so shamed like i i would just yeniguchi the ages of disgusted myself you know so you know they got there i got well
rated she sheared suetake he tried in pain the two i was like a try not to throw off by it at a man on but i go back to potentate like how do you even function
the rest of day after that like i was like to oenanthe badger or i maybe we should necatitlan de sainway sam answer short they ah had a cheever and luckily
there during remodeling or the compound so was to rooms over but the ceilings were open and balotade them all talk on me before him and of course he had a
bunch of like it was all that cheeseman other some chester that you were support personal to screwed his kid let's follow all like you have and then like
yarboro who hold up like the kid to go kid i i was with him as it he made a mistake and so i remember him taking my back because he's like oh really let's get
it a sorry sorry to pull up like other guy that had made my stakes he's like woot when he did it and what about when he did that he is like and now he's good
and press on but not for keeping on for it across on but were keeping up so on there and lock like it heard that and so went in there and just you know face
man and you ll the whole rest of work up inoson resection you were on the road rawsom traps were going to vaguisa work trip and yesterevening that oh i emember
that day a absolutely like if i was to go got food i had to be back within a certain time forming like a wait actually kiss what they serve here so you don't
need to leave the old usage reserve because you don't need to sit down at the a the tables or my yet how about what or i i know what you it's good that you
have that kind of sense of fear in there i mean jooking back i can tell you right now you could have like you could have committed a broad series of crimes
against humanity and is still tatyana nevoy and i very foretold broke out for sure like a i don't give a shit he you know is just i was very lucky in blessed
we were molestive you know good leaders i you and embroidress on in those gayeties came in gamatak we're going we're going to fix it yenowines o god i'll be
deal you're like oh cool hey got a large from it you and am yo i definitely learned for me and the sea i was super cool in the sea stood by what he is studied
a lot to me about him i was leader as well because he trusted you guys is judge and i remarked he comes out like pose invert appointment when we get it we be
getting it all time he's like ma'am really glad i listen then i kept you out so is his afterall kind of turned around case it was nicely you guys ellice were
going to hold it worth that and we'll see how he does on the poet and when he comes back will amram and if we need to so we all right so we go on the point the
and like you said like people are reading he's favor human i know tell realteration only read in hand what trying to explain you guinty stand by to get some we
shall a fair and decent fuson you know basically forces almost instantly we divided in five different teams and we end up doing big operation over eastern
remidy and that kind of set the tone and in carved out all space for a certain trinacrian retirement speech that i gave you i i talk about a whereinsoever here
if you want to go a volunteer you got with your name on this list and of course every one put the name on the list which made it go back to the original plan
which was the delta plum atonemaker saying you know these guys will take in need whatever eight gus i'll take these guys and you know how to little make sure
that we weren't making anything to unbalanced but obviously obviously he wanted you with him and am so you guys are all out to corregedor first the five o six
band of brothers ye tuscans orphanage a landesas talk about full metal jacket in a blown out old school that the auld school or in universities of all
universities just completely blown out like walls of men there is more bags of sand and concrete a think they were frasure holding the place up an you know it
army marines living with us than there and am i always show up or is like a young we for wit a wit i went there for that big first cake off the o that place is
just dirt floor on mistover where bugs everywhere the contenting it was a c o thraseas like a one dangling light in every room down at ordinata was all but
that was all one big room to a like thing then i like a sheet apply wood that divided the big room that we all ended up eventually like tiaroroa and to i'm
remember getting over there and you know god since a d i was so fired up yes i'm in i'm in it like this is horrible it horrible because there's a fight going
on right here you know i mean like a nice bit of bases as the offither where it's like horrible you know there's a fight i always a super exact regular was
awesome and this guy with the first the five ossetes getting more every day that place is gettin attacked every day i mean with remember we first went there is
i i said am as we can we can we go up on the walls in a spikes go upon the walls and like defend and howls like um yes i am a gossip in sortlack and people of
the anteaters also an even have to leave base a kiliakan of old you is that right there lectures was present overdue was also sang thou like you want to give
robed chow you have to be in full body on one and you gone an got constantly um attacked nosehole times to hear don't do in the other the income orders and
your springing to try to eat a gift you like when you're in the middle like titian tiglathi hollow are the aiming for our building is time you don't ever his
one time in is going out to take a shower denotation whose ooman go and a less is a complete had my angels god thing and we come back from an up and gaumed
ritanoe to like un disingage into bed like my baby wiehart lay down i just wanted to actually disco take a shower right into army guys are also they gave us a
coat we could use it on an ar timewhen we came back you know in the the standard schedule hermatite to have so i go out there i get to the shower that in my
gooroo both apogee now like an actually i trod like wash with myself and i have orinocan nell belabour sharing the combat with you going in for sponge that's
what i'm harrigan i will retire my body he saigo back and am as a walking back up the steps to get into the thing shaitan gets hit by three mourners all ye
destroyed gone mike i'll let petahayas sartarelli twenty metres from familiar aright she had i would gimilsin there and is like ah i remissions and is like me
that's complete how my angels you know gals like niteat of yer and in i walk back and i will take a last step like into the little dark hallway and i lika
where is my baby wife so age after get some big enough to was so crazy as i something like tatters or side i and she now passed on to begin it and in till we
got that six were done bottle water shares here you poke holes in the top of a water bottle and your buddy squeezes it over you and then how we showered on her
it was awesome there they had the another thing you d what be the army guys from the first palosabre living that way too like every day you see him there he
always in the square way you deforms always you know shaving every day a no slack no fucking lack whatsoever efforts to fionn that was the attitude that you
guys went over without we know i am i make sure our guides had shaped as a is the acting all to a the badger was acting chief and awe in the we rocked army can
out with leonard or we can as am and we all had shaved heads and we shaved every day you know we just looked like the army emetica about a hair cut and a shave
you know unless i needed to have a beard which i mean i have a red beard to him i bounding in with the lesions you know what man like i then i raced tentlike a
bright blue eye and a red beard of the musical alike will on you backed by leprechaunes leperos um ye we share to have got after it and i i mean to do it all
like why they doesn't matter that doesn't make you a less effective you know either way you know in me you could tell that year you footsie that de otherways
like a well found long here and beard what does that matter early doesn't but it's the armies battles face is and we respected and loved those guys they were
fun nornagesta work for so why are we into something that is just the pensionnaires like so we do shaved and your attracteth heads shaved which is also
actually kiss your your helmet stuck to that like a little broad and did move round the lot and a hound then the marines that were with the sang o cognomen ome
guy you know they started dinanti there shaving he heads and my boy nichols you know and he was with us he's a usin awesome stud marine and yet we always junk
about his mad like if i just remember like this we all like to would hang out a free time and he's like you come really close with somebody when they're
standing in their like boxer breezed in your having to pour water over them for them to shower and were a on the roof top right like to do him a bottle water
shower and it is just finding now i i i missus day shall ye and just to everybody knows now at me just kind o given over view if you don't know what the what
do over all operations that were taken place or portion in the the camp dragged or fortunately been talking about which is where this building for mental
jacket was was on eastern remade and the first to five six was responsible for eastern part remote the real dissout eastern in its mother sections but where
the sea paton was or to feel sad now as a place smaller group was work and was inside this area can them a lot district and as the first of first if i o six
would do be clearing operations you've guys were go out and primarily do sniper over watch although you of course you did you did all her stuff he declares all
that but the primary mission thank god you want to snipe or school because you were to lead sniper and you and you get a lot of a lot of snidework over there
now as awesome well i am just right place right time you know it is a thought i can really explain now now now we worked to get work and we you know we pushed
the envelope costal but we were no better than anybody over there just rest hungry you know we they wanted it so bad and i maun we shut up there am the colonel
you don't say his name but am he was awesome you know i'll i may do i wish he was running for president absolutely i dave i would i would vote for him and
obviously i would vote from a instantly he he was just on the little hill on the campaign trail ye can hardly to onotawah an awesome guyed you know you talk
about communication from leadership he talked about a guide okays name by the way i sagene al now he is it's very obvious who it is the commander the first if
i oscuri the battle remote a hug guide by the name of ronald clark unarrestable able leader and i ye dan unbelievable and ronchard twenty twenty the itata
awsome awesome guidbye he one had to dilettante with us where we wanted to help him of corn hegesias i need help you know that's one the allerly on a life as
like mostenses like people that want to be health but they want to help and he knew that you know and say like as any help or losing guides every day this were
wrong on ty here's your arlways please go get some and were like yes i this is it and we had that connection with them and you know just being out to go out
and work for them was phenomenal there in just this awesome i may ah the deltoid commander for such a good relationship with those guys and was an enow my
relationship with him yea i mean he was um just solitude in blinded to get after it gesanges after it and wanted to get after it as much as human reponsible ye
and then some intent little bit more yes and with a little bit more of opposites ye was great great combination a ya you did a lot of those operations sero
yesindeed owe all standard was that standard at the time o day time presents which trolls get some nine when i did that i care the mark forty six o bonfons
belt had action and it was awesome mulotter wiegandt another eight hundred rounds on the front and and i had another two hundred in the back so twemendous with
body armour corned smoke slaughter and that's what i was trautwetter to begins like one of those first big operations we did out there and it that's what
afterward that's from that's where that reveries from his see you walking on being okay a guess all those way that he acted during training with paint ball
he's got actian way right here out when his life on the line either walked on it was cool cause i hither walk on point more were security causation and on that
you anamain got up frightened you want one in the back of his heir come in from the rear i just remember that you know first pushed out your retaking about the
first real firefighting to this cut these dues and half and it was also in a you know is the everything the curcas going to happen happen heyya within this
manetime friend start coming out here's a they do they come round the corner then they distract you that do this and and this is when they attack opensteek i
mean these savages were just coming out as exactly how we are told he was going to come out as balantine that helped us given more respect for the army that we
worked for because they could have decided go get some but though i hay go get some income back sayin continued getting some yet now that the turnover that we
would get for those guys of sooveneers sional ism that they had like what you're talking about i like the the charley company commander yea crazy joe they
intend he was freaking also and one of the things that he would do and this one i said ohetity all the next level he's doing something that athenienne
rethought of every time he went on patrol in the malad he was recording it he was videoing it and then he come back and review every street corner every
building every sign post he knew everything about it he now that city and he he took his job lot so seriously to her with it was phenominer the doubtfue
commander had told me that he was doing that or we knew that and it really emphasized us to hay we need to know this area just as well and it eident take long
i i i try be cocurring but within a couple of weeks like i didn't need my mouth or i knew it i delayance it i had to atone to a fort i find edalo at it back
all that this building they will pushing over her second sandraque and go but like i i knew exactly where i was that old times because in those guys did and we
needed to know that you can't have a toanni when you're in a firefight you know or you are a guidardone you know and those just everyone you know just ernother
dio in calego shot just like i'll never forget that you know and knowing exactly where there at and there's all confution leaving alice no we need go
dishwatery just started running that way you now could you to share my kit opening up and the badge and travel out you just to foster in a firefight and you
just don't know what's going to happen and we're tryin to get to castle could and was just like we got i mean we legit got their sausage could and it was
because we knew we had to be prepared you know and thomasine we didn't know where exactly they were where we were and use sitting here like transit a mayordomo
when you hear your boy over the radio like habit shot and shot and you just hear he huge machine gun just going off your dislike like but did the boys were
with obsidian or deep breath say were we on you he knew her abbatiscellani go you know exactly and he could easily could have got us there but he wanted me to
get their closes with no i wont marautherin aralia he to be worried on that you see work in two radley to get in cottonwood a figure out a haywire tanks in
here to move the city down to get her boy out in and get him to the hospital you know and so the whetestones that gee saw tomarite there was that desist
significant gaslit we had we had some other guys get fagged a little bit but that was the first one a cawiage shot and about losses leg nathian he's a stud
feasteth ceaere is it cheers a leprous or their spots yea no davout ney still warrior inside and a solid delegue kill his story about were like when i went to
see it charley madesimo jup and we we rolled in there no bilik went to shake his hand like a brohans ke and in like when i grayheaded up he grabbed my hand and
he let pole down right in any anneslie in my ear and he goes let me stay oh yeah hersilie i'm like they had rowed peeblis lie in my ayankeeados like hero let's
make sure you healed up and i think you're going to have to leave and he's like just hesitate me stay his idler all all all clean you know but islet me stay
you know and i was like brow where is just go on held up if you have to go go i held up wiring about in a course on heel up fast up cause his pretty jacked up
to get a farm of pecorone his leg that entered like down by his knee and accident up by his growing as they had to faraday's lucky as like babington lay so at
gatigara in his hole wife is all some all right when you know what you are thinking of there's one more of that i was thinking of besides the kind of urban
snake roberts you were doing a present to drawsheet cool off that was a little bit more like latin iris occabot how oh you don't want you don't it's not like
you see the movies because it best nigher over watch position we got a bunch of people with us yet we have twenty fifteen twenty ten thirty people yet a lot of
people to be in these buildings and whole security all that it was in movies the always portrayin two guys at a middle of nowhere and we always go yet i let's
not that realistic boat you guys actually titillate always did i long for i was pre awesome um yes so up in the northern sophia we are getting to hammered by
mortars now discontent we knew that sort of the coming from so ah we get dropped off i will i'll station north of you know the moabitic and and we do did a
patrol oolahan for jollup there and i remember you were you hugging the river transloy rivers we can it's you know you go from the dry is dead city to this
lush vaticanation and you tryout through that and just like i do and like the all the egidien am although he had had just got after it like i always respect to
them but that just brought in a new level over spect like this we have night vision i didn't emotion and duly and this goes hard foreloathe area north of
remote that was like well irrigated by the river by the frail it looked like the etna deaf they had pale trees it had like patties and dikes and all that stuff
in it looked like vietnam ye an lay with occabot the other day as i gather is like the bow pulling a plough type situated up looked like any enough he was
crazed sanguis we go up there and i made as we had dogs our fanes am i can't say i name he still in but always he carried a a impaired empty five was subsonic
round saiwas our dog killer and ah it was pretty funny inside just you know these are bad savage dogs salonian im an foller yet not the other you know barking
giving water location so we you handled them would keep going and am we get set up at night and you only kill besonnen you know work rotherline that's round
river cause we we don't we need the boats to come in support us the can come on we can get out as extract out there and am on some munder we you know we have
changed it into a stock like we were caring gear froglike three or four days right like it's almost physically impossible carried that much water like and all
your moind a everything else like that and so we get a dan and i we change out gayoso's remember like thinking lyddite the like you see like the ambialet like
coming in through the trees where were all i hiding up the gayest their premier were in or were in our gillison we just booming while the other guys like us
awesome you know gather there or turn around he goes and you go to gone like you just disappeared in the dark and you know we went got set up you know like i
said ah ye the badger was you know he had either was a sniper you know so i learned a lot from him and by the time we bought had a good amount of experience
actually on the gun and the what not and so he was a no no ego with them you know what a disease like easy backs i came in was what rede what he thinks my
easton then the day on the camwood change the tags like light all was to do that and so we end up begin in this area that i mean it was the only the the
opportunity for where we had to be was an ideal you know we legitimately were on the other side of these bushes all in the open it was like thick bushes around
us so we could vegetable dan but we were out there by ourselves and we knew that and we after we do recallings a catseye we can go this is a gainly place we
can go to be able to you know get these guys and so continued to as if something happened we are going to have to wait a while before the gas could actually
move to position to provide cover fire and you know everything else like that and rearrival you know not a deal hensol cool we have pistols and fiords you to
me and so you go off we get venged up we you know help dedicate get herselves in the position rogasen like colander neath the o the drag bags which revenged up
and we had our pistols out just cause i mean there is i know people can't see us right now but there is the distance from me to you we had people walking past
us and i was just on those things we were three four five metres away is he a five meters as the people walk about axes walking by us and we're out there you
know all to attent with day as well as things rikaat pe you you not trying to drink too much water youtsey the same time we like it's hotill sicatuna o enterin
a gilly sigurd sweat most of it all anyway as let you know cothope at you like slightly roll over dig a hole relieve yourself cover back up and lay back on
talinont was good though um you we actually ah with got mordred at that position and um we are we got lucky aknowen tely had our angels there because you in
that up auradice raily and am everything around us was his kind of poor up lakalatcha and athanatesi y one thing and you know eversilenced do we stay here we
moved them on a raised so he luckily he ll they didn't love us you linshart latino cover for a while war trying to move back to them so we just waited a little
bit made sure like we weren't trying to get succor out to your ambush sornething and then we just slowly man her way back to a group we told all happen i mean
did mean in him were pretty jacked up from that like we are thrown up like the just the blast and anything i say one to aniething added i i had no idea of her
a couple of em but like they rocked you that hard then they were big we were throwing up the whole patrol back on and how the theayter waldron up an we all for
we won't have blood in our arenas after that andy was just i mean a spunge what i i mean we we got the guys and you know we called in a counter stuff and we
came back and everyone's happy cause they did get more to the basin gethered for while i i mamrat that the laundry guys he know his gayer there dirtenalan dry
like they're so stoke that we did that were like man ward worse out we had to do that you know a name i halesome they would come and like comania our laundry
for us what you now were good like this is awkward howiseon go pick up your boys long like wowerus it was really colgate you a stumpily outside the box that we
hadn't been doing the time so we have got from and it just came from good playing we had like so he had salelesi so when the good plants and place it to ye and
it was the mount of of stained combat operations for the whole past or was it was it was damp it was n't a credible of temple down he was eikhoff ap ap ap
every day to one you that to eat three elements going out for on uses all the time he so we start getting towards the end of this deployment and obviously
remark do killed on ariston and i then to temer twenty ninth ah might get kill yea it were i mean we are we're not we're not done operating by any stretch we
get a bunch more operations but it was definitely winding down at that point yet we had to start thinking about the reader piment o and ah a men were all
packed up i member could we were in at etah at a grigory more yea we had guise at were yearne of the guys at had come back from coregos we started trying to
filter dies back and was soliaco mad at a come back you think about every day when i feel the singer i i you know i cut my inger down to the bone and ah the
actually had to candace out ah to go git surgery oathings said thos gonos it cause we try to work on our cross street at the age station which those gather for
nominal called bat medicine there and when they were like do we need a bird for you to lose finger um don't put on to mander and the badger were i do we out
yet absolutely you an i went back ground some gear and am yet feel that every day we just hard am i got was only of a wasn't on now and every time we will now
always to a group prayer for the guys they didn't matter if there was a hay we have to go in now don't will you come and er or the badger or somewhere that kay
we got to get garou i said geo paring would roll and that was the only one that i wasn't a part of and a hemi was my idol gunner and now he was always next me
when i was doing my nippewa ches and he was next me when i was rocking point you know it he need it up gunner and jacinta got a little crazy towards last half
the deployment started to walk and point with three hundred woman and i get was there and i'll wasn't there you know and i know so well the good news i got to
go home with him yes ye got a scorebone home which was in like anything if you know your like cool you get to be a part of that but also saint time you
issarell shitty to be a part of of how i mean my ioways like he wanted to be there and to make sure everything went well and i just remember a flying back and
just just just staring at the flag over his coffin and all and some guns we on lane the casket and we went up against it and yet it was just get a bring him
home was important to be a part that but ah you everybody felt so much guilt and i we all we all try to keep each other counterblaste this is war you know mike
save the lonely you know and we made an impact there in so it wasn't like it was for nothing and what he did i mean the guise lies that he saved the all now
have families and kids you know covered kids my car the easy out and just like he always did he never took the easy road he took the harder road the road that
would actually make a difference and this time was a live lot of those guys around him and he was just the ride back of men is thinking about all that and he
was also kind of a a blurs will you know like i remember he is like this rubbing the flag and laflan's always been very important to me remember graduated how
weak an to seem to be flag fly and then you hear it in the national anthem and to sing it over one of your boys caskets was just brought a new level of
connection and love for that amazing flat that we have and as her eyes out there i just would just rub the flag just rationale i had flags i care with me on
every point every mission i still do that sometimes make my wife a man do well just i'll be doing something and i'll find a flag and i just as karait and she's
like she knows you know she's like bentley old trigger in all just by your point on just is i think about things again and i thought my kids ate and cora and
nola to love and respect the flack like whenever they see a flagged like daddy daddy your favorite thing daddy is that i favor a thing you know they love
getting american flag techir and shorts ah they felt so america in cowboy boots of course my daughter's want does now and i've been honest with my kids you
know my boy aidance my bones boys my step son alone to like mine you know he he asked me about the flag and wiio important to me and i totomi know it was it's
been draped over a lot of caskets of my buddies it didn't make it all networked overseas he such a special kid he sulke that makes sense and you know it he
just he sees the flag and i explained to wiliams and he's even said hal i'm sorry i flagstaff mass tekin' no wine what he knows something happened he knows
what it does to me and goes like you that the five are half made omething is a horrible happen and he knows that in one so i just lay member yoletta you want
to be stout but there is no and then we continued on to san diego and i just try to mentally recent for cupid's your back and san diego it also but it just
didn't it yea he had nothing you know cause he knew your waiting to receive your one of your boys motion so it didn't matter where we were he did matter were
in santiago like we didn't want to be intended we wanted the maccarese still on when when we went to hominy to put him on the bird and casket was open the
tower just fire and by and on and i remember you were head to me were walking until like a mill van and on it was a miaowing astinaco millenial nolan and you
were had to me later you were on your durley road at my hand you walk in and you know you you you o you took at last legerment your hand on the anna casket and
you turned around and i was right you know we are smoking of each other and when i saw your face the look in your face is i felt super worried because i could
tell that you were tore up and i said to myself a man jocundity fucking game together right now and be strong and you are and that's what we needed and gas
like the doctor potenciana super super strong for us but he saw them her amy everyways hurting you know it was you that the ployment you can't not be close
with somebody you know pessime like quite heman but he he knows i like my sleep and so he make sure i didn't get my sleep the just cause my ketele and we were
we you know we are rollright next to each other you know as backings corner he's over in the southern corn and there was a sheer plywood betwen to do us and
are you he is always like myself homes so he homes you see it on like ye i'm trying to whom he said i a cool he'd open up the tarp you know the wall came you
tarphe for my door and just come in is soundly aceeded of mike what's that money is a novelist to i just talk about family style and he could tell as long as
on the mind you know and to masaarah the news absolute thirsty traveler that me the thirsty traveler all by now but in a way i guess what an wash the thirsty
traveler because it's a couple of times around a hero like a transleet like just good do you think you know what i mean and he had little hold that he carved
in the plighted her cracked tim light that i am pushed him heredatary and hector out sleeping on my i'm going to strangle his gateby it was my boy might be you
know i like her as my boy am now we're real close to work out and nonviolent now we should write three by other and he was to the ponatah's finishes i say all
it says if he did that with everybody yet he was hard not to be close to a m it was um he others a different connection when your hat when you re legitimately
i and war whether boy now that's why all the army of marine guys that we start with like in time i see i still see some of them want to well i ran to my ran
into one of them up in ohio and was just like de and i just i was up there on selves tripping i did dished myself seemed gaystone how or tennis and then as
beatris were i think the other one my boy may call and ran in to wells with themselves saying to come on you it's just to that connection is it's hard to
explain megas know how t is doin you just do and call that sports where you're wrong with guys and you you would give your help against cut way and to all his
stuff like there's that bond in that connection take that times at by a thousand and then add some more in that the connection you get with these boys had come
that so i esteward i mean and part of it is let's you so i am like i reread my sleeve i i just connect and attached to people very closely and you might get is
is it was it was really hard and mad that's the look that i saw your face as the look in her satiric i was like and i know i mean obviously i know what kind of
personality you have i knew a kind of personality you have and i saw that little of the devastation and it was first in because we'd been together relieve were
we hear the news we you know but it was the first time that i saw your your look where i was almost like it out was the first time that you really realized
that might be was gone that was it there i am right a wrong well not to look in your face i was like okay he he is he's dead the state a right now and at a
show i thought to myself and again i mean i don't i saw you as my little brother men for sure i don't mean that man any kind of derogatory way in any sense but
i literally saw you as i my beloit le brother no and so to see you just devastate like that and i knew that you were looking at me like a wall look at what's
jocondo and i knew that i knew what i had to do yet was i had a show like listen this is what we do so we are get your ship together jocko and and a handle
this and not saying i didn't you know not said it was a a a robot but i knew that i had to maintain when the strength you have to it in that so that you guys
get go all right we're going to be okay what what have we but he now be pounded into mine since but when the fight like if you're in fight win the fight when
the fine fight right and right then not our fight was you had to keep the guy together you know that's why i thought i seabury at right you get shot east hurt
you take care of yourselves because if you're in a firefight your boys are going to win the fire fight first to before they can take care of you that's just
part of it is how we operate and you had to do that verlooten that you're the highest leshi position like a just and sane thing like i have a got myself
together you know just cause other guys in the tune like a thought or lyonel if they looked up to me as well and you know prescott appointment you is just you
had to keep yourself together you know and i was just as a weird weird six all first time i experienced that i at that lisa now i then you know obviously
mitaine would you were at it not is you wasn't there because like you said we we were still up the old most of us were still in iranean had he had to finish
out the deponent and and do the turn over with the gustaving in from from ten five and you know that was that that was another thing was just you know i would
not oceanlike it even when we were talking prior proudly recording to day you as i hates dthis is kind of blurred me like him is asking you who went home you
mean i was at olga you know these gas are gone okay here what i had yet false next day i like golden get dragged down or think about that he more cause i had
to like said i had t do my work i had to do my job and you know i think that's the good thing is forgive it were he to go to the funeral and everything it's
like you get in you got to get that like eticore you know who wot the old guys i were older that we were just being get that you know to a got home the
alligator and in you know get to go see my degree and and am nepotism and get to know his family and and get to be together again as it as a true prince oldest
things are kind of how you you you go from that anguish damoisel say for me the very anger of the eye scattery on the potent when you get home you go gay now
we can get this stuff out and discuss it and at least be not scots it boucaning to you jap already to talk to you about it you know i know but we can we can
settle it you know he and i think we guyandot do that when guys don't think about it when they keep it buried all the time that's when it can be really
problematic is i know you you got it you got a you got to face a fact and you got to be okay with it eventually that pay this is what happened you know and you
know when we talk about life who who's i i guess you could say you know who's to blame and i told this to multiple people matter of fact i told everybody you
want to blame somebody you being the fucking moose as they're the ones that did this absolutely dead that's what happened and what we're going to do is
concolor of bloom aningo kill more of ye so that deportment obviously was a was it was a game change for us for if you gimbaled on our lives and and you know
everything really that that we're doing to this day and you you got home i moved over to you take over the training command there you started another work up
at you got her yet so should am he owes the desert a smoke now just you come off like a plummet initially just so kind o that up minotti kind of it was messed
up with the whole nikitin i remember i went and told your brows i can't i sang back on like to let me rest he's like okay and then he wenona's meagerly rage
that knowing that not ware's going to do and i i'm driving no optician leave he is like a ah i know you said you want go to pay calm but yet we need to get
after it again so you're going to go to aagain or in our posy i've cast and i was like a rod ye i don't even know i said that now like a resisting he dislike
ah you logodaidaloi ah no they swished all up so that i remember they be they were so i eyes as they there day i so now is going to be ill for bravado doctor
articulait the bruiser they tell it instead of keeping it together though there was all the experience in this to pontus it in keeping it together they despite
erybody apart the different potencee produce has these guys in their potions with the locomotive a gale past ye ever was fired like superfeminine start look up
and am ri my shoulder out of joint marat one and it was bad will not like i done that multoties before i can rout it nienty know don doesn't work are getting
it on and my shoulder came out and i just relocate the shoulder and the insoorance on and as to the bad one so in a pavender that erico you know you and sergey
you miss willett work up but you know we catch it up we'll get gone and when i'd sergey punctured my break in nerve or descendam age to it i would actually
drop stuff and ah can't be in it actuated when you're dropping stopping i ran and by a cause i was at reaven just i couldn't grab on to stuff for i would just
drop stuff a sudden they pulled me and i want to buds um for a little bit as an endoctriner and am a good time over there learned a lot about he owed
professional is omen you know things change you valves and you know nan so whatever to trade that with you as an um he am a zooned me over there and was
awesome you stepped in to you a salt nan were reading all this he keener training and even tried it was awesome to a morton for you again what is all my yes
yet half dress it should be he asked absolutely and am gernot trade it about good leshi and bow lettershes you know there's some guys that trade it um that
hadn't really done anything and jackassing those guys out of there not in a battle way but tis like he man like you're not getting beyond the war is really
being a on foal training you calais getting intense training needs to be intense and it needs a comfort gusty have experienced or are willing to listen to the
guys of the serenity that you know and so you eat really shaped and changed the the platform or training for all the west osiander proud to be a partlet and on
i learned a lot about leadership and growth the elean good bosses and abbointed up become the alport or i guess is now called south you know si ran all the
ironwork or training for a year and i was awesome i gotta learn now shillook with guys and naturally managed guys you know affectively like and am which it's
funny how you get on the outside and you're like man which do on the holtis no they deal you have read of the team for you like a charge of like a hunter
pocillator and seventeen instructors and would justitiae and make surly training i sat up and managing the guide that neleta with the other unit that were
talking to and this time on still only twenty four you know maybe twenty five i don't even think i was twenty five but i was twenty five you know and maybe and
a sergeant in a lot about that and am not as pretty cool and then i sent a time it sees which every good team did love course servant warfare and marfario and
am no atom really good bosses over there as well my boy chuckie still man saw respect hers name as well all we actually live together and i worked for him and
that was a huge lesson of you which would all at behave in the teams as balancing personal professional you have teams are very tight you know you'd go out and
drink in what your boss is hang out with them and then not work the next day but different when you're living with somebody and a man i was late for work or
day were on the road and i sinecural lay he sakeen be late you know something of lineage down on it like a minute late right to athraminaurian not i really
fall on restriction like military thinks about it but it was like he was like gay you gotta do deifobo s old old go to day where i got to do all the work you
know and and it was good though you know she is i expected that offer my i knew like i made a mistake i gotta pay the man and he allynating a hard position you
know which was unfair to him and you know you can't be doing that to your boys you know like you can't take it down like oh my boy's my boss i can do this no
my ways my boss will to work even harder for him and you know and that's what he is again went sat was myself and yet it is a couple of times like her at it me
down and we just talk came anyone can't be doing this dogoned be focused on this and he really helped with my professional didomen yerely helped him help me
learn a lot of stuff attatai was able to apply to the outside and be successful in um he so a great friend of mine he's got a beautiful family and it's just
it's just it's awsome seeing him grow over the years as you kickin at the total git bass like the god caiguira one work for him you know and so our lot is at
that i learn from him when i replied i for outside and a spent also and you i mean you ended up on the outside case you may anthesin cue to get out yet and i'm
a quarter i hate to give in as you pass if you know no matter what you've done or how long you been in for if you ever get out of his items you are quite fixed
so i said the tales you and get out at a pretty much based on your family right yeah i got out a head already had i fell marriage am i a son a tear in
california to ever get to see because his momkes also and am now at a manda and just i mean she's low my life he shot amazing she deals with me and deal with
me very well i ever vig props for that thing of a very dear that is work of a dishes you know he was more three hundred you know the queen ye do her right a
hundred per cent you know and am you know she was remote san diego with a with aidan all superfine up about that and then ah she's pregnant like i'll get cold
so still hoping and then bernoin she's like er no not leave him almami support group i remember so mad and a costly issues cause i held on to the anger longer
than i should have you know and am a just so angry and upset but now that i look at it he or she just small town mississippi girl home i mashed gorgeous you
know she's awesome but she's a small town grow and you know sometimes were back home shall be dragonlike can draft of your cuden't and driving the traffic on
you know the road the made road i think about that on like that like no traffic here in san diego so wouldn't have been fair and then all tents like for me to
expect her to move to san diego with aid in and a you know taking hanway from his bad set wasn't really fair but i'll amani could relate to that and he her
parents are all some so then alcander friends he should give support group in its like in our uman and a couple of things didn't work out when i had screened
the ad another surgery when i was out and i just took it out of hit me on this may the time i need to move on it to good chapter my life amazing chapter that i
never forget and very importance to help mould me as a man ah but i have solutely was not in i was not not going to be there for a man donakins you know and so
i got out and he's a lot gazer upset about that in a team you know and me yes you and a couple of the guys at home on a as there so active you don't but ah
look out out and i was a rough transition you go from a born an ratingaite california and lived in san diego at hollis army inside lavendie the whole time in
the navy and then i in north mississippi peal of some as a just man he talk about collyshog it's cold or visit you know i used always love when they go out
there for work but you leave it out to two weeks in howland i'm living there are a just nothing but with the south or re live it just for me is a huge change
and i go from being a seal to an nondoing sales at a financial cabotian al company which of course i get after it so we have to provide for your family but
just the transition and i made the mistake not reaching out to be full and asking an out but you know marie um or my boy still and low you know baby has a
nickname i did reach out to macombie he was real solid he would reach out to me he became an hit on how is dave really doing you know i talk to about stuff
he's like me a good rough i we need to you know whatever the times worries i care won't you he is now what you need to do and you know a chucky sane thing
cuckold reach out to me as well and he'd come out there for training and he come over and hang out the family and the gay illuama boy you know in so i found a
jim and ah i knew animation was opened up right raton the corn from that i inside a boom yes you know the man and i came really close with a couple of guys and
shakes under wood that actually from you in city same city ern von was born and raised in a so they already knew about him and i didn't tell him what i did you
know had no idea what i did and ah forget it like a city as a conqueror and there like how and you know everyone in my killer together like well what you mean
you to work with the head i told him like a cool and ah ye a couple other if i or some agam joe passed and he and teddy like just pump voice you know like out
there they became riveted became my team tied by his out there like their cut from the same clock is as you know and just down to earth guys that wegimentals
they have my back out there and they it was weird because i never really explained much to them about my time in the teams but they knew i was having a hard
time transition it and they were just there for me you know they just out to jim they push me to my limits you know that i hate you grafting i like also you
know and so you have seven amateur mama fights and just a challenge of cotton weight and dust train with the boys and sparing and you i do as a stretcher which
is a funny or you acireale to videos and ah the ounces of like and terminate says he trains as a stretched very lax you need a oenothera have account else is
like it won't be next year i see champion and i had a horrible life and i hate my parents that i just see how my dad i don't awesome wife and make really good
money and am i just want to have all tresler you know how funny about like a nosesight and darn proves i need to make money i was just like a mistrustin it was
being round did a that was like my age ye hiding yes there's lighting his fun and etelka in making gun to fight with its fun to fight with your fists yea and
the pont du domitian your istenour points party or instinct as a human ye no should be well you are an he guess it i guess for some people not but for the
people that i know is part of her instinct as a human theseus he lodestone if you all to fight you know i shot a me what little kids little six year old seven
year old head after you bring any random six year old or seven year old boy into a giulay and put him on a room with patting walls and padded floor and you say
do whatever you want tegenaria in it other as the water work so that was my daughters an like i got on in gigito weeks before they turned three i had most of
the owners of jam and a jewel as a former team one guy his part on her leamy's a five time world champion and he didn't i believe his key for time world
champion no geillie he's had one points gordon him and last five headest yes that all that but jed bringing the team guy reputation into guipure all the
alemtejos just terit joel gingery i don't know tomontosa solid how ill yes he's fifty something hot out donnino he must ve been a testame it evisa tea one for
like eight years slaves when you went to the east coast a i don't know anyway seesaw a guy i i remember you when he started when you started fighting bear in
you like i'm got you like a bit a fight you you you said be taxed to ye oh yeah to me axelike ham in a upstart ma train and then like a month later like dot on
i'm i'm getting into it and then a month lady like brow i can't believe it to trade you do all the time to not i was to tabut like all tree with anybody any
time and you were trained with me like one a monk where you could have betrayed me seven days a week how it all if ourangoutang inside it is also passed and i
was like i tell people that i get so i basically could have been doing to go since two thousand five years ago he and pepita could have but yet now i just i i
i guess i never really got going to the taste like the like to stand on and all on editorial astonied yourself in eighty when you were talking about your youth
before and i realized that when i bring um pen guys on her when they talk about like their past determined it comes of all the time i do i do i won't like all
the eeheetoy like i was in the editress i you know i know i mean like in and then when i tell people i can you know i set down and find jocound have been
rolling and traintime and then when you opened your jam he and ostik echo in his brother and that even the way the hero and usually a little i was there but i
was always doing the stand up stuff he and i was reality just as you do get it and do any of em makotou know now a back a little general you'd upset about some
times i'll tell you like a heeler an idiot a mylidoth de lester and you know like as just what i mean a everything happens for a reason my aid done pretty well
so far i six one and ye the guys out there salt it he osolini i only read lastnight a hennything like sixty months the idea a injury it went into my last fight
that you my coach is rock on on you and joe do he's such an agitated just tough a people are terrified of on but he has the other side that people or realize
teemes have rest he upon from this flight like i can't let you get hurt you know like the nurture like you gotta take care of your boys cause i went into it
with no facial fracture from here dasher all these deeper still numb from it i devised him crush in ashes in a horny any discommendatory do get a fight with a
bear yet as sparring teddy holder on illogan a sebuyan my boys and andy year belthorpe j i mean zack holly's guys i mean just the otterton ah the eyelet after
a little bit less in your spareness now a galilean as well i saw it was pretty so that's the old schoolman i tell you out on that his old school you don't need
to spar like that on we know down and start right now you know in the guys of changed it up to a legally change in a cause guertin oot and five and a yawata
about like could be a whole nother podcast but they got really changes up um in so well you know when i got the call for that fight i had i'd fight not to his
close before that ah what is the guy had tough tuff guy he nodded arches like a grudge nather one thought we hated each other and you know we just do we sold
so many tickets hers in the same like the east sold over a hundred and ten tickets helicella converge eemitating a commerciante fighting the mid satiating it
like the next big thing and that i do know and so am i i was mean that guy a day shall go go you know he's also a dude he really is a really good guy you know
marie just we'd get after unsocial needed just to the alaskans were born a guess and that ah but came to an you not we had a tough fight you know what i mean i
am he i was it was awesome like you watch it were just waking fight i fought anywhere between one seventy two two o five for my first fight we run right now oh
to fifteen a not nice you feiendship agitator here not if i ouave to ufelefs nageishwer do you walk around like in the in the interior like one eighty five no
i that was my heaviest i i couldn't break one eighty five like i was trying to do in all the body building was a get as big as i could i couldn't never break
one eighty five and then my dad a good weight and till you get your thirties my whatever he's like oh okay because your body is a legion everything mine has
that every agenorean then ye get big but my first five the father two o five by only weighed one ninety ah because i was going to fight at one eighty five for
my first fighting but ah the tie only don't go by genio on social media because guys started googling jeremies and all ye i testified against jessie with whole
chris coming and what not he doodanies athenae sisitote there and sigh cheethan's why change my face what page geriatric his case you fiesole look that up i'd
like to my coach is like they didn't want to tell me and i knew there is something weird with jake and akin my dad i i knew there was something going on my
fighter backed out oh and then they are trying to find like another fiver and then he backed out i think is like two or three guys i'd sold all my first fight
over a hundred tickets also like i'd i'd people flying in from california trianut like or like drivest coast west coast washington you know my aunt and
anchoring out like first amager fit as you ridiculous right should have just travelled somewhere where it is better to godshall boufoons to antoinette you know
and am i remember to an ah my body jackey do i don't care if it's a heavy weight get me a fight like i can't not fight you know man that art will find i found
some gay and he had a a good amount of a fight to ready and i he cut down to two o five and i weighed in with shot dark flipflops like cullamore it's all
myself my pockets at one ninety one and and am news also is good good little foresight am got myself away to ampato it you shed i and i that one on video right
yet the additional i i i was leading at a round aihaigh o lud yes this is the japetes ly amp triteness in second fight a second round um to a second five since
i gain the first round a third fight which was helius and me as the man of it on this card for a third five shuteyetown a hundred tickets in outerwaite made of
men yea that's yeah not good for adding to unneeded stressful you know what you know what no kidding like in watching you your fights everything you do have
the amount the thing away but you you you have like a level of carisma that makes people one watch you fight now cause you're just fired up and you have a good
level christmastide your like a camberton macregor jokingly to laralia if you watched some o your fight it's like yeah decoyin the men south people go and how
on the roadeater it unsentiently tensure she come as a fight in south the tolleration fantasia to it you get omoiousios fights in all some ah marfort fly i
lost am i actually went in kept fit a head i was in the house or not as the doctors in audacter on his hospital like the week prior ah is cut down a one
suddenly again also ah what hand foot mouth is east and is that your method of cutting weight got to handle mouth as i and i wouldn't now renamed at all i had
to take this sum medicine to no my mouth and throat just to drink water so i did help with cutting way except try it was horrible a man that was legeny taking
care of me and like everything she's house of the press all my meals you come home a jam and she ate out i mean are you figure going to fight again yes jack no
she guilbot yeah it's an get a bond i mean you and your hat of rough rough low rough path with a man arrive yea yea we did um you a amorial think about that
sometimes just now were so lucky what we have we got a second chance you know we actually fallen how to divorce moved out a ominous you know she was doing on
this timon thing and am i i just came down to lackington which were i really look at it and we both look at it and we are both to being selfish which i i lack
a tried think that's not me and with a man to like that not her you talk about somebody who's not selfish i that's her like two extant but we just don't know
ye well it's it's bazar too and because you you are even indeed you were obviously extremely self less and but i see how these things happened for ever reason
with you with your fee giros it's like i'll do anything for you and i had situations with you where i've been like a i need the right now an oven like i'll be
there in three minutes and thirty seconds and on my okachon and and but for some reason guyon always a guide and girls both don't always do the best job of
dranslating that selflessness into that relationship at a whole that happens but i'm glad that you guys were able to kind of deal i want every that analised he
obo a year you know we doing one thing and am you would just kept gettin drawn back to each other and it was a kids and and you everyone says all my kids are
so smart do our daughters and aden are incredibly intelligent like you know a daughter will be five and january so this time frame know there there third or
three you know and they know what's going on you know and they're trying to hacayo know amadores like we you daddy if you mommed argue so much maybe we could
all live together and to hear that from your kids in a hostility it was rough was really hard and he did anything for your kids you whitewashing is the killin
that made you go you know what jack ass idiot you need to get a game here and make this work like one and in a hat massed did you use where you said okay next
time that she does this i'm going to counter instead of attacking or instead of getting to fancy i must con be like i so what manly giacondas i still loved her
like i was just i'm still you know head over heels in love with her and a head over him in love with my kids and i don't want somebody else raised my kids and
as you know like i would still pick him up and take him to school you know even though you know i say there's a pretty clear answer didn't what did you have to
change to you make it work when you went back when you was to her it i'm going to visit any role mind what did you do differently that's made it successful we
put each other first bomb and we learned to communicate you know and i was set in a man i don't know we both his head like this come to jesus with somebody
like i can't remember who i was talking to you i don't know who she was talking to and you know she's crafty she smart she knows how to deal with me or right
so she calls and she knows it's my weekend it's all obviously she's calling me to doctor kids and she was like a cannon doctor girls we absolutely on so put on
peak of pansies love you he cursed you want daddy to pick me up for a church so we can all go together do that was so pisan the course a girl like i i she is
not i was like cohesive and five minutes or i'm driving sinkee god and you she's waiting outside in his dress looked stunning just oiran i was at the beginning
anthene just learned to communicate with each other and we we put each other first and you know coverham exactly and he logiotatos move and we let ginrally
have to put each other first and set of you know just doing as a team like my fo is and i'm i don't do all a time on track like we have this perfect
relationship and iverything phenomenal now but we legeny try to put each other first and almost arahat we do to try to take care of each other and out of all
arguments that you we've ever had or anybody else is ever howterskate it was because it was too complicated something was complicated in messogis we just had
to simplify things let us go ahead to ah niuno law combat number too exactly real one covered weahkootnut keeping samiano talk about you that is that's when
you when you take a look at this argument that your insane go wait a second what are we arguor now oh we're arguing because i put my spaghetti in the microwave
before you did you know what i isolee you have this begetting first let simplicitate thing to ohourra of sudden spirals and do you know a major blow alif you's
not carinissima to atoms and and but i mean she is an alathea am an alamillos words like at times we just want to challenge you taller but they were like no
this is stupid yet oleineae instead of challenging each other one don't we work together in the howardian that i onotawah now we're doing it ah and then no i
mean and then is legitimately figure out what was priorities like we decided be so to be on the same page echo pray or things excalibar too at and a nenias
i've talked to a couple of pep different people about this he now we don't want you if after your saying it because it overmuch at times from people i like o
extremes i seed a barrage but i've never always said olfan i have never said like explained that made ye but now you're explaining to me out i it absolutely
doesn't it i always thought they focused on the ownership art meaning oh it don't worry hi imitators of his someone made a mistake here's relux it i'm sorry
it's my fault yet i was not that that's just what they were talking about but you are going ahead in applying all the laws of combat to your marriage and make
him things happen to the the gate and then in the human is the one that you know just recognized a lot of these these short falls that were having an we just
communicated with me and i hate hate if you're upset with the over something i probably been mean to do that on purpose so just let me now that's a good plan
to have you asked him for ye and now and so as far as us prior tieing things like we just be in we still we need to get a like an actual fallen detailed
detailed game plan for what we're doing but we realize what was important what wasn't important and some of these certain things like book the thing that truly
weren't important like i don't think twice about it if she doesn't either and we just focus on our goals for her business my business raising our kids a right
way trying to be involved in the church much possible trying to give back to others like those are our priorities not the stupid like what you said your coming
all my tan but you stayed out drinking wine with a girl friend and to loveno cares she came home to me she was relaxing with her grifins walked hush i been
gone for three weeks for work like she shot a stay at it all night and just relax your a man like hey how to sleep over at your friend's house you don't have
to wake up to the kids three times through the night that's what i should have done you know and she's done the same with me you know like i was covetousnesse
superstressed out or whatever and she was once you know what do we need to like what he will you need she like you an you need to work out in a cab what we
need to go do this right now she's like no what we need to do is a uneeda while thou and i can handle this thought and it's just been off me or not daylie i
think about it like to she such a hard worker you know and she runs everything and then she'll make sure you should i have a cup of coffee like all the knights
then like next me in the morning so i waypon and is just like you walkup early to go to that said now like i'll try to like do stuff for her or taveriis just a
one also one upmanship the attested as they iniopem wife doesn't start that game with me thou luini's hard though i tertasse is she so potful him crafty like
also like you know i don't know she is is he a sealife do in good heads really turn round and there's a real dark time i'm not going to i like there is the
divorce was rough you know and there are some other times before that that was rorans all drink a lot that can pantilers just because i had injured her elation
injure you second take his pan killer oh i can take two three and drink at the same time it is trinotatus that was going on which he is not the path to go and
not the patiolate know that and a yolanda i mean there's so many things in pre sure though man help me through but i renew went to the via cause i was having a
rather time sleep being in just my body and a rack turned out had like my body wasn't poducing test all strong any more didn't know that right on so didn't
know that but i got the a i come home with like a bag of like no kidding like eight different men that they want to me to start taking is like olga so i take
it first amalie she had like get me out of bed for you go to work some like a zombi and its start in then like the second day and he now saw artyom really
addicting an like i wanted that like no feeling and she was just like yarrowee person like quick like she recognized it and i we got off like a rosellini was
in the nanatsu like a four week and it was so hard for me not to take it like she had a set of my comtede to like not a thank etal in about away like somebody
who is like the but it was bad he is identified that right away not for any waist like oh i know and we should like no i perfection this like this is gone like
will figure something else that she's always in the one or he'll figure something else it and make make sure we you know work as a team on it so it's been off
a man she's amazing to his altimeter is this where is all this leave you right now will he got going on right now so i'm sorry my company called never settle
consulting you i did souse financial company for wild a lot of your relationships myself seem was all some a boy an to do my own thing am i wanted a little
more fulfilment it was taking time away from me being overdue what i wanted to do to be able to grow and you know and send more time with my family am cause i
had a second chance you ascend chance of a man done with my kids and i i wonder i do something that for filleth would help us grow you on i started ever
selinuntines god teaching i topics combats and shooting to long foreman a trying to work out some soft with some smaller military units and groups i and i for
a private of billings as well and i able to incorporate leadership and selves team bolding of tents into that you know just doing what i love and like what i'm
i'm decently good at you know as well and so had a couple of bodies who have said he and not a second struck or for this oh yes i help teacher along ranchoes
or interodoos and then tankard course for them as well umesh been good you know we pass up and down you know i've worked though with a couple of clients that a
thousan be long turned thing and i didn't but hey it's business you out on your own you lean your lessons you just keep moving forward him you will people like
why i never settle like do i get it it's also is like well i just miss being in the silkiness being around guise for the most part legitimity did not settle
with average or you know immediatelie saw like in just did a happen you you're always costly driving and pushing each other to be better to be stronger to be
faster to be smarter you know i remember until time like you come in the hay you if you ever heard a web site of mine no i can you set reading every morning my
okayanni print off the articles and i read them and holidome talk the ladrones like hey garottes me god actually boardwalk he is and so he and i just missed
being around that you know that not in that for the most part you don't find that in civilian by hillside you know in business he don't and i really wanted to
be able to have an impact with i want to work with the better in that have his shoes that are going through problems i want to give back to long for men you
know because i have a hard job man and here under founded their under trained and i just i i wanted to give back your enjoy that i liked doing that stuff and
it gives me freedom to be to choose you know to help out different projects and help people and you know man as been superior of him you know that the other
log of never settles win the fight the matter what you just win the fight and it's not a physical thing its life as a fight we all go through our fights we
just have to establish what we want like outarathan ers intentive your own commanders intent for you in your family your scrutore going to wander around and
you just connaway your life away and so i just you know and then uninitiated the usefie to it which means without fear helpers obstabat like you read about my
kit you know how far personator my fate and i believe that an i walk others to believe that i don't think a lot of people out there believed that an if we can
paint that message and i would love you know for my commentator like a life style you know and did some do wing got my logotheti's calf cause he's like i want
to be a reminder helenopolis kids names and the tatoes i do a daily reminder from me not to settle for overgone get after it in like all right i'm doing
something right oh you know all he had at his service support of a hat you know and cheeses to anything to help me out with him you know she has her business
and she still takes time help me cure mine so i thought as a man just helping people figure out what they want in life like this i don't think a lot o people
will take the time to that wish that and he you think if we can help that and if we can help veterans and if we can help the youth figure out what they want
out of life and where they need to go but i think you know we can actually make an impact mention it to important right now the others no doubt about that and
i guess that kind of brings us up to speed for this or up the present day with with were jarano been a pretty good chunk o time i am probably about good for to
night and i obviously thanks for coming on the pond cast made one of the one of the best things for me about this pot cast is that their heroes like you that
people don't know about it as your from the past if people don't know about and being able to bring heroes like yourself and here is from the past to the
present time and let people know and introduce that there's warriors in the past you need to know about enters warriors walking with us to day that you need to
know about and that's one of my favorite things about the podcast is having the opportunity to do that and if if you like listenist bogus what i believe
achochre can tell you how to support the podcast i have a question all manahatta it that all up i remember ah alethe dead met you long time ago before i
actually knew you real good mum you don't be real good now was that my aungellys on an actual listening to you now like you can eat a realize like you live in
the moment a lot er yes i like i remember we are sitting at the women had susianian for it a man like what one was that because sederson to do so yea what um
and i remember you and you had another guy with you but i'll get to my body ah um cart yenowine member em we're all talking about in a way be out talking and i
hear you kind on the sight her like like this good man you know you sicago people you know we're we're doing so you know kind o like you are totally it's like
you're explaining to him but you're a aint yourself like what it what am i experiencing now a canoo is this how is this a almost like yet this stuff coming up
and your but your living in that mollie like this like with his stories with them like a hen mentioned like that an i saw ambient light coming down is often
shows me what like why is that do you think were i mean is there is ivick reason these goes a lot of people not like that nor a they'll be like over must do
this i'm excited or that thing happened in that so that's why it whatever and they don't really in enemy of always been like that um he now my parents taliesin
joy what you have you know he did it doesn't have to be material stuff just enjoy the life that you have and of also always realized that people have a lot
worse and then after two to pointments you know cimeter my second appointment a guide see tears i had seen evil first hand i'd seen actual oppression not what
some of these idiots are talking about right now you know we'd seen he no kids with underwear on and sandals in the streets and that all he had i've seen you
know women holding their kids crying you know i've seen guide us kids and human shields because her cowards and i'm getting to sit and enjoy so she and san
diego california with my best friend curtis from high school and a new group of guise that i met you know through other team guys in a like and life is good
when the agnolella that's me heretofore has a right of riparian want it probably i did some convincing he couldn't portrayal ground to try the idea my pearly
trated commencing as i allride on that yearly also second thing what am i did they find out why you you were you had like you weren't perpetuates i'm just that
betrothed in the sacrandum portuary glance or his damage and dusted pretty bad from the from the blaster seewee free arm from that last and just a multiple
like explosions and blares and an we o brechin charge to open of doors he had riordan fight in the machine gun is legitimately going on tideshead that's
providing like caution that there's times after gun fight like i felt like i was just drunk yes i felt like i was dropped just cause i was just out of it and
so just that much and then discomforts and i was off like that and so am yennadon got me to go to the d a b get my a my level test said you normal mail were
supposed to be between six hundred and nine hundred ah it was eighty one yes bad and they were just like how like they called out in answer my phone cause i
got work and i was on the line or something like that and he called a man to like eating his coracin radway of course they freak my wife out righting or
something like that and you and then so goethe get it re tested again is eighty seven and now i are you in sir right now my look at me and we like among away
now then like when i was younger he i'd taken some real strong supeen for like maximilien places like that that had a montvaillant i'm sure that might of
adante you know i don't know nearly i mean i know it why i i i try to i give you know so out some of the sanguinary to jugeaient to be two hundred and five
pounds walking around yet nothing wrong with that or now i wish i could get down the two had a boyish my log as a road up and there howagat i you do this and
this i i am ill family i have to provide for i really don't have an other option societaire after it all it be to just be temalacatl another part member we
talk about where that's the part that you don't really hear that much about just a little detail like the you say in a gun fight if you're asking that is right
here and in any hit you do like some one hiding you physically or overwash to your sister yet i may i then ah i was a gone through some deities i'll try
kecheguramee early day where i'm laying down on the siparate and were in a big fire fight and they come and straddle over me to start firing off rockets and on
getting up last coming down just crushing me no i enameling right actually the eight of gaiskaesli my goodness i most like me coloring grants for christmas
next year something like sin and might away when you fire a rocket in training you put on two levels of our protection i had had none yet eat on eat her prone
come back your ears naturally squeeze for also yes he i member em all on my friends who had hettie through capricho too he talked about the um i think it was
like this the fifty callotis like blesing is like would just shooting it is like your eating punched in the fate aratoon tawaina considering we mount oliolles
in and if you don't have your for on the break in its impartial and i'm no call ayassalook like and you know i also leave driver so there is time for the
machinelike fifty cows right over us in the front like the barrels like siccatee a blast yaingahlabi just but it's part of that you know what an like i had not
changed any of that yet for greeting those details like two to some one who has the mindkind of a big deal cause you wash movies and the ashootin and they had
the resorts the guy shooting the guide on the street corner and all this stuff and then if you know those details you like wawah skipped over this whole big
cannetella ent of visitation i don't do i just somerscales stone a team see i just did under twelve years in the navy i didn't ardendo my full time and you are
of these guys i do twenty twenty two twenty five years like i'm just like do the hats off to those guys you know and like a gazers sine same guys i deployed my
talking about it like i did n't think specially as atene did something special here and is gatherton the fight you nother still deponent ll do im work upsot
battling divorce is there you deal with you babies being born and you taking care of their wives and your family and it's just like this so much efectos guys
an not a meaulte branches that we serpit and what we guys just to eighteen month uplyme sate moth the boy in a hayloft the point that he had to go home for two
weeks away through an i gaion home i like their families moodily desiderio liant alight i been ready to have a etherial askimoneiab from on leaving one iawai
like all my wife and kids are gone don't know where you my stepaside yooooooo her i don't how to do a mane ye in it it is you know jeanie talking about that
earlier like were visible well i definitely visible as telegi you will now be visible more visited even maintain a pretty low profile a thin to yah because of
your fighting has little but profile but um like you know you're going to be more visible and when you get visible people automatic we think that your special
in some way then like i'm telling you do nothing special here deftly not for me because you know like like that i did twenty years in the navy but okay greg
there's guys that do thirty years is guttiere different deployments as guest you know gewonnen in you like j j said you branch that out all the services you
and you know i'm another guy and and wears just alder guys where were have a little bit of a of a higher profile but that's not budoor you know anything
special we did just just with a way things shook out of the end so i was annalaka clear and unlike long forcement they're doing every day lenoncle they i was
telling about like you every day now we do at work up and then we just go get after for six months and come on to work up gogetter but he's like the ginrale
after it every day for fifteen plotters in your life to the twenty three year deployment ye to a combat now with limited resources limited support and then it
raining limited training and an a and a hostile environment or hold the criminal side and actually oftentimes on the civil side the apple that are you know
washout it that we officers from that whole other angle now so ho sen fortunate you don't what you questions mister charles ah for now hakelut i i do have been
news though you do my cornil came in oh got that crier's good news that is good news we are happy about that you latakia sharp carlingford carnis that the same
thing no cat not it's like wood good cloth wellsian gostrong by my dad got me on it but all all i'll get on what you guys have all you give it a ride he as if
you do away do on it the best one akawoias if the best one straight up the vessel on everyone knows that earnoopoo do i get it and i got it you go to on it out
tom eight if we donosor the pocatello are cause you hear ye on it dot com lashed jocatore your wallet tempered of the day saving and the best well get her a
enamels is not yesterday before i can nearly an i know i know you know you guys are done with on it and all that stuff but it is that the only supplements you
take for real as a get that is criollos trentotto but i'm not that the supplement anyway desertation your your your reniegues but ye can support that way if
you're in the mood to also the amazon if you this pentitently the whole amazon thing like hot hodshon fit in the whole eminiki annahow but gave you click
through when you do shakanim one click through for he do shopping clithroe the website a jocose or jocasta athos boomist that way but so how does it fit in
right so it's kind of like okay wore her putting out this message right and people who like click through here they buy shirts or something like that they're
kind like the backed up penalities him it you know there actually the four supporting machinism never mind the back of yesterland after all the felsite awaits
these that on that's likely they're like the reinforcement you know there folliot in haitienne yes the injuriousness very good foredooming and soles the amazon
click he that the good on good with a support ness poncasar im an of course subscribed and great yea yea i used it vyuktavudhootu asked us a lot right in a
animosity made out there so pocatoligo have to really quick story here's word comes trotere's that guy whose name is had not a lot an had not till lo runjit
furcifer clare okinaga but those of us that speak with a fake portuguese at acteon time to time with the say hanahana um there's a a a video production company
called flickin videos witness which is echoless company and they did a series that he stared dispelled master and a shallavan and my son actually was very into
the anapoda and there in in being into the programme he started to adapt his own face silian portuguese actonian since he speaks no porches one soever he
distantly does the the pigeon of it and any ads words or or part to words that he thinks in his mind sound like they might neurotoxin so one day he said to me
in a broken imitated fake fortunes accent he said that are you going through a cord that poncasar i said yes i am and then that is working from it doesn't mean
anything it doesn't have any spelling it's just my thirteen year old son it with his comedic vie none on yes so he and to but he where he how he got that from
or a wahigoon his paces the that's like the driepps and then pull her in boito thing right right bosius like the expression it's like it means on this pacific
but it's it's ultimately it's an expression of olly olive be clear here is also a very bad word yes yes he had eelios when we're not on the orethwart a very
bad swollered in portuguese at pot ower late slaying its to make so is that i this bulwich means we are a onheedin saying odorous poor or boissin poor because
he atossa all the time there so that he only violently son when he says it is part castebound line but that's work came from you when we got to listen to that
parasha right here he theories crazy what our kids say yes i see me in still we think of it that still kind of a enemies explanation really so where does that
leave us you know like all k so when time on a initiating them i oh i guess it does mean is that which alabout this particular haste ye who are excited about
it yester are dalis pon so back to the support thing um we now subscribe may have an radiate good way to stay in the game you know when they knew he comes out
it just pomotous or listen ready onomato and now i'm on it an you too gentle for the archomenoi think i'm gonna do a a moribondi video see how that goes over
we won't go over well with me allsop's got to do to have you parastat everybody loves it and let's get after a less crush people must do the darkness and i
renew comedy that he is that we are going with his ear i this is the oliver looked to that gene i can impede let the troopers beside on that one year also
jocatore that's where ah you any slang techir em but it's less about selling shirts it's more about haf you want us support the popcawn i wear cosser with
multiple layers bytheway talk about the layers but listening to a thing about the late findon's but is more to it in just the same you know she elynion meat in
sounds cool was that mean anyway doesn't meaning darkness does'ent all the shirts have a controlling behind to insures the one that your whereforeness says
jacopone best just the mahelaite back you can see the meaning o there you go the dignafied aaetas got a layer yoaring of a well anyway women stuff coming out
to take up the already out but the women's tesire coming out as well just managed all the girls tirewomen and as small a date some girls was somewhere in art
that muster on bessarion about some stuff i told him for netheravon in force some that's a new patches he to the three by two that so there they can feed on
the you know the standard teucro situation and i think and is like a tan color right is like the official callers and athenian for the troopers ever going out
was the azarara f de federal dark earth ye good cusero gold that and if i end up and there the bunch of em yestate eat but i got the new six three twenty in so
sick and i pervade one for a man to fecondite twenty compact and indeed lunatically that coincidently really help was looking for a long time for that awesome
in sea all asteroid too and i look at a multiple layers like i said just just me on that and that those of the wastest if you're in the you can awarder the
poncas by buying some jocolate jes giv you want to just improve every single aspect of your life hispano if you if you want to get some tea he can get if you
don't think you like tea you probably will like this to cause even though technically tea it does actually been taste like p a i taste like a neck dersane to
try i can't explain it israelites couple o days eh and all the master and man is also its tasty and plus as we know from the amazon revisit is added as a guy
who dead left went from four hundred pounds to eight thousand pounds in his hat a seven thousand six hundred pound increased legi a retaining our den left to
and so that's great the again that's good to go so did yourself some sonatas on your on amazon even pack up get yourself a copy of a abolitioners that rope
with me bother la babin and the thing is if you have a copy that's cool get a couple more you want to have one stand by because sometimes you just you dealing
with someone at work and all was sudden now realize it or not taking undersuit something it's no problem you're not you're not stressing out just reaching your
dusky graviore evie and take a quick look at this right here policeman down the china command now when you do that now will be going to make verifed er cause
they're going to be old to figure some stuff out your also make your life easier because now you're so rounding personnel are in a game and you're taking
extreme on a ship in an of it o thou have you cause melanie lopatin i gontemblate nikita's the question people out there belike he what i do when my colleague
is not taking the three motor like well well woe room an he just leitner nature of you saying hey you're not a taking extreme oneship that you not take it so
on show so you all an now you you're only i your sin he i recognized this situation of you doing and not doing certain things let me take action what can i do
to take a tremilse over this situation right it's true that is true of tetaheite also you know as you are on him as on just just nod your head a little bit say
thanks to brederen brady trooper who has been the back side supportable with all kinds of stuff on shortbread for getting after it that micky he's getting
after a technically deinotheria tyonok about the mister to whole muster in sinigalia um it was freaking also yes he it was it was really cool we had a bunch of
people there the the guy that helped run the event name mat you know mum he's been running of vents for twenty something hears any andecave up to me two hours
into the event you know this is after people were pitying it for forty five in the morning that is after every one was in her seat to zeryiah ndred ready
standing by to get after it no stragglers they like like what i say no strives i mean no stragglers zero three hundred and fifty people boom in their sea
threaded rochdale he came up to me during the first little break and he says i i've actually never seen anything like this warner conference is so unjust all
board in the game and getting after he had in never seeing that in any kind of conference and so made your brand it can come down the schedule says he the echo
filled some stuff ring that an you don't kindils order command to competitive for of a obsidional for forty five work out an oi'm beyond is i'm not used to the
fore for pretty five a m it's cool don't get her on but i'm not just not used to for forty five filing work in work out whatever be away some like you want him
to do him in a go in michalonis the head attack but really though obstinate really first day let's face it how many people are really going to be it this thing
may be twenty five unrenderable to twenty yonnondio k you know five different countries were represented a forty two different states like insane rating realer
yea there ardenites no way i was like i was either i'm not a more impersonal like you like i'm usually at up until two or three working on rafficking up i was
like don here a jockey from that god gotta get after it is like onasie five people out there up i'm thinking ten twenty it would be said by poor and i'm
aheating up it like four twenty eight now for twenty nine i come round the corner and i see a straight up riot like no not writing about like but oliero that's
like in a in a protest or something which tatteration like day so i go at a park like on the side i come and you get hearty and worked out of ye the sir what
will he want lassarated her as we went i said he late we might get contingencies there's a a a hundred fifty people we are not going to be able to direct this
thing if we're doing it on to get leadership position so we go work out before this erfordert five monster out wendouree that hobtional in so we went and hid
it before and it's a it is a pretty hard cowork i was las work outworks much as you want to stock an of course we wanted to suck that in infenso we winterpine
we come walking over in his assenting for us we are walking back from the workout area which was down by the sandeago convenience at her were walking back to
hotel where a little jog we turned the corner now were really close to a star walking and we see the same thing we see like all these people fanatis you know
two hundred fifty or three hundred people far ready to rock and roll at for it's it's only four twenty eight rantideva up the latipinnis nantillons straight up
nighties we got after it and that was a good representation of the attitude that was at the mustered the other pony thing was people kept or depositions they
taoist got promoted in this new position of it as conoissance you know i just got promoted three times in the last six months and a lie on aotan serotini e key
all these people are just fast racer in the game that all it it's just a it was it was really an awsome tent great jam wicketgate some gruesome really killer
videos for that and it was awesome to zilia's awesome a very cathemerinon me sitting there in the crown epieikeia located to get up an the first asked sudna
first the sandbank i had to get up a pace closelike so connect you brought in that you or just motional connection in you know everyone else is the same thing
as if adam setup the front row i can't stand up and pace it now but just at reseating ly people as is due courajod the videos were in losing manatorian one of
the thenondiago tor's mask consenior record the lane one the ellisons i see by the like um pretty blonde and the gaoling twins ill babies on my gedaliah that's
the rugfringe yeaters heads cristemio that echo made is um dippers holding the baby lelant's that's capeyer till this is little laterite there isn't at all
little and i indorsation i picked anthesi you gonna see him in your gingredients uniting the fond or one of the many fun parts all some in a also so if you
like or talk about here and you want to continue maybe didn't get enough of this to day you want to keep talking to us you can actually just find us cruising
using a hard apparently on the interestin or on integram and you know we even on that face book he is tao is that echo charles and i and at jocelin and
jeremiah j p de nellis a where you are on twitter j p r a j p donal a integram will be never settle consulting and face book page never settle consulting elsie
said you liked the page a eve put out in pacomus answering thing that's going on to try to connect with people do social media also dig it face any fight false
from you i don't really good to see her again that's a leave it at tenochtitlas going then ye erally good to see the goose go to never settle consulting dot
com out would be up in the near future as well but the little saint contact me through the forcemeat on with the website will be up running soon but yet there
the grating you gan brow i come and i hear i was like you are just you know i got the calico and i am you are to dan compatient gags or you switch more around
a dagonian is like ye ye ye don't be an idiot you otani to ian a was awesome you able work it out and the want be on the pot cast you know i just appreciate
you can to have me in a man of course i do you got a final touch ye am obviously distant thank um all troops ever cease a on the troops that her home as the
family members of the troops that never made it back we appreciate otis i all the while for an offer's out there fire fighters medic you guys are getting out
to it serving your community every day and of course i want thank a man to um distorter continued support and love and ah my kids you know love those kids um
look forward the day where they're old enough where they can actually listen in process this no aid and coronals and am the do well banksome pushed obviously
think you and thanks for everything you ever done from me brother i preciate above beyond anything i could have ever hoped for kind o performin the kind of the
kind of attitude in the the bravery in the courage always thankyou thinking always thank you and you the other day when we were at the muster we were in that
big crowd and we kind o we kinda turn the corner we are getting to the area where we are going to start to the work out saying and i knew i otiatria said i i'm
any shelter organization suffin on here and we really didn't have a plan for three hundred people say and we had a plan for gerty or for sheehallin and so i'm
sitting here on the going into okay what am i going to do got a prior time next he eighty to help and it is dark you know dark for cockemony so i just yell out
i go jap and instantly i hear some distance were here nasarenes an i look up where that came from and i see jean he looked mad click i consult with you see
moving you know down the stairs he's coming to me and i in that split second that split second i remembered all the time that i had called your name and i had
asked you to do what needed to be done and you always stepped up without question without without regard for your safety or for your own scurry you always
stepped up this with your the mission and the team and your brothers and mind always putting others before yourself but so many augurs in our task unite it
mark and might he and write and like the many soldiers and marines did in the battle remodelin the rest of iraq and enough nisan and on battle fields all over
the world throughout history putting others before themselves with their heads held high and every one that is out there listening think about that think about
putting the mission before your own need think about putting others before yourself and think about walking through the world realtered and challenges and
funny you think about walking through the daily battles that you face with your back street and your head held high facing the threat facing the fear scanning
for what is next so you can indeed and yet after it so until next time missus echo and jocko and my brother j p de nel out
