this is jacopo asked number forty seven with the others and me jocelin good evening ah good evening and i went a little long with a couple of reviews we've
done some interviews slandered i nell and i in a tone of really solid books that in breeding i learn in a lot from all of them and getting a lot out of those
books in a redroot war and about leadership and about human nature and vallibus kind of failed to answer questions from the last few podcast cousins from the
interest from a body out to thlirteen and a question implendum so to night we're going to simply die in this questions from you are out there so let's get
right to it echota yes question in one peenyon joy do you think that most emma fighters have what it takes to be sealed the mental and physical the brutal
weight cut the brute fight ham and stepping into a cage with a train and a lean upon it well this is one of those questions to where you might think there is
like a really definitive answer but there isn't really some mimirs cordeil be grace yells pursue some of them actually wouldn't stand a chance as dead and
there's a lot of things that may people quit and not one to be seals or quick during sheltering you know you got the water some people don't like to water some
people are uncomfortable in the water great athletes not good in the water some people don't like the cold and they can understand can take all kinds of
punishment of physical nature but they don't like the cold some people don't like heights you get to the top of a forty or fifty foot carlonnet and you've got
to climb over that little bow at the top get to the other side some people don't like that some people can't do some simple off like reverie you can't memorize
certain facts in her of various intellectual level that you have to have some people aren't situational aware right so some of these like princetonian enemy
fighters who are real wild and it's one of their good characteristics is that their other kind out of control and they help some do wild things in fight
unexpected things you can't be like that in the kill house would go live fire right hand have that wide you need to be able to press that some people can't
suppress it or what you did up with someone is some of this kind of safety issues because they they're too instinctual and they take it those instincts under
control some people might have too much endurance but not enough strength some people might have too much strengthened on enough in during some people are
injury prone right some people are just injury prone and it's not their fault meticas but they are and and then you take so it sort of the things that it takes
to be in the celts that would could hold up or trip up somebody that's just standard and the may fire now the same thing is true with seals that would be
enemies right or or could seal potentially be an emery fathers ben there's going a few seals out of a ten of you know better fought really well and good
fighters all that but to make a blanket statement esking that trip people up and for instance some guys in the selter not the best allestree athletic ability
is not as high as it might need to be to be a true competitor in emma you know what letterthat they don't have the explosiveness or they don't have the
coordination of lucidissime thing as is going to make a not competitive and nobody's guys i mean sometimes they might not be the best selon but some of the
catecismo and so there the reason of the goelan there just there just hackie sound in order really good leaders their never going to be people on the range
shooting there is not that hordinated on the hand iportation but they're good heels anyways but the genie put them in a purely physical competition like mama i
shouldn't say momos a more physical on physical competition like am i may bernando well and of course obviously there is kilride and he may fighters train and
a man all the time that's what they do they trained gitting in rest he in motion judo as what they do and seals also train all the time but that's what we
insultin you're not just training just fight it right you're training shooting and your training tactics and your training patrolling and land navigation of
parachuting and combat diving in fast roping repelling in water born operates all the stuff and then on pap of all that stuff which is the stuff that you
actually really need the train then they put on a level of mixarchagetas to make sure then if you are for whatever reason without a weapon or if you need to
handle somebody that does have a weapon in sotherer you might not be in the right to gustho him and kill him you got to be able to handle yourself so there's
some level of and the may training some fundamental dugingi and fundamental striking kills some fundamental resting he owes that that seals get but it's not at
the level of what a real imamate to and so with all that i think there is a of a good percentage of enemy fighters that would make it through filtering a
beggar ties and there's a good number of seals that would probably make really good solid animate fighters if they chose to do that in focus their lives on a
coarse common trades with both of them both of them take art work both of them take some level of physical suffering right to grind at both ominous been around
when we run in mamakhatoun he it's a grind it's a day in downrite some luxury to that grind there's a luxury that going to cause when you are in a mimica gayo
worked hard as howl from you know seven in the morning till nine o'clock doing your strength edition but then you're going to go home and you going to get
mycaenaean you're gonna go have some really good food standin by you're going to sit down on a lax and then at eleven o'clock if you go back to the gaming in
to do your your grappling training and you going to train really hard for an hour maybe an hour to half your new drills you get worn out again and then then
you're going to eat the lunch you're going to relax your nile back home being lay down maybe take a little ice bath and is licetus so there some loved
orientate andamanese teams there's not that estein you are just getting ground down and when you go through base train and when you're going through you know
the advance work up training your your shining beat down on time it's it's a grind ah but both of them are grand and that's why i think to the work ethic that
comes with a really good seal or a really good emma fighter this a very strong similarity there and he billite that grind is is what i think that that
intrinsic disappoint is what would make the cross over accursed make a a seal into a good enemy fighter or an eminent fider into a good seal or geopelia
operations co yeah and in this from the cross i rid ultimately defaces kandahar to identify it over all this room chaneral cause i ememey fighter is training
sure he straining to be a better emamelie in general but mainly training for any vent so knows okay it's going to be this many round on a me this long peroun
i'm going to get much rest for this rough and i'm training to win that you know felspathic so the training is if it's good training it's goin to best train him
to function in that event and not even a haramoto navy well not like that ramusio they or great example is estemated right tim kennedy in a green brae special
for a guy and esemple beast you know and he's a great example of a guide that has the commitment the discipline the dedication to be a special force of guy and
that translates right in the how he works out and trains for fights that i trained like a madman for fights and i think that's a a great example of somebody
not only can do one of the other eteth you know you don't real in he's in it he's fighting of ever fifteenth riggatter shot as it so good on him and i actually
have like another falloon in question to this which is in the same arena who would win yes who will win who would win in a fight between a uccidere and a
selter and others godefroid like the one special operations guy because people put special operations personnel on to a pedestal of you know totally being able
to kick everyone's ass which is well for this to answer the question in its simplest form if the if there was a fight and its mixed martial arts competition so
like in a cage what you were diacorant with a referee and otha's the way it's goin to be and there's five minute rounds in his five five minion the rassegna in
this fight barring a massive weight difference but and and ah a rare special operations guide that has a high level of training if you take a hundred and
seventy five pound special operations guy that just trained like a normal special operates does no especial ties were not talking tim kennedy when it was
opened he guys that actually are committed and getting into it and train outside the actual discipline it her job if it's just a normal run of the mill guy
from the special operations community against the professional us fighter in the same way costi's the ussies gonna wear that's those of the facts and am again
that incaean i know this because you know what operation of really high level you have se firs and i mean if trained with with rand and he do wanetah brand and
baron with point rampage jackson and up chanit dan henderson and matrothen busting to so train the lathes guys you don't none of em adaiel the time albanian
together all the time but and he also um but i came with those gottorps guys and you know not to mention being demestre train with for ever some trained and
when i trained with those guys a majority of the time i would train grappling specific so we wouldn't be just doing straight and mama's or training in an
orenaria that's dear towards me now some somewhere that i am actually good at right of intrigue retent yours and so when i go in the cage with those goshen i
trained with those guys i'm competitive with them you know so you know we we have good training right or war it's not like you yet what we have good trades
good competitive turning with all those guys but have been training this suffering time so my magic all special operations powers they i know what they are and
they're not real um you're gonna you have to learn how to fight to be old ahang with these guys and if you don't know how to train if i put you know because i
i when a train with a regular you know god you will it does train of course you if you get to you for kinaston him they have no chance so when if you take a
guide that's just a normal guy that doesn't train they're going to get as pejus like any other you to get no magical powers will you be told sure well you
don't in this is good like gerty take your adverse and you start teaching a jest to their great training partners cause they're strong they have grated durance
they go free and horror that any one quit they don't give up the key train with you until they don't tap easy so ah they're great train parts and of more you
teaching the better than on a get and they're going to work quickly to their toneful down it so that's all good but the fact a matter as you take a skill at
and in iyeyasu have sea fire and it doesn't matter that you were a quotquot you know may see you are special operations gytha's that's just notingham so n now
the the other kind of thing on this is if you take both people now out of the cage and you put them in to a survival types at uation now the the special
operations person gonna have a much better chance because there fortilage all they're goin try to avoid the bad situation if they can and if they do have to
fight they are much more likely to use some kind of a improvised weapon to view some kind of sneak attack to have back up right in the form of aber guise that
you didn't realize were with them and all of a sudden you're getting it at the bottle it's the professional fighter of course has a huge advantage but there
will be there is some when you get out of the cage and there's no referee there's there's some things that you know your average special operations guys got to
be thinking about that your normal person wouldn't be thinking about in these situations um so you know that's why i said you distinguer for so all don't get
any street fight it's not smart doesn't get you nowhere and you see guys that are the military just in general be they kind to have another little level that
they might take things to right and that's that's you know you think you're getting a mollifie right you think all them i'm an abominable his flight with his
person in acting you know some of the biting off your nose right or someone's ripping off your ear or someone stickin a fork in your high because that's the
kind of thing like me with that's the kind of thing that you take one of these people whose trained and that has a little switch in her had that big aim in a
imacobas in aright now with it as a tack as on that i'm going to the office i'm in a cow off his nose from a rib of his ear or omadoun his eyes on the deriah
now fast i can't so that's why you know just you gotta use continuan i got actually one of my one of my buddies back in the day should there was we are in a
bar and some guy was gettin cocky and set something to a girl and you know he knew the girl all in ballaban there was whatever situation so my body's a hay a
can you go had apologized you know because that wasn't cool he said it all nice like ye like dust all my eye and the guy you know what he is a youth no no
problem i just you set something to the girl over there i see her yet with her with the red shirt on ye he said something heard i was kind of a fence so if you
could just go you know pologize to even you know where i'll get her and the one we men were all good i mean if you can just oppose as to her then were all good
and you know the guy says something like you know what did you go to do about an she's finishing his words the guy was smoking a cigarette as he finishing
those words my body in a millisecond in a nano second like faster than you can snap your fingers he snatches the cigarette on the guy's mouth and shoves it
with absolute laser target precision of the guises a burning arette so this due just any but i put in there deep in don't even know how he did it like a ingemo
while it's up there the doe collapses i mean can you men you know what i mean you see people like put a cigarette out of the arm or what is tuscaroras life
death he shoved the cigarette the burning cigarette up the guy's nose the guy collapse is the ground and just like streaming in a miniscule ely defenceless so
that's the kind of thing maybe that it was a tough guy maybe that i was thinking oh i'm a boxer or whatever it is gudemither been i don't even know because the
fight was over before he even started cause a guy had a burning cigarette and jammed up in his nasal cavity is split second fights over that's the kind of
thing that let's be friends with each other let's just try and treat each other with respect out there so were not guedalyah lebeau i got a bunch of stories
like that and they don't and well you know it don't end well and ye that's kind o like em like special operations guide that's kind o and i i'm not i that guy
that you're talking about to special operations aright austerest their guide that he was at pinos he's a seal a hand he angustis was years ago togatam many
many years ago and yet he did it just like that and not let her o thing like again the guy that he talk in to think he's a tough guy i think i am a tough guy
who has his wits his blue you know guy talking to me talking snackleton a not pageboy and he was also prey and he made as buyukderer may be guys a restored
marie a tough guy but i guess apparently when you get a burning cigarette shoved up your nose you are not poffertjes goes over like that yes even i mean even
better than a as an example is were first off if the gayosa he sang it all come i caeicina it made me nervous you there like a theresiana but that's the sad
thing so um like yes a special operations guy compared to it mama a hoshebo ever you thinking beyond the fight thinking straight up this is a bottle so how can
i win this poking war you know every man fighters thinking like one we fight the how mahetabel you with all my skill and i will tell divinities you have equal
or better skill you get it beat on your inanity so but the tackle the other guy thinking tactical he thinking okay you only a probable and according to the
gusting round with when they walked in a room just like a judicous when you when you went a person is presented to you your thinking you did do already you
think you know came from here sally too would come a variolites that orifice my pen in the schaaren there's the door and you know that you know let's say let's
say other guys just came in okay as i got five guys he is like a before any fight no fight no nothing news just the way you know the way of that kind of the
mine worked and then so yet if an he's plan like the your guy he had that planer adirondaks like one just an attack in that deference about nomading the
process to take new like okay he his cigarette that's part of my plan my actio know so ye when you go outside and sissie too like you think about you you know
the apple gate rechappa the whole ideal of of self defence being gross motor movements instead of fine motorboats if you ever look at some of the old school um
ah norms combat from the military insalivated on this idea that when you get in fight you wanted to these big gross motor skill in other words just giant
movement with your fist and with your legs or there's no really fine motor scabius when you're gentle'um ping in your spite you're going to make little
mistakes imagine a fine motor skills it to father leverson's nose in a pot second no yea oenothera story and i don't know why tim a tim kennedy and i we talked
about before we came on the po cast on and we i we didn't get to it maybe with talk about an exam cause we were viewed the whole story that the great story i
as you know he trained at the pit in saint luster a while and seals you to do training up there and one night and all the guise that trained would camatte time
um tales to work as bouncers and he's got a prousions i could remember the names of the cruperal the old school sandious of this boat pit crew right so it's
consate gain with guetem kennedy chuckled that grew right those guys before you know the u s he was big as gas all workers bouncers and salesmen so some seals
were doing some training up in the area and went out in town gotten to a fight and they go the guys got their assesses got ther askeert much by an ant was you
know papinian about it because again this is before the you of he was really popular and they got to fight and of course i not only is it a bunch of out or at
least high level and i may guys that are working as bouncers so there sober fighting against a bunch of drunk team guidon it was funny cause i they sent me you
know cause he seals got their asesinado like came back like going man one these bolters were tough now and then i can wear where was it and they're like
sailors best and then somehow feveret bunder the unimagined there somebody told me back he jackleg's he got he was deseases from the pit fall and ah i was like
oklinok that stirby the way cause well a guy he was a new that he was a nice says think he's still into saint name but he mandate not you know they come by and
all that that's why i met j p kind of the same way of but am at but he would always come in the club that i worked on in and so he cut to became friends you
know so after we're done wore edith seemed spot you know he's like yet manful chuckled el beat me on the haaituani o by we got in a fight and chuck without
beat me out you you know i had em in and i am down and i actually yeah that's what happened so that was a class is ample and by the way or so some about while
we're talking about chuckled a shock when chucks always been like awesome to that especially wound exact so chuckled ell ye if he if he's bouncing at a bar and
your vet and you get out of line you're goin to get you on get put down but if you are if you're a warrior um that always impressed me about chocoladiere stuff
for the for the troops of the intense and that always give me a lot of respect for him you know even more respect i have for his being at fighter but anyway
that kind answers the question um and some my overall broad guidance is train hard to do battle but do your battles in the gym not in the street is the
chittles you either put in jail or put in the hospital or both you so ye ye remember this goat trained with gettin off from member a yeah he goritiae he names
is i he he he got out at us just a he got to a street fight yet he and you detection i mean he he he kicked the guy's as right actually i think he more
talinont him down the ground got proceeded i was kind o puttin the putting the beat down on this guy and the djibouti chunk of his ear i know the ever there
the thunthet um bigger an chuck that my kindling in out ameisa big chunk of me he's at his ear as clearly as a bite taken out of it like if you took a bite a
big nice solid fight out of his pizalta's what is earlocks like no and you know of cool you want to fight ye abey have no her left and alabama and that's
another thing that's another point to that is that sometimes he self defense tight people good think that you know all i'll call dries out and that's the
indication that i just kind o gave to that hale the navy he my do some tricky to you well the bottom is that stuff is a lot o time ses work and in that a
perfect case the guide made yer offend things oh the guys on you up no as not given up he be did winnie harbor will right that means to own now you gotta
guachos the side that's about to ruin your shoulder for the rest of your life with a care than put you sleep and aniceto bad situation so you can't i just
another thing about those those thinking that you don't need to train because you're going to do it enginoo in a shafia ette from guy's knows no wrong enter or
you're going to bite the ear off or on no that's not it's not true you need to train so that you can get in those positions and that you won't lose these
fights and also you to translate you don't have to get in fights because i most the time when you're getting five because your eagles get out a controlling
can't set you can't handle it in your little brain you can all ah yet all in secure about who you are as a man so think of with fifes guys as i and then you
reiterating your after you're getting put in the hospital or you're going to jail or you gotta be lost though against you so be smart yet sir of a remember him
blood spurt when he was like menteith bloomer less as that the guy with the coin and his like he you know whenever i if i can grab it before you close your
hand and the girl had something to do with it and he tiketere it he closed an he's like ah you know i still feel the coin of my hand kind of think he looked he
switched the coin that's kind of what your friend did with a cigarette when he shoved it in the guisnes comedy so that like super fast you know then but
persons but you can't count on the move eponto all right ticket off let's go to question number two to joke what if i don't have time to explain the why to my
troops for a decision i'm a making during an operation you as armipotent so awesome thanks your service you as only first lieutenant get some and i i talk
about troops and people in general never wanting a pain a plan to be imposed upon them and so that that's what this question is kind o based round so arsinoe
in key don't want to just force people to do some plan you want to say hey what do you think i should do and he hersers what we're doing in here's a why we're
doing it this is wide import in that gets people to take ownership of it therefore they do a better job so he must have heard me say that now he say looks on
them saying go time to gingalin in the wise when we're getting this going on and that's why this idea of explain the why is true ninety nine per cent of the
time in an administrative situation in a situation where things on a control gointo think about what's happening that's when you can go and say hey what you
what you you know what do you think how do you think we should do this this is why one o complish this is as the commanders intend you can do all that stuff
and that makes sense again in a administrative situation when there is chaos and when there's may ham and when there is uncertainty actually the opposite is
true you actually want your troops to you make the want they want to see and her clear directive from you may they want o know what they should do in no
uncertain terms and it's you can think of situations were if you seen tleta a car accent i and you see people that are kind of frazzled if some one steps up
and let situations do anything at her supposed to be doing if someone says up up in as you to start dragging out personoe there you go call nine one one they
actually teach that you know when you when you're learning about how to handle a traumatic situations somebody needs to step up step back take charge the
situation everybody wants that to happen and that's true in a combatant from when we're in the rear and were where foluting a plan and were safely going over
what our ever ideas we have and that's when you want to get in pamplona and you let your subordinately or ship come up with a plan that's all good but that's
not true during a like i said during a pressure such a wain when there is a critical scenario unfolding people want to be led now when you leave them in those
situations you can still give orders by commanders intent you can still just give intent so an example of that anaxarete mixable about you can take like delane
six wee iron on your side that rode make it happen so then the delta one six commander goes okay i need i grandmother or side the road there's a good building
looks like that's what we do take hay you don't squat come with me and then go over and take down the building and i gave them a still give commanders and ten
i gave him very clear commanders and ten i didn't really tell him why i didn't say hey what do you think would be best you think it's good i did to get to on
no i said go get high ground on the other side of street that's what i told him to do so i'm going to let them figure out to understand what the intent is you
could say something a little bit more specific you could give them an actual on actual directive you could say charley won't six deg take your squads also
building forty for me of the side road get high ground all gentoo now read something it's more specific again it's not commands intents directly in telling you
what to do and out has people don't want that they're going to want to hear exactly what to do in these presentations so depending on the level of experience
that your support at leadership as depends on a may be house specific or renage with just given commanders and ten verses giving something very specific to
both of those of the right answers if you have a good really good leader underneath you and you can just give the intention but them companionate if you got
something that needs a little more guidance a little bit more specific in an now obviously one part of that is a avros you got to have trust with the with the
subordinate ship to wit that you working with whether that's you working with your whole to don and you just got a trust your your squaw leaders in your your
fire team leaders but you got a bill that trust through to training and through hard training through coaching them and mentoring in an again i hate us now
word coaching in venturing because that always gives an air of superiority and i am not going to want to come off across as superior to other people why do i
not want to come off as superior people well never one because it it beautifies our tea more and never to cut i'm not periodal right i'm another person and my
subordinates even though they might not have the outtime in rank or experiences me they still might have great ideas and i respect that so this isn't a hay an
one use coach or men to because i'm manipulating them and i want to make sure that they that they listen to me because i'm being a certain way with a known i
legitimately respect what they say that's the difference here so but that's but my goal is to do trust any other way that you built rustiness before is by
giving trust you know say i trust that you can do this he echo you retake on the building i trust your playing come up with it make it happen boom you could do
it you trust me more when i trust you you trust me in that we want to do now when the operation is over and and now you're in a post operational be brief then
you can discuss why you gave her certain order or you can get feed back from them on a wide they executed a certain way and you can get the questions going
back and forth and through that little question in it answer period that takes place during a post operation will be brief we get to know each other more we
build more trust and we become better as a team so that's the way it works you don't always have time to explain why pressure situations you lie you know an
that's a thing is big the lad next question next weston i like it were we up what advice do you have for those who have weak poor or otherwise ineffective
leaders how do you manipulate that situation so again i i think i may have actually answered this question before but on answered get sir when i when you are
stately this when you got some dthat's weak or in effectively to report leader the answers always the same which you eally eat you lead yourself i hope people
that listen to poast all no regular you all knew what i was going to say there you all know that when some one is not leading you then you lead them you pick
up the slack for the weakness at my lerisco upon the point so i will my leader doesn't want to give a brief that's fine i will my leader doesn't want a man to
her the younger troops that's okay i will do it leaders' want to take the blame when something goes wrong that's fine with me i'm going to take the blame a
fingo that one that one can be tricky because you think amanalco better front of them in front of them more senior boss now think about it from the senior
bosses position if if you work for me echo and the boscombe and and we the mission was a failure and on the anomiadae an i say sorry boss we failed it was
echoes fault and acrobats pacer was my fault retaen aisimides i made and his rendetevi in exod you respect more he of course i'm looking at promote you you
know i actually want to promote you on our fire myself for the in a god it's passing the buck and passing a sponsible not taken under to preventing so imagine
what that looks like before you get all intimidated by taking the blame for something and think you're going to look bad and think you're going to get fired
think about what it looks like from the senior perspective and you actually have to imagine what it will look like underneath you yet to see it from your
perspective because it even when you think about their perspective you still can be in fear of it i think o unbegotten blim on no one has going to get fired no
and an my saying the like blanket that there's sometimes where if the boss grew something up really bad like let's say it was on thing like classified
information got left out and it was your boss that literally left it out and you go now it was me will not first all you're not denatured right sir in not
telling the truth and the person made a mistake that's and that there is no excuse for it so that's not a situation that i'm talking about and if your boss was
to the type of person that said he as some one to put the blame on him i would burn them alive as to actually here's what really happened so i'm not talking
about that type of situation but when you're doing an operational thing where there's mistakes i get made in your bosses scared to take oldershot of him take
one ship of them not that it you will win in the long run um now at the here's the part that is cruel and critical and the most challenging part of this and
that is when you step up in lead you want to make sure you aren't stepping up and stepping on you leave her you don't want to step into their little spot light
you don't want to impose yourself in ver leadership limelight and glory you don't want to do that you you you can't do that you want them to get the credit you
don't want to have them be intendente by you in any way and this is hard because when you start taken ownership for stuff it's very iambe very um intimidating
for the person that's above you e think an this guy just as just a bold master than staff enough in taketari self if he and they might get intended at so so
would she have do jetsome some indirect whenever warfare here and for instance if they don't want to within a anacoluthon the plan may be you start saying
haste would think of this with this begood plan and maybe if you're if they're not venturing the younger diseuse you know what i want to do this up i want
spent in time with a guy's after work do you mind if i have a little session with him kind of go over what we've earned a last appointment or a about this new
regular tory thing that's come out in the business world and i want to get our younger troops to know it you mind if i teach a class all that so your your
asking them permission and and you might even say you know they i think it would look really good for you too if we were doing this she want to make them look
good man those of the ways that you do ah that you step up and lead but make sure you're not stepping on the your leader because that that macoul back fire and
you could end up in a situation where they yelled it and you're getting putting a dog house for a fiver their demoded or in trouble because they feel
intimidated by you so used caution if you have a good leader some leader sustentat aggressive and when you start getting egressive they start they actually
like the fact that you're getting aggressive a name like i mean i work for some people that love the fact that i would disappint ke casino problem with it
because they were good confidently there it's the insecure leader you after watch out for the insecure leader that's worried about looking bad and not another
to to change perspective again on this win you as a leader have somebody that stepping up and taking charge as an you start feel intimidated by it asking
yourself why it's probably your ego you're being a weak leader by being intimidated by your subornation are subordinate is doing your job and doing it better
than you let go step up and start looking how can you go up the chain of command how can you look up and out how an other areas can you focus on since that
leader has stepped up at as making things happen that's awesome that is awesome we want that m that's decentralized command that building of the leaders
underneath you which is what your goal is a leader should always be a tell ya every time i see some one that goes i got a week leatherlike lucky you the luck
you take advantage of that take avengement do what ever you want as you have such a good opportunity when you have a weak leader above you don't look at that
don't don't get all down trodden because they're going to do to those motivate you of some motivate yourself get charged it in charge of things take advantage
of it make things happen in it's awesome to have a weak leader you have love it get after it did give me so much mobility in my in my in my job right i'm so it
more ability than if i've got some one aforetimes song and that's great to it but weeklies no factor m i'm in take advantage of it yes phillip yes i even i
like you got a weekly or in me in your kind of em you're not stepping up you're essentially allowing that the group the team niblack did of canova in a way
your you can allowing it and then in a way to depend on what you do but in a way you're kinda be being like a all right you are allowing the excuse to be valid
you know where which kind o makes it invalid really when you're like hay i could step up but hey it's believes on as is not my fault so other my leaders
notions you really not taking much ownership yes just point your finger at you reader in idea week leader yet as not what we do here not will he do it all you
entities were i had weak leaders i i always took advantage of it like i said one time and i talked about the on the poast before we fired our leader now we had
a little mutiny that'll happen once for me but you know it happens that men ailed on another all the details of that but in a way isn't that eustace ugh and
make it an have a methoughts really there there dairied results like dan that's that's kind o where we're goin to ride that really given us stepping up if if
that's how it was down in a godown but you stepped up by selebrate is a problem than that was the problem there is osolini yes all and down the chain of could
manage got up on it in reservation ex question jaded you do anything in richley to get yourself mentally prepared focused and in the proper moses so just
before carrying out a mission such as self talked music or other actions you know each elreno prey operation preparedness for the mental state so be blashes in
it and it actually sounds like a pretty cool question riding amasonia precaution of sure people water that um en blottom because you think so you alls and
soldiers and marines must have some kind of deep anding credibly meaning full border line religious saramony that they go to and free in order to prepare her
mind for combat may be it may be a meditation on the warrior god or may be it's an aggressive song to peak your adrenalin may be i say a breting exercise were
a special breathing exercise that her heightened my mental awareness and there's even seals and a i use that term loosely that have written books on that
subject of you know this this warrior mind said in the the navy seal breathing technique and the visualization and things like that no i i hate to spoil the
romantic vision of the mindful warrior poet but that actually that that idea is i did not what happens and here's a reality um first and for a foremost wind
you are in combat and our preparing for operation you'll are freaking busy you are busy you are planning you doing ordination you're doing dear prepare doing
briefings you're making all these adjustments and changes everything as happening you don't we are scrambling around our sociate other day and and there was a
most the time if we were going on on in the field or operation we wouldn't be sleeping for twenty four hours before we went in the field you know maybe we get
two or three hours but it was a sleep that oration before we were in the field because of all the planning and preparation that needed to be done especially on
the big operations with battalion size door or brigade sized operations there so much planning a preparation of each to be done that gedney not just do not to
sitting around figure out what kind of mental prep you're going to do there's just last minute detail there's a phone call you got a place to hire had corners
there's a a a deacon fishin document that you got a prepare you got a you gotta get stuff done so taking some some kind of meditative moment to get in the
right mind set it is not happiest don't have the time for it now that being said mine set it it is a part of comperit and so how did i get in the right mission
mind set well the mind set is not achieved in the minute or even a hours before an operation from you know chanting a monroe breathing or meditation or
listening to some song is going to get in touch with your wardrobe that the mind set is achieved in the the weeks and the months and the years before that
specific operation commences that's another thing the the the idea from that actually i was raised on in the nineties in the sultans was like your going do a
mission we used to joke about on the big miss laing the big mission was in commons goin t be one mission and right an you could get her woman a plan for it
when a plan for a week may be even months and we're going to be able to visualize everything and ran all this time a reality as overseas you don't send the war
started men you're doing an operation every night you're going out you've got another we come back your plan of anoatok i'm a wild not one get canceliered on
his two more than your planifrons out the gravitates you meet with somebody else it's just constantly on going so we weren't ever preparing for one mission we
are planning we are preparing for mission after mission we have five six seven ten we have ten operations in the hopper and any given time that we're planning
of verior were dabbing intelgence for were setting up were doing rousstave different operations at one time then finding one rises to the occasion boomeroo go
hit that one next night another ones up to top or going a to hit that one so again this idea that i think came from the nineties of a wicked due to big mash
you were to have to get in the menominee no we lived in the menominee but that mine said came from the training at we went through the growing training through
the repetition of the fundamental skill sets the mind set comes on the discipline from waking up for a leaf from studying tactics from understanding the enemy
from all those unmitigated daily discipline that where the mind set comes with a comes from an altalaat of that on comitat you after come to grip with some
pretty horrific potential outcome spread you after accept some solemn possibilities of like that you might be severely wounded or that you might be built and
you also have to think that about the guise or your friends that is another possibility that you have to think about but for yourself you you have to accept
that possibility to aftest that potential outcome that you could die in you have to accept that now you you don't want it of course you want to live but you
have to accept the fact that in the game the game of combat you could very well die and i do not and i was okay with it but but i have come to that conclusion
a long time before whatever operation i was getting to roll out on one particular night during a a six month long to plant so the mind set is built over time
and like knowledge that you have it the mind said it it becomes so ingrained that knowledge become so in green that you don't have to cram for it but you cram
for a final exam you know the clamor the test a combat in the last minute you already know you already have the conference you know you've done everything
possible to prepare mentally to prepare physically to prepare emotionally and then when the call combs and you put on your canes and you fill up your canteens
and you put on your helmet and you lock down your knife vision you lock and load your weapon to roll out the gate your ready it is in the movie god and sixty
seconds smell ivan movies that you've seen brainiest there's a part where there but there their car jackers team of carthy they got t do this mission to save
the brother hunter all retired the ice about the guy do you know is one missile be a big mare she a big nichaezate so they go through a thing get nomine sat
drew up so checking out a maginis in the movie they were doing that mission every single night yet you not going through that drill every night because they
know they prepared to know the got their mind right in here on out and excite operation that's the difference it may be they would do that every thing is what
they do or serisapia on low rider you know the song and then they discussed to it and then they go so personal yeah maybe check it out yes you know some guys
you know crank up with song you know we have speaker that yes speakers outside so as we go by boston some music but it was no electorial istic thing where we
all sat there close er eyes to his in the same sunnismile met the eye at a i mean to and you know what i was weaseny two combatants was of aton commander is a
tasking a crater so o i was busy you know i'll was all that planning stuff that was akin about was as me if i was going out if i wasn't going out then i wasn't
donating richita to get ready to go out i am but you're busy penestae how busy aren't come but not just while you on the battle field but when you're back in
the rear a preparing to go or preparing or planing for operations ye ooman some beef you know cause even the mien really how it deephole you want to stretch
the word like ritual right so that i'm sure some people would pay me now i like i said he had like a lucky being or of a people harried life now you're denied
real merely unsuperstitious well any one talking about so i had certain patterns and i followed right yet those patterns were not for my mental state they were
to be prepared i rely hugonots about had owaneco seedily deer and in a cave all that dear one i was ready ollie that's that's that's an i put the curl the same
way every time because you're going through a process in a procedure it entre giving re even when coming to record the poncas i do the same thing every time
the i d i get this ready i get that ready a precise of out i you know i bring the same pens the same stupid pensieri him old pinecate i have a pattern the goth
trough sad am ready for what we're going to do but that's a standring procedure to be ready for the operation he whether gets me to mental state ye guess it as
goetaland technically that is a ritual from that you and i guess in boston do you not not not the man of course he surnamed sleighin posse to kutais definitely
a a ritualistic ye think to go through and if i talk about a being in combat sure will your getting your dear on your your widow your ver programming your
radio getting a radio check this but again i will treason a a dozen really hit me as a rich istic thing because those are boser standard procedures that you're
going to prepare for the mission or you're not be their physical things that have to be done they are not for mental preparation now does your mind no what's
coming yes and i'll tell you classem as when you put down your night vision which fallodon or stand as yet a home it on and you have night is not in it go it
can slip up where you're just looking to your regularized but then when you back out of vices and your flipper knightis and down hearing the different world
miller in a green world of darkness where you know what about to your about do so whenever i flip my you know nighters and down it would always give me a a
sensation begin it wasn't this is preparing me i do that it was time right this there's a difference there's a sallier nce no different institute i'm sure
there is a eferybotty some there's overlap there where i think that is i mean like i said it events all loose you on to use the word richelien cally yet like
remember you said at one time he said something about before you guys rolled not everyone starts it and there a saint in rachel ye i say and rich in however
like entered on briesler don't reliant shine like well you've got to put your knight is cockles down you have to do that you it's what you're going to do for
and when you do that because you've done it all hundred times before you know that that's now dame on but if if you're just putting your night vision goggles
down that's not really the ritual but if it's like i'm in a poiaeso goggles down after i do this every single time that's a ritual or we all do it together
like when the unwearying in a ritual you're putting a your putting a rich will istic flavor to it in a standard offering procedure at nantilly houses they can
bring in a hunstan's not rich ellidi because there was no m in bed in deep remaning that was put on top of it purpose with ernest like a little the very
germany or thiadrich i do make it in some one not a right do you follow the same standard operating as sutras to you and and you don't want we talk about
fighters you know ben with a lot of fighters and and coached them and those guys have little rich wilstach to get sometimes it isn't music right because
they're going to fitified minute round in there to lessen something or they're going to there noither clothes rise and think about what's import of them that's
fine i mean hen you when i was overseas i have time to do any of that with who are running around never once that i say stand by a no one talked to me for the
next three minerai get in the zone and now i was in the one cospetto know did i work up did i spent my time in the teams went through training you know shot my
gun knew knew what i was doing it and so i didn't need to get in the zone and i think that's what i think that's why i think i'm sensitive to this and he is
wise thing i'm sensitive to this i think i'm sensitive this because i think people try and and tell tell people or sell people on the fact that if you do these
things it will prepare you mentally for you know a pressure situation and that's what bothers me about it it has a bothers me about it is he if you do this if
you if this is what it is if you take this short cut then you will be prepared because i would never tell someone oh you want to fight and emit you're going to
get in the cage cool here's what you need to do to train for that three minutes before you enter the cage go into his room shut your eyes and think about how
you're going to win the fight that is not true he now this is i guess this is where a youst you've just got this out of my apple you took me to woo to to my
point that i do believe it right if that is not what prepares you for the fight what prepares you for the fight is the years and years of training that you've
done to get there talassee minutes you can have a rich any complet your mind in a right place but that's not what putting your indite right place what's
putting your mind in right places the months and months and years of training same thing with on the battle field if someone said he i'm about to go
executedest action mission who what should i do to prepare for that i wouldn't say well what you need to so is listen to your favourite i order had song eh
that is not going to help you what you need ugindo do this you need to go this shooting you need to work on these type attack that you need to understand what
to do with some of its odysseae purceeding an out of buildings you need of understand how to clear rooms with open doors closed doors corner federal's all
these different things that you need to know you now i would tell you all of that stuff but what i don't like as when some one says oh what you need to do to
be ready as to nesdirsen of the thing i and that's what's going to prepare you for combat no not true yet what prepares you for combat will prepare you for a
fight what prepares you for a tough business as ision what prepares you for a pressure scenario that you're going into isn't the three minutes before that's
the ising all the cake so i don't want to focus on that i want to focus on the daily disappoint for months and weeks and years that led you up to the point so
that when i went in combat for the first time and had an shot my gun for the first time it wasn't about the song that i was'nt wasn't about the breathing that
i did it was the disappointment and the training that got me there so maybe i was a little bit hard to come in out of a gate on the side dea but that's what
that's why it was hard and i didn't really understand that in my own mind until you started bleeding me down this road because that's stuffed does when i she
somebody trying to sell that i like that we oon't like that do i have rituals i absinthe rituals for when i get up in the morning and when i do you know i i
fill my water bottle my water volley night when i go to bed isn't the same spot when i get up that out of bed in the morning my water follows there i put my
you know i i go very quietly in the bathroom we talk about this i do it i got to do it there i come out i dried i grammy waterbird wherein now it's good to me
to turn on me like it as were supposed to be that's a ritual i got to the kitchen it dark in the kitchen i fill up the water bottle by sound because you know
how to sit little beautiful sound as if i was up i gets tired iringer then boy kellett now i walk out i slip on a light in the back of the house put the shoes
on because i'm not bothering any one so there's a little rich wild there when i walk on to the gym plug in the music and now it's time to get after it so there
was a rich were there's there's even when i go to the gym and do jugea have a little rich will that i couldn't follow there it now man i take the fingers i do
it i got a do for those outbellying ask i take the the the two fingers on my right hand my pinny and my ring finger on my right hand because my paint us got a
little judaine right so i i take post to together and also gives me a little bit of that fricando the gettin at least that's why i told it got further
intimidating scared from you so that there's some little richest things there if beams there when i'll go in the son of for five minutes and just get a little
bit warm before he and he sees me sweating he doesn't like to see me sweating because he knows that that that i asonis on right salooner just to settle little
mental wide to deem that ye know what jocasse in he says damn so those ritual is fix things those are the fraction the tiniest part of what you need to do to
prepare the preparation of the mind set does in come from those things you want to you will have close out that final bit and make it something rich wistik
that get you in the right mind set do it but that is not where the money is made the money is made in the everything that leads up to nelina three minutes are
two minutes or five minutes of ritualistic behavior that you have to get you ready to rock and roll so bring it what can he extrapolate there so the question
is no really i mean you maintain really because the question is do do anything ritualistically to get yourself mentally prepared focus and proper men so you
don't but you do do things that are reculant the questions ornulf you're rotherhithe your talking about any guards to oh yeah let nature that we i have what
rich as i have in him in preparing for combat training my ass off being prepared studying the enemy being in dropped isiacis on those of the rich holds the
rich walls are the training and the rituals like a sad for the twenty of time that lilienthal those are just standard operating procedure and when you do those
rich wallesly then your then you number one you will forget her anything you'll know that you have all your dear you'll know that you've done what you're
supposed to do and when you put your nivison down you'll know that it's an straight an ye'll be men manly for pared fleur tended operating procedures are
richly technicality sure sure they eastern watching this one to echo just leisurely proud of of the statement rereillee at i say olathe are i'm proud i'm proud
at that i had some influence of aminition no one come in wet lead beat a dead horse um because but but what bothers me about that idea is people thinking they
can cut corners yet on the preparation you can't have caught corners that's my point he can't concorders and think you're going to get the three minute
preparation to be ready for combat to be ready for bowlered for pressure situation to be ready for a tough business decision you don't get ready for that in
three minutes you get ready for that for months and years that's how you prepare for it brace laffable at you h n we had this and how if your watch like
football haag the homonomy lang down the set were any knew that though oh anyway saw the white seaver and a ford the ural wise receiver a lot smaller niven i
was like one eighty when he whatever none the less one of the drills was this oh if you know football camp me moeris like these is to motor on a big tripod and
on the motor or the speeding tires and they spin this way is to this three of them so this the clean this weird skewed angle so basically you load a football
from the back youens it through and its shoots of all like ye and there's different speeds and stuff that to ah my cotelette cotils at the mifffin name or
lasting anyway calcimines you wasn't very nice coach so he would like dillettanti is fine that that part is cool cause it's training but the the part that i
have been on very cool was if you missed like there was you and pay a price like you yell a einsame time yet he make you run it like if you miss it wasn't like
it was like to me the punishment lit was wrong like this system was wrong there punishment didn't fit the crime will yet it wasn't like this isn't going to
make you better to put more pressure on this jural you know it was more like a hay look it but he wants to castres okay lookin good and good i didn't feel that
at the time and now i'm an i'd have to think about it more about from the orator hordes your viewpoint would be different maybe but may be not though no you an
i don't think so only because i think that you're trying to get the best out of these people whom you don't for especia virgin deters me a lot of pressure and
young and actually get used to that stress it by a knouting yourself to it by him i say looky got catches ballyoon to pay the man yet or just give better at
catching solly you don't do you no not so you can focus on getting better at taking stress or get getting better catching okniont now for i would say is that
he should have combined both of them and he should have given you that ample time to just practise it catching park and then later on estimable would have been
great if you did that fact is he did not so back to the the brine mental preparation whenever so thou i would be chestful for me as a young ialmen when i
started footballs you know labor anyway so i'm like one of the young eyes and head and so when the heat he do stuff like to make it hard in ardeinae sulfurea
so there's a son where is like ball and then you know you still turn out in the ball on its way speeding is slain think comes roany way so you'd miss and then
he'd get on at soane i'm stressed now was not every practice i'm going in stress about that one drill that would not and so be for practice with this cool root
rome nice facility the there's his loungerees kind o cruisin mellow at cause he will you know from class to to pre practice pramantha some meetings in the
practice as a little bit of down time where you can mellow it in the lunch so in the logicals bees a lot of the time infelice to specifies that book only for
the drill not in streaming time she was ill problem but i teslin preparing for the drill this the iust doesn't si anyway so yeah mentally but primatial in
viseing the ball coming at crazy speed and of catching a pom catch em off in my little visual asie so i go and as time went on i kept doing that over and over
and over did it help the jallianwalla like she is far the negotiat out catch some miss some gayelette more stress maxence seedywood i would say this first all
visitin of ah of physical technique is proven to help so i didn't help in your case of what i would have said would have been the most helpful for you is to
say you know what i don't care what this guy does to me i don't care if i miss this falling have fun footed it i'm going to act like a maniac i'm goin to have
such a good time on nonariae calls ballater round em do my best agrabaine if i don't grab it i'm going to do fourteen somersaults and i got to be time and so
that wouldn't be taken the pressure off yourself because it's probably was swear jim and you up the unholiest say to this and i don't say this too back to this
whole idea right another thing that that i that i feel the sort of allergy to this type of thing and is it sort of like a on the tempers episode roused
answering questions and when i asked about motivation and i selective motivation isn't isn't your friend rigilate the gun down i feel like i you know what's
going to be good is discipline discipline and so there's really that's the difference between em talking about here when we're talking about hey what are you
do get in a mind set well that's really talking about you'll your mental mind said of motivation noble what i'm talking about is discipline standard operating
procedure that actually prepare you for what you are about to do not that mode of age you temporarily by listening to a good song or by doing some breathing
droit gets you mean tale but now the discipline is what's going to make you mean to we prepared for what's about to happen so genaro think i'm i'm a little bit
stuck in a mud on this one and am trying to have an open mind but i think those of the key components for me i don't like when people try and sell short cuts
on stuff her and make it you know he you'll be great if you do these three minutes we actually you won't you need to do everything else you eviot hard work yes
and people buy and that width buyers they want to to everyone wants the quick in easy you know i mean people that listen as paason yea belathered we we want to
get in the game fully that i oorshats in a book yes yes no caste no short cuts so i think that's the difference people some people sell that and there's too
many people that bientot when what they should be buying is hay hard work and dedication and discipline is what's going to mentally prepared me not this other
stuff he had the end yet so yes a really like i said that sopby by technicality it's a ritual but here's a thing about it being only technically ritual because
if you take that away not necessarily that peak as it has floul on young chin you know what to do i hate to cut you off just to talk about what we just what we
talk bout yer right cause cause i said he with the pocasse this before we have a ritual that i do i you do it to where i come i broosting ut my hat my pens and
i do the fold rock princess out a year of a repute knives in the bag i have a rich that i go through but past and point case in point that is not what prepares
me for the theory after that even that is not a proper in recorded what prepares misreporting is what will is spending ten hours twelve hours fifteen hours
diving into a book looking up words i don't know doing background studies on battles that i don't understand that a mention of him researching some general
acted mention that's what prepares me that's were give me the mind set to record a pack as not the rich all the ritual does naturally mean anything without
that care deep preparation that's done and that kind of settled our point here yet i lay no mean very nicely to hell's going straight technical and you amative
think you're absolutely correct and sometimes conceitful like especially when you're young you're like just anything that will help me in all i do i did time i
shoes in the wrong you know like superstition goes in there you know heavistone you're like dan you just stressed about something so anything that'll help and
then after a while he kinda good is so it manhadoes n't matter what order i put my shoes on right now it doesn't matter what color my socks are in now you know
a man i used to have this thing where i'd be stressed to go to school for whatever he is like intermediate skin when you're like a news clevedale it stress not
full on but as still as looking for a little thing so is this wetherbeaten it about her in an so weird um so it afaou know music in your car in the tape so i
liked a bushwacker and in and what get aby's anyway no i got and it had you know punch of swearing in it by a suggest a great great albumenised it but i had it
strangely in my mind if i listened to like negative stuff i'd have a negative day and some people might say like the wounded canochet not i i don't think so i
think it doesn't matter really what music you love may be my certain music might put you in a certain mood but that's up to you yeah were actually going in a
hole of the direction which i am fine with going there am i am feleston that music to me like the words and the music i am barely registering what they are i
know em i'll be might even be singing along with them in my mind but but the waringen rally aren't having a huge impact i mean i've listened all kinds of
rocreuse throughout my years if if i would have followed along with ten per cent of the lyrics i would raeburn addict in rather somewhere i cause you can't do
that listen to music and obey what they say of you shouldn't do that most music is a lot of music is negative right i mean a lot of music is very negative in
what it saying so yet that will do what you're saying is the rich wool of listening to rights is not ordinamenti bonnot important at all i'm the same i used to
like to punition they fall for that trick but i was young as like an intermediate schools are you nolit you be on the time if you listen to negotiate my
eveningtide day yes and not the kind not the kind of words like i'm gonna lisent this and then i choose to go this will fire me up to do what i i wasn't that
it was a superstition as what it was and i'm saying my point for the whole thing is you don't like how people like basically hang their success or failure on
some metallization or some ritual and agree then that this that the point o making is i would have to like remind myself of that like men the music like
nothing bad's going to happen to me because i listened to bushwick talk about this time i got on as that i will say this though that is a conscious decision
that you made no where as if you were just listen laeaean music changes to move music changes my mood for sure yet i went either certain music i get a certain
reaction to it and i will get into a certain emotional state if unlistening to a song that's about something or not something else i know at that will have an
effect on me now i don't know that i my point is that i deliriums don't really mean anything i guess i guess if they do mean something though and they hit
miserande itly will put you in a different mood in my opinion yes if you let it like if you asserentes well i was an put you in mood unless you don't don't now
i yeeldest listen to it now there's timorous to you know whatever music and is not goin to hit you but some music that you have my name a cor ah fought about
now visit go back and negate my earlier point that music doesn't affect my mind set does that do it my right now i'm going back on what i said cause i said o
music doesn't affect your mind set ah i guess i am going to loyette ultimately i think i think really the whole up where you netherby i hears the deal you're
going into a stressful combat such a ration and you didn't get a chance to listen to your song pefore to be like oh no i don't i go now exactly i have another
reason why yes i'm staying with my original point yet i agree i agree with you see titanians don't let him still her iile bateche ality though joco this
costinoi now are ye up can you speak about winging it and when it's best to just go for it and when making a plan without them do silis the best course okay
yeah i can have redolano that um well winging it is never the first choice and when when you see people in this you know in the sultan certainement ry if there
winging something it's something that they practised a lot if he is something that they have planned broadly before and they have so much experience in that
bonofacio operation that they can actually get away with it right in a agoo example if you take a degial but demdest heling it in a mathevers can do that to a
ridiculous level of just winging it in competition and then just show up and just do he does because he's got that you know those guys at dothie el have a
mental fluidity that can be the help belfort now there's all their people that are very high level gogetter that don't win it that are very much more
methodical and i'm sure there's some cases with both jeff in den where they probably should have been for the thought but i mean jeff is straussite in many of
his matches i mean and that's what's beautiful as is that he moved so much so rapidly that people can't hang with him on that level in most cases um so that's
why he he is winyan that he makes a winging it but as in points he's put himself in those situations to all the time you come on the gemant him train he's
letting people put him in the worst possible situations and figuring a way out of it so the reason he can wing it a competition because he's weasands put him
proprotion terine background in if you saw boysen tasking it we could wing it on operations all the time because we were prepared to be cause we knew each
other so well because we had standard operating procedures that covered so much of the things that would happen during an operation where we would be cotoner's
even though we're winning it we're not really wenerable standard standifer in pursuers in place that we didn't really need to plan but if you have time to plan
and of course plan do you as much planning as you can dig and implant every detail that you can pin now when it does come to planning i think the most
important part of a plan the thing that makes a plan the most effective is its flexibility and make in a plan that is so flexible that when you do the actual
operation and you come up against unexpected things which are absolutely going to happen you have the flexibility of options you have contingency plans to deal
with now so plain as much as you can but the problem is with all that emphasis on planning a sometimes people become obsessed with planning and they plan and
they planned and the plants more the plane the plane plan and they don't want to execute and if they do excuse they execute late they missed their opertunity
so that's why that's why patent said i this note written down here potensi a good plan violently executed now is better than a perfect plan executed next week
right that's what we're talking about is come up with a good plan don't come up with the perfect plan that takes you two weeks to come up with that's not going
to help you that's something you need to keep in the funnyman anatomically applicable in a tactical decision that's being made in the field right something
that is unfolding you see the enemy maneuvering you come up with the quick land in you execute could every minute that your waiting to execute the enemy is
maneuvering on you that that laline fire that's not them retreating in running away now your mind titus to be that that's the manoeuvering on you they're
getting a better position there setting up getting ready to crush you so don't let that happen make a plan and go in that comes back again to flexibility if
you come up with a good plan and you go as that plan is being executed you got to pay attention he got a peep patentia and watch how its unfolding a don't put
the blinders on and you've got your plan and oleron to go roland look around any more were just going a fall a plan now you have to be observant yoto observe
orient design in act the whole time you can't just come up with a plan and stay on that track because we come up with a fast plane you're not going to have
fought about every single detail and you don't know if he andy's goin to do anyway you don't know what your competitors going to do you can't guarantee that so
when you see them start to react to your what you acecending to be ready to react yourself and get the of the the upper hand and take the offensive so there's
a there's one more there's one more little bagotay to this and i'll just say it even though in saying you got to adopt your plan and you need to adjust as
things happen you also want a step to your fine those things are lively observes a the right of saying that at an change your plan has need to but am also tell
you to stick to your plan but for instance if you rehearse a or if you have a standard operating procedure for your order of patrol so this is the order of you
know the point man and it's it's jones and tinsmiths and then wishing ten and then jefferson and that their one patrol riding in those guys are always marching
in that order and so we know each other we know how to work together we have fire team integrity we have a standard operating for seure and we're going to
attack a target and will get closer the target we see the hayawa maybe be better to move this guy over here and move this guy over here and so let's let's
change our standard order of march our standard patrolling order because it'll it'll be easier when we get to the target and don't do that don't do that you
have your standard operating percerin you have them and when you start pulling yourself out of the standard not operating proceed your fer no good reason
that's goin to come back and bite you it's it's not going to work out good so the flexible this is going to be an interesting statement be flexible but stick
to the plan but be ready to just but picktooth plan in that totally contradictory and a no that and i apologized but that is what leadership is leadership is
balancing those deconned in leadership is knowing when hey we stayed with our sandrart procedure were on a hold through it through this little thing right ear
you know there's been a there's little small train feature we didn't expect we could change our plan right now and adapt to that in it unlikely event that or
the the small chance that something happens and will be better for it at that moment no stay with your standard ofering procedure but then when something
dramatic happened and you need to make a change you do the gressie to a dynamically and then you continue to serve orient decided action stick keep beating the
enemy inside the odalie's it next question jack yes and echo o b j j x partner is training in another jim now my head coach banned him from coming back uh
question to do jollity verses freedom mocabau so there is some tradition behind this actually and the tradition is actually the tritone the cronstedt's so
crania it a brazilian word and it's a name right it's a it's a name from a character in a brazilian soap opera i look at me like you did now that i donation to
no no this omnino creole course i really knows what he remeasure you came from it a character and a brazilian soap opera and that was like a a backstair no
talik an unloyal guide i and so when the specially back in the early days for me in jugeth ch was pretty early days in america for jugeait the nineties if any
one was going from jim to jim or even left a jim perny to go to another jim they were labeled this horrible word it was very the worst thing you could call
somebody right as a onsonsy a cranonian that meant that they were a traitor an that's what i mean and there is also so that's their so tradition of it in
judith this idea that if you changed jims or you train in a different place your clean there is a little back lash against that nurse people that have you know
a better fact we used to joke about being like keen cronshaw all vitrani at different places and trying to find a best place at the train and but there's
beyond that there's a there's a martial arts kind of tradition as well which is you know loyalty and gratitude to your instructor right that's a that's a
fairly understood tradition not just in the marshal arts but in any arena where your learning something from somebody that's putting their time and effort into
you to instruct you in something and there is also a practical level of reasoning behind this and that is competition you right so if near going to be
competing and you compete with a guy at your jim that's got an unbelievable triangle and then somebody else comes from another school and they are basically
wrong with it in this is got a really good tangle now you're in a competition against that guinane tells his body hay that guy you're going to biteahorsefly
good tangle watch out for a strangle you know that can change the outcome of a match yet you know the details of it all that a aconcagua come of a match so
there is a practical level to it you know there's also sharing moves right and of certain schools might have a really good series of moves and move and all of
a sudden some one goes to you train somewhere else they can share that move and that's bad and you know what's interesting is in every business most businesses
that i work with i should say they have their own little world right and they have their own kind of loyalty and crashed and if you if you're at you you pick
an industry ear good in that industry when they change companies they bring with them the same kind of thing they bring may be some secret sauce may be samos
may be the now some personalities they know the weakness of that other company so when they leave there's a loyalty factor that comes into it now that big said
loyalty goes bothways and of talked about this before the student should be royal right but the teacher asked to be loyle than meantime teaching solid stuff
that means they need to you know train correctly that means any to offer no classes all kinahans right there the teacher owed some loyalty to the students and
on papaha on top of that this is america right this severia and in america you pay to go to a school you pay money right i cost you money and i always use the
example in people ask me about this in america just because you normally get your pizza from dominos dozen mean that if you feel like it you can't get since
caloline pasaran how some comatose ill and end and if tetani little caesars makes a better pizza you're going to maybe you der even more often you so it's
there's there's competition right and you want to end up where you get in the best pizza there's so so there some advantages to look in for that good pizza's
there's an eremitage to travel round and good training a different place because you're to get different um schools with different instructors that have
different specialties in different styles so that can be advantageous there's also some disadvantages to school a going to a bunch difference one is your
teacher doesn't really know you so now your teacher doesn't know your style doesn't know what moves and be good for you they also don't see you progress
because you're only come aback of once in a while whatever they don't they don't see you getting any better and they're not they're not really may be as
comfortable teaching you everything because you are not really there student may and you know what man it is a it's it's it's a powerful thing to teach some
one you get to and him and it it's the effort and there's an emotional component to it when you teach somebody judithe's an emotional figaro given him
something yes and there is an emotional level in their somewhere that says you know what i'm giving you this not conal it over your head but you know there's a
little tuarum not going to say you old me any thing but you owe me a little something rantaine you like till i tell you this though now you need to go and not
mess it up or you got to represent or is it like don't use this to an don't know but what you mean i think it's got both of you know am investing all this in
you right sure you're given me a hundred bucks a month but what i'm giving you is worth more than underboots like we know that right so i give me something
back what i want back won't you tring with me you know what i mean just hey you go nutescelle you're going to train her sometimes i understand that but a way
to second now i'm just your part time teacher heylin going to invest very much in you iteration so there is a there there is an emotional component to it now
again back to the advantages because there's a dicotomy of everything right your roan with different people of different schools like is it one thing that's
nice about our schools we got a we got differentt we give her styles i mean between den an jeff they are literally at the opposite in the spectrum which is
kinaston to have there are the obsidens aspects of the judices kilcatrine terecay different they almost don't look like they're doing the same sport in when i
train with both of em i don't feel like a doing the same tifferent it's just as totally different game but then you got james nelson whose god he is own style
you just you which is insane ah greg train homily you got him comin in hot whom i mestonda he teaching hoshi own little different style who else jeff jeffrey
olderigi his bad as game to ast me i get out o know what i don't teach myself but i'm sure that there's a difference element there yeokheag stunlike people
learned from the inwite a lot of sumpheron you then and like your like um a totem totally a wearyin like eating with geflogen to learn some real creative
dynamics duff you learn from dean you are going you know learn a lot of stuff like in you know in that way so so i think a lot of people still even that you
menstrue eat they do learn a lot for my yeah and i do teach from time to time on but yes i do and i do when i teach a lot of times when i am teaching i might
not be teaching the class right right on the say and he budge this out yet that you were at your ear you so so those are advantages yoldrin if you were at a
school with a one instructor and then i could see you here you be going man okay there could be an advantage if i go try smothers proper again there's a trade
off because now you how you start learning something i can actually see this more with striking when with striking training where guys that move around from
different coach different striking instructors a lot they don't it's not like jugee you can incorporate it in and you learn something from some other dying you
bring it into your game and you change a little bit when i see people move striking coaches a lot i see their game actually deteriorate in my opinion because
striking his more um instinctive it's an instinctive thing right your throne your compose and you let him go like you let your composoit you react it's it's
just something that happened it's more mechanical so when you train mechanically to react and to throw your compass way your fine and then all of a sudden you
change that and you want to throw a different way i think it took you to a i think it adombrar a little bit where you is yoginapur ate new games different part
to games at me or fluidly and an alferian when your train striking the do you so sure you learn moves from the coat but your instructor he learned you know
some timing stuff but it's like instruction but then you have to train with a multitude like all your training murders in your detonate part of your training
so if you go striking it's our relieth in fact most strikers they'll sit they'll stick with one coach and then tell have a multitude of sparring partners
yantta changes and judicous by its own nature is already like the one and when you spar at in other people's striking though your fundamental movements
tailchan a lot less than they will when you are strolling winifrede using more you binnage' just go striking at linear memoranda you get to his completely not
lanier so therefore when you're training something that linerdon of that line it it trips you up in my opinion but would you get to it can be beneficial at
times to um cherchias mother people advantages differences so i guess forget to question laninians wer um on oenon is it the chedworth band in from coming back
that's a bummer that's a bummer i i'm i'm sorry t hear that i've never banned any one for our school for going in training another school i'm not intimidated
by that right if someone goes haymarket this one school in like cool and they come back because they get there and they go okay this is cold but on the
comeback to where get this training that we have a victor righting which i'm comfortith any some ongsomble and go and goes oh i like this place better than
victory that's cool good luck amani's all and you know in an a year they come back and go yet i'm come a back helleri don't get mad at them because everyone's
all their own journey i guess you could say everyone's finding their own path to an amoniacal down a path i might recommend to path you know i might say you
know and i do that now it's what this we have the gym for is sacrees abouten than it's wide open it's a beautiful bath with incredible duotone so so i don't
i'm kind of omeo to hear you know but that happens but i do understand i think that's what if i was as if i were not position where i'm in a school and my
training partnerless and then he gets band that don't like that don't like that ye think it the bummer yet i think so joy grew the end here everywhere is kind
o different here is kind of a situation here in sotteranea not especially in the same at the age olaston yet we alapaiev erywhere everywhere yes so and
literally on every street corner in some canyou candle melite rally walk comfortable comfortably it's like what one block to the font the island on that that's
the thing yes like ister where it at arefor those you that live in the non jugular sorry now we have a lot of jodonauth like an organ southern california
general orangetown ale is cranonian so you figure in santiago what's gonna kind of bear result of that is like a situation for example we have been whose kind
of the tethea guy who kind o came in with the school remember me at the small on school neeborin club came to throw out as what it was called became victory
but with dean was like a bunch of guys like the verse alas am james mills mill sin some olearon fabian and we all trained together at least as in shocked her
like all these eyes and then some days went and opened their own schools now so not as a result of that theold situation sure we have other schools but their
kindness still aren't i entowered way they're different then so if i go train with elias which i johnny for you another one you mensurator little i'll go trim
the johnnie sometimes and then we is that a is that imagery origin i mean even technically that a graceston's or your asking me tecknickle i was how i says
back ten years ago yes that attalano crashed wisit is is it right now for me no good you i want you to get better augitic right is the any if you got an
opportunity to go youths at another school that's cool you cause it's it's it's going to make you better it doesn't it doesn't offend me and you don't want i'm
not a jealous husband right i'm not jealous of of that i don't think o what if he goes ever come i know you i know where it that right and an insolitis all
good you know who i'm coming home to it but i said good well i think the culture just in general shifting and i i think this is this like in insulting
california going to be more like this like wayback of course he get in you know little little tiny little groups of people who still believe that ever in all
but the really the communities like that in fact if you considered studio five forty and that's not cringing gesture they let us all be called him cranches
capitally down to the instructors notabilities one day for disunderstandingly the arvonian hathaway same thing would be he exacts are guys who who came from
other caney and they invite whoever and they actually have other hatero can go villa visit all the time you know i one knows you tell her so yet the cultures
differently and i think i think with our jim it's not as a not as pronounced as that but we definitely i mean people in the every day from were all over he on
how many latins were represented to day is open matters and casanova diego got from all over the country near victor the mill shone up from seattle trooper
want to get his game on you now right on you know i have in selerier yea these coelo up there yes he was good and that in that's a that the cooking you said i
deemed said at he said anchorage you to go to other jimsie not to be some swerd spy getting your abegit training cause i'll get up to any braves on his long
timheyen he was at antlike legends and i genuere for work or whatever and oh you know i knew about that or it's like always that kind of back stabbin if i go
drained t tell me that you do that actually i day well about eighty vavinour something else i did tell you he said the same thing you like boy you get as much
training as you can't here you know if you want if you want to be a part of this like association academy on whatever then that's up to you and i'm glad you're
here whatever and i don't think personally that you are going to do it but preordered you gitanas you can learn some judice there like more of a certain type
than you can hear or any or fine and go do it yet he said the more judashand the better as i all heliet got from demiter ritter ye not more jugera but matter
yes and then and then so even to kendal above an beyond that is when you okayanni got wine interject here is a specially for some of these academies out there
manuguit it's like you you're a doctor because you went there ten years a scold getulicus to segador was and what sociate you are a doctor you may act amount
of money it's a very steady pay check and your kind of set do get to doesn't mean anything that black felt that you worked ten years for dozent you pay so the
reason i'm saying this is some of the people that are more defensive about this if they are instructor small academy they need be your financially supporting
them they worn hard to do that devines in you they counting on you some one you digitata somewhere else that that is not only isn't hurt him emotionalize i
said cause men will you put some effort into somebody you feel like oh you're going to leave after i gave you all i had you didn't give it to him because you
may paid but you gave him the value that you get out of gito's not worth a hundred dollars a month it's worth a thousand dollars a month it's worth it's worth
a ton of money keeling put that on his ah on an some social media post that he cause got his back beltan when he did his like your rich when you got something
that money can buy and at the truth righters and and but that black belt doesn't get you any money it does anything so there's another component to this whole
thing that if you are leaving and going to different schools and some of thinkin home animnals you know this is how i imiteris now yonondio want to become a
edication ally not going to become a rich person right not financial be rich so there's that component too now lucy we have a big jim and it's a a little
easier for gus to come and go it's okay now when not a sweating it is bad umanes you got it you got to keep that mind as well that your your coach that's poor
more than what you fatimee don't just want to say hey look in paying for the instruction so you owe it to me and i'll go to it over i want that's to base of a
state teammate judicio has more value than the hundred dollars a month in your paying for it yet and you really as a quiticus omer or member i mean evasive
this sure that exceptions is but generally you on want that anyway even if you think you do like i i so i can be free to come and go and technically you are
free to come and go as you as you are but don't think that like everyone's going to be just a hundred per cent find with it all that time the macas when when
you when you come in like a sad like a it's a kind of a two way street you wouldn't or hopefully i hold light coach takes pride in what he taught me for i hold
my coaches like i care about how good you become more i hope he's not that i was that give me the check i teach my moves and who cares about how good you get
and i don't want that kind you don't want that guy they still there is that in insolamende is it is that too is street but as the competitor retractation or
gilani sattest dent umsila when you reach a certain level and you've been training with kind of the same even like twenty twenty five guns will say you've been
training with these same point which is a lot of guys by the way in toltering with you've been trying with them for on whatever eight years we'll say hum and
then you go to another jim man that's a way different look so it's like fresh bread new types of training and all that's it your almost going to competition
but you're not completed causeway you come you get to god people you never tratement before yes so yeah definitive divan that's a side for even the djireed
yenoki find when i go in the situations when i when i turned with somebody that doesn't do don't train with all the time it is you you feel a lot better get as
they don't cause i know you a year your game and you you know we you know everyone's got their almost special thing is so am i was feel like a little bit
better when i go to and that's part of my point where enough have you trained to twenty five nights those twenty five guys they know your game and not to save
not good drains good training but they know you're game so it may not be as accurate as far as lake train competition and young like that how after a while so
many good these new places you get that's an additional lay off a training you get you you know another subject on the icons bemean i would hear for my
jugrians that have we been and diego for twenty something years and all of a sudden be like oh we can't come to your school because our tractor does a lot o
sir how like broadens as that's like i wouldn't tell somebody that i'm going to try to control people yes and i omasha brings up another um subject that i feel
like i have to talk about ah because we got a lot of people out there that are starting juger the first time a lot of troopers that are getting in the jugga
witches awesome it's awesome and agios in oh what school should i train at in wherever throw dark unamapokera and that's what they're asking me about for so i
don't know all those instructors now generally to you know somebody that does you just do will look at a website and see what a guy's credentials are and say
ye that i looks like a legitera belt or even a eased me the day is it worth fevering from a purple but to there's no one else around him like abenhall so but
people ask me about these schools and i kind o give him my best gastiga a look at the website and um you know see if there's backwood n't need to ask me by the
way grullo at their record make sure that they do brazilian jujitsu not some other form of juge um just just you can figure it out you don't need and go to the
school in a sesuto i want the main point that i wanted to bring up isn't that it's just this part here is that being into judios mean that a person is a good
person and being a black belt indugio doesn't have it any thing to do with their character as a person and i hate to say that um and in there is a level of to
get to be a battle judicature you could say in general it means your a committed person in general i mean your hard working person in general it means that
you've been humbled by your experiences on the map in general but it is no way a fact and there are people in the jigtime that are swindlers and fiefs and
their untrustworthy and there's black bolts and gigia can be bully and there's people introducing that can be predators and you know gito it a power and
sometimes people that are power hungry recognized that power and they pursue the gaining of jigyoba in then teabathed power so like any um abusive situation
where one person has a perceived power over another person i can get very ugly and there's all kinds of abuses that i've seen take place over the years in the
judical financial abuses physical abuse and even sexual abuse so i just wanted to get that out there that being augila brown belt purpel bobwhite a dozen make
some one a good person so you need to be careful it did you to doesn't make you god in it certainly doesn't make you a safe but it does give you power and
everybody has to recognize that there's people out there that are their goal is to abuse power and i think the same thing goes with any glorified position in
life you know and i actually see that sometimes with you know a a standing in a company a being of veteran like being a veteran doesn't mean that you're a
saint by any stretch imagination being a seal right i know lot of seals and has plenty of souls they got out a supension awesome citizens but there's also
scoundrels and miss cleanenesse leers like i said and there using the seal name that they have to promote themselves and take advantage of other people so keep
your cart up keep your guard up and make sure you judge people not based on what did you do belato what veteran status it is that they brag about but coheres a
person and i just wanted to get that out there because we sit here and talk about yogi and there's so many great people indicament its wonderful you roll into
something you see somebody with colliflowers and you start talking to its great ain't you you you know there is a bunch of great people i mean we are on the
map to day for two hours you know and we've trained for our fifteen minutes and they were just hanging out just talking because that's what we do and where
alabout everything and it's so as great people in detroit the great family a situation but you do have to be careful it is not a blanket um blanket statement
that because some one had it black belt from sense that they are a trustworthy person because there's some scumbags out fer him and in these it that can and
the fact that in a doctorate bout the everyone all where you goin to git to and it seems like everyone just identifies with each other and later on you find
out of shot that guys like a lawyer in that guides a doctor or that guy like a differ really not a line on it not cashier in this person's from this are we all
to get along on the help every one gets along in the black belt i at so much like he tumbled like for the most part it's pitsane you know every one's really
good and she gets for the most part right and that's why you can kind of specially if you're kind of new or maybe like the first year or something like that
where you are going around and dame i will hear of digitaline people come on the man in the omigosh is all my new friends that the big man on my friends is so
cool and i got this whole thing it's like it's your whole evidenter and then to your guard is down in an out cometlike a conditioning way o you just like hay
if you're a did you get so you must be dealt in every way and then you get these like outliers that marine game you know and they and they take advantage like
there they can oronoke some but the e got a got always kind o watch out for that kind you have suggest if you're spider senses are going up or first of all
turn em on yet turned him an turn him on actually and if they go up started and maybe ask more questions and you are and don't get yourself in a situation
where you know your narraganset's going on because you believe that some one was a good person because they had some status that you considered to be an onable
status i hate to say it man have had to have two left you know kind o bring that bring all that all that it down in this one you know there's an ace or else
there's aspects of judge were people lose their minds right then a crazy and you know some of it you know with the whole school thing we do talk about where
people start going or easy about who owns students right no like noo said i my own own in any detents i am happy to have people that train if my jim and i'm
happy to work with them and train them mahomedabad right and there's people that get that crazy there's people that get crazy a parent that goes cyclinder kids
and and go level seven you know um living vicariously through their kids and push their kids till the kids hatita altai push my kids to hard when they were
younger for sure that's looking back you was old to be painting in vice from jacobina push my kids to aromated compete too much man who compete in harder
brackets older kids have yer kids always in and it made you distatant you but i didn't break them mentally from that so you got to be careful that you get to
be careful of the whole um you got to be careful of you get is a power and it's really easy to get succored into the point where you feel like you should
exercise your power over other people human the mats or otherwise as you know if you if you ever hear going to the gym and it's making you feel really good to
tap every one et like your feeling better than them youantee yourself ma'am that's not that's not healthy you because there's someone up tits can tap you there
is some one else and if you're taking those abuses out on other people so again to beginners and jug each you're goin to get tapped out you're going to get to
out a lot but there shouldn't be any one that is smashing you in a busy that a much higher belt then you right to another white belt might not even get that
yet they're just happy their submitting you right but when he went that's been around a little bit more they should be you you should feel like hay that guy
just he didn't use me now she didn't use me she just beat me and i no one happened in its cool yes in in even that that's what kind of weird and interesting to
where abuse can come in were different forms to you know like if cause there's a difference ocatillo example if you if jeff over is cause he s fun when he
rolls at a big part of his is game and um let's say all i'm a new wife lambency roll against deflaver in heat and his life but no six minute round and just in
training and jeff taps him out twenty five times that's not nec that's not abuse merely just now just going to mission hold on you is doing his anger whatever
if someone played grinding you and in doing in abusing your tryin to make you look stupid or something like that because like all yea i know yet you don't kind
of thing or made their some girl that he trying to pre than that start to get into bed but i don't ever watch me indeed role could in one of us as having a
good day in yer the one's having a bad day if you straight up a blue a outhanding and in an you'll notice that if you wouldn't you stablish like solid training
partners on at becomes part of the game at an adrian so that's different and that's what i mean by a full deerlike dynamic as portiere igniting but what abuse
is cause i got kept up twenty five times in the eisemann have to like go black belt on him he's a white boutwell yet you went back but one but he wasn't
abusing one and to mean that like that that's a well within the confines of the game for sure for sure that a big difference to mar and know this to translate
this for people i don't do you go yet ah think about also this with any status structure right in to work in the military in in the hierarchy of any company or
industry where if your feeling good about bossing people around me and you're doing something wrong than in doing something wrong if you're goal of what you're
doing is based on you if you're saying look i'm going to be the best and i'm gonna be a this is what's important to me if that what you're saying as a leader
put yourself in check and because that's just pure ego coming out when you're saying look i want to be the best in this and i think there's a weird thing that
happens with people that are go getters and to hear some one that's a go getter that hear some person has been successful in business and a person have been
successful visitable like ye know what i said i was going to be the best and here i am on the best got a set your gold you got to put em out there and he got a
letter you know that you're a run em over if you get a new way and that sounds really cool and and i dare he he would back an you follow that person through
their career they were not like that they were they were politically sensitive they understood our people's needs they didn't go hey nice to meet you am going
to take over this business no it didn't do that they said had i speech how you doing what are you what we try to make happen here they made it a go for the
team even if the deep underlying goal is a is a selfish one left say the outer goal should not be that it should not be hey i'm going to be the best i'm going
to be the ruler of this company i'm goin to be no we don't want to hear that like when you meet you in you take all i want to be the president lynite states
who wants that person to be presented sanitaire don't i don't want that person who presentments if some one says i i'm going to be to see you hold this company
now you will you think of that you think okay so this person to eois really really big and you think yourself you know what that i i don't like that one to put
that so if that your attitude in you think you're being fired up keep that goal internal don't be announcing a goose i state your goals and let the world know
her here no because you sound like an ego maniac what you should say is like you know what i want to do with this company i want to help this company grow the
best i can and you know what important to be about being in a leadership as aion what a pontine about being in leashes is making sure that the people
underneath me they get better and name reaches this isn't about me this is about the people that are on my team and i want to make them successful now who else
to work for that person i do sign me up if so that when i say hey boss might to nice to meet you what your you know what what's your god here to company my
goal is to be so ye to be a so you're going to step on my back to get there sounds like fun and don't sign me up for that guy i don't want to work with that
person i want to work with somebody that about the team and out to want her to some one that's going to be abusive to like i do want to train it anybody's you
get you academy that's going to have that abusively you know and there out there he so wanted to tie that vacantness world i'm in the instructor i denstone
e'lite a napoleon dynamite you know body your son in a they make fun of that and it's funny and and there's nothing there's anything wrong with that there's a
lot of tradition in judicious well you know you bow to your structure you now you come on and off the map yet it's an not super into that stuff you know what i
mean i'm laid back and now i'm i'm pretty lay back when it comes to the estates yet most of the baling to the instruction jugo is more like but it's like bow
to digitos like and that bow like the howl down on its more do it's like sure respect like it if you go to even work traditional schools no even when ronisch
ing her at our school yorinobu to all the instructors because they're the ones providing the judicandae body illgrace because he's the one who kindliness more
about that you get yer yeah not like voudrions it doesn't have that field in your going to make sure that you're not getting that crosser vertigoes from he
bolted gito and play pay respect to a beautiful thing ye to moutonnees and and i say thing in the business world if you're saying look there's nothing wrong
with treating your sea o with respect in your sea oshire tree with respect or your boss you treat your buffers with respect absolutely like gay boswelled me to
do he has sir a military no you call those senor offer sir there there's there's nothing you know shouldn't feel degraded by doing that but if frinstance in
the military if it's like hay your call me sir i know o has you in a deal with you in the in debine world if people are you know if you as an individual a
thinkin you'd better show me the respect i deserve is the feiseanna he at earset silmaine you respect don't don't look at them and demand it now look at
yourself and demand that you become a better leader where they give you the respect not because you asked for it but because you deserved it know there's a big
difference as finance me the respect i desire you to me the effect i lose the time most i don't the most time one some one says give me the respect i do
deserve its one they are being given the etheric probably not most o time when people are be shangie me the respect i deserve they don't deserve the respect
her as i originated together also were a time for one more not one jack i have had a few rough months some set back the work that her me financially which is
stressed out my family i'm laid on some payments falling further behind it work out to want to tap out but i just don't know where to start when you don't want
it that's just kind of a way that life works sometimes it's it's murphy's on when the things go wrong they always seemed to happen at once and they just come
pound on top of each other and it's it's pretty easy sometimes to to feel beaten when your face with all the recesses and almost problems and they all hit you
at the same time but let me tell you that that doesn't mean give up exact it means the opposite it means its time free to fight harder to dig in means to time
for you to go on the war path and that starts with one of the fundamental laws of combarieu what's the biggest problem what's causing the most stress family
okay sit them down explained where you are at be blunt be up front and then give them the simple plan of how you're going to get things back on track don't
sugarcoat you give it to him straight next you got some some late payments all those creditors up explained to them what's going on said up some kind of a of a
calamine payment plan so you can start making some progress and get them off your back and then you got your job right your fan behind it work okata to your
boss think it tell him that you're going to step up your game tell him you're going to be at work early you'd be at work late you're going to be out work
during lunch you're going to be wherever you need to be whenever he needs you to be there till he you got get after it and tell that you are a hundred per cent
committed to supporting him and the company and the mission and then you get started and in the tell you right now he won't be easy it will be hard because
life is hard that's what life is any challenges challenges that you face they're going to do their best to take you down do not let them stand up digging lying
up those problems and confront them face them fight them do not let them bring you down in fact in fact let those challenges raise you up let them levity let
their demands and their trials make you stronger let the adversity you face the day turn you into a better person to morrow so so in the future you look back
at these struggles take your say them thank you you made me better and i think that's all i've got for to night so echo let's close it all out how can every
one get on board with the program here and and sport of the little pot as we got going inforcements not read for soutenir canes so indeed he was too first on
top of supporting miss podcast you can't want a support yourself i think supplementation when we talk let this iolantha on it has a bet up laments we all know
this creole got my cruel and echoes of the game actually i'm so wetystein on it every month in may so on it and adonise oletimer sent off to supplement your
wallet as well so the creole is prints moriarty o i think dan's a good one so yes oject sooneck is kind of her so victor was talking about his age i would a
more true to exertion yet so tell me what you think about this though i used to take some tack all the time be like an i felt and i felt like it kind gave me
an advantage because he had how cardio conditioning stuff is a two or intrude or can be if you use it do you think that's an invented youthink cardio is elated
oh see what antagonistic is like all he took surintendant count on cause i took to his ain tapped at some one who i don't have up their legs to race or look at
that was a seat some takes really good he tacked not make you so how he may but indirectly it could have no i an't so i guess i guess the answer this would be
since you were able with toothache do more it's pushing you hard or so your stepping up your game only wrong emelene train better because you can train harder
because of your soaks it is as far as i'm concerned permissible to do that because you're trying to get yourself better in summitate you do that if now you
might have to you know give a caveat put a little asteria your fat is onless you m tagaste it's not like a wind and you say well we got on training i was like
in a didn't take any from satiday so maybe you know and you will like it and i do gaywas level playing field in stephen yet he the um slip when you run the
hundred dash and the wind having the stronger the strong wind and like you you'll get the record but there's a star there as he says we dated record oh relates
wind at a yes till your record but its wind dated servantlike oh you when you're when you get your shreeking you set your p r i you know i like you know a bit
or something like this he got up put the star there in a gaillard went out on a hunt in yeah you maybe maybe i you don't have to do hold and do that maybe not
enough but you might anyway none the less true export though there's no this strontium racoon mistriotes something out i'm talking about the all ward titbottom
yes as initiator yellerhama men had to take them one but no that's for general meaning it riotting but i'm thou one probably not a peak performance in the hand
seesum may be it is a pendectomy anyway on earth it's different i get ten per cent off on it dug conestogo the lhari to think a little better like it makes you
can it prove it by the way that saint is legitimately proved it not like the nineteen per cent the menander sent is pretty legitimately from our okamisan now
so call miller camilla orsifer my best i bleriot email to day got his rash guard a heldest target like you know a lot of us have been and so emails me instead
i was going to bring the evil in read it and lecture slate he like em he was a cameniata up my doddering also oh i tapped up my first bluebottle and he said
guess what i was wearing i said i'm not going to attribute it to the rash guard specific what lips let's face it it was the asgard of so that being and we this
is tuparas guards on jocko store thought come i read it the website at the way the not much in a fantastic kind of redon none the less the rashers on there
dare cool be improved your performance thinking per cent it techniques i mean apparently nineteen to thirty five per cent really the the range evidently anyway
curasore those out doctor at home this some shirts there two was that you tellee that you saw some one with a surtoot an one victor victor sang oh ye
veneration saw some man appea's the thing when we anisado before of course so you know if you listened you know that i try to put more than just the one layer
on the shirt skates a bunch of inside stuff at you talkin about the layers on the shirts i started because i say aim telling on saying casiotis doing become
thing cause it is because it is a thing so you're on have got like on some future surtout have to actually put the word lay your tea later and laronde that
might be don't my either way he must an how he recognised the shirt and when you see someone else wearing like you know they know where you know so it's not
like you see a quick silver sir and as i came up here in criteria in annis different the lairet this stuff you know if you listen you know i like all i anyway
he stuck on if you like him well i want you can support that way and force em in an amazon click through what that it does is any time you chop on mine just
click through on our website tocco puesto um were the store this littleton there for people are going to be a lot of christmas and holiday shopping yes if you
really want to get you so poor it on her even in the jamestown or like omoousios at anybody anything doesn't it is it's just supports epochas while you're
doing your normal stuff so it's awesome and i appreciate it yet an i guess that in the key there really is to remember talitre thereout that it inter the good
way of support them as on so the anaitean he just click on the amazon linceford's think tom eforts actively efficiently solid oh and then of course subscribed
on the honiton the ideas or stitcher and this some other like geomelania meat there's a bunch of a pocasset beaubien hum in the game straight up right review
on a book may be this is don't know what this is it is one of those things we are at like nine hundred something reviews all you want for it here i longed your
thousand years you know i'm gonna go home and write a hundred reviews to night i felt in into his thousand hosautos and rot you ease mean as i knew rather than
you govitt is e if you wrote he i read it i read all the revision the atholl because it's good she back and it lets us know that people are listening and that
therein the game e which is co that is plenty in anyone to get to a thousand for mentionin that the fortune he could he adaneito he think or maybe i'll see de
or both saisonie you like a a i don't you know how like when you pump the gas you know when you're like all men of a midget you're not feeling up you're like
at my get right on the twenty dollar martano's like it's a weird thing anyway so if i'm like that um you know how like people they'll celebrate he i got to you
know a thousand whiskies or whatever you know people don't celebrate in their polian blake who like why did n't you celebrate it like a thousand one or the
night an then see what i get to a thousand i won't see brainy hing on ye like i need to get to tottenhot even anything i can tap from my own brain thinking
estings that were he as so yes or you think is like different yet just like it is almost like a score my gowan's my score i know right now it's not a hundred
and twenty to three yet i want much go to be a thousand why i have no good reason to inanimate ah i'm sanford set none the less subscribe em that the till you
can support anne you jebusite to that you know if you down if you're into you too watching dies amsure it at a think him the put out another one to presoom
there we hear that will lerinian another one we hear that a lot anointed like the email lists you know how like all men oonoothi second but you don't like to
mail this week the sign up the bit insiders listen his intuition you you've a sensation you some stuff back in san stuff every day a panlike the you do
hanaford i manoever week but you know there will be more northin here agin a man arose while on my end the war like hijacked making a poast erik as he had no
you're on you they tell you he echoed you make him more to as in your life you know what it athinkin wait now all to him that's what that's the artist in you
and in otasite on an outer um i'll off a year will do somewhere videos i would but that we are all sitting here a holding our breath saragoca free to make
wansee doing is like stroke malahat ing for you nicidion aranda but i like you to wait for waterfoot on the video feed like an i wanna mabell guys and like
kimanyer it eve you ever made it that you got down to you said i not even in a released so sinkatoo bad if i'm a whole series of yehallel be it's yeah there's
like one of them called amor people you find one face book and like coneni's like the people who take it one of them is like to be platitudes of um themself
but they want to act like their taking a picture of something in a printlike ianthine this thing and it's didn't come out good anyway not less yea i am very
weary of these tamer anyway arly as board that way of acasto jocatore oh is new stuff is it annoying isidor on talk about like the sufferer and no i don't
think so i mean if if i didn't have the bean everyone saying hearers the girl stuff were it at ioan they're just like all right you know like not sing the
sheeny distroiting about it like i was think like okay we we can be cut this you know he lets run through you know how to sport piastens take three minutes for
some reason it turns into a fiftene minicorder sation yes and i don't i don't it's i never intend to do that and then when i listened to it i actually laugh at
most of it in ages pretty fortyfolios you do like a two hour pocas allus just talking about out as portofais you might be pretty funny casolare now i was
laughing his economy be that'd be the greatest topic ever okay so in that regard i am nothing is proof but this is evident in this happener than once but the
way so you know that will render shirt in hats on lines he kept try on the shirt so he will be like a and when you know what sir sights it would as man he'll
say it he i need an up bigger sights more i don't know i did forgot to change my address or something where you know they they require another siris there be
times i be like oh i'll just send it to you like i got lost in the malate i'll just send it so i descend it and they're like no no i i do on our lower there
what it was too and that happened before but his therese specific one i'm thinking about to where i sat apparently two shirts men got two shirts and erosion to
suppose yet one o ye and they are elieser sum keeping him tell me where it apate me like to tell me how i can pay because you can't go and click another you
know it'll go nor any somewhere a caballito to shirt that that's all you you'll give it to somebody and they're like i demand to pay like part of the reason is
to support this earthiest you know so and i'm kinda like dang there re inforcements out there who embrace the reinforcing dansit that's why i think this is
relevant well yeah i wot i guess my pores is that we who were talking about this stuff what should be a thirty second thing turned into a fifteen minutes hang
like it's happening right now and when i listen to the poncas and i'll start on ole your come advertisements i gotta make a note to say shortenest say oh you
know what that was actually fugias howl yell at so adore me ma'am maybe i'm just old tar sensitive mia may be just like the ritual thing an maybe duggans hat
we saying the store yet a store so have this this on new stuff is the first time i am saying it publicly but there's looties in their their pretty cool a
veryly atollons you know no one says so good i like him i'll i'll so i guided redeemeth where there there ethonology last week said federal dark earth am
apparently flat darker oka not to be confused with flatter caspian people think there at this mariana any bravo to get hard if honora if if it atintanians
conscelles things that he believes in a i don't think so the reason all kinds of crazy conspiracies you all how do you know how even i don't want a makin hard
o not i hardouin's to rubber artobane mother one that talk about nothing else man till that then two he got too many factions figures about stuff you know
facings about the all kinds of conspiracies stuff that i don't want to argue with em i'll i good with him being howardian to enter that world i was said out of
that world yell needlecase i guess i'm too blind to see the reality tanganika bangoneolo but the soft flat darker through the corso he it's listeneise one
where if you know you hit your old you buy three two by to okanagon for a new self one jackal stored dot com to see it look at that sugarcane i look at the
stuff in there if you like it coranina you can be in force reinforced and support this much gosawis also eruo can also get some in chocolate tea which i've
been drinking liberally all night long and i'm feeling pretty good gracow do you have some good where ye well star got massive corner yes i'm actually told our
supplier i know will never we will never run out of this again how do we make that happen and then they told me how to make it happen so it's going to be back
in amazon directly and we will never run out of it again that's my whole to the italian it is in a lot of it because i didn't know that we were a eonti and
that then i realize because you know sometimes you're a bubble yes and you think something really cool yet and no one else does i have been in that bubble many
times my life where i thought something was really cool and then i get outside the bullin people don't think it's gold crow my whole life so i was under
suspicion that this situation when i like this tea is raindogs specific liking and i thought well okay not only by taking a random thing i then of sweetie
specifically what i like i i'm thinking myself like what seven people in the world are going to dig this well what i should have done was taken it and given it
to much people is it ha is this what ye thinkin this and they come by the time we did that we re basically did that and you realize that it is we really really
good ate you need have refloated and i think that's like paranis that a taste really good it doesn't taste like anything else it's just got a very it doesn't
is like a jew it doesn't as like a tea what is it taste like it just taste like it it tastes like when it pays like any case good and universally you niversal
people all genestas that day great it's just a universally good tasting thing and then on top of that you get the microtheca dislike to so it this thing that
just comes in subservice and just gives it to you but it doesn't override your normal senses and then pop that you hate the anti oxen thing which for all i
know it's just just repairing and taken caroor body right the so you combine all things together and we got something very popular in our ands and again i
thought that inside my bobbie thought on inimy my will was going to be awful but now i realize that it ever it everybody loves away at this and every below but
you feel you so when i got to do is order you know from the manufacturer order a ton of it and go on mine sentient and you know some people also said he you
know what jacko stuff costume and it cost a lot because we got a high quality container to put it in and then ten as it's known lauriston the luxuries he
luxure his illoetabile is a latteiner and i did i forgot to remind that part but the tin case a lot of money to make and see that's what it is well when people
said it was too expensive i said okay call i'll put a new box also so we got a come in in a box and you can still get in the tin could you need at least a one
ten rogatta have one his sectionaries you probably need a few of them in your house pens jack scroogins check um you antecellat and then you're alsbald to buy
it in big box with a hundred counted or so were taking care of you on that and yeasaid here i was all i wei was wrote down to say was we have jacaranda about
it for eight minutes you know what is wrong with me you got a well a younited it's too much talk away tea has got me talking and not neaera at such a level
that any deutas feltham it is heat that glumthal o we had a book extreme ownership it's about combat leadership therefore it's about all leadership it by
myself in my brotherly tabon and if you buy the audivero it gets red by myself a a brother lay rain so you can check down out is also at mason preciate it
following that if you happen on to continue this conversation that we're having right now or just want to get after it in the inter webs that's cool you can do
it we are there were on twitter whereon instare and you know that we had the first booke etherage is at echo charles and i am at jocko willing and thanks to
everybody for listening for joining us as we join you trying to figure out how to get better and to my brothers in arms in the military over seas hunting down
evil and destroying it you are out there stay aggressive and stay ahead of the enemy and the police and laforce banks were holding the line and fighting crime
and the fire fighters of course thanks for your vigilance and your courage under actual fire and the rest of you troopers out there listening holy year skills
building buildings creating creations designing designs developing development working on what you are working on thanks for your relentless pursuit of
excellence and of growth and of progress in most of our thank you forgetting after it so until next time this is echo and jocko out
