this is jacopo cast number forty eight with the others and me joaille we found general custer on the bluff the near him lay the bodies of eleven of his
officers as a tribute to his bravery the indians had not mutilated general custer and he lay as if asleep but all the other men had been most brutally mangled
and had been stripped of their clothing many of their skulls had been crushed in eyes had been torn from their sockets hands feet arms legs and noses had been
wrenched off many had their flesh cut in strips the entire length of their bodies and there were others whose limbs were closely perforated with bullet holes
showing that the torture had been inflicted while the wretched victims were yet alive there were twenty nine enlisted men missing from the field of blood and
they undoubtedly had been taken prisoners and perished at the stake while the indians were celebrating their scalp dance on the night of the twenty fifth in
sight of my camp lying almost at costers feet was young reed bonnehee of the generals who had been visiting him at fort lincoln and who had pleaded to go on
the campaign where this handsome lad of nineteen met such an untimely fate within a few feet of the general lay his two brothers boston and tom there was in
the whole army no more popular man than gallant tom custer he was young handsome a prince of good fellows and full of that brave very that even characterized
the costers he had served with distinction during a war and had fought frequently before bandinage in indian fights as we approached him we were horrified to
see that his body had been opened in his heart torn out thus i know that the vengeance of rain in the face had been at work several years before reigned in the
face had murdered two white men on of our fort and afterwards boasted of it in the reservation he was arrested and brought to trial by tom custer but before
the time appointed for his case it arrived the wily indian had escaped sending back word to captain palm that he would be revenged by cutting out his captor's
heart rainin the face kept his word by literally tearing out the heart of young tom custer near these three brothers and their boyish nephew lay their brother
in law lieutenant calhoun who had fallen on the skirmish line custer's command was completely annihilated not one of his men escaping good evening echo
litening not right there is once from a book called i fought with custer which is the story of charles wind off who was a young private that fought with one of
the other companies in the same seventh cavalry regiment that general george custer led general george coster who was killed at the battle of little big horn
where he fought the native americans including our friend wouldn't leg for we heard from on podcast forty five but the opening section that i just read wasn't
actually written by propriate wind off it is a section of an account that is written by a giammai reno who was one of the leaders of one of the other companies
of men at the battle that they include in this book this book called by fought with custer and this was obviously a brutal battle and my goal as always i
shouldn't say is always but my goal on where i liked to focus is not so much on what details happen in the battle but what details happened with the human
nature in the battle the people the leadership the decisions and we got some good understanding about the native american perspective from wooden leg but now
let's here a little bit of what it was like for the troopers and i know i use that term on a fairly regular basis but that is a very specific term in a cavalry
unit this it in at this time a cavalry unit was literally unit that they ride horses you know that's what is mounted cavalry a soldier in a cavern is
specifically called a trooper and the word nowadays it it actually is used to cover a lot of different people you know armoured unites it air born units now
you think of an air born unite perishers you think of a paratrooper being the key word diversitie state troopers and then of his sonarscope that listen this
pot cast but that is what we have here the cavalry unit and that this in particularly was the seventh cavalry regiment and the trooper like i said is this guy
private charles wind off who was actually born in germany and emigrated to the united states he became a cobbler like his dad you cobblers people fix you see
or who fichus and you know what he fixes for a while but he didn't like fix and shoes so what are you do join the army and he ended up fighting and some of the
indian wars he actually received the medal of honor for his actions at little big horn an we'll get into those but let's hear what private wind off as i say
i'm going to the book june twenty fifth nineteen forty six was the last time i saw him alive two days later i looked down on him lying in white in the montana
son that would have been june twenty seventh eighteen seventy six and the following day i helped him i help bury him and his brother captain tom custer they
were put in graves alongside one another there was hard digging there on that high ridge that bordered little big horn it's a long time to remember details and
little things but when you've been thinking back on them all those years they don't fade away as easily as you might think they're like birds they stick in
your mind people call it the customarie there wasn't any massacre it was a straight hard fight and the five troops were with custer simply got cut to ribbons
and every last white man destroyed i say every last white man because there were one or two crow scouts who claim they saw the start of the fight and then
skedaddled a crow indian named curly said he escaped from the battle field by putting a blanket over his head and pretending he was a wounded so i don't know
whether there is any truth in that or not i never quite believed it there's been all kinds of stories about that battle even the men who were with ben ten and
reno and lived to tell the tale didn't come anywhere near telling the same stories about what they did and what they saw some of them wanted to make heroes out
of themselves or of their officers i only had one pair of eyes so of course all i can tell is what i saw myself if it is something that i only heard i'll be
sure to mark it down as that interestingly this is something that we used to see all the time in that you go out of operation and when things happen to gustoms
nobody will see the same thing everybody sees some things a little bit different and it's come difficult to figure out what's actually accurate so that and
he's he's going back when he's writing his book i think it's been seventy years so when he is get being interviewed in the anes right in this book has been
seventy years and he say he so remembers the details but seventy years is a long time a long time and the characters that he just brought up benten as a guide
that he worked for and reno was one of the other majors and another word that they use hers true now this is a word that we think of it as an individual hay
there is a true or over there the there's a true that actually it actually is another term that means basically like a company of guise now even see it small
in this is more like a patoon what they're talking about would be considered a potuimus say from reading um he had five troops with him castradina got killed
you know about hundred guys and so it were not talking about a massive group of people in each troop but that's at the talk about twenty guys percher actually
with at the forty guys protrude revive and that's what they're talking when they referred to the troops and even they used the word interchanged lean sometimes
there were fur to his companies and sometimes they say troops you know so uh joe going back to the book here when he's a unitary in the army and what they're
doing and he talks about what they were doing at this time it was pretty dull soldiering down there in the south the regiment was broken up into companies or
small battalions and our drab was to smash the co clock claim and run down a list at whisky distillers and wasn't much fun for energetic spirited young men and
he now is going to talk a little bit about the seventh camelry as i say the seventh cavalry was only seven years old in eighteen seventy three but it had a
fine reputation everybit country new general custer and and he was always bragging about what a fine fighting regiment had he was supposed to be the best
indian fighter in the american army in the civil war they'd called them the boy general and he'd been a dashing popular figure the regiment had spent its first
four years of its life on the kansas plains and in indented an territory the old timers the outfit could sir tell some blood curdling indian stories they used
to say it was worse than straight death to get captured by the indians because you would be slowly tortured when till you gave up the ghost they told all of us
young soldiers if we were ever wounded in an indian fight and left behind and in danger of being captured that we must save our last cartridge to blow out our
brains so that's an interesting point when we remember wooden legs said that all the guys in costers group and it up kilellan maybe that's a mean that that
very well might have happened or at least some of them back to the book by the spring of eighteen seventy three the plains indians had been largely debased
beaten and driven to the great reservations that been allotted to the various tribes it had not been a deliberate government policy but has been cruelly but
had been a cruelly effective one treaty after treaty had been broken by the relentless pressure of white men and their civilization constantly pushing against
the ineffective resistance of the red men now when again the indians had struck back and as a rule their angry angry flare ups were put down by the army and
the new and drastic trees would be made and more land taken from them in punishment the ink would hardly be dry on these new government commitments before the
white pressure would be resumed intrusions made that once again the bewildered enraged indians would strike back only to be subdued by the army and harsh
penalties imposed on them it was a deadly and vicious cycle the indian found himself whirling endlessly in so that that reminds me of a lot of conflicts where
you have you have these things happen you know that the the white man is putting pressure on the indians the indians don't know what's going on so they lash
out a little bit where the white man do then go in there smash them take more land from them compressed the more eventually there's another last out and you
just get this vicious cycle vicious cycle in eighteen sixty four a stuck a certain colonel chivington with a regiment of volunteer colorado cap cavalry had
suddenly moved against a large encampment of shins and indiscriminately killed some three hundred indians the massacre unquestionably had turned many luke warm
indians in to out and out hostiles this bitterness of the chians was inflamed two or three years later when custer led his newly formed seventh cavalry against
black kettle and his band in a sudden attack against their sleeping village on the wash shed in texas a shyanne's who were recognized as the most brilliant
indian fighters of the plains never forgave either coster or his seventh cavalry for this whirling attack on their sleeping village in the dead of winter
another big the so you know atrocities on both sides clearly of talk a little bit about those as well be one of the biggest atrocities beyond the killing of
the indians themselves a native americans themselves and those type of those was what they did with the buffalos caustic man was coming in killing all the
buffaloes and a go to the book here once the buffalo around whose existence thought whole a conomy of the indian was based with killbourne man had nothing to
do but submit to government control and become agency indians degraded whisky crazed and beaten only the various tribes of the sioux and the fighting shines
refused to be broken on the wheel of civilization a few determined leaders such as sitting bull crazy horse gall american horse to moon white bull spotted
eagle and chief hunk stubbornly held out against the threats and blandishments of the whites but by the spring of eighteen seventy three they will beginning to
be branded as hostiles so that something that didn't focus on enough when i talked about how the sioux and the shy and kind of faded well one of the main
reasons that they faded was you know again they gave up their guns at a certain point but we the white man and decimated the buffaloes and so that was their
main way of survival to reif you remember from wooden leg that's where they lived they lived in shelters that were made from buffalo skins and obviously they
ate buffalo all the time they hunted buffalo they ate them they made their weapons out of buffalo everything that they did was with buffalo i so when the white
man came in and killed all the buffalo that put them in her inner real precarious situation now we go back the book talking a little bit about what it was like
being the cavalry at this time each man would look after his own horse and we usually give him a little exercise in a good rub down a trooper fought a lot of
his mount at a cavalry man would have to be a prementioned be pretty mean who didn't take good care of his horse if we got a good chance which stealable extra
old they for individual mouths my horse at this time was named pig that wasn't his real name when i called him that because nothing could keep him from rolling
in a mud hole when he was being watered after we'd come in from a long ride he was fast and he could show his heels to most of the horses in the regiment i
fold a lot of them but the army condemned him after we'd been beaten in the decointre a year or two after we've been in it to go a country of your two i'll
tell you later about the horse i rode in the battle of little big horn but once won thing about pig two or three years after the army sold him i saw him in a
contractor six horse team in the black hills he looked so poor and abused out of bottom from that contractor on the spot but i didn't have the money i went up
to m and petted him he knew me all right he nickered and looked at me as much to say come on please charlie get me out of here i had ridden old pig thousands
of miles and more than once he had saved my life i pretty near cried when i saw him that time in the black hills big connection the olsha nowadays with the
guys that work we dogs hum and the the the military work dogs which are awesome animals and those guys get major can't major lyon acted devise dogs in and the
silakhor where its justitior just union and the interior hiding situation you know just you and him is an angel he so much together up stones and then first
sure you could i can't even imagine a motion of that situation back to the book it was at the yankton that i first saw general custer he was not far from six
feet tall he must await around a hundred eighty pounds he was energetic and it was mighty hard to wear a out i've heard people say that when he was at west boy
he was the second strongest man there as i remember at the time he was wearing long hair something like buffalo bill is to wear yet a big wide brine western
hat and long military mustache his hair and mustache were yellow tawny coloured i suppose would be the right way to describe them he had on high wellington
boots there were the kind that came up to the knees with the front three or four inches higher than the back they were popular among officers at the time
general costra wasn't the kind to mix freely with the men in those years there was quite a gulf between the officers and the enlisted men some of the officers
were friendly and easy going with their troopers but there was always a gulf costatum me as being aloof and removed no did it got to be gossip among the
troopers that some of the officers didn't set so very well with the general my captain colonel ben tine so there's some tinterran is out some of these
including general custer these guys have been promoted during the civil war it so general costard become a general during the civil war but after the war they
got demoted they got put back down and rank because they shrink the armies they shrank the army and so for instance general custer at this time was he had been
a general manifaire sudden he's a cole got put down and rank in it the same with he talkt to his boss uh uh uh wind off boss went off boss was a guy named
captain benten but they called colonel bending cause he was a condensed or my captain colonel bent in was one of those folks who didn't belong to the generals
in her circle i suppose you could say about half the officers in the regiment were close to custer and the rest were not i repeat that benten was not distinct
was distinctly not an intimate of coster i heard all sorts of reasons why that was true there was one report that ben ten had turned bitter because costard
pulled out after the battle of the washita december eighteen sixty eight in kansas and i left major eliot and seventeen men to their fate a day or two later
they were all found killed scalped and mutilated there was a story that custer and ben ten had some hard words over that but of course i don't know how true
that old story is so there is no benten thought coster let them guys hang out to dry had to confronted him about it and custard in like that at all and now
there to got them stuff that they are at all about and speaking of that of vent where these seventeen men were were killed in this book they have an exert
that's a letter from an army officer that got published a newspaper about that event and amenerait the bodies were found in a small circle stripped as naked as
when born and frozen stiff their heads had been battered in and some of them had been entirely chopped off some of them had the adam's apple cutout of their
throats some had their hands and feet car off and nearly all had been horribly mangled in a way delicacy forbids me to mention they lay scarcely two miles from
the scene of the fight who can describe the feeling of that brave band as with anxious hearts beating they strained their yearning eyes in the direction whence
say help should come what must have been the despair that when all hopes of succor died out nerve their stout arms to do and die round and round rushed the red
fiends smaller and smaller shrinks the circle but the aim of that devoted gallant not of heroes is steadier than ever and the death howl of the murders red
skin is more frequent but on they come and masses drim with glittering lance and one long loud exulting whoop as if the gates of hell had opened and loosed the
whole infernal host a well directed volley from their trusty car beans make some of the miscreants reel and fall but their death rattles are drowned in the
greater din soon every voice in that little band is still as death but the hellish work of the savages is scarce begun and their ingenues are taxed to invent
barbarities to practice on the bodies of the fallen brave some psychological warfare going on there the clearly you we know that the troopers at this time
tickencote by the indians and the reason that they think that is events like this you late bodies every one killed no quarter given now going to what some of
the other officers were like him in talk about captain benteen here's a captain benteen was like back to the book most of the time we were in the field captain
benteen commanded a squadron usually you have one or two companies besides his own company he was a wonderful officer he let the first sergeant pretty much run
the company tell decentralized command going on he wasn't always interfering and running the details so he wasn't getting in a way to wastage manager i served
under benteen for twelve full years lacking only those three days one of the best descriptions of tapanni is that penned by the late major general hue l scott
on page four hundred fifty four of his interesting book some memoirs of the soldier i found my model early in captain bentin the idol of the seventh cavalry on
the upper missouri in eighteen seventy seven who governed mainly by suggestion in all the years i knew him i never once heard him raise his voice to enforce
his purpose think about that never once heard him raises voice to enforce his purpose he would sit by the open fire at night his bright pleasant face framed by
a snow white hair beaming with kindness and humour and often watched often i watched his every movement to find out the secret of his quiet steady government
that i might go and govern likewise for example if he intended to stay a few days in one camp he would say to his agitant brewer don't you think we had better
take up our regular guard mount walence and bore always thought it better and so did every one else if he found this kindly man manner was misunderstood then
his iron hand would close quickly down but that was seldom necessary and then only with new comers and never twice with the same person so this is just
complete example of indirect leadership a covey good for instants camp we should put our or camp guards out what do you think of course here you go so you make
it happen i didn't give you an order i actually let you get get home onerous hats an now you're to cities on even my ocasion that he wont you know that's a
really good example of some solid leesha here's what it was like to be in the camp where it was wonderful to be young and to be riding into indian country as
part of the finest regiment of cavalry in the world we were mighty proud of the seventh and just in samelike anything could ever happen to it now i'm going to
go through there the riding out there there working the plains and a mango through a little battle on the plains where costers and charged general george
costers and church the general started so did the indians they had a good start on general custer esule not to pursue them too far away from his men after a
sharp short race he stopped on the plain keeping well away from the suspicious wood when he stopped the indian supped it was evident that they would not be so
audacious without a conscious without a consciousness of strength somewhere for ways that are dark and tricks that are vain the heathen so is almost as
peculiar as the heathen chinee and actually had to go in and do a little research on that one there's a poem that is about chinese migrant workers that
interested you can go and read about this poem it's called heathen chinee and what if you read the poem you realize that he shined to describe that they're
playing cards with the a couple of the people working on the train or plain cards of the chinese guyandotte re playing cards there they're kind of treating the
chinese guy like his ignorant but he's actually winning and when they accusest a fight it was actually the white guide that was cheating one of the other white
guys i was genso the guy that wrote the poem had written the poem with the intention of showing hay these people are smart and their trustworthy because of the
name i got red and misinterpreted along the title of the enemy of her engines you know leave not a very positive paused in neatest that's kind o i did some
very quick research on that just to figure out what was all about and that's sort o what i gathered after a quick aquack research leaning i do go it and read a
few atatitenron others in um in the hay impident we say japanese who say japanese forties is put agencies carnelian so maybe he as some relation of shaneen
there or are it back to the book this time the trick was indeed vain they were fighting with no novice as soon as general constrain dian dodge which was to use
these men as a decoy of dramont the woods he mediately sent his orderly back to captain moreland to order a platoon to dismount before the order could get back
two hundred and fifty mounted indians drawn up in a line of battle came out of the woods in fine military style the seventh cavalry could hardly have done it
better with painted faces heads decorated with ribbons they sallied out with loud war was general custer putting more confidence in the feet of his thorough
bred than the voice of his rifle against two hundred fifty indians turned back to his command calling out to his brother to throw out a dismounted line
lootenant coster had anticipated the order and was already dismounting his men that's awesome to these gesorgt er he goes to give the order his brother's
already on it they ran forward and took places in the grass the indians opened a heavy fire which was quickly answered by our men with their sharp carbines in
a dismounted cavalry fight every fourth man is usually detailed behold the horses but being short of fighting men and the reserves being several miles back
with the train general custarde every six men only to hold the horses and the rest to join the skirmish line the indians having three times as large force and
seeing the cavalry dismounted followed their example and dismounted from their advantage of numbers they were able to extend the cermans line clear around from
river to river so as to inclose the cavalry in a semi circle with the woods and the river at their back getting flank finding not that the horses were exposed
to fire general custer ordered them to be led at further into the timber now some other things take place in a kind of fast for a little bit through the story
the indians having lost two men were more cautious in their advance and finding that they could not with their heavy rifles drive a cavalry the woods had
recourse to another favorite weapon they fired the grass in four five places being they set the grass on fire so you imagine your hidin the grass and then also
terseness on fire fortunately there was little or no wind and the grass was too short and too green to burn well else this new weapon might have proved
formidable indeed the fire however raised a blue curtain of smoke forming a corner segnet between the fighting arks failing in their attempt to raise a great
fire the red skins used this smoke line as a mask for their rifles advancing under cover of this curtain they would pour a volley at our line and retreat
theodor move happening our men soon discovered the dodge and laid equal claim to the curtain the indians abandoning this position began to draw in their men
now general custer said to captain moylan let us mount and drive them off the men immediately mounted in advance as skirmishers on a trot finding it was not
fast enough a charge was ordered the men eager for the order gave a loud yell and put their horses into a full gallop nearly three hundred in number the sight
of eighty cavalry men coming toward them like mad caps was too much for the indians they turned like sheep and scattered in every direction battles battles on
the plains small unit packed every similar to the small use benita is that are used to day m throw it we smoke o smoking intermate tromso penance what are use
those for sat up a little curtain some people can't see you in your moving and you notice also there was some aggressive action it that aggressive action but
both sides when they got aggressive they started to imbitter when you start getting when the other when your poet becomes the aggressor you start it put on
your heels stress default mode now a talking a little bit about what it was like when they were back in camp so they were on the road all the time they were
not in the plans all the time and then they be back in camp they had their they had bands they had some of them had their wives there ah they had good food and
you know basically good stuff going on they had pretty much on but it was always let's prepare we're going back out in the field so they're back out in the
field here general custer who as usual was riding ahead with a couple of troops came upon the smouldering camp fires that showed that three indian teepees had
recently been there he sent bloody knife ahead with several indian silk that bloody niffee his voice throughout her bloody knife was custer's right hand man he
was thesand an scout soon they galloped back with a information that they had located the indians castracaro under the little camp and brought back for buck
with him to orcamp the head was a minor chief named one stap who squaw was a daughter of red cloud coster promised them food if they helped them but they
seemed to be in a hurry to leave and before they could be checked they mounted their ponies and were off coster sent true present of them but the only one they
could catch and bring back was one step he was told he would be given all the bacon sugar and coffee that two ponies could carry if he'd act as a guide he
agreed so again i guess the reason i wanted to bring that up is a shows that there was indianapolis and it was in in that went from a worm back and forth
between side and depending on you know depending on what the situation is depending on how they got bribed but it and also you know we know that there was war
petiete indians you know so that's why sometimes the indians teamed up with the soldiers they are con troops and went got after with him yet is that is that
because they got when you say bribe like they got any inticed with civilization will now on the arelata or bridier there ockendon's bishey one that we have up
guide us well i don't know if i feel comfortable that way we'll give you all the bacon all the sugar and all the coffee that you can carry on two horses he
says acclimate and if they're waring i know that if that's kind of their enemy in a way right you know all delmayne he was just maybe houseside in some food
how what he would avarities do yet and it would it it that the enemy of my enemy is my friend there you go he now in the black hills they think that they find
gold they think they find gold in the black hills and as it is a good a good common here about i guess you could say it's about material desires gold to most
men mean to sudden wealth big times whiskey and gambling and women it means fortune and adventure and all the things they never had the gold fever is like
taking don't your helpless when it strikes you careful natteral greed i once read about how every one who touchingest king's tomb was doomed to die a violent
death seems to me that the indians must have put some curse like that on the white men who first touched their sacred black hills at this time costegan a lot
of notoriety from his black hills expedition and discovery of gold but he never had any luck after that now getting just a cursory look at the politics of what
were happening at the time an attempt was made that summer of seventy five to buy the black hills from the indians and make legal this and slow but the indians
were no mood to believe anything the commissrs told them and it was impossible to make a deal of any kind a feeling of utter despair and despondency cast its
spell over even the friendly reservation indians may be the radical thing sitting bull and crazy horse and gall and two moons in the other wild chiefs far back
in the buffalo lands around the powder and the big horn or a preaching may be they made sense the free indian was doomed they were all to be made reservation
indians that men all the coleford life would be gone for ever the buffalo hunts the feasts the sun dances the visiting and the pleasant horse dealing wars all
the old life would be no more may be those radical chiefs were right maybe they all be better to make one big battle against the whites it would be better to
die a free indian than live as a degraded helpless treaty indian so evident was the hostile feeling that in the fall of eighteen seventy five that an order was
submitted by the commissioner of indian affairs edward piece myth to the secretary of the interior z chandler who in turn submitted to the secretary of war
general belknap a subsequent communication from the secretary of interior to the secretary of war dated december first eighteen seventy five red as follows i
have the honor to inform you that i have this day directed to commissioner of indian affairs to notify said indian sitting bull and the others outside the
reservations that they must return to the reservations before january thirty first eighteen seventy six and if they neglect or refuse so to move they will be
reported to the war department as hostile indians and that a military force will be sent to compel them to obey the order of the indian department there it is
compelled them if the art is in howlett's that you have to be weary of your government having so much power and leaving yourself the senseless in these
situations i think we learn a lot from the indians from the native americans on that back to the book general coster was not at for abraham lincoln when we
arrived there in late april eighteen seventy six of course that aroused a lot of talk and suspicion when you jobates rumers down you got about this we were
soon to start a big expedition up to yellowstone to round up the hostiles and drive them back to the reservations if they would not go peacefully we were to
make good indians out of them there was a lot of suspicious talk going around all over the place castaway still in the east so custard gone back to he east and
you could hear a hundred tales of how he was being kept away from the expedition because he had got under the skin of president grant a lot of mottoes didn't
much care for custer but it looked as if major reno would command the regiment if costard didn't arrive and most of us didn't know or care a great deal about
reno of course we knew that he had been a colonel of a pennsylvania cavalry regiment at the end of the civil war but he had never fought indians and he didn't
seem to be very popular with either the man or the officers i remember correctly he was a west pointer and was three or four years ahead of coster who was
pretty clear that there wasn't much love lost between the two men it politic total politic and in its almost people miss villian world they don't realize this
stuff apetalous politics crazy politics in the military and the just this kind of stuff right here on your senior to me oh you you made the other guy mad and
now we're going to get pulled on the pony off this operation imala this guy go in the operation this is just so typical of the military unfortunately and you
know what's not just pletely it's typical in any company any of us is any team there is always going to be these political things are happening i mean
occasionally you get to a great organization that really limits that i shouldn't say it everywhere but it's a very very common ye and your some one just asked
me on twitter you know hactelly political i i'm not really good at that politics you know is it something i should actually try any gain in alleges yes it's
goin to eat you have to if you are in an organization that political organization in and you want a make things happen you won't implement changes yes part
figured out how to play those games eh oh you don't you're not a political person call become one yet does what you want to do you an you good job you want to
you want de good job in whatever it is that you're doing so and sometimes that requires that you play those games so plain a game get good out of back to the
book everything was uncertain in those late april and early may days while the regiment was being whipped into marching ship we had a few recruits a bunch and
a bunch of fresh young horses so there was plenty to do to break in both of them one thing that people get wrong about the recruits was that about half of the
hundred and fifty new men we had were men who either had civil war experience or an already served a five year hitch in the army motion the rest were plenty
green a good many of them were german boys they made fine soldiers once they were trained i think it was about may tenth that general custer suddenly showed up
general terry's with him terry was of slight build and warm whiskers he was a gentle kindly man who never shrugged her word nothing at all like the quick
moving dashing young custer terry was a brigade general of the regular army and so he ranked coster by two grades word ran around camp that general terry was
to command the whole expedition but the cost was to have his old regiment costas is happy as a boy with a new red sled he put a lot of zip into us now coster
this political stuff that is dealing with um it still going on it still happening and makango through the details of a but he who somehow seen as i as an
agitator or an enemy of president grim and so he actually gets ordered off the goes back out takes back on the regiment sarthiano in the shape he's going to
work for general terry grant present grand says no actually come back moore not you don't get to do this and coster decides he writes a dispatch to be sent
directly to the present ingenited states scarse didn't do much communications with the president from my desk aaaah you re go back to the book and the
awaiter's so here's what he actually sent as an awesome that's what's beautiful but history is is what cost her actually sent an and grant grant president
grant was a guy that was you know went to westpoint as well he fought in the mexican american war he retired after that rich retired from the army but then
this aortae so he went back in the army as a general at thought it shy low and vexed berg and actually general lee surrendered surrendered to present grand so
this guy i know a warrior and here's what you're in your custard of appeal to that here we go i had seen your order transmitted through the general of the army
directing that i not be permitted to accompany the expedition about the move against a hostile indians as my entire regiment forms a part of the proposed
expedition and as i am the senior officer of the regiment on duty in the department i respectfully but most earnestly request that i will not allowed to go in
command of the expedition i may be permitted to serve with my regiment in the field i appeal to you as a soldier to spare me the humiliation of seeing my
regiment marched to meet the enemy and i not to share its dangers it was too much for the hero the hero of a apamatuc custer was to have back his beloved
regiment so grant gives in and says okay you can go get a cane in charge but you can go and so they roll out on this expedition and here's the description of
what that felt like you felt like you were somebody when you were on a good horse with a car been dangling from its small leather ring socket on your saddle
and a cold army revolver strapped on your hip and a hundred rounds of ammunition in your web belt and your saddle pockets you were a cavalryman of the seventh
regiment you are part of a proud outfit that had a fighting reputation and you are ready for a fight or a frolic so i gastaer good moral rowing out they did
some hard training when they were in camp and now the ready to get after it talks a little bit about contry describes coster i can almost see him myself in my
mind's eye he was wearing a broad western half with a low crown and a wide brin brim it was greyson collar he had his long yellow hair cut just before we left
and he had on a buckskin suit with fringe he had two short bill at baraboo revolvers and a remington sporting rifle tarred in a scabbard to my recollection
that he carried a hunting knife in a fringed buckskin case so that i mean you know straight up rock and roll stars of the seventies war friend on their
houtain's and ease you character now you definitely a character back to the book when the reginas formed in kansas in eighteen sixty six the general that went
the general went to a lot of catrou le to have each troop mounted on distinct colors i thought this was awesome so included it sagamat what color horses they
had and each troop had a had a specific colored horse i can still call them off even at this late date eh my own troop rode blood base b d e and l also were
mounted on base see g and c had sorely coalblack and lieutenant edges each rohat grave reached the call e the band box troop m troop with the only truth that
had mixed colours the whole band rode white horses i remember the drummer had a horse that were run away every time he mounted him except when he put his drum
on him then that old horse would stand still as a wooden horse it was a fine regiment right enough and it wasn't a man in it who didn't believe it was the
greatest cavalry outfit and the entire united states army that that that acts when i when i hear about these associate horses we actually had little
relationship like that with a hum these we name him the one name or humbie need or hunders names ah we used to have when we used to do a lot more warner work
before the war started and we would we actually named or outward motors and they had little by a want of me the guy that handled the outboard motors in my
second platoon he was all into it and ah his nickname was zulu but the zulu he was all into these motors and he had every motor had a name and he kept these
detailed logbooks on and how my hours and when the maneness was done all that and when we came back from one to payment and we were going to go to anoint came
back they said hey you know you guys guess what good news we got all new motors the worry issue you whatever was we had eight outboard motors is a odette all
new moon motors you know come and turn your in and will send those off to wherever it repaired or going to go into the garbage can and yeast he said
unlanterned i got my motor i know where they been i know their personalities to boatsteerers on alities well be the motors at first now and motor now lady yeah
they had personalities he at motor now ities and he he wanted to make sure he he had a relationship boemerstein to give him up went back to the book there they
start beyond on patrol and their marching up with called the rose bud eh and the five remaining troops headed down the powder an event we arrived at the
southern bank of the yellowstone the wagon had a tough time and it wasn't until constrain a true and scouted out a good road that the heavy wagons could make
it custer was mighty good at this kind of work he had a nose for scouting and finding the best trails it was june it was it was noon on june twenty second when
we broke camp and started on march up the rose bud this just before we packed our mules bentin ordered us to take an extra supply of salt that meant we might
be living on mule or horse meet before we got back i suppose we all knew by this time that we behaving it into dangerous country but as i look back i don't
believe many troopers were very worried we knew there be some hard fighting but a soldier always feels that if the other fellow who's goin to get it never
himself that morning word spread about the camp the mail was going to be sent back home and that this would likely be the last chance to get off letters of
course i didn't have any budirin to but the officers and many of the men heard me scribbled letters to their dear antennas they go to male off these letters
there on a bow the troop ran a boat and they barely gone fifty feet with these letters to get mail off when the boat was overturned and all three men
disappeared along with the mail sack the here's the orders that they'd go get as their going up these are actually the orders to costering with amasis are
documented is is her say these are documented orders colonel the brigade general commanding directs that as soon as your regiment can be made ready for the
march you proceed up the rosebud in pursuit of the indians whose trailed was discovered by major reno a few days sense it is of course impossible to give you
any definite instructions in regard to this movement and were it not impossible to do so the department commander a place is too much confidence in your zeal
and orgy and ability to wish to impose on you precise orders pretty so he's given him a look here's my general ideas gainsayers in ten but he doesn't want to
give him anything too specific because you knows he can't you be as noise going to be in two days what's going to be happening up there he will however
indicate to you his own views of what action should be and desires that you should conform to them unless you should see sufficient reason for departing from
them so he gives him his orders but he gives them some pretty good leeway to work your that's why there's some there's some discussion on weather not coster
disobeyed it and there's a thrift's a long discussion problem with no one could ever come with a solid conclusion on because there was some there was
definitely some some leeway in any orders in those who it was the leeway that i just read then there the orders continue to go on but i'm not going to go into
those minor details of them back to but we hit the trail at five o'clock sharp that second morning his guarantee early probably had to get up like i do for
thirty to get before the indian to get all the road before five o'clock around noon we began past signs of big indian camps as i remember we made around thirty
three miles that day the next day we rode hard too there was no foolishness coster had a bunch of re and crow scouts ahead with him and he kept them covering
the ground far off both flanks of the column we were an indian country now rideout such that's very common weeds still do that to day you have a main element
moving in a in a formation and out on the flanks may be some high ground you have other smaller elements that can protect your flanks and see if there's any
problems up ahead in one place we halted their benison dance lodge the scalp of a white man was still hanging from the ridge pole gitana country it was around
eight o'clock when we got orders to sadau we marched about ten miles when we were halted in the sort of ravine we been told to make as little noises possible
and light no fires they'd been no bugle calls for a day or two the sun was at her back so apparently we were headed straight west now towards the little big
horn i later learned that the indians called it greasy grass i never did no why about the time general custer came back from his scout word raound that the
indians had found a box of hard tack that had dropped from one of captain yates mules two or three true preside been sent back to pick up the box had reported
seeing two hostiles trying to open it with their tomeo this meant that the indians held us had us under observation apparently custard figured on hiding the
command in the ravine during the day and then attacking the vigintivirate on the little big horn at daybreak the next morning so there there there they know
that the indians know that they're there theseis windgod that and you're going to hear that kind of over and over again consorting in the grass surprised a man
every one's telling him or not aneurism may know where here it was sunday morning june twenty fifth we were still more than twelve miles from the little horn
and the indian village but the indians knew where we were and all about us i approached i approached as near that now so though he's he's a conversation going
on as actually cost her and ben ten and there havengore on with a couple of people including some of the scouts and he kind of goes over in dozes dropping as i
approached as near as seemed respectful and while i was waiting to catch ben tinette tion i couldn't help but over her part of the conversation charlie ran or
the famous white scout who is never to see the sun set that day were talking and i heard him say that there was the biggest bunch of indians he ever seen over
there find the i heard but bentincks hadn't we better keep the regiment together general if this is a big camp as they say will need to every man we have
costers only answer and was you have your orders duigan cost her ease not lessening to people scouts reconnoisance units and his other officers that are with
him and this is sort of the classic you hey i've got a gotoijege with your plan shut up an do it anyway you have your order that classic example that we were
tired and dirty and hungry or horses hadn't had a good drink of water since the day before and we weren't much better off we knew right enough that this was
the day this was it this was what we've been training and working for all these years captain bentin used to say the government page you to get shot at and i
suppose the dumbest greenest trooper in the regiment figured that this day he'd get shot at plenty here was a seventh cavalry with a total of some six hundred
men split up into four outfits apparently the indian scouts and experienced old guise dies knew that there were several thousand of the hostiles but it was it
is my belief that costermongers fat that after whip somewhere between a thousand and fifteen hundred and they expected most of these to be poorly armed and
poorly led from experience they figured the indians would fight only a rear guard action while the women children old men and pony herds got away but in place
of a maximum of fifteen hundred dinewans it developed that there were possibly twice that number about to face costers total of six hundred so that's the
report that they're getting and it's it's vital ilenovar about what comedy indians were there but it was a lot and a year here we go this amanitum forward to
another section and talking about coster and did custer the name of the chapter is did coster and it sort of a appendix so's not part of the story is after the
story but it's or about did cost orefuse advice from his scouts how many indian warriors were camped on the west bank of the little big horn that sunday
morning of june twenty fifth against the real figure how many constantin he would have to fight did cost or refuse to believe the estimated number of warriors
as scouts told him he would have to fight did he fail to follow the advice of his experienced guides and interpreters one of the best accounts of what the
guide thought about the number of indians and the chances of custer closing with them is contained in the excellent book william jackson indian scout by james
william shots willersey reading and here's a couple of excerpts from that all the third day we struck the trail of the hostiles the one that renewed found
several days before said bloody knife now member bloody knife is its costers you know man scout and there their tight said bloody knife my friends the bit this
big trip trail proves what we heard that the old olalla the minniconjou the sand sark and the tetons have left their agencies to join sitting bull and crazy
horse course i am sure that even this trail does not account for all that have left their agencies there surely are other trails and trails two of the shians
and the arapahos bloody knife continued it is as i have told long hair this gathering of enemy tribes is too many for us but he will not believe me he is bound
to lead us against them they are not far away just over this ridge they are all in campden waiting for us crazy horse and sitting bull are not men without
sense they have their scouts too and some of them surely have their eyes upon us well to morrow we are going to have a big fight a losing fight myself i know
what is to happen to me my sacred helper is given me warning that i am not to ceives of to morrow's sun sad words those they chilled us i saw charlie ranald
nod in agreement to them and was chilled again when he said in a low voice i feel as he does to morrow will be the end for me to any one who wants my little
outfit of stuff pointing to his war pack can have it now lieutenant vanes in charge of the scouts came over and said that it was general custer's plan to
attempt the surprise attack on the camp of the enemy said bloody knife we cannot surprise the enemy they are not crazy without dumb without doubt their scouts
have watched every move we have made convinced at last that we could not possibly surprise the enemy general custer ordered a quick advance with the scouts and
himself in the lead we had not gone far when bloody knife in his two reasoned us and reported that on the other side of the ridge they had found the day old
trail of many more enemy going toward the valley of little big horn they were excited and said to coster general we have discovered the camp down there on the
little big horn it is a big one too big for you to tackle why there are thousands and thousands of so and shines down there for a moment the general stared at
him angrily i thought and then said sternly i shall attack them got classic eagle maniac right yere sorry but that's what they says ye casterated for attack of
upon the camp none of the scouts had been far in the lead and they all came in resinous and whites and robert and i we were a gathering of solemn faces
speaking in english and the sign language too so that all we understand beardest him the enemy camp they was he said all of three miles long and made up of
hundreds of lodges hundreds and hundreds of lodges above it and below it and west of it there were thousands and thousands of horses that were being close
herded with his few riders long haired decided to attack the camp and we were going to have a terrible fight we should all take courage fight hard make our
every shot a killer he finished a nun spoke but after a minute or two bloody knife looked up and signed to the sun i shall not see you go down behind the
mountains to night and at that i almost choked i felt he knew his end was near and there was no escaping it i turned and looked the other way i thought that my
own end was near i felt very sad so there's the full account of these all the scouts some are you know some are white some are indian nave americans different
tribes and their all tone on the same thing this is not a good plan so back to the book apparently coster had planned to stay in hiding in the ravine we had
reached a little after ten o'clock that sunday and then attacked the village at daybreak the next morning of the twenty six that would more or less of dove
tailed into terry's idea of boxing the indians but when he found the hostile scouts had discovered his column he figured there was nothing to do but attack at
once now we get a little um a little report here from a giame sergeant daniel cani who would barely turn twenty three at the time of the battle in coniton
account of the fight published in the magazine of the stoical society of montana he said when we got to the top of the bluff the indians had disappeared but we
were in plain view of the indian camp which appeared to cover a space of about two miles wide and four miles long on the west side of the river we were then
charging at full speed this campus two miles wide that's a mat to miles stupid for two by four miles in tupic hundred guys atlanticus after america two hundred
is reno and his troops were again seen to our left moving at full speed down the valley at the sight of the indian camps the boys of our five troops began to
cheer over confidence on some of the horse had became so excited that the writers were unable to hold them in ranks and the last word i heard general custer
say were whole you horses and boys there are plenty of them down there for all of us again now we have total over confidence in the situation we think we're
going to win the sigognae fond o there's a two by four mile big camp no big deal i got five hundred days with me so this is where the forces put up and costage
off through a tack indigetes like he goes about a mile away my old half awake and again i'm going to make the same statement that i said when i talked about
the battle with what when we did the wooden leg pongas i'm not trying to restorica ly reconstruct the bottle right now there's play books that do that so i'm
just kind of assembling the broad design of what's happening so now the force split up are now in bentingala troops and holding but their starting to get in a
little fire fight themselves we saw a second figure in uniform riding towards our he was trumpeter martini of my company who had been assigned that morning as
a special orderly trumpeter to general custer i learned afterwards that he had a message from constertution that had been scribbled out on a field order pad
and signed by lieutenant cook the agitate it read bendin comon big village be quick bring packs p s bring pack fratenate that they get for custer somethin
costumed once split off things started going sideways real quick they again benenden have their troops starting out getting engaged in a fire fight back to the
book we could hear heavy firing now before long we passed several crow war reasons driving a few head of indian ponies and they shouted soldiers in pointed
toward the bluff that were rising towards the north we knew that we were close to the valley of little big horn and that somewhere in this neighbourhood there
was hard fighting going on bantine us to draw pistols and we charged up the bluff at a gallop expecting at any moment to run into hostiles when we reached the
brow of the first set of rolling hills the river valley suddenly opened up below us to our left it was a sight to strike terror in the hearts of the bravest
men down there in the valley may be a hundred and fifty feet or more below us and somewhere around a half a mile away there were figured scalloping on
horseback and much hooting farther down the river they were great masses of mounted men and we suspicioned or indians we were going at it a fast clip ourselves
and we had no more than caught the swift glimpse of this tragic battle field below when we saw a mounted and dismounted soldiers on a nolai on to the northward
we swiftly rode towards them so these guys are seen his massive battle take place their kind of on the high ground he cockshoot here what kind of weapon try
the the indians had for my part i believe that fully half of the warriors carried only bows in it arrows and lances and that possibly half of the remainder
carried ogden of old muzzleloaders and single shot rifles a fairies vintages probably not more than twenty five or thirty per cent of the warriors carried
modern repeating rifles at sounds pretty close to what wouldn't leg said i sit they mostly at bosna they some guys had rifles but it was mostly bowings and one
other point indian boys from fourteen years old up accompanied the warriors and took part especially in the later stages of the fighting the soldiers
incidentally were armed with single shot forty five seventy caliber springfield car beans and accurate and deadly rapid up to six hundred yards but when fired
rapidly the breach became foul and the greasy cartridges often jammed it could not be removed by the extractor this meant that the empty shell had to be forced
out by the blade of a hunting knife this very fact was responsible for the death of many a true relish sunday and may actually have been the indirect cause of
the great disaster weapons getting dirty weapons getting hot and dirty go take care of your weapon it sounds like this was beyond them just taking care of the
weapon sounds like it was a design issue as well redeeclous the river and had his troops in line of columns of four with the indian with the indian scouts on
his left soon indian horsemen were seen riding madly to and fro in the valley and shortly the southern end of the indian camp came into view reno now had his
three troops and scouts thrown out in a skirmish line covering possibly the full width of the narrow valley so there they see the enemy now they get on line of
the very common thing if you could picture this you've got your guys a column how many if we are if you're in a calm of three three columns and you see the
enemy ahead of you pomady people do you think can shut the three the three three of the front so that's why you keep her in this this idea of a skirmish line
and the same tacit that we use now oh we got any affront of a cool get it online they called a skirmishin here we would call a get on line like the the spread
out great aliso now they get they got fifty guys cool at fifty guns on line instead of three yeah realizing that this charged toward the indian hordaland in
almost certain disaster reno now orders troop to dismount and fight on foot even before this order came scores of indians had swung to the south westward and
pressed against the crow and recounts these were forced to give way things were looking back for renowne ordernances lines to fall back to the edge of the
heavy grove of conwood that followed a bend in the river and jutted out halfway across the valley the horses were led into the woods well atin line of men held
three sides of the grove some ninety men were holding not less than two hundred and fifty yards of line hundreds of mounted indians were now half circling the
skirmish line riding in close firing from under their ponies necks and in galloping away we knows men were now either firing from a prone position or using the
bank of a dry creek bed as a barricade and rifle rest to reno's guys are now getting basically surrounded in taking up this new position start an old hero
troop mien killed the first man on the scripturis line to die apparently reno had a fairly defendable position and some people think if you had pulled in his
lines and consoled daneis position he might have held out here for the indefinite length of time or at least as long as the ammunition lasted but the savage
yells the heavy firing the smoke and dust all and fear all combined to fog his judgment suddenly custer's favorite scout bloody knife were shot through the
head and his brain scattered all over reno then the scout dormance and charlie ranald was shot through the head rio figuring out his only chance lay in getting
to high ground across the river shouted for his men to mount up and company formation to troop commanders heard the order and amid the confusion and excitement
had their men mount up and line and column of force the third troop g under lieutenant mac intosh himself part indian who had been adopted by general mac
intosh was in the woods and did not get the order until the two other troops with rena riding at their head were racing up stream trying to find a place to
cross the river all order and discipline wore gone so there surrounded things fall apart he basically saying we got a retreat we got a idout of here and that
the assessment was that may be they were in a defendable position they could held there who knows who knows whether that's true or not nobody will ever know
how any man escape alive from this mad retreat all we are sure of is that the charging troop broke through the cordon of mounted indians and followed a buffalo
craft to the river here they somehow managed to jump their horses over a four five foot bank plunged across the stream and scramble up a narrow trail to the
steep hills to the east hundreds of indians fired indiscriminately into the panic stricken soldiers and the wonder is that any trooper escaped no motion
picture could be as cantastoria this wild milling of frightened men and horses again just to remind you that this is what's happening with reno in his group
they don't know where costers right now with his crew of two hundred guys back to the book in all twenty six troopers and scouts and three officers were killed
either in this ride through the indian gauntlet or back at the edge of the woods of the nineteen men left behind seventeen cross the river and reached reno
hill on foot within two hours litened and private one did not join us until thirty six hours later they came right through where i was on guard it was now
somewhere around three thirty in the afternoon reno shaken and unnerved at reached the hill top and here his frightened troopers were joining him he was
whipped and completely disordinate this is a rally point and if you have a pre designated really point and you say hegelochus be held over here if everything
goes to hell give we get all jumbled up go to that point it doesn't sound like he actually pre reat cause that would have been of you could have just said hey
back to her ally poyou could even a very clear order if you're trying to not really nowhere going and you're saying retreat well you don't do it in very
organized fashion so pre plans contingencies now they get in this position and reno like i said is in rough shape back to book cruel capable ben ten more or
less assumed command major rule reno had just come through a terrible experience and at the moment was glad to have been tine his junior take over quickly
benting dismounted his own three troops and ordered us to form a skirmish line reno's men had expended most of their ammunition so we were told that divine
arms with them we had been tenshun red twenty men in tact and there were round sixty men who been fighting in the valley with reno and even before we got the
king out of our legs from our long horse hours in the saddle we are asking each other whereas costar what had become of coster and his five troops apparently
coster was now much farther on to the northward and in this moment was hotly engaged but no one was certain all we knew was that he had disappeared with almost
half the regiment we hear the sound of distant firing echoing through the hills and valleys from that direction custumus be down there though this is happening
there in the skirmish position and their start to try and get reorganized backtothelander men who could mount re put on horses but the others were carried in
blankets by details of six troopers on foot takes a lot of people to carry it down man down man takes a lot of people to carry it down man and in this case it
takes six people to carry one down man nowadays we weigh a lot more we got we got all of our guns we got body over it's hard guys are heavy pretty soon it
looked as if the indian masses were coming towards us it didn't take long to realize that this was true here we were stretched out all over hell's half acre a
troop on this hill nabanoi in this little valley in a third and over there a third troop behind at a slow walk came pack trains the wounded men and the rear
guard renovating both sense danger and ordered withdraw the advance drew were dismounting and fought as skirmishers in the centre in a slight depression the
horses and mules were staked and an emetic with little field hospital was established but it was impossible to shield the men and stock from the indians firing
from a hill top off to the east in the incoherent em can't stop him what do you need it a yground you you can't hide animal after animals killed and the men
were hit it was tough not to be able to do something about it we hardly got settled on her own skirmish line with h men posted it twenty foot intervals when
the indians had all but completely surrounded us and the fighting began in earnest there was no full fledged charge but little goose of indians would creep up
as close as they could get and for behind bushes or little knolls open fire they practised all kinds of cute tricks to draw a fire may be a naked red skin
would suddenly jump to his feet and while you drew a bead on him he'd thrown self to the ground there under this attack for a pretty good amount of time and in
finally the sun went down that night like a ball of fire pretty soon the quick montana twilight settled down on us and then came the chill of the high plains
there was no moon and no one ever welcome darkness more than we did we felt terribly alone on that dangerous hill top we were a million miles from nowhere and
death was all around us all through that short black night the orgy went on down below in the river valley it struck fear in our hearts just as the mystery of
custer's disappearance made our blood run cold each time we tried to solve it were was coster wanted happened to him so down there up there their hiding its
dark their scared to get wounded in all they heard down in the valley as the indians go and crazy the rhythm of the tom toms the wild victory and they can hear
all this back to the book or talking about custard lake could not all be killed not lucky custer in those five gallant troops who rolled with him why he
abandons and those three bloody hours before darkness had save us we had no less than a dozen men killed and three times that number wound it he's actually say
man worsest here we were getting crushed on the battle field in the costers not there to support us where to go now during the night it rains a little bit and
finally the sun starts to come up and just as the sun starts to come up and start getting light back to book jone said something about taking off his overcoat
he started to roll on his side so he could get his arms and shoulders out without exploding exposing himself to fire suddenly i heard him cry out he'd been
shot to straight through the heart minuter two later another bullet from the hill top torn to the hickory but of my rifle splitting it squarely in two i was
plenty mad because my army carben wouldn't let me return the compliment so he jes got shot in the rifle stock actually happened one of my gudesire body when i
goes got is his rifle stock up blown up by an arp g i seem come fallen out of a sniper position and he's got his eyes slay his weapon is in two pieces i'm
thinking how lucky to be alive you along about this time arthur to your forty wounded men began crying out for water h true held the hill here on the south
west there was a draw that ran down the west side of the hill to the river it was a rough and exposed and looked like a dead cinch that any one who tried to
work his way down that drawlier would be killed indians concealed in the bushes across the river were firing up at us and they had every foot of this drawn
river bed covered but we had to do something for those men who were up wounded crying for water finally bent end called for volunteers i think there were
seventeen of us all together who stepped forward he detailed four of us from h who were extra good marksman to take up an exposed position on the brow of the
hill facing the river we were to stand up and not only draw the fire of the indians below but we were to pump as much led as we could into the bushes with the
indians were hiding while the water party hurried down to the drag got their buckets and pot and canteens filled and then made their way back to get loover
move after the obviously it just happened that the four of us who were posted on the hill were all german boys gyger mechlin void and myself none of us
forewarned although we stood exposed on that ridge from more than twenty minutes and they threw plenty of ledata several of the water party however were badly
wounded although we kept the steady fire into the bushes where the indians were hiding each of us was given a congressional medal of honor you think about that
you'll think about it you you actually grinned water you run out of water you're goin to get guys tirannice negontisk people live to go to water benten had
been walking up and down the line urging men to hold fast not to waste the fire in to keep cool our member saying to him colonel you better get down sir yoga
killed don't worry about me he answered grimly i'm all right he sure lived a charmed life that day but things looked bad and find me bent ian hurried to the
north side of the lines and ask major reno for reinforcements he made it clear that the indians were about to charge his line and if they were able to sweep
over it the whole outfit would be destroyed we now told him to take as much of m troops he could gather those men certainly looked good to us soon after they
came up tapped in bantine led the charge yelling and firing we went at a double quick and the indians broken ran when we had cleaned them out for a hundred
yards ahead of us we halted back to our holes once again we settled back to the business of getting fired at with men hit at intervals with men hidden in vol
and with the poor horses and mules taking a terrible beating in their hollow it must have been a long time about long about this time that bentingala me to
attention and made me sergeant we had one sergeant two men killed and twelve wooden in aged tree alone so once again we see some aggressive and we also see
some focus of forces right which is impious execute hay where good get over wrong there's our biggest proper and osorio so you know what hey major reno give me
a bunch of guys and were going to go doing aggressive assault and take care of this number one priority so it's focus forces on that here we go and that's what
they did they got aggressive and got after it back to the book the gun fired almost ceased and some of us left our trenches and stood in little groups on the
brow of the hill then something happened that i never forget if i live to be a hundred the heavy smoke seemed to lift for a few moments and there in the valley
below we can't glimpses of the thousands of indians on foot and horseback with their pony hordes who with their pony herds dogs and pack animals and all the
trappings of a gate great camp solely moving southward was like some biblical excitus the israelites moving into egypt a mighty tribe on the march we thought
at first that it must be some trick that the indians were only moving their families from danger and that the warriors would soon return and try to overwhelm
us patiently we wait in there or little trenches the long june afternoon dragged on the firing at all but ceased the smoke in the valley had blown away and the
last indian had gone then reno ordered the whole camp to move his close to the river's possible we would get as far as ways we could from the terrible stench
of death there was plenty of water now for the wounded and towards the evening the company cooks made as the best meal that could at least we had hot coffee
and plenty of bacon and so partake it was our first meal in thirty six hours then night came down we were weary but while those on guard were awaken alert the
rest of the command slept but it was an uneasy sleep we still had heard no word from custer we began to suspicion that some terrible fate might have oportet
him what it was we could only guess the sun was well in the sky that next morning of the twenty seventh and we saw dust rising slowly from the valley northward
so that i get approached by a young officer had been out scouting what was happening a young officer flung himself off his horse he was a tenant bravely chief
of scouts early this morning scouting in the hills on the east side a little horn with tenant braved come across a battle field dotted with the white bodies of
the dead men he had counted more than a hundred ninety dead he was certain to cost her was among them parent no white man had escaped one or two crow scouts
notably young curly had reported at the steamer far west at the junction of little big horn and big horn the day before there been no interpreter on hand but
curly had convinced the officers at all white soldiers who rode with custer had been killed at dowlutabad a few men and a few men had started out to search for
the field of tragedy curly was right no soldier a white man had escaped a little later the slight figure of bearded general terry with his staff and a small
lestore on the hill there were tears running down his cheeks when he spoke i think most of us had tears in our eyes to more than two hundred of her comrades
had imitabile death and now naked i known buried or lying in the hot montanan three miles northward so they go out to recover the bodies or bury the bodies
their own patrol back to books suddenly we caught glimpses of white objects lying along a ridge that led northward we pulled up our horses this was the battle
field here costers laugh luck had finally run out from the way the men lay it was clear that the first sworn troop had been ordered to dismount and fight as a
skirmishline then a second troop had been posted a little further on and to the east then a third troop and a fourth and finally there on the novoe hill lay
some thirty bodies in a small circle we knew instinctively we would find costar there we rode forward at a walk most of the troopers had been stripped of
clothing it scouted some of them had been horribly mutilated costa was lying a trifle to the south east of the top of the nowhere the monument is to day i
stood six feet away holding captain benteen's horse while he had dentified the general his body had not been touched save for a single bullethole in the left
temple nearly ear and a whole on his left breast he looked almost as if he d been piece of wesleen his brother tom lay a few feet away he was terribly netiete
scattered over the field where the swollen bodies of the dead horses but there were not many of them it seemed clear that the indians sweeping up from the
draws and coolies are all sides had stampeded the mounts while the men were fighting dismounted from every direction hoards of crazy indians must have attacked
with the wild courage that their desperation and hate gave them nothing could check their mad charges captain benteen found a bit of wood hollowed out a whole
found an empty shell wrote custer's name on a bit of paper and placed it in the shell and shot the deep in the hole and the piece of wood then he pushed this
into the ground at custards head it would make sure that the burial party would identify custards body the following morning we live back to custer hale and
buried his well as we could the naked mutilated bodies of our comrades it was a gooseneck coster may have made a mistake to divide his command that sunday
afternoon of june twenty fifth but the gods themselves were against him it was the indians day and i'm going to go back to finish this up to the section of the
book that we started at and that is this account from major reno who i know a little bit more about now but i think that the way he wrapped up and they
actually did a mass of trial a a a big trial for reno and they found that the actions that he took were not negligent he might a made some calls that might not
have been a best atrato calls if you look back on it but he he was basically cleared of any wrong doing clearly clear at is pretty crito window thinks you know
keep broke and he'd lost control his troops and then bentinck over and out things quarta okay clearly cleary went off was also a huge fan of benten so he might
be spent in that story a little bit in that direction but i do think that reno i think that him looking back on the incident and he kind of wraps up his
assessment of what happened and what went wrong that day and also i think for lack of a better word that there is a a there's a warning of sorts in so here's
reno after much reflection i've concluded that several great blunders were the direct causes of the costermans it is an established fact that custard disobeyed
the orders of the general in command of the expedition for instead of waiting to meet general given and general terry on june twenty six that the rose bud and
then cooperate with famine their concerted plan of action as he had been directed as soon as he struck the trail of the indians he followed it until he came
upon the indian village june twenty fifth then without attempting to communicate with either terrier given and without taking the trouble to ascertain the
strength or positions of the indians he divided his regiment in the three separate battalions an act which nothing can justify and dashed against the indians
thus recklessly driving his own and my commands into an ambuscade of five thousand so nor did costata into consideration the unfed and exhausted conditions of
the men and his horses and he entirely ignored the fact that the indians were keviet and ready for the attack at noon whereas it would have been an easy matter
to surprise them very early in the morning the only explanation for such conduct on the part of so brilliant an officer as coster undoubtedly was otherwise was
his great personal ambition he had fought himself partially disgraced because he had been superseded in command of the expedition by general terry and it was
well known that he was resolved if possible to carry off all the honors of the campaign for being in command of the only cavalry regiment attached the
expedition he knew the brunt of the fighting would necessarily fall on him and he made it no secret of his intention to cut loose from terry where there was
fighting to be due purtition and to carry on the campaign on his own hook absolutely insensible to fear he was so reckless and daring in the extreme and driven
by an intense desire to distinguish himself by some brilliant exploit he made his headlong dash to a horrible death without the most cause regard for the
maxims of military prudence even now after the lapse of nearly ten years the horror of custer's battle field is still vividly before me the haricot of those
mutilated and decomposing bodies crowning the heights on which poor costrell will linger in my memory till death and i think that's pretty clear warning and of
course there are military lessons to be learned from this account of the battle of little big horn maintain the element of surprise keep your forces unified as
much as possible taken maintain the high ground the rule we should always fall trust your conistons units you've got them out there listen to them make sure
your troops are rested and fed and have water but beyond these fundamental military tactical lessons i think it becomes quite clear that there is another enemy
that we must always be on the watch for then that is he go our own ego we have to keep or ego in check at watch out for and guardians it getting control of you
and interfering with your decision making process now i always say this is doesn't mean that ego should be banished it absolutely has a very positive sight is
well it drives us to push hard it drives us to do our best and agilius who personally led cavalry charges at the battle of gettysburg that were critical and
stopping flanking actions from confederate troops an action that no doubt was felled by courage and bravery but also was felled at some water by eager because
eager is a driver of our actions and sometimes i can be a positive driver of our actions but it has to be balanced as to be balanced by humility and open ears
and open mind keep the ego in jack an i'll lay something else i liked your ego another lesson from this is that you have to keep your emotions in check and you
heard the brutality that was committed in these wars on both sides both sides anger and fever and frustration those result in an escalation on both sides and
on both sides there were truly our rific ax ob savagery and that's an extreme example this whole story is an extreme example of both those both the ego and the
emotional maam that are shown in this example are very extreme but also think about how they relate to your every day life how often do you let your ego get in
the way of making the right decision how often do you let your motions drive your decisions how often do you go to war because of our emotions and because of
your ego how often do you go to a war because of them in one i'm saying stop stop doing that get control of your motions and get control of your ego and put
them in check or you aren't escalating to situations where you savage your enemy or your friends or your co workers or our peers or your family or whoever you
do nothing in those situations to further your mission in life but instead you just distract and detract from reaching your real goes don't let that happen
learn burned from this particular battle see what the emotions and ego do and find a better way desolate the bill the coalitions with people instead of
building blood feuds work with people instead of working against people left people up instead of casting them down and in short what that is is leading that
is what true leadership is that as one a true leader does so go out there and do it an i think that's all of gotford to night just of just a brutal brutal
situation that this is and i actually pulsometer quotes to in in in the beginning the book a talk about some of these massacres that were considered a
committed by the soldiers in some of these raids and this is a one right here john s smith from his congressional testimony this is from the sand creek
massacre by the way i saw the bodies of those lying there cut all the pieces were mutilated than any i ever saw before the women cut to pieces with knives
scalped their brains knocked out children two or three months old all ages lying there from sucking infants up to warriors by whom were they mutilated by
united states troops in the guinness might my point in bringing that up is that it's the escalation of a motion and the escalation of ego and aminabad them
back and we so often drive ourselves to these situations in every day life i mean obviously not to this scale but how do we acompanying you got it concentrate
on keeping your ego and your emotions in check yenowines that slippery slope factor where like remembered the one i think it was i think it was me lie where
were talking about the slippery slope and kind o one thing leads to another were if you kind o look at the end the result you like no way out he never do that
i would never be in that situation but it starts like with one little thing you know so from one for debt to this tis a next step or the for one lost that
where you slide on the slippery slope like that's easy you know where so i aright one day gets mad he slaps this guy you know or even i mean it goes really
repenting with his libery slip animallike gino on your diet on ane it does and what really talk about is what secured to the sepelit the disinclined to
maintain in this one is maintenant a personal disponere you're dangnation slippery well going down the dona slope yet right we don't want to do that but on top
of that you get into a leachit situation absolutely it is slippery slope and you give that little bit you think i'll be in no big deal i like that guy he is
going he got the land gree that's okay not but everybody else saw that happen then galore just allowing this to happen and it's only going to escalate but it's
so i think about this think about easy it is to stop that one thing and say hey echo what you doing come over here he looked we don't have prisoners stop at
your doing he getteth if you're mad go there take a breath a that's pretty easy for me to stop now one happens when you shoot somebody now we have you know we
have a major incident now we you're going to jail i mean it's it's a totally different thing i could have stopped that very easily in the beginning or i can
have major issues to deal with in the end ye like this i mean this is more like the slippers lopatin but not war nothing like that benhamite on an unfinancial
dice rang mill they'll be like hey i anodee in investment you know you ah you hear about this where they'll be like ol cabin a collect his money from my cot
mappin on my client and that i'm an invested right and then a i'm just going to grab this little bit i'll pay it right back you know next to near you have
level seven pounds he as his that in thus the thing that's his libery silwer when you start even before you like start to slip or whatever when you start you
and you think of okay where am right now and going to prison for the ponds these alone er would like to owain i am an i know i see me i leridant o sounds like
that would really be the psychology of people that do that like a a beta lot i don't know because i have an idea are you as isenstein example that you read
about or something no oromandes in that that's what of mind said is yet well um i had great about like the slippery slopes and you ation but in really it's
like two perspective one is like when you're in the mix in the the next death or down the slipery slope none is always a totally understandable right on goin
to run for it eleanor ever i bet if you look to the burne made off where he has a hat you junii would i would have to read about it but it would make sense to
me that year a sumption is correct that is in a beginning he wasn't like you know her to do i'm going to rip off a bunch of people right i got it genesis you
don't want to go i confess et of an to get these people to buy in and then he goes you know what i am quite make an we're goin to make farms going to go in and
take some of these other people's money and just distribute it is every one's kind o happy ye and you know that's were starts yet and then you then you realize
you can get away with it and you go on down that road yet and that in that it had let he go by the way because that that his ego because you're like i don't
want to admit to everybody that had and make the money i promised you as in going to a new don't give to own i will bound ye but the tooth perspectis is kind
of the the the thing where when you're in the mix that one step is like that's hard to see it that ran in the matter speak in part to see if his like i ah why
should i you know this guy came in thirty seconds like so what am i to reprimand him in front every one come on you like really you know so no one you know
that's that's easy to understand but every last employee never coming in on time be like no way ympossible no way when i started this come no way i ever let
that happen but here's a thing it will happen with that you know because of that because it's little step is hard to see can see it this white like this is the
rule and straight up so you know sticklers of you know people like on their sticklers on a rule he it's kinda like i guess made me be like socially the norm is
the cans a stickles of tightwad whatever you know but i will sisowath there is also the way to lead like when you heard about benten benten wonder called the
cry like that but he would have just give him a look a right don't you think at the gudea she think it's really important that we are on time you would call
about for an everybody or at a man at him but he still would have been a leader in toodled that's that's the that's what we wanted to yeh yeh selagus well oh
yes to save the questions from the interweb active he needed american names of the coolest man they do have the coolest name in but if i if if i had another
son i think i'd name him bloody knife know right well the other raglan the anderson stab ye and ye native americans depity do how to put their names together
to which you like what's that what's the formula it's like all with some significant thing that is gavril just call in and you remember wooden leg because his
name was each from the hand he and in a changed it from each i think it as each from his hand each from the hand once he proved that he was actually a a a bad
asked warrior his dead secousse had breathed requested the name from the oldright uncle was from his uncle because they could both takabout walk they both
walked a distance on and then we get up and so he requested that name and when at once they found it a bit little big horn he introduced his son as this must
son wouldn't lay remy sir before i they're like hey i wonder how the native american kepher name i know how they just when they do something significant they
just they just give it to them they don't make up an amsden it that's their name what they do and they'll her friend abby she smoked a lot at the time so
earning with abby smoke saw but legitimately no oh no as i turned of american name but but be in the warrior cultures to wait cooler you know i mean yeah i
like dances with wolves i mean that's really no warrior cultured man a gives a movie dancing i have sat at very violation i wish i went to move before i just
found the ball and of a lame old esuree all right tom well i guess with that how about you talk about how we can get in a game hengaging there and still
mohabat the parasite would be nice and back to learn how to forge an if you want to sport potato you can do it and this is how yes this one cool was i if you
don't know already i would say with supporting his pocasse that i think the cause if you're in capable how or you know if you're not kabloonans hoping to sport
pocketwards port o the sad rites you are old as we that men get right away we got mixture of us from the lack most trancast i had said something along lines of
eight it is this take too long he actually did we think get mixer views i be the only men of the holgrave we got more positive yet now there might be some
people that just didn't say anything to they were turn to be kind and antelope's fine they pressed off right now the rest of the people that her kind of like
de little deep in the game there deep in the game were and that's a good wainwaring were some good points that they brought up because um ah i have i forget
who that it but there were like they're some nuggets in the yeah no we don't stop trying to learn ye howard talking about things that help us eight correct we
was still trying to figure some stuff out an there's some nuggets information this ere that might be dropped at any time near and even if not that's part of
the reason why i put the the guide you know on you to arawagotos on talkin about this stuff to get her at off too like all the whatever the remittent stuff all
discipulo can skip it and i'll tell you where to scipio well both offers are there you yeah yes because some people might just want to take everything they can
from the po cast that's why put um you know the time stamp for all the subjects the cause you know yet i liked to assume that every one under percent of the
people everybody ten out item like every single word of it and they like every single subject in the lay out and i i i like to think that but in the event of
that not being the case i don't want them to be all dis will i got to sit through em as lital about you know and on clicked through and on it you know so they
have the option i think that's important grayer working together i feel like we're on this together you know we end the one giving her i have a different
opinion in vinie that right and then now i got to sit to the stuff that you get like the singer will i think were taken care of both sides and sure so and to
do that you know of course likely said you support yourself supplementation they fear into it and he is a thing where i didn't think that like real oil was
supplementation who think it is and it helped causes you now on the common the crelian its and every its benefits and am my my wife dead with sucking from oh
tish oil no not this or fishes don't get wrong it's outstanding place yenoo ocany know what's better crellish would sail no time how like a eyes kind you know
what if these health like guienne um the old man digressionary is right yes so am yet pure from from one of course yes that's the main one they have like the
quality the quality stuff from it don't cutoff no don't an eat one might think oh yes course i'm not going to go get the cheap stuff like what but you a thing
in so with supplements like varies cheap stuff there's like stuff that she strayed up doesn't work like you might as well be taken like you chock condensed
into bill it's true absolutely true shank said ye are foetibus it's not like i know something about it in a supplement not regular on enough something but only
is all wage like it as a literature all that stuff like where they get in even the cry oil is like you so decided about where the croon comes from always
headlight light as it were all as europe others as you're about the tells about the environment of friendly of that to you love that we those casual coveteous
guano i like that that obviously left an impression on your betfort say something to cool idolater pretty good combination in a like cold radios and make these
please we hope it you make antilles to isarcus latimer don't make the canandaigua on every three months and had now an i feel about that there one don't feel
real good about it not yet in there you go i mean no i keynote your point fully but back to the cruel oil it's good anyway i elicit warry bars are a shumack
for performance you know if you if you want the edge that sounds like one of commercially but but for real if you want the edge if you want to get the edge if
you want sedoocer eleven did i go out a environmental edge in a and you can get the person of gieseppe your wallet which is good to im good on it dot com
flashed jocko the hole also cowed way legatees n't cost you anything way to support this butacas a reinforces for ages and be in the game lethaeus better to be
in forging folly and her hostess and is going to fight em from this oh so you don't like all like people will go to like em hold ovation a seminar and er
something to like this or or or listen to a motivation all speech by odovacar would be sure in atalantes has his like party brain where you know it seeks
something and then you get the pay off an then it's it's basically a sense of satisfaction sings no more so you you're satisfied so people seeking inspiration
and motivation they'll go in to go to a speech or a seminar something like this and bill consume the speech or the motivation of video on whatever but their
specting there other watching it you pectinate sir yes to the whole lot different really the big pictures should be an age see this speech motivation be a
whatever on the beispiel no annagolan action right but to take action you still have to have a need you know then need to be satisfied but people they'll
connell view or or or in whatever consume the speech on and they will be satisfied because they they see the son and they don't take action and is a thing
parker the next piece that comes in the town or the next motivation of bittoon you to gonnoisance your or the next time whoever the person is otonabee next in
their company town there going to go for that good stuff that they got last time they left real satisfied with you know yet to see hearing that meilen that
speech they go they do it again they get that one satisfaction still taking no action by the wan nagao it's like it's a weird it's a mess of like wife in the
big difference harris and that is that those veterany you're watching yes and your spectatia opposed to getting in the gang gave a and see if initiatives
really my whole point where you know i'm going to listen to you you're not saying like i mean you are saying get after but you're not saying you can do it you
nothing i can not off you know like i am i know it goes boastall i actually have than you can do it mary saying do you do it exactly right but that's a thing
so really the whole message whatever it may be you know an don't i don't at all this stuff is the big messagers don't eat donothing iaowania mine is is but the
key there to them the whole message is you got to do it and it's not like you can do it you know you're a i can do it i feel good about that fact i'm good but
this is like you gotta do eat out o god an do that you know you can't just walkin just watch broker i think i'm convinced you i'm ready to get the game i'm
saying that's the difference and so you're saying that amazan free the avison shopping click through the website jock muncaster come lilamani it definitely
helps and also were all donte all up on amazon as miss e for the holiday season never whatever it is you're going to celebrate when schools offer to week you
got a five bunch of people present ill yet during that time period that's a good time to sport the podcast nonancourt anything he clicked through amazan and
you make your purchases the key there is to to remember it and then you need some kind of cute put in a book marks of something and then i can't keep that good
that's the key it there i think the rest is just a desponding take her itself anyway and then you can subscribe of course on i tones and you too and stitcher
go ye ye wherever you might get your pork cast from subscribed yet this foscari a review brighteye ye those are good men there reviews yet those are still the
sole it i like benefeet creative encourage that er um and then of a course of course took you are tashiro you were hoots drink coffee or tea of any kind for
white swellin an jocatore outcome came by some cool shirts a you think they're cool i look at him this going to be more to him than meets the lookout a fight
if you like how they had a maybe look into a but here how is a thing no i you know making like a suster like will dosal these layers how i always say there
than the hoodie i says this flint of a sigefred om if you love me patteson as little equal sign he and it's a bar code he that's made into equal sin so one he
me on to it is said he you're talking about the layers is this befell sign a layer you know there like is this a little hiding as you have to be a servant is a
hintin it's not that big of a deal but on mail it's like a double like the oka here here is so the font is right yes jacchi the font the hole before any other
things started dolchester caveas i made the jackpot cast despite do you being a master you know scales with all those programs that do all the design and you
have a great graphics mind and all that stuff despite all that i just made the little thing you know little jocolpus mo and i made it on tower point and when
it came time to pick the fat i chose um this font called osia you optical something renanian yet biconcave for my mind i always like okay part machine ran
parmachene so this fane can be read by machines yell it out is wiegandt's why you fontaine look at all at the other a futile to look it up but you said at your
like oh yes woldington looked it up and yes sure enough it it's the first and that they made that computers can ye ask that's right you know is voted is the
wise horselike castell right so the bar code is it is on canaanite thing like decantered on your shirt kindness thing your shame yet well you are wearing a
year machine read a wolf in your machine ye yes you're going is what it is to eerily computer so that's kind of the little lad i mean that's just more like a
fond thing for sure some ah but anyway again jock store that erastus crash guards that it by ayenwe may the claim nineteen per cent improvement in that is yet
to be refuted so far you know forfeet back that i've been getting anyway if you want your improvement because you know what you know that though i think that
there is legitimacy i let it like a actually full and put in article on today about how it compression the muscle increases circulation to you actually get the
leggiadro here out on notinstandin but brossano but you know it is it is you were seen you know when you put on like a uniform oh yeah you or you get a little
yes a ritual back to richelieu kind of ants like almost like a it's weird like when i was young when i played football eleven years old and we got new shoes
for bales on her new shoes as can't wait to go to practice i'm a beast or few months men my shoes as dirty a hat practice but you get new shoes you want to go
practise you get new work out dear you like an him to go you get a new rathgar you want to go training in it you get a new gee you one turn yes so that's kind
o that's papier as well there is a little vashasha possessor laborator yes that's i call it a geater weave tocktor out come a washwoman stuff some one's tea
shirts coming up soon o god we now and now you say that they better be actually coming outside and all i think my my cock is counting down a debbil navigate me
like a count dionetta line the strait of hearing me one month shall meeting of the chinaman the harriet reveche sicked on to ten on you and also get some jack
away tea you andrine that tasted really good if you haven't tried it yet it doesn't taste like tea and it doesn't taste like anything else they taste like
something really good she so give it a shot and a lot of people have replaced every other beveridge in their diet with jocolate i and all topago little
something new coming out that can be used for tea or for coffee or for milk or for dream and it's a big old mug so those are we on anasona the mug they just a
big black bug and um then written on the mug is just says get after it so help you can you can get one of those it also says proved ye it was a proved inexact
by me so you get those mugs and the brig old and they and all so you get the buck in somarsh p which i wrote with my brother laid avin and um pick it up you
know what a lot of life when i dig isn't people by it for themselves and then three days later after they get done reading it they buy for more for the people
that are on their team and then they might want for their boss and then they buy one for the five people that are in their petersen and they just spread the
word cause they want to make their life easier by having people getting after it all around him and taking a troutship and am if you do want to kind of keep
keep cruising with you know what that go tarleton and myself you can find as actually on the interrupt on the interweb on twere on also on instauranda were are
kind of all upon the hepatic spoke if you want to get that echoes at cecare and i am at jocelyn and i guess finally thankfullest ning to night everybody had
out there in uniform serving or with some police thiswise i work for some fire department as week awesome thanks wacoota surservient than protecting the home
land folks that are overseas thank you for what you are doing staress stay an of the enemy keep getting after it and then to all the troopers at a metanoeite
in every industry every industry you can imagine that are out there making things happen to turning and burned dated day crushing things whether it so massive
project that you are completely devoted to towing and doing it perfectly or you know what there's plenty of people that hit me up and they say he you know what
i got to do a bunch of stupid administrative task today and guess what amanieu and i'm going to crush him so wherever you are to day on that spectrum lineup
and cry so until next time this is echo and jack out
