this is jacopo cast number forty nine with authors in me jackwell it starts off quietly when yer young you don't quite know where it comes from and at first
you don't even know what it is but you know it's something you few it you feel it growing you're just a child but you feel it something something inside of you
and if some point that thing it crosses over it goes from being something that you don't fall irrecognizing something that you don't completely understand it
goes from that to being you those things become you it is you it is your emotions it is sadness and happiness and passion and anger and joy and it is rage and
knows things those motions they burn the neighbor hot there a fire that grows out of control they feel your mind and your body and your soul and that marks the
chee becoming a person the coming an individual instead of a child you release the infernal and you burn what you taught and you anitos near you and in that
fire you burn you burn out of control and people around you the people the other humans the normal humans they do their best to extinguish that fire they tell
you tractate you to calm down i tell you get a grip they tell you it isn't healthy and that's because they are scared there scared of that fire in your soul
and so they tell you that you are easy an because anger and the rage and the sadness are so brutal and so hard to suffer through you begin to listen to those
people to those normal human and so you begin to subdue the fire is not thing it start to get nose and motioned under control and its somepin you realize this
is better better to control those emotions better a star those passions you begin to shut them down you are a child no more no more and re youth no now you are
in a don't a responsible trudel you control your emotions you don't let them control you in the anger and the rage in the sadness they begin to wither up they
become less pass this memories but when the anger and rage in the sadness fade so does the passion and the happiness and the joy it of course because it
happened slowly the combing disease you don't notice it it isn't a bolt of lightning or a violent explosion that kills them but a slow slithering death then
one day you wake up and you catch a glimpse of yourself in the mirror and as you look into your own faded lifeless eyes you see something something you
recognize something sodden worn but something still filled with a subdued power and you remember you remember what that felt like that what anger and joy and
honor and happiness felt like in you wonder what happened to them then you realize that in order to control your passions you destroyed them all of them but
let me tell you they are dead they cannot so easily be killed they are there and they are waiting to be released again and no you do have to let them get out
control but you can certainly let them out into the wild you can dance with them and of course while you need to balance them and maintained the upper hand
over your emotions you can still relish in their glory but you have to let them out you have to expose the nerves feel the pain feel the frustration the
sadness the shock the anger and in those adverse moments then you also get to feel the laughter the joy the gratitude the passion because it is the pain not
indifference that few greatness and it is conviction not tranquillity that drives execution in while we must not ever let our emotions dictate our decisions we
are not here to a radications control them as of course you must mean tain control of your emotions keep them in check yes i only emotional restraint is in the
cessity but destroy them no that is not what we do so let your guard down expose your weaknesses take some risks open up your fragile soul a note embers those
smoldering embers that you have tried to smother but that a ready to ignite again in become any fun of energy and of power feats and burst by that fire again
stocked with air and feel and more fire and let it burn but evening ago evening there was erectos i had a as i was thinking about the one of those decorums
stream life and obviously i talk a lot about maintaining an tole your motions but we can go too far with that idea and i wanted to remind myself that if we
take that i do too far were actually you no redress backwards in a negative way my opinion do and last pot cast will i but long which brings us to straight up
cuanady in questions from the interweb yeh bring it oh you got some comet the late submit questions discussed people have been asking me replied twitter or
towards really solid baseboards also good yet instermint ye don't ye emily i i on a shigram but it's harder for me to compile those questions would people have
me with those they don't stand out as much there in a caption of a picture twenty seven comments down and it is three not not the best of not the best way ye
face look to it her every one low people will submit him through the store and possible way he yes it it's good but you kind o do bring the risk of there being
story is shoes that's that are pressing and then at mike okay let me get back to this question whether it beat i forwarded or or whatever as run the risk of it
me beginning shuffle to the bottom or something yeah i'm caretaker might be more official way to do it yet maybe i should just be doing a one maybe i should do
for each pot cast on face books a hay if you have questions for expotat asked on this thread right here that might be a way to do it what about him email
questions a decided that only estonola might be a good idea in this that if only i knew some one that knew how to set that one haigh speaking of questions from
the interweb putty at for question jack what is the biggest turn around on stand slash opinion you've ever made now that this is one of those questions that i
sat there and thought about it for a while and then i realized that the answer was sitting right in front of my face literally sitting right in front of my
face and that is this it's the pot gasped the book the social medea all of it because i am i've talked about this before i was raised in this hiltes you be the
quiet professional and as better fact on my on my favorite seals he is young young guttation this guy was just a distant tonal bad as fragrant and burned i
lurdon from him and he was actually newsome people said that is good at everything this guy was actually awesome at every hankicher thing that there was to do
a shooting at fighting at climbing it tactics everything that he did he was awesome at an he was super super hard corn just tough and in fact one of the
stories about him is that when he joined the navy and he had to come to boot camp i guess in and iago he paddled a kayak from where he lived the gin pisanio
that he was seventeen years old by the way he was his esente year old kid and joined the navy when he was seventeen and then had no way of getting here so cold
take a kayak put it in the water and paddle the sanehat's seems to be the the smart wait to do things sure and so back in the day he had a hat any hat this hat
missus before you see to you than mobilia everywhere you just see it yet all over the place he had his hat with just a tried in on it nothing else just a tried
it and then under the trident it just said the words the silent option and i always thought to myself yes that is it right there that's as right be silent
option no fanfare know news no parade no fame or fortune or glory of any kind no not of that decillion that's it and anne pottimus everybody that i looked up
through the elopes had that kind of attitude and there something that is obviously so pure about that that otoscopes that none of what you did as a seal was
ever for any kind of recognition ever and that to me was sort of the coat now there were people that stepped out from that code and while it certainly was an
encouraged it wasn't really ridicule either either i mean people people did it people wrote books and the it was a wasn't looked that down upon at the time
unless you are bodderin you were bad so you or your god at a bad reputation e you'd be tried in the supines amongst the team guys in the community now
civilians in no different ride i mean two civilians how can they tell they just a seal is a seal is a seal so there good with it but in the teams if you had a
bad reputation your reputation would gieve war you if you broke the coat so when i retired i had desire intention of of going public right of become a nested
then when i started working civilian companies the and lay prone formed a compeer on front and we we realized pretty quickly that there's a big need for people
to learn what we had to teach and really quickly the demand for us to write this down and be able to give it to people through and was really obvious to us so
when that started when we win that started an we start rode down and in that started to transform the idea of what we had written down started transforming
into becoming a book like a legitimate book i i got really nervous a him scared and kind of able sick right i was definitely definitely very weary about it and
i think i did some little self sabotaging the way just a little bit er there you know i just blow out or no you don't says probably not going to be a week i
think i did some of that stuff and after i have to think about in fact i know i did some of it micus it's kind of an all or nothing proposition right you're
either do it or you don't do it and i guess you could try use like a suit to him but then that doesn't really that's not me right machinemen it not gonna make
up a personality i had nothing be me right so that wasn't really an option and and furthermore i knew that that doesn't really last either i mean a suit in
himsell people figure out who the arts soles the way it works um in an i think the thing that finally made me say o k i'm goin to do this is that i am as i
decided like okay i'm going to do this i diskindness at going to be anything else other than one i was right a mock in a try and put on some person on or be
something that i'm not i'm disconto be me and i've got you know that that's when the new and so that's what i did you know the the the the me that is here is
just me there's no nothing special tis just yam and that's all i did was basically exposed what i am too you know people in the public now the thing is now
that i actually am out there a little bit and people can kind of see me in the world right there's definitely some things that i don't like about it or i
fashioned visingsoe right or some challenges there frinstance should be washed all the time you're being followed and being he being judged and those things
right there are coincidently the exact same kind of challenge you face when you're the laesi of this man i say a later sipsoo people are watching me o people
are judging me am you stood a that's what it was like when i was in the yelpings and just like when i was the yefim i always tried to stay true to what i
believe in and what i believed was right and not posseder made mistakes i obviously did but i always gave it my all to do the best job i could do and to take
care of my guide my brothers and my friends that's what i always tried to do and we we that all on still chinches just to give him something back to pass on to
some of the things some of the little things i learned along the way and really when i get the feet back from from my seal teammates from guise that are still
active duty in the celts from soldiers and marines that are retired bore guitar still in active duty or guide a transitional world all those guys guys from the
front lines that are on the front lines right now and then as a landforce men fire fighters and when the all those that whole crew an'lope ple send me some
kind of thanks it it's as and in addition to them and i don't know if it is surprising or not but i hear from just every day normal people to civilians right
business men labourers entrepreneurs bilbers mechanics plumbers electricians software ingineers doctors men and women girls and boys young and old dister
imaginable size shape color of person from every walk of life and i hear from them and when i hear from them and i see that there getting something out of this
that makes those little challenges of judgment and an scrutiny it makes all those war while to me because once again i feel like i parisien that's bigger than
me bigger than myself something more powerful than i could ever be by myself something stronger than i could ever be alone and for me to be doing what i can do
to to help that in the hand that to have trying to help be both the task and the reward it's a reward to help people that to me has made it or while ye could
see that what kitsie professional m the quiet perfessional yes and the sinopians the so different of the veneration on the same theme is that because if that
wasn't there you i would imagine you get a bunch of hay look at me well such a a such a bad ass and all these stories and you know because i think that like
what what you and lay have in and even this potosi stuff sir there is like references to her but it's not about like who let me spend latakoo tales that the
war and that i went through and stuff like that it's it's more about like the actual principles of leadership and what what geraci you know even though i
enough the gentle public would probably want to hear every last cool story and how you saved this person or you know killed all these beggars whenever you know
everyone and here that i'll go but that's not what it's about that's not like what you're going public with a know for bout like ocatilla stuff that is that is
he tried tested in basically the harshest the conditions you know that work everywhere and like that the able part one even off that's even like seeking glory
in any way well again as it is before you can say that you're not trying to seek glory but then when you ride out three hundred page book about yourself you
know what i mean and then you have a pot cast about yourself it's like it it just is otitis like there's no that that has a level of of self centredness that
you can i mean you can't ave a can do no right i can't deny like i actually know the pocasset's a potest and i talk on it for two hours right to admit that's
me talking so there is a there is a level of that that you can escape from it and i was not talked about this before but that book the electric collate
assertest which other may be i'll do but it's um it's about the hippies and the drug revolution it will this one part of it where this guy is listening there
he's up in hate ashburnham francisco and he goes on this tangent about how what they are saying is me me me me look at me and when i read that for the first
time i liked amy never want to be that person that saying that he and that that but again but i conomy here is i have a asked i have a book and and that book
is me and i poastmaster to have upon cast that you talk on and not habit somehow beatoun's does now pences that's a real challenge and i do my best to mitigate
that run but you can't stoppait is actually a pot cast that i mean it is actually a book that i wrote ten and you know it's a book that actually lay ill so
detest what it is and so you can't take those away the only thing that mitigates that sewing from me is again what i just said is when you got when i got
soldiers marine riot selfmade o mine that or or fired up and er there there saying he theatralem thanks about one this is as great a i never knew that a
whatever they're going to say right and then on top of that you know you get civilians that are saying hey i stopped using drugs because of your pages that is
also ye i don't like drugs and some on somebody tells me that they stop using drugs because the potassamide me feel very gratified when somebody calls me up i
desidere body ah on tenter just said a guy's existe three years old an he said hey of lost examonation something pounds any said i just did the first leitolf
my life fifty three years old tifter old just in the first legitimate popoli he's a thank you that is worth the the the daggers that stick me in my brain
because i know i sold out in a holdout but that's what it is is is the is it just in your demdike scrutiny from people at all or for queueing out or is it
nordeney rosenheims are fire there the right that's what i would think and it is because the whole dynamic many i mean you got us be like jacopo it's called
jackpot asioot me you kinda have to do that yet i'm in this there's a small element of that that you have to include about yourself they are credibility
reasons all this stuff but then a side from that it's it's valuable stuff it's not glory seeking sofa all this is like stuff that's helpful little help like of
you the stuff that you can benefit from from this potato the book if your neighbour if the people in your neighborhood all the incorporated these principles
into their life ebearhard so it's not like you know amusisein reamer you know it's not that no no so it makes it worth i mean and my i dagenett like tradition
if listenise if there is like a person who is a cayou know like a i dolebout you shouldn't do that that's the coat that's a tradition that outened you sold out
i would understand that that i think that's just like you not liking it to big picture here yes no i definitely was when i hear backfallen i hear go like i
said when i hear from actinise i heard from my selborne that or tell me this is awesome that i at that makes it worth while to me and ah that's sort wake you
in it that in again the civilian folks that are up there sat ernudder just changing their lives and any gain i whenever they say all thank you i say hundred
you anything you did it that guide the dies first pull up his first legion fifty three years of life you know what that's awesome i didn't do that polo he did
he had to put all the work in all he did was change is out of toinette a game and now he's you know having him much better situation in his wife because your
life is better if you go from cropstone in your life just got better your life is got a lot better as a matter of fact is so yet but but it was interesting as
i sat here talked about the corn thought about the question the biggest turn around i'd been really pretty steady in my belief for a long time i mean above
this you may not just in gentlemening nera if you if you were to interview me now and you interviewed me ten years ago they because i was probably a little bit
done ten years ago is done dumbers months ago but my broad believes would be somewhat similar right in and is all thinking okay what's a biggest turn round in
than i realized oh yeah obviously this is a huge jerrold for me and and there were guys is that you know when guy's in the elthemen out to agapit coming out
you there was a definitely to guys that were like doodeen and ill you know and then they read it and say a man on credits all good you know and ah that's the
way it is let's say you were to not relying life but you're take the jackaroo before before remodified from and then the idea was in jude a like whalelike what
did you feel about that like if some one went and rode a book and did you know did i like usion like what was your tolerate and but generly generally negative
that's that's right it's a big terrines if you told me that years ago i'd be like a you know we're quite fresh we don't eat that kind of thing as of yore i am
mister quitasol e o not so quiet still professional though shrinke a fessional afinance the professional men kit yet he is there a digouille some unpeople who
who change their attitude on things all the time sometimes get from upon those justinger for for being like a flipflop as i feel like politics but isn't that
kind of good if you're if your ideas about things always are updated it's okay with me out o line i don't mind if people a change their opinion over time as
they is they bring on new knowledge but there's a point where that becomes ridiculous re ye well ye kindee on why they're changing their mind now the hater so
if it's like with the introduction of new facts and stuff like that man in like a cat i didn't know all that now i know it paints a broader you know more
accurate so not feel this way or a starting the field this way off but there's a there's a bias you know talk about catania it's called a a think it called
back fire affect nan it's the opposite so like new fatuation all come in and the tendency is to be like is to dig deeper into your current belief oh for sure a
fact i can i can talk about that i've seen that happen before and when i seen that happen as people when they the weight that he first learned to do something
in this eelenois the way they believe is correct it and you have to beat it out of them a like o as we learn new tactics a whatever whatever some guy went to
their first training at a seltier they went and whoever taught them that sort of what they believe and any one else that comes in with a new idea will be all
no man unknown not the best way and so and i i figured out real quick onias draining when i was in was running training and i realized oh oh i got to get over
this barrier of you know this guy learned it for at this tea or wherever an or he did from this guy and so he's got have that in his head that that's the only
way to do things calcinatus got to i wouldn't address alatta it of course and i say oh you to great tactic what they do of you at this and you know what we
were about show you actually mixed in it attacking you might want to you know it's something you could use a long with your tactic and then they realized that
the tactics were teaching is superior because we've a valved hright either of all three lords tactics new tactics all the time the fundamental principles and
change but the execution at a tactical level would change in his got better at that eric's called a war so we went to war and was on who went to war we started
figured out some of stuff with that we had been talkin' really function the way we eats it was literally like preuve see martial art and other aright yet you
know pretty martial art if you lutha you know if i touch your neck in this particular manner you are going to fall down and nothing is going to save you from
that and if you could pop that you might believe it and and then somebody punched you in the face and ordeal like take down on you and langhorn you know and
then ran in their neck or some yet when you shine cariteo their neck so is the same thing that you'll be s we had tactics that had evolved during a peace time
environment in a in a bubble and so when the war started we said oh okay we need to go ned doing immediate check on all we say yea the my friend was in for
monitorial we watched the fight and he in the guerins position you know standing canfrome back there and he an he asked em he's like he couldn't he just like
thrown easing him like the meanest charley horse rate there and then he greifenstein's not condescending or anything but if you don't know you don't know him
do eilie silly said no i mean ye you could throw but that wouldn't do anything i mean not all think you even feel that you know no not eremitage you have the
foot how i put it less i say charlie horses are for when you're cruising and you see your friend you're like gonorrhea everything you do it and i like her time
like all you know but now on you're in fighting it yet you don't really feel a charley horse you don't know an that being shed if somebody if you're a position
so resorts dropping yes twelve to six elbows on to your five and there big enough and their big and your kind o stuck there you'll feel the love you see a guy
even in the osteology make a just man a move because he doesn't want to get take your twelve of those shots at night on to be fun yet my ample was a lake kick
to a late cakes essentially can be like a charley horse you know how melikof your friend a chillowist or at annot's the point to the point is like what you
would think is the common charlie charley horse like with your friend or it square whatever like oh like a elbroon it or even you need or whatever um is
different than like the penetrators that will be effective in ye an invading a fight in an enema it takes even ninety nine per of the time with let kicks it it
does take multiple yet a round for work of like kicker you can actually affect or i it might soltau down a little bit he's a little less apt to to be have
weight on that front leg or whatever matenko you see he's been fights on of ended because i heard eforehond the guys been kicked in the leg forty seven times
and is it's just easy breaks yea the just again is one of those things like you if you've a know either now seemed but solitis and then she adinfer me she yet
there is much in the world that looks like that either g if you don't know it it seems like i be easy ye and it's not easy in jugoslavia or mimas a class he
ample at home but there's so many things i mean even a normal sport you know baseball talk pay how are can be the hit that ball all sports sex yells for it a
rock climbing you know you look an say that give one just grabbed that thing right there and now all on ye just hold on no doesn't work that way up he football
like me on the job the life can i got you couldn't even get up les radiis hands okaputa a football now of course they're trained on a stand but you you know
that's kind of part of the point you know them being trained made it look like it's so easy seen that done all that outina's interesting is windystraws over
into the interpersonal and leadership rome and its same exact thing where if you don't know shall no man you see people that are you know longer leaders or the
not very experienced and no by making the same kind of rocky mistakes or have the same kind of of of opinion of her one would you told to do this of a very
easy way to come can't tell him just sominoo just hell to do that there is not going to listen to you as they do have spectacle you never let tiptoeing up yet
so you can end up with the same thing in that aspect of life as you do in a war fighting aspect if as you in a sports aspect wise it's all the same now you've
got a learn the skill he got a practical yet so you knew it shooting a gun ye oh superearthly some may knock out you know it's it's i it's a skill and the
easier it obviously easier to kill some one with a gun than it is with a knife or with your bare hands it's an easier method but yet you see you know you see
this all time so little gun fights were people find shot twenty twenty five rounds at another guy and they don't hit a a a ner one ten feet away and now so
shooting is easier but it it still is a skill you know you need to practise no man in this not to mention with us all that like an put the like just firing at
you know you know like a movies the gal be like one hand you know whatever boon are a more accurate representation polly would go is like you know the kind
movies where the girl to the teetotally demean women a lot of times when they the girl grabbed the gun and she's like a an she shoots the and then like it lies
out of her hands are that's probably forty accurate if you ever shot a gun who yet some of the number shotgun before ye the first time i ever sopby wife to
arrange just to teach her shooting and she was kind of that way you know kind of scared and intimidated and france he was kind o not almost shaking a little
bit and a half an hour later i had her doing quick draws from the whole for i ponawtan had his as if the year over it how are you ses i shut up and relay
magazine to go gay cold we got that feel you bring those beds on line in other namourouse watching adios on my but the more disratement but of people like
shooting i biglietti alive him in a latent not under good i if i'm goin to spend time watching it is i'm watching actual guise it are good than have some
albutius stuffing learn oochak although you can learn from watching somebody at last now he has reason geweinet on alright also existing i had a few question
relating to much family life for guidon the seals my boy friend is interested in taking the path of his coming from the girl otaheety copy i mentioned being
married while a seal was it hard on you it on you and your wife and family said vice for a newly wed as celestine that sounds for softspoken forcuses at dines
actually disast questions and basically from the other side and a peep by the way of one it asks can i bring my wife on her my wife has given thee the stern
neguses not coming your wife because she's legitime professional little quite all radiant and his are glory oh she did it just cause she loved icons my wife
had said no and if in some one said you know i said ah went back and forth somebody on social media it is it to hate flanker to an she's as he olegario or to
give lectures in but what i'm doing this kind of plain a long term game in plants some seeds and what not tryin to get her may be to think about how she could
help some other folks out there say you know where that to work for an there is some planking activity going on if if well i see where it goes out but this
question being married to a guide that in special operations are in the seltier it is a hard life in many ways and you know the soul pines we had a ninety per
cent divorce rate by the way a ninety i think it's come down a little but not a hundred per cent sure or north athurt numbers are to date but man when i was a
young kid everybody was divorced the you know guisarde married and forced all the time so here is the here's the couple things that i would tell you that i
think made made my marriage last right as i for my wife in sooth course right for a credit but here's a couple of things number one um you have to respect the
fact that the job is the number one priority and that is completely therefrom a lot of people think and i don't mean to be offensive by that but saying that
but the job asked me number one and for me and of sidesore all on interviews the job was the most important thing to me and my wife didn't take offence to that
she didn't when i said monarch but it saturday doesn't matter you know oh i'm going i'm going to knock on becoming on tonight why i go to work and then i'm
going out with my friends cause we're going to go and hang out cause that's what we do and she never would get a tended by that instead she realized all kay at
his job is the most important thing he's got to take care of himself to go take care of his gustave he was job he's got to take care of the country so i am
number two that's cool you are only to help support him and so that is that is what was happening and and so what that means is your wife in this case you
young lady that's asking the question you need to be an independent person right you you need to be self sufficient and and that's not just self sufficient
with you know beale the clear the toilet when it gets clog dup and you know call the plumber when the water heater brakes and hand all that administrative
stuff in all the tacton the house and provide epic care le finances caterer your husband an be gone do you be gone he's goin t be on a work up is goin to be
eats on a gone a lot it's you god be on him on that stuff and on top of that you have to be self sufficient emotion only emotionally self efficient were you
don't need to have this constant ah you know constant flow of the faction coming from this guy who has a bunch other things to worry about right so that's hard
to do and it's a i think that's one of the problems i mean that's why there's probably a high divorce rate cause it's hard to find a a girl or a woman that can
do think erit so it's that that will make that's part of the solution here now the husband obviously the things you got to do is leave your job at work right
and don't don't bring it home with you and if i notes before you don't don't in this you'll seems you don't have to when you get done with work your change in
brown your civilian clothes you go home see you're not bringing that with you that sort of a psychological moment to change and and get those out but there's
also be additive that you can carry over vereas because the hiltes and and special operations in the military gentleman definitely the selim is a hostile
environment with your friends your friends are not supportive caring nurturing friends no your friends are just just savetier thing they're looking for
weakness it is i mean it's all fun but it's all just a constant it's a constant just battle verbal battle verbal abuse all day long it's fun like were having
fun with it that's the six sense of humor you know when tim kennedy was on her and they made no move rage range fifty and all all that that like kind of sick
twisted sense of humor is what your living in and there's a real problem that occurs when you take that little sick sense of humor that abuse of first knowed
that you developed at work and you bring it home ill and that happened to me when i went to college and also not wasn't around the eatings any more all day
long no more team guys and then here i am i and what do i do now i come home from going to school all day which was a knowing and then the first person i
talked to cause i didn't talk to toinon's almost i was asking them a specific question about some knowledge or some thing that was happening in a class a and
that i didn't make any friends so i come home and i want to socialize what was the only way i knew have a socialize cutting em now an noteling them and i
that's the little bit strong but you know definitely making comments and in trying to have a good time he through cutting people down and so you know i talk
about this before and i think some of these kinograph on to this but you know for instance you don't before i was going to college now just in the team's my
wife would make dinner whatever it is she makes it a cool thank you preciate it when i was going to school alternate round kemeny more i would have some fun
then i come home and you know which she'd cook me something and i would have some compositor he the band a venture and it was very clear which said the
stomachache think of big deal she discuss ham not a team guy you know i i think i said some of about this dry chicken that his name my wife has always had to
miss suiting moist should have an right they always out o no he's paranoid about food poisoning and had when she costivan she cooked a big time on it she goes
the guest to right she will come that thing until you know your you got to bring a gallon of water to the table just to get through the meal so she's actually
got a lot better the refiners and so anyways back in a day i'd say she say on you don't have i made you some chicken and i say oh king can you jest go and
bring me three gallons of water to the table lucian then it was one of those comments that i made one time where she says you know not a team guy an i kind o
laughed and i said only gosh look what i'm doing you i'm treating her like a tea guy and she's not a team guastee to be treated like that so i just put myself
in check and got myself under control i treated my wife like the good person that she is so there's that terse communication it's a nisus isis weird think
cause ever goin to say communication but my point here is don't expect communication right don't expect me is one of my buddies was married and we were going
on pinnesses a long time ago he was married he had three three kids been married to you mary as high school sweet art bababa and he lived in corn where where
the seal teams are he lived there and his wife lived there was a wife and one day he dropped off his car he had to his car worked on her something like that
and he said this is wenaston's for five years he's married the whole time in a silent and when time he says to his wife hey you know he calls her as his hay
can you come pick me up as we had to go somewhere bulwaan she was a she is where are you he cause i'm at the team and she was aware as it and corn out of by
the way is only a a mile long and and so it was a class example of the naval his life even wear the buildings were what he did or anything like that and at
just the way it was and a lot of successful salmalis that i be seen there's not a lot of hay to seat a work day and at this guy's a jerk and hand were turned
to make this happen ha got in trouble for this there's none of that there's just like work and then there's what we have frightened think that you got a
separate these two but at unsaying is this idea of communication happened all the time it's not going to happen all time it's not going on only benoiton think
it's beneficial when i was overseas i wouldn't call me you could you could call your wife you don't basically every day if you want to income every single day
i don't want to call my wife every day they make time slow down it doesn't speed it up this don't call call like one a week that's what i do call my life wife
once a week hey how you doing i'm fine how's everything home i would just ask her questions about home didn't didn't call her anything that was going on ever
and just said olaii you get the you know how's the car and did you get to water heatherfields the kids doing in school and bamboos her questions as otherwise
you're going t start talking about your world and then that's going to make em or eatin concern and everything else and you don't want that so you don't need
to talk to somebody every single day that you do it eats need ees so that's emotional that or of talking bout rallier with or with being emotionally
independent right you got to be independent canned that like security of a a came and no to me i actually not goin to call you imaritata to you you go to your
thing of doing my thing um you know what top i think it's cool if you want to set some goal you know together make a wooton know your tumak on things happen
you're trying to make some fightnin goals or some family goals or some house gals you know we want to get a new carpet on to put some new wall paper up wi you
whatever you know when i had a you know disused stuff and and make those goals maybe we make some gingles together that's always good my wife was really good
at you git she's kind o stop turning when she started having babies are eighteen months and all that what but you know we we sat a last trangoil the time and
so i obviously recommend that you gittite all relationship are a workin out together is another good one you know even if you can't get at you get together you
can you can you can just work out you don't work out together and that's cool and then you go give each other space right got to give costosa the guy the guy
the eastem guy he's a special operations guy as you hang on the front sometimes and that way it goes there's nothing wrong with that the death away things work
and you know what she's going to go to the same thing so that's okay um ye so i think those the main things to j would i was on here he he made a good point of
put put each other for night now pretty simple point that goes a long way he tackles along way yes which is contrary to what i said which is like the team is
going to come first but peter job ye and i think you can still put your team as the number one priority and doing your job as you no more parecas itha's thing
i said this a million times right they listen darlin the reason i have to do my job well is cause it this is what we do we fight and goerner to kill us so the
best thing i can do for our relationship is stay alive so that means an and not on that but i got these guys that also need to stay alive for their wives so
we're going to work hard were going to train hard or going to play hard when the noah other better we're going to were going to bond and all those things are
going to happen and that's how i can best support this family is by kicking as at my job and if you're a smart wife you'll go that makes sense to me and it'll
be okay so in putting your job as a number one priority you're actually supporting the family and your your putting your own your spouse first because you're
trying to take care of yourself take care your team so that you can come home when when it's time to come home yeh yet it mediately other first that's kind of
like a like datis like otto remember that you know cause you know how like you had on your on two different pages olyanova put you in a bourgognone yourself
yet leyemand helped allot if you enteneyeren do in that lapilli holston i like old put it you know we just put each other for is a real like thing that kind o
resented it only cut in that word but it reads the nate you know were you in using that word in on the l you of those works he on certain words just found on
coming out of your mouth that one of em in my opinion a comes sounds out out of any one now at a mi mi santander good actually he not thanks for all right but
he thesoul o by the way good locked a to these guys that are trying to get in a special operations community it obviously i loved it and it was all some for me
and i'll tell you my wife there was definitely hard bread it was a hard it's a hard path and when yer asbeston the payment and your home and guiser comin home
would it or giserie overseas that that's that's going to be that's hard and that's one of the things on a talk about the strength of the spouses and the
independence that be all to deal with those hardships when they come that's real stuff and so to the to the women out there that support these guys god bless
you yet that that point he made where he eat i think it's probably dishabill a little bit when you treat your wife like a team guiole house the tie your youth
did like midwife but you like you know he don't we all like its good i treelike goosanders not to do is not a one way street and i can be doing that i do i had
the same thing cause i tolt me o my brother we just stopped the holding is like with you atlantidae the funniest joke about the other guy you know and then so
sarah was like our friend misbegot together so she's got and she would cheat in like that even from the beginning but once your kind of like in the relations
she cannot got a lot of shokonsha constantly like i am not here you know and men of course i am not your brother yes i mean runnered like that kind you know
but but of course if you're not looking at it as like a two way street you're like we wait you should be happy i'm treating you like this you know this is my
way of showing affectait yes she me atterita no that's a different person yeankton next west dje question was etiquet does mean question one yet halawa the
best ratio of drilling to sparring in question two is what do you do if you rosamond knew did you get to and there over agressive like the beast took over
can't they want to hurt people i don't think they're really do but the adrenal or ashake to experience to manage a what's good what's a good approach on you
know on the mat to let them know that there being reckless and wasting energy without sounding like a ducal right so question one the ratio of doing the
sparring at i'm probably out the best person asked this question because i like to roll nobody's at best personate question may be but i like to roll and i
should probably dream more but i like to roll the rolling is the finest thing we were training yesterday and we got to training us day and we are sitting here
with watching some other people trains stuff and all the managers loitered an hour of round and so i just got down to and i had seen in dosso fun it so fun and
ah so i like to roll in drilling is not as fun right when i said yeah we did round that means were rolling for those union' train while for swaggerin go find a
place train in by the way all these people asked me questions about if they should chain her you gathered no got a million different reasons why you shouldn't
train like was the one you just respond to somebody on soeda said you hey what if he only option i have is a place where it just white bell was not even in a
heaven instructors a wide belt is it worth it yes you it's worth it don't and you too you can learn a billion different moves on you too and go to rollys all
the right beltrano gets argento get better and you would doesn't matter what the bells are so you know whether you are that person or whether you the person
that has agony make it once a week because i travel go once a week then now you go if you are the person that says he man i got you know this neander and i can
only a roll like one day before it gets you sore okay ronda and you don't want it you kids me you have let every time you go to the mat you don't have to go
psychotria you which is what won't i guess we'll get to that question but if you can't roll super heart than just roll a little lighter and roll what you can
and we had guys some of our really dedicated to j douster got hurt they still come in jail they can't even roll but he'll come in a man look to let me to work
my whatever i can do let me work my arm lock you know i that the one motion i can do some work that that's cool um so i think you should grow more i think i
should do more but i just like to roll so much and i'll tell you anything this does change a little as you get better because i mean obviously a black boat
doesn't need to drill as much as a white belt does cause a white dog has a lot more moved to learn but everybody should do more and i think if i was to say
something like probably a third of the time you should be dulling maybe i say something else you learn any move drill it until you're good at it then you won't
need to do it any more and the other thing about dealing is enjoying as awesome dulling also i could draw a move fifteen thousand times drill only and when i
go to rollo i won't be able to do it it doesn't mean you go to do it and in fact i still got to do it a hundred more times live against another real active
human before i can pull move off that's the way it works in a casionally there's a few moves that either they are that simple or you have a natural ability to
in that does happen in unwarlike occasionally ill get either some osages makes sense to me right and i always as sons i want my canoe that's rare i mean it's
that happens to an person that i most the time i learned somethin i try it and i get stuffed than that i got to try again i got to make my little justement to
attend i got to do it again then you thataway to just to work so durlach all right kit questioned to some one that is going level seven psychopath on the map
is teetertottering i guess but seven is still were not a hundred per cent sure i lieve as she out of digestion that is not level one and yet he led on the end
on this guy is above normal cycle level oh let all say this well above normal cycle tell so he etairai your higher about us shot him down right you just shut
him down smother them i liked if i get someone that's going really super grazy i i will i will immobilize them to where they cannot move in i will let the rage
renanot oatmeal do let it drain out of em and all you know just let the rage trained then also met him and then also miniaan and i'll just do that over an over
again and then a priest you know have what i intimated you just relax little bit cause all that all that going trade is not helping you get better at one which
ran to do here now when you tell some arise she told don't you strength of course though the things that no one can actually apply right and very seldom can
some one say but you you i guess that a man to relax and they go holierthan ce roll of altona they go even harder or otso that's ten to do you eventually just
keep wherein a down on say a man you know tell you got relaxing to see you you're not going to see is much if you're so go in sich now though that of your
higher belt that's what i do control him put him to you knowed them to accept their fate and that will help them move down the path toward relaxation now if
you are a lower belt you can either fight to the death rites finding canigon in their may ham and if he wanted you at that tokay or he can work your technique
right and get dominated so so become thin and he you know you to or about the same level that he's watsone eude's going crazy and he and you just go okay
norm's no work my technique the best my i can and i'm knockouts an you know what you're going to get to have toucans you guys are the same level but he's using
all his striking you're not now you're going to get better together you're not going to know this that for a while to its true so what happens you get caught
up in there ego trip and you start going just as hard as they are going and that's way work now living to say no i'm cricketing with this guy and eventually
i'm going to loan more than him and that will happen you will learn more than the first nat's going side go and then you can put them to tap ah so in all says
i was a a tempersome email out the other day and it had a cold on there from leo pulse story and it said every one thinks of changing the world but no one
thinks of changing himself but in and i'll let em that's interesting and immediately fougereuse i try to explain this concept people in judean that is when
you're going a specially can some one that's bigger than you are stronger than you or some one that's going crazy and are using all the muscles the way this
translates in juditious in judiciary one thinks of moving the other person but what you need to focus on his moving yourself and there's a really clear
examples of this and but this is just translated to if it rains it in the life you know it's a a flanking is right if i come up against you and you got to buy
going you're not budge one thing i'm knocking a continue attack that way i'm kin to shrive you of myself into a better position so i thought that was a good
thing to think about you when your own was somebody looks big and goin crazy ye get the good point that's a good thing to think about all day every day about
everything especially in the eat you know people who were very who were like hay of man a new job and that you know the stuff knew nothing new word i dink i
need a job you know dang is no job though here or whatever in that kind of an example of that you know where don't look at it like a job needs to be presented
to you you know you have to kind o you need to maneuver he and engels so you know you can do the work that people need you know concur felt move the world move
yourself don't try and move your opponent move yourself ye me guy um or julian sparing you a kind of trying to fool me ali yesterday at ye all i moved you to
you a trite me a lot whatever it you are coming with a really aggressive really aggressive methodology also you know in default herdasi neal egressive life
that the drilling a yet it makes men from the if you have a iealousie frustrated in an anna and i saw like kiking frustrate and i felt to myself he's getting
frustrated at me you and the reason i was like i i i almost fell into your game psychologically because as were rolling and you're getting more more frustrated
so your bean more aggressive and part of your it seems to me part of your frustration in our grecian was that i was not fully disengaging but i was not getting
into this damat you were in and as i saw that you were going to keep common with it and and i said well i be now i i don't want to be get frustrated you know
at me so maybe i put a little bit and then i said on week i'm i'm truly actually doing gettim doing it you insist raight to introduce to or not i'm totally not
getting into this but a head banging competition no mob over here you know i'm a beer so i thought it was isn't that kind of weapon i acetorella good how that
work as if you remember a kind of start to lose it mentally not like temporiser nothing but like basically a there is like is like the little small short list
of enounced i mention this but not in this depth is a small list of things that are working not with you i was like a small thing like where if i can remember
it to do that all as you have a kind where i'd like you it to defend a certain thing you got a focus really aranyani it but the the the draw back to that is
when you start like really focus on defending it he was a maledictione lily so there is like a few things that is the thing i got it it's like a balancing act
you know i don't want to forget here i ll forget it you know so it's like that and a lot of times and it's it's by my own valuation is not based on like x it's
in my own hand like okay like a few good about this coming along in okanogan whether you noticed this or not towards this to her to the end like i might like
it was just done an go home whole failing is just going nets all just wellgrown i was true thinker's thinking i was thinking he's getting mad at me but i'm
really doing actual like the purest form of judith's ay you keep coming with all that and unsoaked the jesting and making other things appen yet it lionlike is
la like this cycle in all future was good though er off thinking ditte drilling am i different people have different tastes on unduly the one was the emu like
surfing you know like okay when you drill a move as he adam you know do the whole unison to the arbor and then you know just drill that when you first learn
the arm bar it's going to have more value because you have to just know the fundamental movements of the arm bartie i said like what it's going to be different
when you olive do it life yet so once you can get the fun a mental movement of the arm bare you likes it to be here they go to do this certain thing your arms
position his thought august all that stuff once you kind of get that down it like man you step into the value being now you got to know when to do it how to so
you know i don't know if i'm esatti before all the pocasset it when i've taenite ach you go through who somaka there's let's say ten things that you have to do
right to make a move for okay ten got butcher arms here you put your hip or you got a butcher a ripper whatever those ten things are that you got to do i can
teach you about four of them you okay maybe i can teach you five maybe jeff glover or dan or a argonaut can teach you six or seven may be even eight of those
components there's two more components your only in things out on yourself on your own yet you only get a figure out where to distribute you wait by yourself
your only on a distribute how to time what the execution of move as by yourself your only in a figure out what how to feel what the other person i win their
voluble to move the iron and get those by doing it live on only a medinet gideon by doing it live so those the components and others more than ten actually
there's probably like a a e the holliton essendale to do and and what's cool is when you really focus on a particular move you have you have all these
components just lock solid in when some one's really good in a certain move tenmile there's there's so there they've been in asittin so many dim you they've
been in esitation so many times that it doesn't matter they you're doing something therefore of that day not they been in apposition like there's a position to
get you for those either don't know there's pussenal fifty fifty which we originally called the cocker race which i deakin of i would say started because he
did it in eighty is in two thousand and three and was obsistere doing all the time at that time but no one else was doing it and now a bunch of people do it
ring halls made it famous and he is one i think he clout in whom contrasty fifty but he's got katyle fifty fifty is in there so nice so so but it's a position
where you're fairly new truly leg positions are neutral so you you have the same leg position and so it's ho knows the position better will win and so this
position that they call fifty fifty now which we used to call cocorico ah it's actually den calls it ninety ten meaning he and i i have a ninety per cent
cancer you have tentage that i spent months sitting in this position so will you get some one that really knows a position well that put you in it that what
you and a massive disadvantage of your going against them yet because he was both know that grilling part of it you know but also the little one million
different other elements things in light like surfing you know like you only first take surfing then o hay you know live do the sand when there's there's it's
just that basically drilling oh yeah you intend ending up at eating then you got to go to the actual way he sat in and the waves leonowens different title
different setanagar these principles from judith of the applied to everything even and when you are going to ameership situation if you've seen it before if
you see this kind of person that is i go like i just told that story about a hayseed learn something the first way he learned it in this elteni the way he
believes cohabit one side experienced that it was much easier for me to handle if you know so any time you can open up your mind and pay attention to what's
going on around you animate you better at handling all these different situations that you come across in any environment just absolutely leasin by you get the
person with the giant eagle you get the person that's that that wants to take over you get the person that a scared to step up you get what all those things
you get someone that's being disrespectful how you going of had that before letoile me approach it you know what i mean so the more you get the hand will be
different with insorte more you can re search them and drill them because the drilling does pay off you know that's what all this gathering of criniger
knowledge from various books an you see something in a military situation like i see all these things in the military situation i go oh okay oh i see what they
did here oh i see what haworth did her i see what pained her now i'm no patent i'm no hackworth but at least i have a head felt if not be i see in this senario
before i i go in through a mental drill of how a hill now there's components that i need to figure out of my own but i've got the bulk of the move there i
recognized what's happening put me in a little better situation than having no idea what's happening and just getting flanked but then silly yet earlier in the
ideating not rolling the spas the name for that guy by the way is it suspectit fell warrior yestere'en that's over all just kind of part of the game the so
many different ways to like to i mean other hirelin you you connotating you have the curse of knowledge but you're you've been a high belt for long time so my
asame personally i had individual yea yea solcehn you get a guy who's like when you first start like my memories of first starting in going with big belloniti
nuts it's it it is hard to deal with men straight on like yes and if you're smaller it's even you know it's even harder and you could go a man to get isn't
work right if you don't if you're a blue belt and you get a two hundred if you're a hundred and sixty pounds lee belt and a three hand or of two hundred and
eighty pound college rector comes in is in it is first day you that is you are not oblatory good chance you might be able to catch him you might be the catch
of ye but it's no guarantee no it's unlikely to the means he yet it's hard core yes and that's part bestialita if mamma be a blue belt may be a little
challenging dolebout you not purleybridge hole yes yes but those in efoua i'm just completely speaking just from experience and thinking of it right now but
there are little things that you'll see come forward like little tactic you can use to some one whose just bigger stronger and spasiano to say that you'll like
you know end up tapping him out or whatever but certain things that will be successful in your situation to all you do is you cannot remember those things kind
of work on that and wait to see the next little thing okay then after while as you're game developed it would be like all shot you have this handful of things
that works on these types aguave he he he's like doves against you was a guisarme and strong are you know some of his his game matches really well against them
he as yet he just so fluid yes so ye right doc like yourself i tend to have a low opinion flash expectations of people my question is how you act friendly with
some one when you know they're trying to play passive aggressive power games with ye that say you no person and you know is the snake but social and works
situations be man's and expects that you act like their friend how do you reconcile that with in your mind is that or is that not being fake i know you're
going to say play the game but but do i really have to play these snake games just to get ahead in the world all right so first of all from the first part of
that this this blakeston that i have a low opinion of people as actually factually not true i i don't come out of the gate with a low opinion of people had
actually not true i have i hope for people at their gontaut i don't have expectations that they're going to perform there's a difference the right i don't view
people in a low and my opinion of people was not low and out of the gate but i don't lay your heavy expectations on them because that's unfair so that's number
one am i set the bar low so people can pleasantly surprised me but believe me i don't have the law expectation or a low opinion of people now the question yes
you absolutely called it and what i was going to say plain the game i yet yes that's what you're going to do now let me boetis he got snakes gay eve you don't
learn to play with the snakes you never get an get the anti enim from their fangs are you never get a get him figure out in if you don't figure out how to get
the anti vanadistine always going to own you you got to learn out a deal with snakes in kitasato gin from arkansas or something and we were out in the hills
somewhere on there's a rattle snake and he grabbed that thing like you was taking up a like you as picking up a a a a a pair of socks he was like no factor
mowled over picked up the snake wackets the there as it okaiontonhstra here people are snakes to that mean you just avoidingly a game and the horse that you
know you don't do with the snake you you don't walk over and get all like intimidate him and getting their face and to it bite you you know and in poisons you
right so yes you got to play a game people like this exist right and in so let's say what's take a a let's say you take the moral high ground and you refuse to
work where in except and be humane with these snakes okana's what you do now guess what now lenae don't like you now they see you as a threat and now they
attack an i i said this is when they bite in the poison and they kill you and what good are you now your dead so you can't help anybody when you're dead you
can achieve your goal you can't help the team you can't accomplish the measure because you were all the moral arround now let's say that you learned to play
the game you learn how to handle those snakes like that young boy from or from arkansas you learn their moves you get the antidote you can be in titanothere
poison and you actually in this prophet you become immune to their attacks and you reach a point where they actually don't attack you because there familiar
with you and they trusted and when that happens then you can overcome their weapons you can rise up you can get control of them and you can utilize them for
your own purpose right now the if that purpose was something that was self centered on something that was for your own good and not for them or not for the
team that it be of form of manipulation and it be pretty negative but if all your dues trying to get these snakes on board with the program to help old team
win we can now issue with that we got no moral issue with the i have no more issue with me treating people nicely to try and get them on board with the program
so that they can help martin when i got no issue at the moral or other ones so that's the answered i thank you when the time is right you you be nice to those
snakes when the time is right you put that little stick with the new surround the end of it to put it on their hand and yet you and you collect their venom and
you can use snakes to do things like kill rats right snakes can be used for some kind of good at some point now i know it's a right i know it's hard and is it
being fake it may be it is me maybe that is being fate but you're doing it for the good of the team so again not the personal game that's huge different and
also he think about the idea of being fate if you would be nice to people to help the team win then isn't that actually you rightso how can you be faked by
being you right if my if what i do is hey i i help people and i get nor head and i'll i'll be nice hence to we and win if i do that that's me that's not being
faced it actually what i do masoning face so i think regardless in the end it is something you have to do you do have to play the game um and at is how you're
going to help your team win and is also if you want to get those snakes to come over to the light and get away from the darkness you're not going to do it by
trying to kill them all you're goin to do the tenement going to tack you like i said if you show them a good example if you productive and when you get all
that stuff down and you may complish your mission and what you do as you say tay wasn't metacom plashed the mission it was the snake that did it ye know what
those starts stand upright they start to d d than themselves and they sartorialism that may be taken do some good out there to a like make an alledge started
it that oh oh commentary like young in ononteeyo same you know you slowly build that relationship whatever you apart hardly cause it takes like time i take a
man to more harder than time is it takes the stomach meetly you you got the guy that you know a slimy guide that's just looking out from self you got a man
what's going on ghebel what's happening you know you do see a hand hayahing god didn't i am godegrand weaken thank you you let her wear no no senor in that
mode and you got a gun though that on because you know you're a good person but i isarte yenisei aggressive like that can be tales a let time it's wait easier
if i'm like if i if i meet a launch of confrontation against you it's wait easier men to lead to be like okay we're in a little bat or enough easy but if i
just do like one little big and then kinda walk away or something like that it's a a man that can be way more like it trying on your mind on your pagiante when
you for you battle through that i or the idea of i could have battled through the occident be hard doesn't you know mentally whatever i got a battle through
that old beguest you got to do that forlong time that one is i am that a you think that was hard to i will you gotta keep on eventuating evelina in dowering to
make us make a challenge a henious know this if you know if you can see the light and know what you ensainted used this word because it seems to be a tanyard
runton he got a game of fives a little bit you know when somebody does something ateires it to me i'm not alligator i not for with his ay you're right it was a
really good job that your team did over there you when they say so that little dig at me as i think you cassadas i didn't foresee that at all ye you're you
you're crushing it this i say all oh that hurt began what i got to win in the long run and they just want a little battle against you yes and you come lakeside
things but to let the little thing bother you i may don't think about the big stuff i got a thieffry about out there full the little things bother you in all
you on the right path if you try to do the right thing for right reason manages all good doesn't matter what else is he on i'm good with it and that he and
that will least like kind of the light at ended the tunnel like you you know like you know that's where i'm going this is just part of the thing you know i see
the whole path a hang in it just makes it easier when you can i know that but what year at that time fatigued the worst man the kind where is she you tatouage
respino i don't this is not like this thing that bothers me i i don't know it doesn't it never been a big issue from me when i pass with dress it was me i just
okay cool i don't the game more i'm a plate i'll pay the ganeienthon see if you can just lie lie and look at it like that you have an i is make it you would
almost make you the opposite situation like you would i most my leisure because i don't i've never had a man as you with some bad that's being palmyra that
registership right there you don't come to some credit on consolante going to be good now are about that person that person is not really secure in the first
place in their sorties saisnes right that in trying to make things appen that's okay office just help i help out you know what you're talking be past grenboro
me open bring out the clear not now a hundred offensive way but you know what i think you're right about that i think you could do a better job here come on
and help my team on whatever you because when they're doing that what are they attack it you you you're a tartan your ego is so if you just get over that thing
and just say you know what that would be all that's good i see what's going on here with bring it out the open yeaston ex foe the ambush and you say hey
butthered let start look let me for togethers diamolet illilouette either i gogoniant about the sun like yet at something easy what you know i realize it's one
like i care about the person and they be passed to aggressive like or if i care about like their opinion or said i say that you have to offend them no no one
on anniston that way not in the way where like a man ofendet like it like you care about what they think you know or kind they're like what long enough it is
nothing he noime that's more my sense ativity to it is i mean coworkers may be in event had coerces and along to an ass he coworker but you know assassinat
none the left i hear it every hour for agressive not that maybe it would be in a situation like maybe a coworker situation would be the peniston that i'm like
thinking about where people will be more sensitive than it noon actually on the other day you and i had a conversation you might have been being passed ogress
now made me you we were to wear on to do some and you said hanno i'm just not sure if this is like really something we should do and i was a cold on totalities
of the passive aggressive tells like um is different is like treading lightly you don't know orooendates are trestrail oh you gave me a little bit of an
indication antisensis hold others something or some kind of ambusher i should all take em on el must bring it out now and cause i'm got so is not that in it's
like you know i respect your opinion must go with it no doctor like that happened said good to roysterous is is the tinware em like you know the amateurs
something and then i like not all good but meanwhile my body language is sent you is like that kind of teaterish what passive is it's like it's like like oh
it's all good but then like little digs or indicating other stuff is like desarting it's yet do you lack ye like i said when not with some as being that with
me the amatori im all the way i ate trinitarias is to just straight a grapes that we can get through it because i incarnadining you for elatea why were going
against each other now what's probably a at the rotter is just eagleish yahya put that to rest your good hard though hearty put that egorical for all of us eh
atman in me coworkers are the yepes so that you know it's natural to can care what they think even if you don't like them you know it's just a thing as is
natural deforested gajar than he then on other people to think that the one good job and another on without so when they start throwing jabs it okay you know
what why are they to a job maybe you're not doing as good a job as you thought you were and now take in all shop your ego so let's a direct it let's forget the
issue with all this is like gibson this move i in this move before he rockiness what is the best case you've ever heard against extreme otho and what's your
response or alternatively are the situations were extreme oneship is the wrong answer if you've never heard an argument against lemnius to cionem only ship
full his in too much on achieving victory through focus on strategy and tactics let me before you even go there i gasaqui at the masters there such a thing as
too much extreme ownership and i said well yes there is actually such a thing as too much extremes forinstance and i actually broke it down to the fact that
there's two types of extreme ownership that you're goin to have internal and external internal is i own everything and i know that but i'm not sitting here
telling every one right acterna is heyes on on this this is me this is mine so you can easily see from there where you can overplay your hand of external
extreme oldershot for instance echo you're in charge of this project that were doing i want you to do it like this because i own it like like that's obviously
wrong right so if i am trying to get people to do things are from thine decentralized command and all in telling the everyone's tacticis my project i own it
and go you do this this is your part of project but the project is mine right is that make testamonial you in any way so okay so we're not going to do that
that would be true much extreme ownership it be too much outward extreme ownership now if so what i want to do is i was a echoless your project i mosebacke let
you run this thing i think you got a really good idea in vision on how the skin a work and i think you could actually do a better job than i can do so here's
here's the goal i retinebis and if you just you know come up with a plan and and come meow you're goin at you to i'll i'm standing by night naglaja trustees as
pretty cool right that's awesome so now we have a good thing going to that's that's one weekee my ownership in internal ioconda projected on you i keep in
internal now where this fit is the project fail soon and clearly the example now become crystal clear because now if i use ter oleoresin and i'm saying i
should use external ownership and when a boss hey jocko your team failed on this mission i'll say you know what we did i made some mistake here here's when i
did wrong here's we made the wrong investments i didn't allocate resource as well here my fall or going to get fixed next time around won't happen okay that's
cool that's i'm now correctly using excess of extreme ownership take order to put the project that you actually screwed up now obviously the wrong thing would
be a jocose fell and as a oh that's cause echo drop the ball as he didn't get this done in time in echoes got his shoes over here now that's not good i wanted
to i don't want to use that now keeping my ownership internal a being lame basically so yes the the the argument against extreme ownership is yes if you take
to much ownership of a project and you're not letting your you're not using enough decentlie command that's why there's a tacconay between those two there's a
nihonbashi ownership and decentralized command any i used too much extremeness when i'm trying to expedient ameni's not in a work right yeah now once a mistake
happens or thessalus that when you step in and take ownership and by the way you should have taken orestilla to make sure that the project and failed but these
things happen you don't want every single time don't care who you are now he gave except be couple examples all let you proceed with the question good sir
cities to example of extreme onshifless too much on a heaving victory through focus on strategy and tactics but not assessing weather war was worth fighting in
the first place ah for example may be prior that prior tion execute in covering move and institute decentralized command to become the leading buggy whip
manufacture in the country red before hand your end report releases the model ty or may be you built the tightest sharp dismost aggressive sales team in
history but brought up the selling his praying on the weakness of poor or ignorant okay so this is fairly sir balan in the book extreme eldership i believe the
chapter three is called belief nastyole what you're doing and part a believing in what you do his understand why you were doing in white your doing and how
would his bend official in the world right so for instance of the both these examples would fall the task of believing what you doing that they would fail the
test any one that was in the transportation industry at the turn of the century and would understand that the buggy the horse buggy was doomed when they
started seeing reliable cars come out on the streets and somebody that truly exercises extreme oldershot would step up or adapt which is another keytesville
the transition from buggy wept to this new technology of cars so it qayits not yet you're going to step up you got to make changes that part of eldership as
looking in assessing the other example where your leading extreme ownership you leading something that is preying on weak people well then that doesn't pass
the test right that oss passed testing believing what you do as one like you know what my tenute do we gather an prayin extreme people yes you know that's
erenow of course if you've a person that's a socio path or or doesn't care about others as the only out for themselves and they exercised extreme ownership in
order to accomplish an evil mission well yeah that's going to be bad because people the people that take ownership of things can make things happen and if
their cause is evil then that's going to be the going to be a bad situation so you don't the the thing that's inherent in extreme vership is a true
understanding of the mission and belief of the nation and the knowledge that you're doing the right thing for the right reasons which is why these two examples
are are actually known issues and any gave another example with reemember if yet the number two is the time in focus commandments required to practise extreme
oneship come at two high a cost to your family we didn't find out for this for you know didn't sign up for right mignonette gratification of having his chief
dear objective won't be worth what you've given up in your personal life perhaps substantial ownership uncle physeter fit for most people okay well let's just
not forget that extreme ownership is not just about business in any stretch it's about wife and you have to own the outcome in life and that inherently
included balancing between what you do for business in which dodore now i'll tell you that we hear all the time about how extreme ownership actually saved
marriages not hurt some asavin know the husband will stop blaming his wife or fight verse and look at themselves and see where they can improve instead of
blaming your wife for what's going wrong you said oh maybe it's not cool that i do this particular thing that i know a noise her right take some older
suppurate take ownership of the relationship and the problems in the latinship and he fixed them instead of making excuses or passing the blame so extreme is
going to have that family then if you listen to the the the poatas j p with a he did on it which is not a forty six capes taking ownership of his marriage
which would at a actually wore divorce that the time and applied the simple laws of combat right simplify comfort moved in and got his marriage back on track
in so so extreme eldership is not a hundred per cent focus on business it focused on a life in the bathony's also there that i talk about all the time that you
have to balance all the opposing force it a chapter in the book of the decimeter right you've got a balances opposing forces in your world now one of those
opposing forces is balancing the tide pool of your family with the pole of your work and yes you can go too far one direction you ven go so far in one
direction that you lose you even go to work so hard and do such long hours that you lose you to that that that you lose your family you can also do the
opposite where are you you don't do enough for a work and you focus on what you family that you lose your job which one of those is a good outcome neither
that's why you have to balance neither one of those a good titcome that's why you have to balance and by the way it's one of those things do i i've seen this
happen you friends of mine that have gone on sir abrek down kind of downward spit in their life i think this is problematic people start having trouble with
their marriage right and they quit their jobs and in a think all now be spent more time but now i was in internation and it turned into a disaster and i was
say look man think about this your job is what how you provide for your family so let's have a plan before we move in the direction you got a balance if you if
you could if you throw everything like i just said if you say okay my job as you know it too stressed out an i'm so leave my job and just focus on my family at
vego no income you got a whole new level stresses coming out you can is going to put the food on the table you let on no like a one gave the stop work on out
after they get married caisteal i got a fulsome hammy kids you know and all that were you not at all help down you know how down yet anderton ye who you know
you become a low energy father we don't want that that's bad for everybody as battle family so yeah that's another thing if you've got if you've got your your
wife or your husband is a a o your work in our all the time you know i don't like this say hey here's the benefits do you want me to be around for an extended
period than you be bennie past sixty if you want me to be healthy do you want me to be able to defend our family should there be some kind of an encounter you
know i know i do want to be able to defend his family so ye i got to spend all exertion the gun rage ye gotta spend a little extra time on the gomates i'm goin
to work out that's i'm doing that you think i'm doing it for me you infer us for us ye i'm going for us now of course got that one sad you because you
unoverworked do yet where do you not own careful in like working out is not to be confused to with going to the gym going lithersome full of a huge separation
there yes those desio to the game you vendettas this face that there is a big element of so so there you know that social component judith were ingeminate when
you go to juglike you desolate tangent to an talkin like ongineer you know that men of course so some people will be like haloed you get to meanwhile in new
baby whatever am rented you get to but then no roll for the hour hour and a half and then thereinafter hours lead they'll come home but also you did i'll do
you get through all the house the benefit you like yes you did that you just for out and half tother for what however long you were cruising with your friends
in the lounge drinking of a hen ye don't do that don't confuse it is not often i get word i have balatorus it you know he will use it like that i go but me yes
that's good and you know it these questions for i like about a mosiah you know basically put the extreme owner ship at a tod into the u s h k and let's see how
it does in these problem examples so i think i think it does all right or just it your home jim do ye a definitely recommend the whole je jodo you follow
stella's did then practice lead to your thoughts about detachment in ego sorgen asked these questions the other day on tween as you know when i'm answering
twitter i'm doing pretty terse answers because i'm answered a lot of different questions when enters shorthorn so this one i particular member that answer some
one to do you follow so to asian as rackon don't and in a way later i get you know the thread back at the guy come back and said something along the lines of
like you know i don't know what it is you know agree with with stoicism it's very similar to what you believe or something like that he wasn't being a jerk
you're just like dear you know was what's wrong with you i don't you practise toisand there's the deal and i i'd love to come back here and tell people how
learned i am and how well red i am about the philosophies and the ancient cultures and the eastern religions and all matters in the world filosofica but the
fact is i'm not i'm not an actually when i was a kid and by the way kid for me as long as i i mean kid for me go and where reason you know of the six months
ago i indoor myself kit yeut when i was a kid the teachings of philosophers and of the ancient those that information was transmitted by academic rank by
teachers or by professors professors and to be blunt and frank when i was a kid there was a lot of people in that realm in the academic realm that diningtable
command my respect now they were people that went to college i wanted to learn from people that we do war that's what i wanted now the part that i missed was
that many of the ancients were warriors and their teachings were able and through my own arrogance look it at these professors in these teachers eyed on the
lean thing from that person i'm going to go in the villetard moloof a gunnery sergeant a mariner that's what i was thinking but the fact is the reading and the
studying and the schooling did not really lead me to any of my beliefs or value it was life that did use it was the things i experienced that brought me to
displace where i am right now not the books that i read not the class is that i attended didn't like our sand of course part of this a big part of this roust
my own ignorance and ego me saying o can east professors teach me hum and and that's why footnote right now avian or or secondary thought every one out there
when you have the opportunity to learn take full advantage of it and i know now again i know now that you can learn from anybody you can learn from anybody
everybody's got something to teach you so open up your mind and that being said since i was too stupid and arrogant to learn often times to learn from books
and teachers i had to learn from life and as i look now yes she similarities between a yeous the word belief but i think that's a strong word but i see
similarities between what i think and the other philosophical thoughts throughout the ages and i think that's partly i think that actually not imparting i
think that's because there are really arsenie's al truths for humanity and for people and i think that if you walk the path of life and you pay attention to
what a happening around you in your exposed to joy and your exposed to suffering in your exposed to love and to hate and to war and to peace i think if you
have land down that path and you have followed down that path i think that all the paths i be kind of arrive at some place that fairly similar in a tent they
can use as this this term of enlightenment and again i think that's definitely too strong the word for what i'm trying to say but that sort of a a a a broad
term that captures it but i think these paths they all lead to a similar form of in light and and i don't think it really matters what train you went through
or what specific path you took i think that we see that the the path looks very similar in it says the same things when you get to the end it as to be
disciplined it says to keep your ego and check it says to keep things simple and work hard and tell the truth and believe in what you say and what you do and
treat all their people with respect and when you start getting overwhelm the motions you got to detach from those and i think that those things like nose
better just universal truth and i think you can find him in what the bodhisat oh what mark is aralia said or what the bible says or on any number of religious
or philosophical teachers i think there all pretty similar and i think you can learn him from those ancient or i think you can find him yourself the head
unless you're of course to stubborn and arrogant to listen in her the lessons of the past but if you're not i think you can get there and that's sort of how i
arrived at again the the stothard is too strong but the way i think i'll put it to that way the way i think it's where i ended up and i didn't get too much
direction along the way and now it's really obvious mean when you look at and i'm sure we'll do markeaton point ah you know because he is you'll stellakins are
awesome then they tollemache and i wish i would have i wish what i would learn about markets aralias in the staff more year in high school i said will this
guy's got it together i'm going to listen to him he was a warrior about i didn't do that way because a guy that was teaching me i'll say no lies guides not
talking about scum teacher right the reason they're called teacher so they can teach you but you got to be willing to listen and learn so you know i always try
to pack up and we talk about that the jackal cademy right having a school i was talked about tying this thread between all this history in the world so you let
people so the kids can understand what it means and where it came from and i think that that's something that i never made those connections me when i was a
cad i never made those connections in high school you know you now going to content the college is pretty old when i went to call it for a college to night i
go as don't want ye seven rights all sumitur all led idle i sure i wasn't mature a tart do what i want condego grades in the teacher he was me against the
teacher the the the contest was great i'm going to be you i wasn't saying you know what this guy relies a lot to show me this guy really got to learn a lot
from this i can apply this in my life now i wasn't said that i was too stupid i was too arrogant to say that so what did i do studied hard memorized what they
told me to memorize that's what i did i wasn't i was focused on the gray not on the learning now will tell you that's not an excuse for oh i'm not going to
worry about the grade i'm just going to learn no wrong answer i'm saying the specifically for my kids that are probably listening to this and elsie like
wilbanks on the morning yet and egidio you folks on a learning good you still get your eyes is in me still win so that's i guess you know again i i'm sorry i
think sometimes people get caught up in life it say you ever heard me say talk about em when when we got back for in a back for my first apomathein we act you
when i was in the bruiser with lay we had a saying it was a joke it was a wee wee we stood for when i was in bagdad right when i was in bagdad because i want
people towering on to plumetted and so any time they were having one kind of a conversation is it well with i was in bagdad and we've got we weave so you get
some guy some in stronger or some coral from the training from the training attachment that to be like when i was in bagdad we did this every time and it also
cause we we right because it's a way of saying oh look to ed this is this is confirmed in the past and therefore is correct right and i was a man can't say
that you can't say we we right you can't say when i was in bageant say this is the way this is i learned what you say should be able to stand on its own two
feet that's my point so i think a lot of times people say oh well markland this or the bodies this and therefore its its concrete they very well might be
correct but let's get the argument not to not to use their coats won't you come up with something to stand on your own two feet again nothing wrong with using
the gitano the ancient right there's nothing wrong with that its brilliance from all these books the bible got all kinds of things in it that are very impale
great in great proverbs to live by but you know what where they come from and why not figure out how to use them or how to how to make them stand on their own
two feet were you not just pointing to you know well i says tha's there it's the book says this marks realised that bodisat this other thing no no let's let
develop or not not hallaron but let's make sure we cast what we're saying or leave or saying and that's how i ended up where i'm at so you know kind of a rough
path to take something in life you got to learn on your own ye ye a lot moncontor delay ah unfortunately a lot of things you got to learn only through
experience we weep we weep when i was an age he just just like rank just like i can't say like an echo i outrank you therefore you will do with this right
yajus like that i also can't say ach i did it this way in the past therefore is the correct way to do it those are equally bad arguments you don't do them yet
i hear that a lot the when sent you know especially when when i first got into reading i want must undher it i kind of think about that where a lie you know if
i come across the tuition where i'm on apply some knowledge that i learned and if i'm in a situation where i got a come they the the merits of that knowledge
you know it does feel weird to be like a the book said it no way and more like your just this like blind bert like you don't really understand the value of of
what you learn you just do me said to do it now if you have to you after rafferties ore without if if i do say i echinocystis dismay no that's not a good
answer what should be since a enow i read this and here's why i see the ply and he was at his books says but this way i figure you know you can use it may be
to help ere your argument but don't let your argument rest on this thing ye that's my pea no yourself i'm on a glendahurk sente e with you and i was going to
say unless that book is about putting together your computer then you just follow the book through flat when you really think about it still it still hold up
you should understand the computer in low work i'm not going to get into that game i allow one more or do it what he do one day when you're just not feeling it
those days those days went on tired or worn out or just basically sick of the grindeat do i do on those days i go anyways i did it donevan if i'm just going
through the motions i go to the motions i don't really want to work out i work out i i really don't want to hammer on a project i hammer on the project don't
really want to get up and get out a bed ye i did up and get out of bed now these could be signals that you need some time off and no signals might be right
they could be correct but don't take to day off on to day wattimore don't don't give in to viamede gratification that is whispering in your ear shut that down
do not listen to that little voice instead go through the motions lift the weights sprint the hill work all the project get out of bed teas an over all rule i
do not like procrastination you need to get things done but if you are going to rest that is one thing that you should progress naton that's the one thing i
want you to put off until to morrow and if when to morrow comes you still do you like you need to rest or you need to take a break then okay take it but the
chances are you won't you won't need that rest chances are you will realize that the desire to rest was just weakness it was just the desire to take the path
of least resistance that down hill past the easy path in by simply going through the motions you will came that path and you stayed on the righteous path the
discipline path you stayed on the war path which is right where you know that you belong here i think that's avonford a night echo before we go on as her noway
the people can support the spokes and well yes there is actually um i am will go a couple of ways to be supplements that's more supporting yourself ultimately
because you do get temperet off an git good supplement which is rare mind you but in on it is the company on it to conflusticate ow you get ten percent of oh
don't for brain for your brain the tack for your performance body performance warrior bars for your stomach she yet brilliant were my friends came over from
arizona section and up i worked out or whatever they were still cooking so base to worry a bar and were cruising and all the kids to two years three years old
six years old and and the eight my warrior baron kids are innosente a little bit of spice to it the den did they then start getting after it yet but in the
spirit of accuracy they had been getting getting after a big time even before that but oh in war the point dayset they do taste good even three year olds don't
mind a little spice that's how good they taste ye not to say that you're a three year old if you eat em though they're good friend there bore your best no
buffaloe godfrey the waiting column three year old snow barroeta didn't call him for me lancelot sherry or bars yeah now they're good though when i go on trips
now like our god to speak with a company or i'm going to work with the youthward lunch alities now there's warrior bars at osaheta there is not there there
there fully engaged yeldham and you mentioned a training thank you for that by the way bring that up again so that i was going to take some true tack just to
be like to day's to day and i didn't that was a atitudes ye and i also i know when we got down yesterday i kind of led you in as they have you know man you
know what the ear if you cujus for to put this on context yes they not a good day for echo on the beef you i think it started good okay in my opinion given my
bomarie to relearn in one shinanigan they rise for economat it was a day of of of you know i say either he waiter you let you learn the orientalist him so we
get down and you know what you little de brief for got big andy there too and i went alone some one and as i came in i raly feel as good for you and i do and i
sit down next to a sea man you know i don't know you or take you just you don't normally when you roll you feel like you know about this level then say you
felt about i don't know about maybe nineteen per cent as i am of course he didn't have his his his as his this toast was gordon in no ia he was actually
thinking i was going to tell him that was some were as may be the something real or i don't know not probably none the less ah yes i could be attributed to one
of those two things i didn't atoacan i did have her ascertion of those is than a gelding like what you're doing here but a blamin me yes you're taking the
blame on yourself be what's the same on a really good craftsman blamed his tools here he winked that the actual saying any way back to the room tech that the
good on for performance of bringin on a dock and last jackal temper sent off support your wallet elevated by ten per cent or give it a temper cent break the
hogan is a port spot cast you know it's like a circle of support like on its parts us we like support on it and you think that technical even if on it wasn't
like we weren't thumbs sponged by on it i have true act i've been taking them seccombe fore that so it's kindly you know anyway circle support there all
another good way amazon lamson clicked to you go to website dobacco clicked through them was on linkheaton uh click through before you do your holiday shopping
or any shopping that's a really good way the key there is to remember to do it and one costing anything where do you put a stick young your computer yes oh
that's a really good way to support em this poncas desolate costume nothing and provides a good support you know and it's really kind of invisible to you all
that then that little motion so that's as like a really good way to sport the podcast it's kind of like you ever see you votes it is his name the leader of
amazon besseges bess eh eh that is you having money at amazon dot com that so will a couple shillings at the tadcaster she's like a good plan to man we support
that yes yes good quicking through amazon is got yearned to on one you watch em saving private right yet you know at the end when the support comes save
everybody yeah it's not that at one benwolio shot or he's not a saving people's lives let his kind of dellie that i'm saying you know these anyway good emetic
to what side this cool holiday shopping or to some duty somebody sent me some pen state duck duck house did devise he went out every that was sarah sarrasins
confident man state not day i a sneaking away speaking a sarah armstrong yes the girl desertion announced that before people been you know in the game and i
kind of seeing them and but yet okay the group the girls sure and ever be actor shirts worthy women four colors black approved gray approved degree approved
paint croatia all i am sore you got at that what do you call it out ototototoi he don't you go be onto you literally be only one i didn't want think sire i
know onslaught at escolastica may the good man i think they came out too i will get some good reviews from from alley ali byeway i lean cassia lot o times an
they send the um you know the packet of they send the packet to the hour for those i don't know that's the crew yet that the behind the scenes that that
package is up the packages you know and they get after it like they like all will be a like if someone's from i i forget where but it was like dale king was
one of them or should write like go cubs or at all like you he that your if you're in chicago or some shall be like open and turinese ye o ye cause she's like
you kind of feel like you know the person you know because really when you think about it if i go so i know how big they are because the short set i know where
they live you know kind of thing i mean it's not like they're going to stop something like that but i'm just saying they they kind of their very intooition
your local face vallies ever need be none less or reseve ing up even they were like dan nisaea to sir can we get the message good they're paying thing for
mortified this line of eden when shirts money also of course a a rash guards nineteen ish per cent improvement so far how holding up that claim as being
holding up youthier confirming joucourt me when i do not aasgard i nineteen asked of active way and they happened to look really good according to the feed
back i've been getting so when you way if you go to jocatore dot com you can look at em and look at the girl speeches and the other shirts on there if you like
them get one to port that way represent um i'll so hidesato course tweero am giliodesy you know it's like a heavier was not the heavy heavy heavy heavy as for
heavies in eyes not like snow you know let you have all cause some one emailed me i got t remember all people who lineata ly asked the specific questions but
you they how heavy is it is it oh it was worse brand cart carhart cart heart carhayes it like i i understand the carhart's gonna you know it provides this and
you know for our harm but he ran in arctic situate yet so oxactly it so that a good example so like you don't how is it comparatively it's not that it's not
our diodati on it's like like coke conditions antipatico what's that monica habitat is monica cuninghame on cowie you go up it's like it's yes it can have any
other references colihan way it's like it's almost they have us as far as hoesit anyway a good checked his addiyou like him gitup that way grandonio's keep
yourself count warm only in you know it forswore on its stone or just wearing a so you there is a of course subscribe you too i'm puttin more videos currently
in putting more put on the other day in potentia i like little bites side like bits you know good sometime you an listen to the two hours spression you to eust
one that listen to how awake like recover from set back the work john hope jacko mcdonnell right so you can you know you can look at him for i like shorteesche
to an annat minutes or something or if he now if you know some one who's like an you refine this question remember you sent him that boon advice like sherbit
kind o thing an ailing lateiner yes so subscribes to you to be in support that way and i contours and all you got a row here's a jew to half hour a oionistike
one people were like him trying to get over the situation at work in them they say he read this book on like brown i go to work to morrow i need i know now yes
exactly so kind of the same situation with those you to like like sides videos or you can just re visit that the the the subject matter you know mean like if
you listen to a raymore allie remained that arringford exactly so that he go and then you write review and it desiato longer caught those things out doesn't
but i think you should just put a mass of number of those out a petition there yea a lot of times i'll think of it in terms of like you don't how wouldn't you
put up the pokeshawit like over new ones all in let me check it out so i lowed him i just i'm like dog manikin that way were i just i think just through habit
i think of it that way so i'm like a carnotite at war you you just put one can let it marinate for a little while a free put it in but if yet i should think
about a it just needs to be on there at sikofantis way as i taking it that way thing of it this way will you do went out that's five minutes and fifty six
seconds long five minutes and fifty six lake slateroofed er if that some one waiting for the next one ye so he yes take care of in before charles i i do that a
man hyenner you go good ah a couple of other things dockweed if you want to get some of that it's probably belong but the only beverage with it on drink and i
think that there's a time coming in the very near future where when you go to a bar or to a club out at night to have a good time i think in the future the
only thing that they're going to be selling in the bar in the club in the restless acolyte to nor can be for beer the more whisky no mo wynne more poison that
tastes like gasoline i declared that those days are numbered i and guiding it kinetotele are going to be wanting to drink something that makes you smarter
instead of something to make you domber something that makes you stronger instead of making you weaker something that made you healthier instead of making you
sacerdotes why i think people are going to be on it ah amazon you can get some of that while you are also on amazon if you like this podcast of what we talked
about you can get a book and this is sometimes people find the pot cast and they haven't read the book extreme eldership by the my brother lay fabig that's
pretty normal right and from those of the opposite eeyou to put the book in the nagotten they found the poast so either way bound us confirming if you're a
person listens to pocketbook is also there you can grab that for man was on and also if you kind of want to keep these conversations going with echo charles
and myself you can find us where you will be only into webs all of the intepeter integram and of course we even on that is worthy echo was at echo charles and
i am at jocelin and finally thanks everybody for listening if you're in uniform thank you for survey anorak in the fight to the enemy thanks for stopping
criminals thanks for putting out fires thanks to all of you in uniform in service an the rest of you to res out there fighting your own fight make it a good
fight make it the kind of fight that winter lose you walk off the field of battle knowing you gave it everything you could give ain't you hadn't nothing left
in that fight that fight them talking about it all life and while i was talking about going through the motions sometimes when you just haven't got the
intrinsic drive to go full on at a task let me tell you what when it comes to life don't just go through the motions let live fight the good fight live on come
standing like don't just go through life don't just get through it instead yet after it so until next time this is echo and jack how
