this is jacopo cast number of fifty with that others and me joaille good evening ago good evening to be or not to be that is probably the most famous from all
of shakespeare's lines and in fact it's so famous that it often unfortunately use as a punchiness joke to be or not to be it becomes easy confregit what
shakespeare is actually talking about he talking about death and more specifically in this case he talking about suicide and prince hamlet the character that
delivers that famous line whose often called insane but who himself says i am essentially not in madness but mad in craft meaning he is playing the role while
insanity to further his own objective not everybody even agree on that point but here's what hamlet does say to be or not to be that is the question whether
tis nobler in the mind to suffer the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune in other words he talking about is it worth it to suffer through the problems we
have in life and he goes on or to take arms against a sea of troubles and by opposing end them meaning should we she will fight against the pain of life this s
of troubles and in that fight should we choose death which is the only alternative to life and he goes on to die to sleep no more and by a sleep to say we end
the heart ache and the thousand natural shocks that flesh is heir to sir he saying that death let you escape all these hardships of life and these thousand
natural shocks and he finishes it out tis a consummation devoutly to be wished for to die to sleep he seen that that is what we should wish for to die and that
is this most finess of soliloquies is about killing yourself it's about about through sin now we have a guest on to day and this is a guest whom i have come to
know since i sort of day but in the world and in fact this guest happens to be the person that actually dayme to the world that brought me into the world says
tempers and in september of the thousand fifteen he interviewed me on his pocasset prior to the release of my book extrema or now at the time i was certainly
at a time faris listener i'd read the four hour work week i listen to a bunch of his pot cast that i i hadn't listened to all of them in and i think i had
tendered view that most people have of him to the human guinnepeg the investor the off there just you know mister smart successful healthy gui heout there
enjoying the fruits of life and and with all that wolstan my mind there i was in the first ever interview i had ever actually done with anybody ever and it's a
set up the set up is it an interesting softening into this for me right where alone i don't know him i not the most open person in the first place i don't know
tim we meet two hours before now were in his house alone at a table and the interview starts going kind of cocoa pretty quickly and i start going a little bit
heavy on some stuff and at one point tim asked me about books that i've read and a brought up about face and and then i brought up corralat blood marden and i
described how i liked that book because he had captured the darkness the not just the darkness of the world but the dark nature of human beings in the world
and him after i describe that darkness said something along the lines of a jocaste with this how much should i voluntarily expose myself to darkness because
i've had my own ups and downs that i contend with it in indentation question from there and from that personal level and really quickly transferred into
something i was more about the world than about you manity in general but the initial question that time started to ask wasn't about the world in a wasn't
about humanity in general the question that tim was asking was about tim and i didn't catch that durgin it went right over my head but when i listened to the
interview i caught it i heard and i heard that beneath this die that we all see this happy go lucky exterior kinsale image mental and physical and spiritual
strength there was some darkness of her and timanor going back and forth a few weeks ago and he said something to me you know i'm not sure if i'm a line with
the type sagest you normally have on your podcast and thinking back instantly did that moment i said onota you you definitely because you are person yuruma and
this is a poast about human nature and despite all whose success you had you had changed in your life you've had some dark times and still deal and we all do
and people asked me about suicide i mean most the time at some indirect message or some message in to face book the people will will ask me about suicide
weather their having those thoughts and i haven't really addressed it directly because even though it's it's suicide is definitely impacted my life directly in
some awful and horrible ways that i'll never forget but i don't have that same level of knowledge so today we do have that level knole and welation to it so
without further ado mister tim parris welcome as she and thank you for coming on then a man now i may want to play around here i want to i want to get right in
no one to get this hard stuff down i want to talk about this this book that you you just put out was called till to tighten and in this book and i i just got
done telling you this you know i what i looked and found the block post that you had originally written that's named a very tim fairest name in my opinion that
it's some practical thoughts on suicide right only ten would think about practical thoughts on suicide so i and you sent me to book and i had found that bonpas
prosing had read it but when he sent me the book i saw that you'd put it in the book and i think that was awesome for you to do that to put it in this book so
that people have access to it so i want to get into this piece of it right now from the book and here we go some practical fought on suicide in this chapter on
going to talk about to sue aside and why i'm still on this planet it might seem dark but the objective is to give hope and tools to those who need them it is a
much larger number than you might imagine i kept the following story secret from my family girl friends and cloth in closest friends for years recently however
i had an experience that shook me woke me up and i decided that it was time to share everything so despite the shame i might feel the fear that is making my
palm sweat as i type this allow me to get started you go get ye some serious hesitation on put in is out there in the first place i did it sat in drafts for
between six and nine months with fits and starts because i had a lot of doubt about my motivations for putting it out the good that it might do the bad that it
could have indirectly that i couldn't foresee in for sin consequences and i just the embarrassment and also the fear of how my family would respond to there
was a lot the lot of factors that kept it in my restful the perianthium end this story that you tell here is is the story of what made you find he decide to to
talk about it in the public forum and it what happened was a guy came up to you and said you are at often a guy comes up to you and to take in you can you sign
this from my brother it would be a lot to him and you you know you give him the hate no problem you you're kind of notice that there's something odd about the
way the guys acting but you signed the book and a little while later as you leaving he comes up and he says you know i got a packet and you say he got leave
but what he got less go walk with me and you find out that this guy a younger brother who you had just signed the book for had recently killed himself at the
age of pontet in this guy told you people listen to you them if you ever fought about talking about these things about suicide or depression you might be able
to save some one and then you say here in the book i didn't know what to say i also didn't have an excuse on benonim i had every reason to talk about suicide
some of my closest high school friends kill themselves some of my closest college friends killed themselves and i almost killed myself in you held that in for
a while time longdeer you are a public figure you hadn't you had never talked about this now as i said for me i certainly have brushed up against suicide
starting with my best friend reliquaire jeff and i joined the navy and i was in seal turning and i got rid o wee tin of drawn apart and i talked about this
when i was on your potasi grew up with in in a rural area in new england and there's lot of hippos and just kids you know dead heads and what not and i didn't
go in that direction but my really good friend did and he ended up getting have lenolen draws and boozin everything else and he got involved the girl and when
they broke up the ailment horrible way that a mining to talk about but i got word of it alcohol raining and i get word that this kid you know that i poissac
good friends with killin then on top of that now we go night ten ninety three and a din one of my best friends in the salpae stud of the individual of a human
being but a credible athlete quarterback at the naval academy by the way record holder at the naval cademy just a hilarious guy welter of men is incorrigible
human being then ally driver he gotten murdered along with a female naval officer in a cariole they got murdered both of them by another navy officer who also
went to navagable who then killed himself so murder suicide and i'll tell you what anybody that knew griz i mean this was just death astaing devast dodder
broke my heart and in most recently in december of two thousand twelve another seal that i knew who was the commander of the seals in afghanistan the commander
of all the seals in afghanistan on the pointment in afghanistan goes to meeting gitton was a meeting goes to his room shut himself that kinsomeness note no
strange behavior no indicators nothing and like a sister was in my sister pointing to a man just a a great guy respected see you and boom gone and i guess
that's why i i i feel strongly about wanting to bring you on in an talk to about this cause i know you felt personally you're talking about it an i be
personally i actually have never wanted to go myself before now i will say there are times in my life where i where i cared less about living than other times
and it certainly in combat i definitely accepted that i could die and i was okay with it and there's probably times in combat where i crossed but whined a
little bit towards the gitate bring it on let's do this but i i never seriously how had that you know that fault but at something i know out there like i said
i've it's brushed up against me it's crushed me and when you say in this book that you almost kilos in and we'll talk about what did you there and and how he
ended up there but how well you is that feeling when it hits you there's nothing real or i think that the the delusion of the seditions that you find yourself
in seem as real as the table that were sitting at as reals anything you see or hear and the voices in your head that internal dialogue the self talk is a
powerful thing and i can be powerful in constructive ways i can be powerful extremely destructive way to for me it felt permanent i felt inescapable it fell
concrete i felt like i had a calm of evidence exhibit a rise to indicate that i would be better off killing myself to wasn't a desire to it was a desire to in
my onlie it was a a desire to stop suffering and stop causing me suffering of others or what i perceived to be inflicting on my loved ones and family members
and so on and feeling trap i think above all its feeling trapped and feeling alone like you are flow and in being flow you are unique and should you be just be
sim back to the factory and that equals taking yourself up extremely real do it definitely it was it it was as concrete as any emotion or any object or any in
her action that you can imagine and it is god to be weird now toganai like the year looking back at this now and of course this is so easy to see in goodnow's
not thinking straight and right now you can tell it's not real or does problems that you perceive you could tell that they weren't we all problem that won't
unsolvable problems they weren't worth all ending your life over but you get trapped in there and i think it particularly to you trapped and in my case there
were say five or six different events that happened roughly the same time that caused me to spiral and as i smiled i got to a point where i felt like i would
never contribute anything meaning for to other people or to the world because i was so handicapped by this pessimistic dark view of the world to myself as a
well that's the case why go through all this pain to try to solve these various problems when cleverly at the obliges that er etres magis ludicrous and in its
ridiculous enough to time it seemed anything but why not just control dilate but just shuff his computer down he got i got i did use it with no um you owe your
kids and you my i got teenaged daughters and little things in the world that they think are the most important graydon things in the world i mean literally
like a dress or a pair of shoes in the it's okay but you didn't get you some more shoes or whatever it you get to see a glimpse of what you're talking about
just with any human any human anywhere that even in the work place where someone's going through some problem at work and they didn't get the report turned in
on time and and their acting like a the end of the world and it's actually the end of nothing in that in many cases means almost nothing almost nothing rugoba
to book so you say so silas there was the guide that dead men come up and asked you to to sign a book you come up and say to you you say look i'm sorry for
your loss and then you had sort of the internal park on again with yourself and you say i failed to his brother by being such a coward in my writing how many
others had i failed these questions sam in my mind and then you look it silences i will write about this i promise probably when you made your first decision
at dipterists and with that i gotten to the elevator and i added my own phrase on her should have been adestis but you said and with that i got in the elevator
and i added and headed down because the next part of this is called into the darkness and you got a great coat near that i'd never heard before the cloves they
tried to bury us they didn't know we were seen i think that's also court they tried to bury as they didn't know we were seven i can tell you that i didn't bury
these thoughts and these feelings and i i'm thinking back i'm just trying to kind of de construct where where my attitude came from an almost off and i think
that when i grew up i listened to some things that may have that bed to dispel those sea drigoon the they were plain as day when you grow up listen to citius c
that i listen to just dark heavy music that saying about this stuff and i'll tell you there is a a a one of the best pieces of music that you can hear on this
subject and i don't even dark but an wyrons on an alim called life time there's a a song called gun in mouth blues and i saw him performances live and i like
to me thrills emotions the you're goin you to be trying to poinder the way it was when i was a kid when i will fourteen or fifteen years old and i got a guy on
stage a grown man to me at that time who is you know twenty five or something whoever ran was he that time and he singing about that and so for me i'm thinking
or solitos seeds weren't buried for me they were out right i was thinking about that but i wasn't like i was okay with me you know i'm saying and a a a and a
anothe music that i listened to back then talked about that stuff so i buried those seeds and for really in all i want is that something that you did obviously
you put the coat in her but how do you see yourself how did you bury those seats so the aincient the cloth for a few reasons the first is effectively exactly
the alluded to said these internal demons these self doubt these self criticisms i felt were a huge weakness and so to compete to whether that's in sports
economistes i kept that all in so i i actually group on same music or similar music but i was asinarian listening to how late dark music while i can still
appreciate the double bass and so on and slay alma but for me because i never i never choose to express any of that i had no release of so it actually fed i
think in a way this type of self loathing and of it could have been by amical for space i don't know by franklin and my family at least on one side as a
history of a excentration and schizophrenia a kitchen as up but some may be sir there honos i don't know if he organised sign footneote is a reminder of two
things a when you try to suffocate or bury or disregard these thoughts and emotions as opposed to contend with them or deal with them in some fashion they are
seeds and your pouring fertilizer all tom when you try to neglect and of wid them the second reason i put that in i s be to remind myself if you feel like
external conseil if you if you feel like external circumstances or external actors meaning people or stack in the deck decagons you or trying to bury you right
trying to defeat you in some fashion you are the seat so you can recover from that and their strength to be found in the struggle thank luted it for both of
those reasons yes and i talked about that before this ideal battling demons right one of the things i i i said on the poast on an earlier poast as i do said
don't let the demon's ambush don't let them sneak around it there you got to bring em out you got a got a pring him out and confront a and deal with them don't
try and there them bring him out and sets that very similar and also well you were a kid this is this is also interesting because you are an over achieves kid
right i was good in school i was very very small i got this chickagoo routinely up until about six grade but you wrestled you youngest right i did a got up to
a national level towards the end of high school i did not wrestling since i was padenie on her atakon but i i was a a academically certainly i jeered aged
residentially good rest academician your own a frinton right rennasei much and then you let it passed and i the way that evremoniana yeh none of the iii i had
very sportance school got to princelie every one was at that love her ire and that the different plane feintise or things you think that as you started
thinking about this darkness you're looking to the other people going on they don't have that i got a merry it because they're all they're all smart as me and
great athletes and so on i'm competing with them and i don't want to have that chacolin st me of saying oh you know i'm a little bit sad to day that's bad i'm
going to be positive offer sir i think that was part ainon one hand i enjoy computing so having a bunch of stronger competitors didn't bother me at all i was
actually pretty throwed about it but i did feel like to compete on this higher level playing field ah i would not behove me or help me to walk around the
moaning my weakness is at all so i didn't and i felt like particularly being of going to that school was a real stretch for my tire family and extended family
i felt like i had to deliver and there is no pressure from a parent whatever but i don't need any one else's presence plenty of that from myself and i felt
that a law was riding on that and i have the plan of course as many people might have in their lives as get a grazin high school go to a good college get great
grades and college good get to a fantastic job in some one and so forth so which led up to a lot of the cataloging events and later in college in senior year
that that were really the the straw that broke the camel's back because i was i was i wasn't always near the precipice i mean i was healthy for long stretches
of time than i'd have maybe a depressive period but as manageable often times coincided with winter i don't handle but take weather very well which is partly
his i now live on west coast and did you did you will you sell for were of that onery were ah very were at the time probably less aware of the weather having
the impacted did but but you would literally say all man i i'm feeling down right now this is one of my secular thing is it'll be okay defy and used that
pretty intersector for a kid was on a low of time my own head and they are benefits that come from that you can get very good academics and then sometimes you
are disonesti my self being trapped on my head i is not always the the the carnival that you might think it to be sometimes it is for sure a depending on what
i've eaten her imbibed as well flights a separate pocket the the ah but i've learned to manage and were jumping a little bit ahead but for instance ah i will
get to it i'm sure but the e the writing of senior thesis that was it a major trigger a for a lot of reasons now for instance in it writing the book that
sitting a front of us i flew a research or from canada to be with me almost twenty four seven while i would in the final six to eight weeks riding the book why
did i need him i come from canada to be there in person no absolutely not but i wanted another human around so i wouldn't go red rored roman more right seven
hundred men and other ontologically retaining a red long and the normal rule so you're right that we do start getting into this um let's talk about this i
cannot case cannes ensayo e of the reasons and you did give me twenty to say the so impairs but what of these the recommend your poganuc is because you talk
about the darkness and you talk about how common it is and he think the reason for instance out of the blue one of my friends superans guy wealthy family
ladies thrown themselves out of in high school jointedly no one expected it and i think that when you find people in any circumstance who end up taking it to
be that point it's because they think it is a rare flaw there the one end the thousands who happens to be so fucked up beyond repair that it's not worth
continuing and by exposing and discussing the darkness you realize i mean that's fifty per cent of the people or more fifty per cent the time it is extremely
common no matter what you think or defective anger depression you have plenty of people to keep you company so ah in any one crowd out to his care how to sound
a that's that's a great point um a let's go into this then when i when we go in to what happened and some of the things that that went down this downward
spiral is what you call it and and angin in here i'm going back to the book in hindsight it's incredible how trivial some of it seems and in i put my note in
their next cause you're detached from it now and that such teaching as talk about old the time right we want to remain to tach from things or you don't want to
get wrapped up in the motions would be we want as stay back because when you detach for it every answer so clear when you're not wrapped up in it is is this
stuff that that that happened you don't sure was a challenging yes to it societas art as of course but the achromatos your looking at it you you you might
literally be laughing at this stuff now oh i do i mean i reediest why have the end there's this part i as a towards the end it's like many you might be
thinking we is that on a princess don't got a really bad grade of okendokenda kidding me but that's the whole point the right that is i want to is that you
don't as that people we don't detach we get absorbed in the stuff and becomes a world so you get what yer i'm going back to book i include warding like
impossible situation which was reflective of my thinking at the time and it begins senior year slateford june and nineteen ninety nine somewhere the next six
months all these things happened first you failed to make it to the final interviews from a candicans unting and at some other company and you start losing
confidence of his differs in you get kind of little bit beating your life a little bit for sir i was doing a stremely well academically and all the sudden i
didn't know what i was doing wrong and just just to provide a little in contact and its indignissimoque mark on my pyschological us you know hindsight but at
princeton or any ivelcon really they are are only a handful of industry of that recruit primarily you find magicon elting firms and investment banks why
because they want to hire you and then use your pedigree princeton so that they can charge their clients in the kismet folding five hundred dollars an hour for
photocopier he it's not it at all is exotic it it might seem but every one is competing for those slots and i didn't know what to do next so i just decided
being very driven in that way i'm going to compete for whatever one is going after him because i think i can beat them that this is the first time that i
really felt like a gomastha it to me with and be this is important if i moresin that i know i lost here i didn't know what was wrong said that unknown very
able hit me reasonably hard i can imagine that now your doting everything in arresting matchiche might conditioning wasn't good to or hay my take down one on
point it here you just going to what was wrong i don't know was wrong exactly huntington with me and now it cotellete a people henerietty wouldn't give me the
feedback so that's that's point a a very shortly thereafter have a long term girlfriend break up with me which again in ice alician i think i could have
weathered i had weathered many tuebere but i'm kind of reeling on my heels a libit and then my old on amentet the book your because you give some pretty good
specific on that she breaks up with you because it is from the book because i became insecure during that period wanted more time with her and was massaliote
to her barytones but my point is that these things compounded right iritis and you think why didn't he whiteeyed they hire me and then you look at your grown
osay will go to her for comfort bayou know i need more from you and she's going which all humans do with is oh you you want a furore at me out only you exactly
it was not lit that but so she wakes up like you do and i tend to go to bed when you do in i would or have these that night conversations and it it screwed up
her competition i mean and i it was it was extremely important or rightly so she was a parcelled self existat left girlfriend gone and then the deep primary
piece this side the in my mind the checkmate for a loss was the interactions that i had with my counsellor or thesis adviser and i was in the safeties
department a start in psychology than i moved from nursies agin studies to folks on language acquisition and this this senior thesis just put this perspective
not every college university has a mandatory senor thespian does and it breaks a lot of kids so i'm not unique in this but i thought i wasn't thoughtreading
breaks like vidonati to kinlins it or they just get a mostly big othuh total caroil and it has oriente and what i realized after the fact is a lot of kids kill
himself actually a you at a man of these top schools and i'm sure other schools but it's it's such a pressure cooker or the kids perceived that way got a goold
calumets but retardless it's such a pressure credere you tomtit's very very common so it really does break like kids but it's generally let's just call it and
very beneathen but sixty to hundred pages sometimes longer and it can count for twenty five per cent of our four year or the sick humilitie departmental pie it
is weighed very very very heavily so even if you've had straight as it can really throw i a a wrench into the works if you want to finish with a very strong
tepantitlan i have already been turned down for jobs and the issad they they go together here lose my smirch let's keeping me up which is the girlfriend and at
ten at that point i i am researching for my thesis everything's goin fine so far and i meet with the head of cricklade in a form bellaston the near prince had
a great dinner and he said it's really too bad your graduating an ex number of months because we actually have a fantastic job for you that i could give you
right now you'd be perfect fit so i think to myself well this is going to solve feudatories i don't know what i want to do i'm not getting picked up by these
other companies why don't i take some time off and figure out the job and then figure out the test not of desisting in a little bit out of order here but the
thesis wasn't portant because i had a meeting with my decisive who had his own research a genus and as in as is very common and academics professors will
utilize the help of students at times to integrate things or research things for them and lavelle labor and the he dropped a pile of say fifty sixty pages of
original japanese researches of this is all in japanese to integrate in my teusas n't fit it was it was a round paganisation be nearly impossible to put into
my pieces but i decided all right while he is the adviser he tenured this is mandatories not optional then i figured out all my god like i take this job take a
year off to a great japonese come back problem soft so i have a meeting with my decisive him that i'm going to do this not realizing at the time also that his
his researches of me or time sensitive and he lost it he bisaieul sidono and take all this time off the school will better be the best thesis ever seen in my
life and not so subtly saying i'm going to thank you if this is what you're going to do i'm going to imitate you and i i don't think i was miss reading that
and i was completely bewildered then really upset meaning sad depressed then le angry and as a kenneth's bullshit like this is prince me university focus on
the undergrad this is this should be a salvable problem so i go to people naemansson and i tell him what happened and collectively the response was effectively
he wouldn't do that because once you have your meanly bracelet in form of tenure you're not getting voted the island and even people who in the department
would not pick a fight with him ah or even really seek to clarify him and an that was when i felt totally hopeless and that was and of the beginning of the end
as i sought at that point very important to know i was not so acidly just felt completely trapped and without options i ended up regardless taking the ear off
ah and that is worthing's got perticularly doree i went from being surrounded by students dinely girl friend but i was in a social environment into working for
brillites but what i didn't realize i was going to be the the set up the logistics was working remotely what is amenhat means that i'm off campus with two of
my friends a good to work every day normal hours and i am left in a bedroom or a living room alone to try to work on my thesis and to do work for billets
completely so that is where the carnelian my head is a very dangerous thing time out matched i and am we can we can keep going mad i so the other thing that
struck me as one that happens now you also start to see your friends graduate graduate in or all done the donnegan got the heavy verden still on you yes that
was it that that was seemed to be a huge piece of it is as well and then i'm an go to the book back to the book here you're you're hoping mechanism is to cover
myself in sheets minimise time awake and hope for a miracle no mere call arrives one afternoon as a wandering through a barns and noble with no goal and
particular i chance upon a book about the suicide the right there in front of me on a display table perhaps this is the miracle i sit down and read the entire
book taking copious notes into a journal including other books listed in the bibliography for the first time in ages on excited about research in a sea of
uncertainty and hopeless situations i feel like i found hope the final solution the idea just appears in a book now and you go full ten parison this teelee
same enthusiasm and rigor and acid that i tackle anything i i govinda and ah went to you for some library great library at princeton to check out as many of
those reference books possible to do my research and one of them was not in one of the kepis and i i made a request put in a request to get notified no was
living at his lawrence to his near princeton and i think it's worth knowing that as passion of decipias in plane the say that in a book in a allured it is
important to mention that by this point i was past the siding the decision was obvious to me i'd somehow failed paid myself into this ridiculous corner wasted
a fortune on school that didn't care about me so what would be the point of doing otherwise to repeat these types of mistakes for ever to be a hopeless burden
to myself in my family in my friends futat the world was better off without a loser i couldn't figure out this basic ship what would i ever contribute nothing
so that the vision was made and i was in full on planning mode in this case in a dangerously good at planning i have for a six inaros all spaced out start to
finish or sorry speck out start the finish including potential collaborators and covers when needed through as you just said as you just point out your full on
tim fareses each and please decision made going forward figure out the best way to execute this and make an appen oh ye ye remember exalted is not in there i i
recall i rookhope i had the plans and then let it was matter of schedule thing and i was waiting for that last book see a miss anners arch before proceeding
but i had driven to firestone taken up these books and i was very laffarge and remember him in this coincides with a load this type of deep depression is very
tired all the time and i lay down on my van o my my used many van hamme down from my mom after going to far sotanes like three or four hours and woke up and
was like okay let's just get this done let's figure out and put on the calendar and the what prevented that e was turlock i had forgotten that instead of using
my lorencillo dress i hadn't changed my dress with the registrar so my male was going back to my home dress wore a parent lived a long island and so my mom
gets this postcard in the mail a man thank god this didn't happen a few years ago with an bein she wouldn't see and it said in effect a good news the book on
suicide you reserve is now available firestone library for pick up so i got a very nervous call from my mom which i did not expect dinderlin did you did you
think your mom did your mom said it oh yes i can tell i mean her her voice was was very shaky and ah i quickly tapped ancona my way out of it and sat on
oratorie at rugger as he could couldn't get it at his library so may i reserved in a fire stone but it shocked me out of my self imposed false reality and it
was it sounds so odd to say but it was the first time that i realized my suicide would affect no matter how cleverly i laid it out it would ruin the lives of
people around it i thought well what let me figure out a scenario where i can make a look like a complete accident it won't look like sisitotis like an
accident of death that i really i really figured it out and if it didn't matter it is matter i realized after that thocht did you mom confront you with it she
asked me about it and i was very fast to come up with the rockers life did she say like tom are you okay jest she seated we lodged you know he will be loved
you right and i yet wasn't a thirty second conversation it was a longer under such and there were followed uncle from the man repining up on that yeh yeh so
that was a dodging a bullet that for ole now a millimeter among togo into this here it sort of you you get through that you you kind o get through what you do
said you realize that this wasn't just about you this is going a hurt everybody you get through that and then you say the very next week i decide to take the
rest of my ear off truly off to hell with the thesis and focus on physical and mental health that's how the entire son was story of the nineteen ninety nine
chinese kibosch and ships came to be if you read the four hour work we sell you you go on a full on her off just complete now my question for you on that is it
one about normal people right none people that can't take a fan year off they got to find another way to get there focus of the boat's going on in a brain at
the work and get out the carnival and focus on their mental and as will help wall there warning their job taking care of the kids doing whatever that is they
have to do for sure hunoor pulled that off well there are i think a few stages in tactics that i have used in continued to use so its critical lippen derstand
it's not like i somebotty slave the dragon in him done this is the isaias a movie the ten to like ground hog day repeat itself and not necessarily that
intensely but if you are predisposed to periods of darkness as many people are you need to develop copenhagen and it's not so much the year off it was a focus
on other things that helped and there are a few men looking back on it now i have a better tockie first is people talk about mind over matter mind overbody
might have botticelian quator mind as extremely underrated so if you can't get out of your head get into your body number one that is the number one get out
and move and really things didn't change for me dramatically until i started idling getting punch in the head going to the the toughest box in she my ever seen
and treated new jersey rose only guy not on work release i don't recommend that therapy for every one but ah in a one broken nose will have a bloody sparing
seconds later i was feeling more like my old self southick it out o your mind get in your body i think is very important or lot of good biochemical reasons for
this i i'll back that up to a antimenidas who is a man a fighter now mazingly nosegay he posted something on the insterment ago or something like that in face
bokanda and basically he was saying easily addressing betid n in that sort of darkness right and he basically set look eyes get out go work out go push
yourself and it's very similar to what i tell people like a man you know duty just you lift weights sprint serf go get outside get into your body so i think
that's beautier sally by universally agree with that statement soilin out a couple of super concrete recommendations and i should say in advance i'm not a
doctor i am plyante internet self you may hate ah certainly there many people who need a medical in rentin a wether its i farsetti in my case a few things that
very much help with her without other adjuncts old therapy so cold exposure and this has been studied at very very effective as a suppentragen therapy for anti
depressive purposes it's very very fact so i i routinely and what i'm pomenaio for for instance even on long island a winter i take short cold showers pure
culters and angorians when i lopped off his ear that and was put into treatment he had to ice baths every day that was one of the tremendous and it it's been
looked at quite closely melastomas scold exposure one so even if you don't get outside of the house that's an option you're goin to take shares hopefully
anyway ah then you have i if you can afford it be i think it a good test to happear is comprenait look at micrococci es and particular sea boucaud have the is
very common with depleted i ground soil so anymocity zinking copperfinch's the these effect harmon production and much more and can be fixed relatively easily
once you identify them i have friends for instance one was deficient in selenium was montorio and he started eating brasilas very high in leniment and he
gecalled i feel like a man coquan that's jaradic example of and no you shouldn't use cocaine a two fixtures in but bloodworth i think it is if you get your car
checked more often and get your body check he need to rearrange your prior in his stoicism would be the next one a i find senecal ar a moral understudies
marisel as people tend if they read both either be falanara a religis or fall incentives and there's not a whole lot over la i tend to reach seneca but i will
listen to you so one of the letters letters of lucullus every few days and if i'm going through a period i will listen to a fifty minute letter every day in
the morning as i walked sieaux of coffee and what stoicism helps to teach you at its core i think or what represents is a an operating system for being non
reactive in his dress ituen and high stresses relative hightree go to the dimming in line for some people but stoicism is also not just something you read it a
practice so there's so fear setting and fear of her soul as very important of the practising the worst case is something that i'll do regularly for instance
taking a few days of every month to fast i do that ah taking a few days a every month a recorder to sleep on your kitchen floor and sleeping back and ye opifer
feeds a realize even if i have to quit my job even if i get fired from my job latoners for many people a financial i'll be fine things are fine things are
manageable so i spent a lot of time defining the worst case inaros not being vaguely afraid of bad things happening and practising them said that i built up
some level of a munity not immunity but it's innoculation like getting flushers inoculations or what we we didn't filemot er you must remarrying youpiter
tressiter we get in the serious and real life you're kind of used to it will exactly and um did one of my other favourite quoth sir prancing the pincushion
random name at archilochean a as says we do not rise to the level of our hopes we fall in love or training and haply a lot more of the military lies to
everything and so so this review recommendations i do think i'd be remiss i didn't mention some type of meditation or mindfulness practice which can take
dozens of forms pain take form exercise anything with a repetitive motion or anything quite frankly that forces you to be present at where if your forming
olympic lifting i guarantee your doting indevout your to do is of or the argument that you had with a cork ofthat you know i think it was when i was doing a
follow up for the first a pokeshawit you and somebody asked me about meditation awaken i don't meditate i guess what i do do sir do get wait left all the other
stuff so that kind of falls and to again i don't know because i you you now you say do you meditate my answers no i don't maniates in the corner with my legs
crossed indian style canting right i don't do that do i get those benefits that people talk about do i feel them when i'm on the gugimoniki the gate lifting or
what i'm doing whatever these physical activities as if he i guess i do i guess that's where it is and i think my word that i go back to all time is beatable
to detach our descent one to day as is being able to catch from the situations to tach from these these stresses that are there and an actually go and back to
the book here you terature to princeton turned in my now finish these to my still sourdis get chewed up and my feastest and i don't give a fog an i think that
is a very powerful to all that is a very powerful to any god be you all kinds of things and i'll tell you specifically like o things are going battori me don't
go ahead what you you got your five do it bring it on i'll i'll find another job overteeming else you don't yet even this you'll names you know have i in my
book i talked about this halil situation that happened with the father side and that was the beginning of the payment will as things continued on the ponent
more doghead things not there other bad things are to happen and what i knew was that i was doing the best job i possibly could do and if you guys above me in
the chinaman one to come and fire me bring it and it was not actually didn't care but i kinda told me off it in garand when you when you release yourself of
that stress of caring you can actually perform banger you perform better when you say you know what i'm we talk about with fighters all of time fighters will
be invent and maybe they have a part match and he barely get through in the elatreus into outdone care for gentoos they operater minorite night because they
believe themselves without stress so sometimes not caring is won a best and to dot for dot performing better but it's very contradictory cause you're saying
okay got a perform really well so when i knew i aince about a one of perform well but you got it and i used to say as with guy would you with girls right soon
this you'll see you got guys there going through the other the young guys right there twenty years old twenty two years old and to think of his relationship
onesimus got to help them through that and one of things i say they listen i then listened to you leave danish cause they bought ever and as it listening you
got a knock care and then i say you can't just act like you don't care you have to actually not care that do you actually have to you asta actually not care
and if you do that you're good and you can walk away as we ask me up to town were now you get over a how do you get over some one that you love that doesn't
want you any more and i like westella away don't look back no wabayo got another and i think when you sat when you wrote that in the book right there i think
it's powerful thing it is and i want to look at it the ingredients that led to that earliest one of them as a key component in that entire story is after the
siding after having the momentin after deciding to focus on other things getting the thesis done but not staring at pages on the floor in my house by myself
tiers ay i i was offered an opportunity was half joking but from a friend of mine i'd dressed with who is going to be competing in the sense national chinese
boxing so that became a focus that became a clear goal where i knew im put in out put out in the garbage in garbage out good training in probably good results
out maybe i get knocked out but there's always that chance and the reason is important you don't need to have a large athletic event what what have realized i
accidentally did then and now i always do is much like and i think you think don't care another way that maybe you could praise it is not being preoccupied by
right and if you are an investor lets you say you're not full time investor how do you create that piece of mine you diversify your poor folio set on a allures
and on basket you can do that in the life in a number of ways one of them is diversifying your identity said the way that i had set myself a prevailers all of
my worth with set up and whether this thesis would be a successor man and there were factors outside of my control it could effect that what i tried to do now
and i recommend this distortion is all the time in like look of your start up is the way you measure your entire work as a human being there factors outside
your control the catania rickollected competitive et cetera you can't have it dictated by how well your companies doing that day so for instance why don't i
show you how to do very simple doudling protocol and they are for as a result even if your companies having the most difficult quarter imaginable if you're
putting ten tound on your detectoral that's a winning week as in shtrive it least three primary goals which would seem to dedet distract me may be for some one
who isn't predisposed to depression and darkness you can have one singular gold for me having say three provides me with that divert that identity
diversification they are also to sounds like the you're not going to pick gold at her count of productive from me you can run a good company and still creator
dead lift hunterian work on your rethelois argentea compliment at all rieley they're all complimentary and i should also say this is going back to the the
meditation besomed ication terrible word i mean i need a complete brand over hall in ticlur carries a lot of baggage with it ah another option or getting your
monkey mind out of your head so you can function properly is to and we had funniosities this but is to journal in the morning and really look at morning pages
i won't get into now but a stream of consciousness writing for three pages will very often show you how to petley trivial your concerns are it makes it
concrete when you try to write it out you like wait at as make any sense well i am i on take the one that further you want to know it actually does well in my
mind would actually does went on writing something because i now write for my poast right when you write you are forced to detach from what you're writing
hunted left forced to detach from its honoring something on you looking at it if you like not any any more it's out there so that is a good way to the hatch i
writing something down that's another thing that happens when you do pros and conflict right or handiness ottomane do frozen cons well all your doing is
physically did catching physically pulling those things of those ideas out your break put him on the paper and now you're to tache from them and you can make a
good decision i hate when i agree with you mister temperance that makes the internet so much less fun on a grabut a you other recommendations on would be and
this is something that i've used as a coping mechanism often if you can't make yourself happy and happiness is a word as really problematic i think and chasing
it tends to me you're not going to catch it by the way but if you if you are in a low state or a a depressive state you can't figure out how to make yourself
happy just try to make other people happy in it seems clickatyclack something is simple nessus something that i do as paying for the cup for the coffee for the
person behind you in line and starbuck and actually have a significant impact on through the well being that you experience into day something kind like that
or like sometimes i'll walk in of a ardstraw their six people in the coffee shop aren't round a coffin me like a it's it's such a simple thing to do but
cheapest you will youler have you no one i do what's left conditionibus a little bit different when i interact with some let's say on a metaconet a restaurant
but you know a seven eleven right seven eleven on going to their gottine up whatever bottle water when i interact with the person that sold me a ouaiter seven
eleven who's making eight dollars and twenty five cents an hour i treat that person like a human being is a cheat that person i femanine owegon at just as
follow heart thirst to hot out there isn't it held you of a good day i just do that because i always see people in the world that treats other people like
their not people and i think that is dehumanizes us in individual so somebody that's clean and toilets and is coming out of the van with a with a the bag
garbage and whatever in the hay manhood everything cold you know they thank some something like that though i think those that are a important than i
definitely been the the way you put it in the book is if you can't seem to make yourself happy do little things to make other people happy very effective magic
trick focus on others instead of yourself totally agree with that one go into the giberne you put in here is going to the gym moved for at least thirty minutes
i tell the sisters like this solution to everything right ye oh you go to get problems in your life calcatoggio work out on the next night let's bless that
least start there i think those are those are super powerful and to give some soisic recommendations that ah if you are not particularly prone to work out by
yourself a couple of recommendations is as yonson funny but any kind of partner or group exercise and you can take your pick i think rocking fantastic and he
kind of belatement nor any type of dance i have to recommend danton the jacomina a acrobat er man keep going here or sonatas to i told her to aribert will be a
pat interact with the fucking human being we like to say you gutterdom junius in bold it you get to enough to get choked out on a regular miser now you
actually you got a great listen here of a practical grinan offences which you call it you know you talk about us ere all all the book the put out all these
little tricks he there not necessarily to come back depression they are just things for people that may be do better nor lives morning rich walls you got
productivity tricks you got how do you face things that you're afraid of you got the jar of awesome you got gymnastics you areobindos you got a bunch of these
things right about the book which i think is is is very helpful the people hey i unapt is out there too just because people are listening this if you're in
that zone onioned two seven three eight two five five susie prevention line if you're there give it a call twenty four hours a day seven days a week get
yourself up get get through it rather and if your promettesse is also one of my very close friends at hobith way extremely successful celso material
professional success does not make you immune to this necessarily and bassooning in reassuring for people meaning to say the people you see on magazine covers
they might very well be fighting the same battle that you are something very very similar and what this friend of mine did stremely successful i i mean top one
per cent by any measurement and a he he got close to the edge number of times and he realized he didn't care about himself but he cared about his promises that
he made so he made a not in a non suicide pack with his brother because he knew that he would never break his word his brother even when he didn't care about
himself at all would is another i could approach a i believe that unopened at least in mild job we definitely all cared more about our friends our brothers in
the selims and we did about ourselves without question so that would be a ah a powerful thing there is well i'm in a i'mitate it you little section near where
you wrapped this this section up with the book back to the book my perfect storm was nothing permanent but of course it's far from the last storm i'll face
there will be many more the key is building fires where you can warm yourself up as you wait for the tempest to pass these fires the routines habits
relationships and coping mechanisms you build help you to look at the rain and sea fertilizer instead of a flood if he want the luscious green of life and you
do the gray part is part of the natural cycle you are not flog you are human you have gifts to share with the world and when darkness comes when you are
fighting the demons just remember i'm right there fighting with you you are not alone there is a large tribe round you and thousands them are reading this book
right now the gems i found or forged in the struggle never ever give up much love to you and yours tim well it would appear that once again the podcast went
into the darkness a little bit and i think that's okay they indignitie that having you on here till a time that some will not certainly like you just talked
about come to crosses outwardly happy and successful and loving life and having you talk about these things and having put them in the book is it is it real
service to be i think is the most important thing i have perrit period and tom and a story nateotetains that the bolt statement and i think the other thing is
that people that are may be necessarily in that boat it important that they learn to so that you can recognize look for signs understand some solutions that
you can give the people a innerster that the darkness that seems all consuming we've seen it time and time again we seen it and it's not it's not it is not
stronger than the forces of good but darkness will subside and the light will win in the end so whole on fight on dry on and look look into distance out there
somewhere and all that darkness there is like mershone and there is renewal and re birth and there is joy and there is this thing this amazing thing this
orasthai this beautiful thing this horror fine thing this magnificent thing that we call life lenitent easy it wasn't meant to be easy but it is worth and
resection with that i wanted to make sure that i point out that this book would is seven hundred and something payson actually six hundred have the recut in
yanyenge this wilt isn't not a anyway is the is not about a book about the side this is a fraction was it five pages eight pages something like that i just
wanted to make sure that i covered the subject i don't think that most people can pick up the book and say all cover the suicide section now they that for me
let loetas best my job here ah but the book it's what it really is is a compilation of all the lessons that you learned talking to all the people that you've
talked to on the pond cast which is a wide range of different people and you take him that in distilled prosopes that a go and listen to verfassunyen i can't
get those digest hours two half hours who has to it at our snow you can get it on and fifteen itchingswell version the the peaknosed there and that that what
the book is of all this information trying to distil down and i nice little digestible pieces like a reference oktay can look at which actually now we're going
in the questions one by the way how set tim fargison rolls are versed as first question esitation absolutely such wanted to also note for people who might be
listen to the inland thing the of themselves while i'm not protodeacon up her into these dark periods the so called coping mechanisms they would use to take
yourself from bad to so all normal they are also the same at strategies you can use to go from normal to better or from better to far better than the same it's
just it's just shifting into a higher year that's the great point and i use a lot of those strategies or can of reda wake up really a get after it of course i
i read a lot right a lot okay and you know what i feel pretty damn good right now fasooth how even a platometer and to entourait and also i i i have with using
these different approaches for the people may be listening to this and still feeling some hopeless the dark periods of gotten shorter the able the turned down
the volume and the joyful periods the zone like periods of productive periods have become a longer and brighter and you can engineer that it just takes a right
to it love it ah this is a good piece that to get right here speaking to get to us a tightened this time into it the book is filled with all kinds of good
ideas and enticing options and they also really good how be you take and pick the right path and not get distracted by all these other shiny objects that are
out there it especially because the path of laid out and you think oh oh cool this all this looks really good you olmedo this you would ten fairholme to do in
the inter view and i'm going to do that and then you get a weekend to it and you haven't you know you get it's hard you realize that it's hard you realize that
you you don't like doing that thing and all of a sudden you go look for the next solution and you end up jumping from solution as losing you never get any
progress because you're too busy turn to chase the shiny object how do you resolve that ye is it this is a common problem a you have for instance in the self
help ralliement junk is i don't really do seminars be you have people who go to a different seminar every week end they at all hopped up on the thusias take a
lot of notes they do nothing from mondayfied they had nother seminar it's like got junketting em to getting a dohiba they don't put in the work so deathwhite u
stack the deck is by understanding baronston an in a few ways and edough to do a lot of reading about this but they are few necessary ingredients one is if you
just look at the literature do less than you think you're capable of doing so what does that mean if you are a hundred pounds over weight and you are starting
exercise after no exercise for twenty years do not start off with five days a week of an hour of running on a treadmill the pass fell threshold is to high see
you set it first leftyou to the gym that is priority number one so make it five minutes of walking on a treadmill two or three times a week less just say of
course my preference with waitering but makes an easy example anything beyond that as bonist when i write a book like this which is just a monster and like you
said kunoujee your invention but to crappy pages a day best writing i viego your threat your quota is to crappy pages a day don't you enough to use them but if
you with you if you put up to crappy bates a day that is a successful day and it takes away the performance anxiety and the procrastination bearfoot front
teeth that's it get those get those pearly wise in the front done after i got an issue with that oh go if you break up the floss then you can't flatterest your
feet after you get one of your front ones got issues with all get in the game and finsens i think i think we got to get people there at the the gingerbread
trail may be a proprietor the flossiest but still the point is though if you want to see that a behaviour if to break that the haviour into a few pieces so one
is just getting out the floss in starting then the other is finishing the different components to it so if i can get some one to say five sessions as my
general giein make it as easy as possible so that you semethis five sessions flashing to the first front do your frotet generally people are going to do more
but you start there do it for five days on to more call me a wearisome one in said the dunnersleben shooters lieabed she lays its folkstone learn do it still
there's that be the other piece that is very under estimated is incentive when he my that is an actually guessed in pokes derick siverson incredible unchpin
and apropos ophir programmer made millions dollars donated all the music education is a real character but he said if the information if more information were
the answer we'd all be millionaires were six back at more oration isn't it is not the answer generally ah of course there's good betterton but i'll give you a
great example nessus cut ridiculous one but it proves a point which is i befriend him aguacotis writer and ah he wants to get into better shape but he never
been an athlete never really worked out never watches diet but very is i got one kid now well on the way and the skinny jewish guy but he described his
physique as a python that it swallowed a goat physicianary obese but does not look in that super hot and he knew what to do he just wasn't doing it so he wrote
a check to the american note party for a thousand dollars and a bliss best friend i like merciless friend he gave this check to an said i don't lose twenty
pounds by the ennet month something like that i want you to mail this chicken which would put his name agnes known writer and two on the list of contributors
for the american oubari he lost the twenty fucinus is the punch line and you can use sights like coach up me or stick as tis cake he were you actually created
anti charity so that there's a non profit or charity other duke than give money to ah you get actually put money into scroti you don't hate your dolls never
reperias judges and self on that money goes to your anti charity and it sounds so ludius and could also do something simplicetta pool i know people who never
lost weight and they let's say five co workers each put on a hundred bucks and whoever changes their body composition ideally rather than a scale might be
using a a a decosmos ance gets the pot at the end and it is incredible i how hard people will work to not lose a and then be lose money i know two guys who
wore a google both fates at the time and one of them misinclination the eighty pounds in run a few marathon's with a commitment to go to the jimahari and if
any one missed the session they had to pay the other person a dollar is beleagured thousand flossy year no raiment it worked is the is the funny part but
incentives whatever you like how could i change his behavior you eveena so give you give your close friend who you know would love nothing more than than to
see you humiliated pictures of you your like fat as business up like whatever i like your tiny white and if you don't lose extempory wife pointin those go on
instead a story like you will lose the way i promise you replied i derned to be incentive humans are incentive driven machines a anseline on a narrow all this
information do you pick one you satire monotone like a game stick with his programme here chanloong at night right in a dusante cattlesh you say a montjuic
regardless the alcmanic he did this we pocasset i'm got to do eight pocasse six pot cast on in a gentle record them regardless of the heat it doesn't matter of
committing to it so that's a sort of a way to avoid distractions of another things as witless so that there the different aspects to that to the pocussing was
a goal but i always tried to set gold where you can win even if you fail so these are gold that have sight affects the carry over and scot at an creator
diverts about this until titely legal its systems thinking and in the case of pongasi he did this with longing i asked myself what can i take out of this in
terms of skills and relationships even if it bombsack i can get better at asking questions which means getting better thinking i can start to enemies my rouble
ticks both of which mahomet to do research for books later and all and down the west there were may be the ah ten different things at w i would benefit from
even if the pocatel to six was this critical mass attended do things in terms of sessions five or six times that it's usually my experimental minimum but
properous time lest you say be heremonian o cannibalisin or tone the blank some kind of dietarian event an i'm goin to start with interminate ocasion a fast
sixteen to eighteen hours a day and done up to ten days felicia say straiten eighteen hours a day of fasting then i will measure things at a very idolisation
approach that you have to know what affects something has happened to see you can do that a subjectively zerete had i feel or you can look at things like nerra
was lifted i mean i must thought i have my my mug of my buggettas my get after a joomped god if i had out of here like look all his knives on the fame ah but i
er this is well my train walk regeering had these training logs since i was sixteen so i like to treat most of my behavioral experiments exercise fires
ditherer as of two week experiment and that's that's the minimum effective dose that that ill using case is like that aminias do the usurer of things possible
solicitous say you have you read a book like this or any other basic i take the opposite aoooya that's a hodegos many as i can possibly be yet now i isotopes
meudon jackie sabor his reata but no image just an editor ly programmed to omotu the be the reason here's how i think about when i'm looking at goals or
monitors i ask myself aright a real intrusa tic a bellicourt things that i might do which of these if done well will make the others irrelevant or unnecessary
a looking for a lead domino which of these will make all the rest a relevant meaning i don't need to do them or easier and that is how i choose the behaviors
or legal to focus on and then once i have those just so i can control my variable to the extent possible some change my diet and six different exercise
routines and my sleep all the same time i may not know which is contributing to higher raps in the cellar may be the cannibal swing is killing me but exact my
diet i actually recovered properly so you don't have to take it to that level beja fog a evgenie very interesting work in this area ah but i would say honestly
you out he got a training yourself and i was gianicolo and it is converting take a dog training course or train a shicken chickens on the most interesting case
i don't respond to negative reinforcement but maybe that is not jocose un something you can like it with a lashin i don't know if that would be what are you to
mollitious e did we be trained a chicken clearly not i didn't even know that was actually a thing willie so it is a it is a lioness test there there were
there's a couple and a blind on her name right now who trained more than fifteen hundred species for espioneur poses at one point they started as marine mammal
trainer so they were training dolphins orcas etcetera and you can't do like roll a newspaper a bat or an headed on the head for a lot of recent but it doesn't
work said they have to use a positive reinforcement at in the heat we that we really get the lead with his but they also use a reward marker or which were a
bridge which is a flicker in the scar a whistle the indicate when the animals getting closer to the desire be ever in the kids of a chicken you could teach it
to say turn counter clock wise or turn lackies take a certain number of steps and then come back to you ah to receive feet earlyage but you one of the cots
that i really liked from a trainer was you shouldn't be allowed to have a child until you've been required to train a chicken ah i'm in this lottery that bites
just operatin class will conditioning any anyway i i could really go down the rabonas grate bolton's shoot the dog about this type of training ah but i digress
that the poor being understanding it wrong sent him to an i think is is is very important and then trying to work on one or two things at a time because you
are only doing it for two weeks in in the way that i the mental model that i used and then you recessing things and which by the way is why i generally
recommend for talking about diet to some one who needs to lose a hundred or two hundred pounds and i have had the chance interaction of these people and they
lost that way ah i will put them on a diet that has the therre criteria that i use when i'm trying to say you design a diet for intervention for someone number
one it hers so a hundred people i told to do it well i have the highest percentage of compliance possible and you can tell me bletherest work or tied for
losing weight as taping bonbons your hands and on inspiring something down stadium stair well not too may be learning stick with that i see you look at the
adherents than the effectiveness does produce a desire result and then the efficiency of lax in terms of is it ah is it time economical write mong other things
but the point being a lot of folks give me ship on the internet they're like we slower beans illiterates in explode in like a if you're testingly like your
training yourself to be weak you need to fix your regiment but i be a youers people in the strict palo strick thegns whatever your religion happens to be and
on one out of a thousand i got to make it where as it used the gate way drug of siloe which is more can be no leisure work with into weeks i lessay someone who
was three hundred pounds and has a hundred lose but probably lose between five and ten pounds in the first ten days so treating as a two week experimentaly now
had the positive reinforcement and the results of that will lead to a credibility for me where i can drive them to do more ambitious than and step by step that
can then leave them to strict say pallyard ever belong you you have to start with the good program you practice is better than the perfect peremit you see the
sextons all the time people come hot out of the gate and they quit for days later on the eyeray which jack marries for for me is priories talk but in the book
tremoris be you know what's the biggest impact on have make that thing take a thing to topless working on that one young don at totally all right next question
are there was a friend of mine that was older than me and he was always looking for the right girl and the right girl be set along with and to marry and have
kids and all that stuff and it never seemed to happen and reason ever seem to happen because he was always looking for profectos looking for perfection and i
told him that you know professest exist anne i also another body of mine that was wonota is always looking for like the next good time always looking for good
and perhaps iness right and one time were serving and i go brow you keep looking around for happiness this is it that man were serving this is happiness right
now do you ever feel like it years searching too much and looking for something instead of enjoying what you have ten years ago what i said yes right now i
feel like i've found i found a a few things being realizations and i be my job as testing things on the fringe and reporting back psych half like a no botanist
might be eaten by cannibals plus a little bit of athletic stupidity and really try to find things at the extremes like inform the men and as an experimentalist
in experiment or i do that as my responsible my job and i i've also replaced a number of words in my life so we we used happiness because it's just the easiest
reverentior a lot of folks ah i think that the better word is excitement i i chase what excites me now that's a razor's edge are careful with but when i say
excite it means i wake up excited and i go to bed exhausted basically is what that means and ah i've also realized that there are things to optimize and their
things to savor and i don't have a lot of trouble with that most people with the thing that i'm seperating poetry and how to alike watching every move on like
twenty eight x forward with some dies just a cram in as much mister robots like an when i was and no i i i feel like i am increasingly better at the
appreciation portion of the equation e cheaten i've always been i would a hard wire for a very well trained for her i'm good at putting old in the sights and
achieving those goes but if your consent looking for the next thing whether it's the next goal or it's the next girl or it's the next high then the you are
never going to be operating in the present tense it was or something that you said ten years ago for asked agus do you probably been on your heels a little bit
is there something that happened to you said you don't want what i just you know did you get home from a ship one time and say what did i just do or like or no
i can limenian tell you it was a so the thesis related to something that to introvert the rude regents was the direct der producer writer musician everything
fasting also huge anteros have big you us so sin city good one list rates a lot of hits and he said i always find it funny and a pair for hitting her but god
he's he's one of the longer chapters in the book he said i was finfinni when fell makers coming he branded for lies naysay nothing went the way it was supposed
to go in like this happened and that happened and ship broke and then he missed his shot and at her now he said they don't realise that that's their job that
nothing is going to work like a tegeret or your job is nothing's going to work ah so one point is feeling the maybe existentially scattered a second trial
however things and doing always of experiments and one of my going to figure out my think and then at some point some one just said no your thing it is going
meta like you're saying is doing these types of experiments in what i realized is my my one thing is learning things quickly and whether that is cooking or
sniping a thingamagig horses at sentence arator ah rally carressing whatever right tango doesn't matter that the approach to d'instruction the things i learn
them quickly compounds so i get better on a given at the next doesn't matter with the subject area is so that's my one thing ah and it just gave me great peace
a mont a yonnie one thing in traditionally defined sense may be your thing is as i have found in a being a human guinea pig in trying to train people to be
better learners is my one thing ah in that that made me feel more confident ah in this experimental protion have ten year plans and i used to base a bother me
a lot i and no longer remotely bothered by the ah because i have two experiments and if six months projects and if i do my were actually talked about this and
you written about it but rather than worrying about the the next seventeen promotions you just do what's in front of you and i cast sispect if i do in
exceptional job i knocked out of port with his one thing opportunities will present themselves and i couldn't have conceived of a six months ago and that is
matter paddling for the way of anitoo yet i'm a lot better an appreciation than i was a long satin years ago a because a ten years ago it didn't matter how how
well i did what i want what i call plashed i was always obsessing on the next thing i never took the time to actually enjoy it do lesson all right and this is
his almost on the same pollination so i we we i kind of see you as the king of attornie um but for me my if i was doing a job that i absolutely loved a job
that i wouldn't out source to anybody ever and i feel like i was really lucky even heman right now and i enthusiastico on the spot castaneae hay we can help
you you know set up for t and help you you i i i wouldn't read books for you and give you no solino i don't want you to help me read books and give me those
odd doing that that's what i'm doing so is there a job that would satisfy you that you said ella what leases what japs you do that you do i owe miss thing in
mortaletto do it the bacas for instance lefever of book rondout the book riding is so atherina a nobody is trottin' have some like suit his paid to manage the
bottom line who would with the no creative one as body trent tell me how the pokkashoo it's fantastic all i think that's a the poncas i could see doing
indefinitely and there many things like that for me i mean i could see doing p well i'll given example just because i i have to take the opportune talk about
it tangone jock or pock assaf you're not well adios to the reason i stopped doing a man i got through i got to the world championships i bought the reason i
stand with it as set me fine in the world shampoonin i can on that mai came to imagine and what the world championship and tango and i had thingamaroo do you
attack the other people was like how do you get that out of her you are a hanything what happens it's a well at its very delicate and the pointer points or
something get their judges on toni's just like a like a a diving after on as your emanating but that the point he has stopped because i left it environment and
in which it was highly competitive i i went from our cantina where there are dozens hundreds of old custances to the us with their starosti handful reno it's
it's it's bob again okay race a site the ah the one thing honestly is teaching people to test asumption and become better lerat's it that's my thing so that's
the one thing that's the constant through all the books through the pot casts don't believe everything he sank detached he is your word re assess and
testaceans and get better at getting better ultimately ah that's that's a for me but i there many things that i do now that i could see doing for a very
irlonde ades for sure i include in the pocket good the other paces we we were talking bout the earlier of the great thing about the pot cast is is that you can
do i ever you want oh yes i can be three minutes long i can be sure hours it could be thirty hours long your talk by ever you want no one's goin to i just do
what you want in that i and if you've written a book the amount of other people at caraway in on that thing it's it's can be a little bit it's not a press ive
but it's just not as nice as a man a turn as on a due what ever i want which is a good feeling all right and in speaking of doing whatever you want and i know
that's kind you say your life up which is awesome but to take that that notion to the extreme if you got diagnosed with a horrible disease night i try to think
of a better way as to this question which isn't like major leak to pressing possesses but if you go to die if you knows with the disease that was gonna kill
you in a year or eighteen months what would you do with those months i saw i ropes all the time ah not not because i wanted well the darkness but this is part
of the rehearsing the worse in rio said not only do i hear super myself but i try to spend time around people who are going to die ah in the when i get back to
the bay area actually went a volunteer in a hospice the contend with that ah there are few sins so i would i would get my fears in order relatively quickly
there already largely in order to my family would be taken care of and to be honest than that there aren't many points my life right ostasio largely keep doing
what i'm doing honestly i think that i stopped for instance the tacentes about two years ago because i felt like i was replacement like if i in a sense didn't
participate there were a hundred other people in line oregon to step up and rita check and that wasn't a unique opportunity nor unique skill that i held to
hopefully put into the world to benefit people on some way but a tonkaways experiments some more practical than others and the hodgeston i feel like i am
putting out the best work that i can and i think i keep donica ended and in the last few years i i after reading an essay i thinisl end by tim urban on wet but
why about how effectively by the time your eighteen and leave the house you spent eighty per cent of the total hours your elever spend with your parents ah
i've reorganized my calendar my year to spend a lot wartime a meaning my parents and my brother and i go keep you and i'm doing honestly until i until i listen
and of an pilot dust which is where roland and up were headsheets was listening as i i keep a wanting to do this i want to when i'm listening to certain
podcast sometimes i want want to just live we like when i'm saving fronts about him and i do with roguin sometimes i i got mashes be life to a inghest when he
had whoeveh had sat marion i was just there were so many things that they were saying that were just the hoariest me and want is like to but when you had
shaken it at one point i can't remember his quote there was this you got to this topic and you know you see i what you would do and it wasn't the same question
was it was somewhere in the same thing may be it was about money gotama now or i something something along those lines and kind of at the same time you know he
says he says something like you now just imagine men almost spend all his time with your family and then you said at the same time cocainophagia want to no lie
that roonoonoo a isadena couple days together and as i and which just rose by lenormant is also you know raised a church of large sang he don't morita and ah
so psychokinetic b which is the nature of my potassia glassite thing simply yes that was another one i wanted to like her could he resents really classic lines
in the know um all right normal day to day woke no imminent death that i just placed with your eld by some taoudenni ones ah it seems like you've gone through
your life going from all these different hobbies you talked to tango you talk about agitors you did jud when you were in japan i yotaka mary show up here your
talking about archery right you're all he different things going on for me i will be had a couple of things that have made me feel that way that thing right
number one is combat that's that's as good as a kiss for me to get through is the next thing down with his empty brain and just awesomeness and curing his up
there too may be jamming with my band beginning it on in that way how come your jumpers much any of thirty thing that you always go back to so i jump round
attic icones tion about this with one way barcos friends joshuah's said josh waitin for the don'tknow he's the inspiration for the book in the movie searching
body fisher he was a chest westside a chest prodigy i take some issueth the name he doesn't like that label either a very good at learning just at anything
he's also the first black belt under a incredible jutteth lete teacher name marcella juet who histato five vechabites that he's a put out that yes marcello to
is litigator cello is one of integral was less hundred years for sure and we ought to which by the way makes him the one the best drapers in the history of the
world and the universe exact argantes this league i mean the i i've nothing good out o the marcella rather old but ah ye i had attune train with orson it's
just another planet it's an antless invited me when i when i get out to new york josita come on my the cane like ocean no problem i'll he there so what am i
going to out there you take a week i estate i got everything ye this lake or surface oh it's a it's a fiato it's the fit has e school and ah he's applied to
his learning approach to you to git has applied to tityus hands whose world champion and he's he's a plentiful of things but not a lie he's not as an porneia i
am but we've we spent a lot of time others very close friend and he said and this is it is worse now mind that he he feels like i one of the best people on the
planet at getting people from the zero to eighty per cent of a scales quickly as possible and he is focused on the last one per cent getting someone from
ninety nine two hundred sewers with some of the biggest names on the finance world a people who are very under the red art to get them from say beating ninety
nine point nine nine percent of the competition to point nine nine nine and i think those are complimentary scull sets but for me the high that i get is
different from the hydrostat the high that i get is taking some one for instance i didn't want to say so to this i lent lent swim properly to i was in my
thirties ah for a host reason though i bored with a diaeta on an wi that is as absurd as it is but taking to an hasn't hasn't been able to swim ever and
getting them in two days to the point where they can swim say open water in the ocean for a half a mile which is completely visible is completely possible for
some one to have some athletic background that my eye showing some one that the impossible or what they thought was impossible is not only possible but in a
time frame that seems completely unrealistic that's my high absence i think that's parlors a jumper and is in part to learn but it's also being able to teach
some in a way that saves some anders a ours and just to see their head cool and you get that obviously then you get that satisfaction yourself when you try
something for the first time oh yes yes there's there's nothing better for me i mean what i figure out for instance with with archery oh blank bale practice
and on like a my god it's just like dry firing with a pistol to fix the erlike casting or healing that o my the same duck and bang oh my god you know and then
i get all excited because i'm piecing me sings together or a old way that you train some one figure out their edomite like your constantly missing basketball
shots by like an inch you probably haven't figured out your eye dominance but oh then you shift your centerline slightly see a raising the ball in a different
way oh my god it applies in the same way to bowling even tho no one even talked about baling those subsets skimme very excited i was thought i was going to be
a teacher beside these coaches and teachers and nineteenth grade who steered me from this very bad path on to him much better path in a lot my friends grown up
long island and did up over dosing dying my best friend growing up with one of them warm drug addicts your athalia i got steered in his other rection and that
night ten grade window is what i always thought i would go back and teach so i love teaches that's why i jomfrau ah what what creates the zono me is partly
just that a hammamet is exciting for me so i i do spend a while my time looking for ferratus said but the skill sets compound to like the better you get at
learning any skill the faster ullern sub squints a but if i had a default to you activities i would say it and i have to be trying to be smart or about this
but it's a physiolatry with a componite dole it's a physical activity with a risk with real stakes of some types that could be rallies juvery physical it could
be getico be a different martial arts a kind cipolino prospect the most time outside of gitana wrestling ah those would be the activities that that put me in
his own by aseity because the penalties are so swift and so immediate a sense severe a strongly sent ivied to not think of the alfriends going to hit when some
one's tredici ar qustion next one down a down the list here it now i was with a friend of my new the bay and we were doing more on toscar just like body war
right europe and then in an ear polishing and in your sane again your poitain priming all the stuff and there's a certain level of detachment and court sort of
for lack of a better word like a sand mind set we are doing this thing but you're not doing it right it's the same thing with cleaning guns on a clean on you
just married is just a very calming thing no some as on edisto relax it was clean my weapons i think everyone kind of does thesbit you do do you that is
anything that you do that you do that put you in as they mine of that just let's get you cinderella oh absolutely there are there a number them and i i be them
as medicine i need consistent doing of these things the first see the combine a swimming now that i knew for fun which blows my mind to day as i'm so terrified
it forever but swimming laps just a very repetitive left right left right that rhythm is hypnotic for me godson asked me the other day like a duet swim i said
no go i i serf but i i don't swim like a slim enough my home mo life pension and i don't swim like um on purpose elysian the reason somebody said why it's it's
an ice i sat more right ah maybe aytred is it that so as retiarii can be positive thing it can be so i find this is anyone of reasons that i this is slightly
stiffen exceeded to pay attention with this one with dog training a i w i went really deep with the huldran and for a lot of folks it's really minomushi of
behaviour at high level is extremely repetitive and i find it therapeutic i love it as so swimmin and years how i make seminole more interesting me with
swimming i focus on the efficiency of strokes per per lengthen igali channeling and generality bilive a game or i will look at instead of say right left marit
and then breathing to the alternate sides your breathing every third stroke all to very tittoni have these metric that i used to keep me but of it that's the
little schoeneck and a antholin i find something i always hated until they be three years no more five five years ago i find also very ah present state forcing
it a forcing function for me when you're trying to figure out five different dishes going at the same time and timing everything you don't have any slack to
think of other things and so i don't i i very reely cook for one person being myself but having groups over a ayadante pig for my birthday a few months ago and
a spatch cock for those who do know that is as you busy splitting it down the middle and then spreading it out like a pancake and a we create this rage and
ferrier a fateegin fish and all this stuff and everybody was involved probably ten diferent people and i was not the ah the commander in chief for the honedale
have a friend really knows what he's doing but just one in the most relaxing experiences that everybody had had they every one came away from that after two
days tovbin involved in it they said i felt like a six month occasion that rises a problem for me right in the military view it as starting really early in the
military you eat for time you eat for to get feed full your system and i really not a good relax let's take some time prepare the meal sit around and eat it i
shovel it in so we can go to more stuff i patesi don't enjoy that enough and i love eating i mean i love eating but i don't ever just sit and relax eat i'm
always in the game walliker to get that food down so i can go and get after it so more any any kind of detailed practice for me where i have immediate feed
back ah is a can put me into that zone a shooting sheinneadh shooting steel ah procula ly if i'm doing any type of drilling at close distance with a hand on a
although that their different types of fever me if i'm doing longer range marks and ship than be at a thinking more about a lot o my breathing and fill on with
the with pistols spinosis a whatever lottery for manport five whatever might be ah the focusing on the subtle teas of predicting when you're inputting the
flinches and the stutters and stammers that can affect the shot and then making an adjustment on and the taint next ten shots i i find that an bissy and it
interesting is in right word her endlessly focusing matineeing that the military kind of screwed up for me at cosseting in the military on the best range is in
the world with unlimited ammunition and all that's where you gurob and see you get in this mode where you're just a loving it and and then you get in esilio
and you know you go to the range and the e the ammunition cost money right here you all angry about that and then they say oh you can't shoot stealin this
range and that what about moving targets what about you do want things and you just get you so cerceuil in the military a little yet and there's some great
civil in ranges out there as well at the offer the same thing that i blotted olie it's awsome a good right i like that there's some kind of a dicotomy between
sin state and shooting but if you and irish flummy prefer omasha now here's ears another one so when i retired from the navy and i got out and started to
insulting business working in one of my risk of verse friends that would staying in the military for it its welfare program right it's a aystack right in at
the guy wasn't you know he was an all fired up any more but he was in and so you had a mortgage to pay and kids to feed to he just stand in and he e in a look
to me when i was getting out a siamang those titubat i'm gonna go and get after it somehow then he said what you did to it if it you don't shabbiness doesn't
work can you end up etteniotna come back and and my always what you go do you won't be able t get back in a abominators case scenario every thing goes to hell
guess what i'm going to be doing i have an army i will be in my arm with my family will be driving up and down the coast california rating you getico in
training and i be surficial good and won't cost me berlinghier my retire on cover we got to go you got to back up plain like that i will you let me retortii
you needed a back up plan like that m what would it be this is this is alleviorate topics ah so i would say that i have an infinite number of back up plants
and the way i think about that is by doing what i call fierce setting so much like you just said looking at my goal the worst things to could happen the ways i
could mitigate that in the way i could get back to where i am now if all howstraten helps me to remove the fear of taking these these steps that my paralyzers
second part is by say practisings practising spending no money for surdurrah say the top and full of things that tend to stop people from taking what they
perceive is risks the other very important thing is that risk has very specific meaning for me and i realized early on that people talk about ripolin taking
risks but if they don't define it clearly it can it can end up being paralyzing and how nabulione risk is very simple it is the likelihood of irreversible
negative outcome that's it some most things i do even though people look at it as oligocene and vesting in speculative start of when it's just one guy in the
idea anne's a rester i don't bet myself that way of all i be myself as if anything somewhat whose very stake a lot of time to get good mitigating risk a risk
mitigate a and in the case of say speculative ting i am only using money that i can comfortably afford to lose and for me back a plan searell she or my dog in
an eavy concomitants to note mail sleepin bag you sam's right my back yard an go fiom der bag climbers and hang out there dreckiges go hang up my parents get
see more of them go for a run in the woods a while john the grot the next step i ates an you had that attitude in you were taking more legitimate resuming
right now obviously your your bregog and but but in the beginning would you move out to the last coast on at you had to have the similar attitude of casino i
did that that that attitude for me free to me yet o worse case arillus everything cool asolare paid for ye be or good yet totally i i had that adam or at her
for many other human should ever have a inanna niven or creole i i care that realization early on and of course when i first graduated from school went out to
the west coast i do not have a lot of money i remember what i came out to california for the first time for a job interview i couldn't afford hotel i stayed at
the fire kiepurig genton the second floor sleeping on a bunk bed with a instruct sleeping above me and washed my clothes in the sink go and i was happy i i
mean that i was fully content i i didn't feel like i was missing anything and a a but let's not get ourselves men when i first moved out as nineteen ninety
nine with is at the peak of the bubble rental prices are out of control and i was making forty year and a year pretextat my my office my desk was in the fire
excitante they was completely legal have i was i had the i i had a a pretty slick set up but it was very low budget and of but really what i think freed me on
some level is realizing in this hopeless doesn't sound perish or argan or whatever but no matter what difficulties might befall me whenever a unemployment my
come my way there are people with fewer resources with less education to have figured it out before and services if dozens or hundreds or thousands of millions
of people a figured this out a menacious the other end of befinden too that that was very reassuring me of that that is a good one and he moved to the next
question any misconceptions about you that you want to clear up a well ah you you actually you econermize ception for everybody to i you said oh will you
jocko's going to train somebody he's goin to need to beat them and that's like people always think that and it's just so wrong teofan and man i i i don't
imagine go into an orator about me arabella in at that stuffs in fact even you you actually have to lead people and when you hit so that as a good
misconception you pile on i'll have to all those then another five years trying to deep on that foot to people that are not a gonstruction with a lash but it's
good thank you he itwhich was was deliberate i'm just done a jocose effected a busting my balls on triterite one takes it literally i'm like a kailouee but the
so fisticate tion so the cocina horse only twice a week folks secerent is not the same being a that joke internet by the way so the italics is concession is ah
and is very understandable luck i mean my book titles i didn't expect a four hour thing to become a thing so the fire work week funny servin not the the
original idea of the title and i'd dozens but the one that that i ended up testing first was the two hour work week which was but a as the man time a standing
mainemy company time and some people a publishing way to indelicate hours weeks like four enotheria so much better that she cheered they obeyed oit sounds like
a product see after like the spray on her and before the resistence at three in the morning is nothing of reprochoit it but the biggest esciting from people
who have not read the book or books is that i advocate idleness altar and that's not the case i have no romish hard work as long as its focus on the right
things so i think of maximizing pro output that doesn't mean i advocate dropping a much acid like watching your cat water and the house you twelve hours a day
that doesn't do much good for any one ah so that that's the biggest ness inceptor ah i i have no probator i just a horror doing something while they shouldn't
be done at all i think that's a waste of skill i was of energy at the left the biggest imertate there plenty of other ones you have sight that you need to
watch out for is just because you were hard doesn't mean that you're doing good right in there there's a bunch of little sayings about that but just because
you are working hard to getting up early and and you think you're getting after it you might be moving up your not making any progress and there's a big
difference in i think it something that people be to wear one on for as well right sillier instance i think the prayer is excute people need to sing that such
an apport starting point i gaslike what you do is infinitely more important than how you do something you have a list of unimportant to do is in our killinane
unimportance of his that's that's still a chalking to him of surya and you're still losing my friend till i sing as if for me it's i i won't people ask me
about time mandement in like never know i kep you rave tidport es so focus on the what should you be doing and for me of the effect of executive by peter
dropper is is the classic there don't worry about your abs and your email management and so on to a free to book that few ages all the talks about priorton ah
so the the biggest misconception yet just the whole for hours that is my blessing and my curse for ever to that part isantees a this my first book without for
her in the thought fourteen see also man lost him ethylene to them just sight don't have to feel like i inchastity my mom every time i am womaneen the first
ones don't know founder official have no idea i assayed no idea of opal right ah we're gittin at one more question here you as a leader right there's actually
millions of people that follow you right that listened to you that respect what you say and they may truly follow your lead i mean clearly they fall you were
saw this with though with the the launch of other release with the condonable comes that when my book comes out and lisses you'd kind of tuniced everything
that was going to happen to a tea of like weapon we talk about this book is going to be become that it inskeep clearly follow you and and listen to what you
say has eighteener an on an know you first see you this off that way but you are a leader two questions one where dethick he false or in two and more important
were you trying to leave people at this good ah so i haven't thought of myself as later i'll but i think that two terms sometimes get used interchangeably in
ivy the misery difference so as a leader if i looking through that land of myself i think very good at affecting national conversations and steering the
attention of groups to one thing for stameringly that and how ping people to prairie if i were to view myself as a manager i think i have many deficiencies a
stand one of them would be and missus bennet a help and a hindrance as many things are ah impatience i have extremely high standards and hold myself to just
iridis degree of expectation for perfection which of course hailed delavrancea about earlier but on the flopsie i i get a lot done in part i think because that
is is a driver that can also damage relationships very quickly and it can in a management in varment a caused her feelings and people do not put forth their
best because they feel like they are being criticised and not lauded for their successes and in part that is because as an athlete i really in a provisional
weird i don't care for someday in sport and in business my general feeling was amember mental ealan said something like this to me he said don't tell me about
the good stuff the good stuff picks care itself just tell me about the bath and that's always been my personal policy for myself but that does not always
translate well to tenament so that that i think is my my my home work that in and a defiant i've been working hard to correct for the last few years is getting
better at managing people who do not necessarily conform to that mind set at all times which i think can be a the problem when it went of that control but that
thou be the best ever but if we are if we're defining leader as someone who can put forth a vision or an objective or catalyze and move tension in people in
one direction i feel like i'm i'm quite good at it at mitigating the risk of that a inches for instance people think that the haters sinthry popular word on
the internet and not all credit or haters of course portitores ism and feed back but many people are thrust into a position where they have the opportunity to
lead people virtually on their nurthie is a a huge responsibility and i take it extremely seriously worry about say their detractors causing problems it's not
the detractors my experience that can do the most damage it's the diehard fans who get the message wrongheaded and misinterpreted that that is where you
naitural and think ahead soothing otherwithe as far as where i leading people if i'm leading them anywhere ah i i've always i should say always begouly five
years i thought of my goal is creating a benevolent army of superliner effectively who can teach in turn ten additional people each the same skulls so to
propagate a tool kit that enables people to be ill let problem solver instead of accidental haphazard problem creators is his he has been my goal for at least
last five years explicitly dicing people how to learn said they can teach people how to learn that i and part of learning is promises you by by definition
getting people who are good at thy second problems testing assumptions that where people now it's at solid everingham's obviously a really positive thing i
always talk about the fact that you i want you all people learn how to learn i talk about that all the time and of said that before on a parasite teach people
how did not know what to think but how to think and obviously i'm not the same scale that you are in terms of voluutas of people but there's definitely some
people out there that i think are following me in some way that might be a strong word but i was think of it what i'm trying to get people to do if your
following me i'm really trying to get you to follow yourself and lead yourself i don't i don't you don't lead yourself okay you see in my path that's cool my
path was good i like my path now fortuity know figure out where you want to go how in you're going to get are you going to get stronger how you get faster how
you're going to get so margaretha you're going to get a you going to get better and i always think that these answers work best when they don't come from
somebody else but when they come from yourself absolutely and i think also the teaching people how to learn a enabling my audience to learn how to learn and
when i say that i need to end undertime faster than would be expected in a lot of domains that's only one leg of the stool lisette three legs the other two
would be teaching them to dissect and manage fear and then the third leg would be teaching them to be emotionally aware and resilient and that i think is
covered largely by stoicism if you take it as a practice and not as something to pass away in just there and i just talked about steam on my last poncas
because somebody hit me up on to it eras do you practice stein i like no i decide no cause if yo pretty turandotte and and then i can roback i don't want to
see is offended and i own a rehash holstrate i just talked about the last poast but he is a away know what's wrong with stores and i her roamin is nothing
wrong with sossiges it but for me to say that i practised it or even that i learned it from studying the agents is not true i didn't go to princeton i you know
i didn't study when i was nice school i wasn't an over a cheer i wasn't under tier i was a i was uptroubled maker so i didn't learn anything about stoicism
until much later in my life my roots aren't my belief are founded on what i read there founded on what i lived in it's just this it makes sense yet when i look
at it on the people's always ask me are you to do macalister's going to do markeaton the potest and and really all asinaio markises this thousands of years
before i did asomatous love to be all educated by wasn't i was just i went down the path i went down and experience the things that i expensive and i came to
the same conclusions that these ancient came to so it's an interesting dunamenois and i i think it's worth noting also that if you find any one who is
consistently good at operating at a high level in stressful environments the tools of the same exact i may you read a one of my favorite books mosasticon
fiction fantastic book it's all the same ship you read the hat still wisemiss seneca was my relative action that in come into my life until two thousand or so
after graduation for goethe want me to do musashi on this pot cast i'm not going to do it not going to do misogallo why and if you've read it you know you
can't you got o go through musashi take get to the end i go from the whole thing to get the net is one of the best rewards and all the ligorio any and this is
a what a holy pages misassorted so it its massive book and i and you after read don't hold thing and it's all good but yall comes any literally i think in my
coppice i was laugh about this it is two or three pages from by end of the whole book is wildest to the end of rosamunda's just havin a a the pay office all
the day office so good and the o and i'm not on to do on her obvious after give way the path and some not into do that and you have to go and read musashi it's
it's awesome and the ending is just as good as i get it it's as good as gensan it's a storial fiction but that happened on astound oh yes and it doesn't get
any better so reading musache for yourself people maybe i'll give us like a one year lead time and then i'll tell somnolentians one hundred maybe will do give
people not heads up episode one hundred will go back and do wearying up a spoiler of lower at the beginning cause moaned when he had to go aronhiakeura with
that the moves there like a spoiler at the end of of the matrix it oh does it and of thinkin i go watch more movies egalitarian highly recommend babe volpatte
you watch that a bunch of time i ahiasaf right yeah i deal so i i can do when i write books so that i don't feel isolated i will generally i writ laedit that's
why do i sit thessian you research and interessting generally between eleven p m and five a m and so that i don't feel like i'm sitting in a cave by myself i
will generally listen to the same track or same album over and over again for a given book that's how i focus and then i'll have a movie playing on mute in the
matrons that i feel like their other people in the room now at one point i was like arnason the born identity five thousand thousand one see that he wore i
have seen because i was for the first book as seen shot of the dead to the comedy six thousand times i don't want watch that in more subtill just watching on
repetendi five times a night hogged amon prime and i polled up in the first move the tesla's babe bad little pig and farmer hoggett and i put it on and on like
a tishoo issiwasti a real movie after this and i was like to go his is a fifinette renegade duck anyway ah so ye they i don't think you'd actually like an ey
disgusted with my recommendation but i hope i ali don't watch enough i watch a lot of movies um carrying i think you'd like naros which is a good theatini
series i i've heard of that but publish i camerahead about that one i just they then even your din yer jumpin into what like thirty hours of content that is
only a year are looking at that twenty estanya in the vortex you don't want you on no watch that like when i'm seventy eight i watch narco put that on my list
from did you have any questions echo ye a question tankodrome in you for the room time yoole then i got entrepreneurship a sure you know ah it felice you that
it's kind of become like a trending to be an entrepreneur whereas a lot of times like you might even notice people they don't know what they want to do then in
all what problem they want to solve or product they want to devote just want to be an entrepreneur because it it seems like it's like this cool the cool thing
now to find that to be the case and if so is that a good thing a yes such petersham i think that it is highly romanticized and ah it easy to believe all i got
to do is drop out of college or next thing you know you you you rescuer and he of a company with billions of dollars but that's not how words folks and his i
do think that aunt repeerin is a mind set you don't have to start a company to be not to peer it's a and if you were look at the spanish equivalent in like em
but a nestlike undertake it is some one who makes something happen and you can innovate within a company that is not your own within an organization that is
not your own or you can create a company sosomenes makes things happen at the end of the day so who is it is it a a arenosi think for looking at taconics
lutely i think that there are certain experiences every human being should have even if they fail a i do think that starting a business or enterprise even if
it's a side gig that the moonlight is worth the education ah but there a huge survivorship by us out there meaning so you've been a baroness and lobelia these
usual fun oertling o my god they had in credible returns for ten year straight well ah maybe they're just let me go fanshaped to survive by luck for ten or
twenty years they have to place the right battoo the five hundred while the other four hundred ninety or no longer advertising eseritoe a false samples i see
that a lot with unprecedent hawk enough about the failure said on talking about that as major who will fill is it good i think that it's good for certain
groups it's certainly good for investors if they can play game well because even if they are a thousand shoddyites that might mean if more people hippocentaur
say high schoolers or college students are otherwise or going into an progeria eugen extra five the change the world and the end of the day so i am i am a a
big fan of outpeep even though much like anything else that is perceived his high resk and therefore treated sometimes it with reckless abandon where people
have tonkaways when they should be doing riskaasen you're goin to have a high fatality rate aand ah i don't do that as a bad thing as it necessarily ah but i
do think that in this is actually a question that bryan john said i was a a friend of mine he started coming a brain tree or sold for i think eight hundred
million cash to obey and do i saddled him he said in a hesaid e e shows up in the inities well but the question that he has because he's constantly flooded
with various questions for ashburners to one o make it er million dollars is all what should i do this i do that what about the aletta idea and he's asked them
is it an itch or is it a burn and he's like if it's just a little itch don't do it you're going to fail because for the other people out there with a burn they
can't not do it they're going to preface off in da that nothing is a very good question a inflate other one which i think originally he from think about this
now vander holy the old first coach told them that he could be heavy weight for at the time may procreate champions the world and he asked him and oriffo
wanted to do it and i said i didn't know you ask is man so he went back as is mom yes i would like to do it said won't is that is that a is that a dream or
that a gulf those are two very very different things so i i think that ah if you feel like you can't not do it or on the flopsie as i would probably approach
it if you can look at it as a short term experiment were you doing a phase one to see if you can develop any tracheae ten friends to buy whatever might be and
you can cap the downside i always think about this first i don't think about that you don't really know i make how can i cap the down side then by all means do
you your taking in my opinion the measure intelligent proachest alan see next year cause it's not realise like that the trend the fad you know that i mentioned
a does not really who says oh it's like saying i mean now we kind of have this emergence of like the grand were hard in that now that's kind of cool you know
that the working siren hours a week like that's kind of become you know is it a geryoneo know grind in our trees of the eye as a a she it's it's tiamo i think
that you just have to be careful at what i would suggest everybody do and i'm not sure if it's still on which pedia believe it is study cognitive by it is
humans get themselves into a law of trouble with cogitabis whether it sacontala but ex menomonee our time into something in there for you continued to put good
money after bad because you feel like you have to make a fact same were you lost it or this the survivor shippietaro you have there's a big difference between
corelation and causation things at happeneth same time thing is that the frinstance and things that cause something else to happen so you you just have to ask
it of a thousand people who do act how many are going to get the outcome he is being shook as if the answers i don't know when she be really careful about his
soothing the alyssome right and for meal we it also comes back to the adherents so if if i'm trying to coach a hundred unters and if i'm not in a three under
very case my case but if i'm talking to a class which i did for a long time class of high tick out printers hundred students hypothetically i won't beat vice i
give them to apply to the greatest percentage of people in the classes possible or to be usable and if i say twenty hours of day there might be one or two
beanston do that and sustain it the rest organola out and for me in that environment its about finding first to the the good program you can follow as opposed
to the best program that will knock out night nine per cent but environment dependent now for a bud okay who that might be a different situation if your
training dogs for say military or police you'd liason probably different story if you are looking for athletes for alternate competition or twenty four hour
plus competitions you are looking for young nomentack about it oh by if i'm trying to encourage the greatest number of people to attempt on finucane succeed
then i'm going to adjust my advice accordingly he do you ever i get a lot of sleep for instance bellile out that parigiana you must get two hours to sleep a
night i've done all sorts of weird suffused at privation i've done polly face expletion whatever it is two to four hours a night for ages on end but my default
is eight and nine hours a night i've moved sleeve of sorry johnnie i love it he devergie you know how like entrepreneurship is like this the trendy thing to do
dear beget annoyed when he see like pot posers you know what and obliterated to all the things and then they always want to talk about it and these all the
jargon you know i would say i'll tell you what a noise me more i don't mind people who are blissfully unaware and extremely enthusiastic because quite frankly
we of i should speak everybody but i think everybody's been there like i remember graduating at ninety nine all my god was i excited to get into tacentibus
kind of knew a friend of her friend who sold the company for some ungodly some money three and four a millonas like what i can i smart but he's not that
smartness and it was a very exciting time and i have i don't think in that in that world that excitement can be undervalued really i think it's the fuel i
think it's a big part of the fuel and the people of other men or the bee players who think there lamuse or the or the one you're lucky couldn't pull it off
twice or in the temps an once you're like twice your good the people who had good timing and now think they walk on water ye like like the kindly start like
the a course now to find a oh there million different varieties and i mean i like i love to see them all run off a cliff like laminae and they make me
absolutely and sang because the best of the best of the best when you meet them they don't act like dick well she take a back there probably few but in general
they have nothing to prove have nothing approved like more colocasias a walk round with a visible lad and rome yea like mean mugginton the street are you
kidding me he could he could destroy all he just disioso far above it he doesn't care hesitatin with but ah yet the folks walk around a lot of attitude and her
acting her the tears that description in titled people who feel like the world owes them something those people make me insane and there's a lot of insulations
part of his i stopped all of my early states secondbest in two years ago if i am out about this is no fun more for a lot of reasons but that was one of them
oliim sick of sitting down people who have something sketched out on the piece of paper and now there asking for twenty million dollars or twenty million
dollars valuation is like what have you done i e good on you ray explain i know you want to change the world like everybody have talked you to day with your
photocaris at a tastin what have you built before because you walked in here like you and levitating cause you walk on water and i appreciate the confidence
slash arrogance but what have you actually built de entitlement as one i can't stand and a one like the rancors i asked people loved time you people with
anything on a bill board what would your answer be so there are few favorites disaplining was freedom that's one another is no one owes you anything but good
no one who was you anything from a multiple time world champion and a a i think that um by hucker a lot of the art proneurs and otherwise who feel entitled
will get served humbled by whether it's by competition by the universe some huttenus to do it myself yolante has anything to withoutdoors you know you just get
people that are only at that of and is the way it is yes yes sininana aoyama brother he got sanfrancisco indians a decuman thea he he he said it's interesting
that it's this fad now like you have like groupes of teck entrepreneurs i like you have famblies in to be a business orsino know and like you know like a rock
staring more like an attack oh yes i miserere environment but i'm very much of lepinian that as perverse as it might seem or as perversest is on many levels
and weird and unsustainable there is good that will come from a i i the more entrance you have in the race like the more freaks and you secundine a going those
people are interesting and some cool that i'm jist goin to wait till there's blood in the streets and the gains the lazier for me all right echo yes um any one
wants to support this potassae do it did they do by the way the if they irenita not am i do miseway first off support yourself as they always say you don't
know comparison you know about this stuff but i'm a sad anyway supplementation to but efficiency from time to time i know true dick utilizes oxygen the more
ficient in your body that's what i export is for one little already say that before you said it before the anyway i had one stuff that's on it that's a
supplementation that you want and get because you do an jump supplement said the uneducated jacketed contend per cent off and supplement your wallet is well
and and of course the amazon clicked through christmas is coming up christmas is galley various birthdays on noting save my mind is but it soon if you shall
find amazan click to our website you can support this pot guest in that oh in that way i rented to a sly oh you go to airports com click through and then do
your shop being regardless of what your buying with her not your buying time book till for tito or ah or do that what frederica on her you can be told he
tightens in you could actually use ducape to make a handle and turn it into a kettle volk as emotion it's teach you an get jack a white tea with is land now
dies it's back its back where there by the time this pocassett take will be there we ordered a town this time soyot by the look extremities an if he don't have
enough jocko jocko does make a number of came operates until diantha is right that is right that is ah i am an tools of tightens which is awesome and i
appreciate you ah you throw in me and there forsennato of tonometer great information um also got some mugs come and you can buy mugs was a good man they say
they i try to keep it simple unsay say on it they say get after it cause that's hetty much sternward everything right yoyanere like cause it's gonna be knock
off fittenly there's like a an official penrod jocatore some people if they get bumper stickers which i might mention in a bit but the envelope that comes some
of them are jocosely said ashes mugs these are manly but her iii could fit probably yet my entire fist in his image if you get chased by a cassowary you could
probably crack it skull with this it's uh er functional piece of a porcelain ware or water as a ietae firing me anew molehills well of course we have the store
jocatore if you like sir if you were a teacher through time to time hoodies winter coming up rodoreda is trinight be different but ah you know fritterer
hotesse its iolite em sure and what not checkup see which one you like and then if you buy one of those that a good way to support the potations and his
jocosity or the mugs at one a change the tithe travel mugs o reading proved wherever we you we prove that there you go if i like it very giboyet her going
there see what up see if you rittenhouse the art you have to drive to temperses potasi you don't already probably do most people do ye say it out just
dantonist going to say just pass a hundred million downed on the first business every pocasset are you not start stepping up your name though and i'll every
day i'm dreadfully and that you do channel which aco has now be gone no i do engage in which is appreciated by all of us me over here on appreciating at so
anty for doing that there's more videos coming out corpse yes so i do have to kind o disclosed his claim with ever to son's going into a a a through a camera
transition face so the excerpts there was a small delay on that but the thethe transition face is is over and were good to go so will do more um exert
outweather disdiscover in disclosure and which is of tolistoboies i pologize for shopping a gap kids from my sire's guise from fucking huge animals some and i
wanted to feel her confidential he said like it anything else ollyoolas it as also we did it be extreme ownership muster in san diego california it was awesome
if you want to come and you're on the east coast you want to come may for and fifth two thousand seventeen extreme ownership muster number two in new york city
mariarann going a be awesome and i'm gonna tell you i've i haven't said it yet all in the pot cast because i wanted to give people the opportunity that are
already in the game in our tracking to get there but it's goin to sell out it's selling really quickly so if you want to come by now she monsiuer you'll
probably come as this one is so eager was all one eat on the special you risk the first one for a algarotti en get into the apology and the explanation
whackinger numeroso ah tam you got the closing commits a closing come just to bring it back to the robeing ah if you're feeling alone of whatever doubts
challenges you might have you not on your far from it and honestly at this point that if i learned anything from interacting as hundreds of thousands and
millions of people on the block to the pod cast all henseth same promise and the very least you have a large brother had sisterhood that was in a peat a
minimum who are feeling going through the exact same thing that you are so do not feel alone and do that's that's pretty much it i would say ah this insample
up if you don't ekeinou from tulettes a i was it's it's so real for me but all sarsengers hook to forward which is incredible he's in the book and ah that's up
the introduction is up how is this book turn check that it in scotty tools of tightens dot com and if you want a continues conversation by the way you can find
all three of us out there on the interwinding on twitter on integram and give no you could even find us if that face bookkeeper ha that is at aecae i am at
jackwell in an of course tim paris is the paris georgette uses on to enter temperton and trim and of course he's also on eva's bookies not hardeyed and to
everybody that's lessening i want to say thanks to them extempore coming on thanks to him for actually getting me to do upon cast if it was you in jorogata you
as in you pressed record on our first one you pressed you press stop you look at me in said you need to do your own poast and i was pretty packrat right then
because the book was coming out but his on as joe rogan said it to to have you to tell me that i was in so thankoffering me do this podcast thanks or coming on
appreciate all the support that you've been given me and an echo in the poncas in the book and everything else thank you it's much appreciated to everybody
else that's listening thankyou for listening first and foremost to the people out there in uniform military police fire fighters paramedics by the nature of
your very job you are serving all of us so thank you for that service and thank you for the freedom and security that you provide us and rest with people out
there the troopers out there that have your own battles round the world fighting against apathy fading against a crate and fighting like we all do sometimes
fighting against the darkness do you all remember remember that this isn't easy for any one remembered that anything worth anything is worth fighting for
remember that the battle doesn't fight itself you are the one that has to fight it remember that there's a price for victory and that price is hard work and
early mornings and late nights and that price is unmitigated daily discipline in all things in those times when you can't remember everything i just said just
remember this one thing to get out there and get after it so until next time this is tim and echo and jocko out
