this is jackal podcast number fifty one with actors and me jackwell good evening i come bedeviling forgotten the corean war is often referred to as the
forgotten warm than its same which to between a deep massive world war two and then on the other side the highly controversial and also highly deified and
therefore highly remembered vietnam on torgesen that middle of that the corean war somehow git lost and by gasohol gets forgotten to obviously we should never
forget the war in korea was brutal and in many ways when you look at the cremona you see the worst parts of these older wars you had the trenches of world war
one you had the bitter cold of the eastern front in world war two yet the land minds of the vietnam war the infer the nearly two million that served in caria
and the more than one hundred thousand that were wounded we should never forget and we must never forget and for the thirty six thousand five hundred and
sixteen americans that were killed we must always remember always and remember that for those that died there is nothing else there is nothing else they gave
everything everything they gave for he nedes in between trenches or four or hill or for their brothers in arms that we war does the gives everything to some
and it takes everything from others certent we begin to take a look at the career through the eyes of james brady you united states marine corps in his book
the coldest war what jobber you looking for i knew the expected answer in snapped it back rifle put toon leader sir the major said that i was a hard charger
that they needed hard chargers in the basic school in virginia where they trained marine lieutenant they ask you every few hours that same question then they
push a form of you to write down your four first three choices of duty the several schools of fought about this one held you should tell the truth those who
subscribe to this odd notion put down communications or tanks or mountain training anything that might delay assignment to a replacement draft and the war
another advised to pull messy a first choice of rifle but toneder to show your spirit then what you really hope for let justice or motor transport a third
school fell you should lie brazenly indicating ferocious the man for a rifle petonar at this might impress people and get you made a general's aid mack nolan
achieved something of a name it basically stipulating quite honestly each time rifle buttoned rifle pottomet rifle potuit i didn't worry about it much not out
of fatalism but simply because i believe the marine court discarded all such forms of our reading in a didn't matter much what you wrote this coast to the line
i was to embarrassed to give any answer but the one the major obviously wanted to hear splendid said the major we have an opening for hard charger second
battalion colonel gregory's battalion they want hard chargers up there they need them that's where he are going second battalion short of company grade
officers then sent in curiosity that's what i'm sending both of you you and alan heard chargers sorgender a little bit about mac allen who gives just that the
most fired up response you can give he it asked what job you want them reincarnate the basic school of that as rifle bottom the rifle to leader all rifle to
litter now prior of that product part of that evolution they were actually a james brays actually graduating and from his school the nighten fifty and a go to
the book in june nineteen fifty a graduated and was handed along with my ba a commission in the united states ricorre ere a second lieutenant that was clever i
remember thinking how nimbly it avoided two years of military drudgery a week or so later the north koreans crossed the thirty eighth parallel and the war was
on within a few months my class was moldboard i joined up the dodge the draft and ended up being sent to war people said the worst job you could have was
marine rifle patonee life expectancy was supposed to be very short thirtyish you know just avoiding the draft old war two then did there's nothing goin on
obaidallah you know do in two years of service some sinadone the reserve the marine corps reserve and didn't work out that way for him now we get to care
imagines some of the other a leading up to corea but they show the treadwater the reasons that yet bunch of books on treated read over the years and one that
we eats in that that this book can bubbled to the surface conversation it named campeachy who is your niece just exquisitely ship throughout the the little
things he does it just just as worth studying worthless taken a look at and so they show up in korean this guy captain chafe he kind of great im so back to the
book captain chaffy the dog company commander came a few hundred yards down the trail to meet the duke train shaking hands with allen me now the goop train
books at termagant to a little later it's a it's a it's a term that they use for these coreans that work for them that the at all the marching up and down
carrying water and fuel up and down they called the gottingen they also when it went it time for new people get brought up to the front lines they follow up
the gottingae cap chaffy comes down to meet a back to the book a very pleased to have you both here i simply wanted to say welcome and get you off to a proper
start chaffee was a road islander one of those old yankee blue bloods with a high color a large nose and a splendid mustache he was very lean very dark a
handsome man he didn't seem to have it any weapon of any sort only a kind of alpine stave that he used as he loped his long legs covering the uneven ground in
great strides going up hill he was fast and coming down he nearly ran later i would learn he was sculling le and had a law practice and political ambitions he
now took us on a guided tour of the company front so not your typical sort of what you what you expect amerine corps company commander to be you guys a yale he
is a lawyer and sounds like he comes from some money so canadien than what you were magine back to the book were a trifle under strength at the moment caffetal
us he didn't sound apologetic or dismayed by this just stating a fact doctoroff he talked swinging to longer top lip of a shallow trench line that followed the
ridge linking large and small bunkers twenty to fifty yards apart as we moved along the length of the company line chaffiest to talk with each marine at each
bunker he called each man by name not christian name names or nicknames as i do in war movies but the man's proper name he didn't make introductions but was
business like in a cheerful way at the bunkers reinsures ifing sand bags cleaning rifles cooking rashins over small primstone stoves one marine cutting
another's hair no one seemed fast by the captain's presence none of the obsequiousness or make work you saw it quantico intended to be impress caffies
questions dealt with enemy activity the front the conduct of an ambush set out the night before the possibility of getting some more tofields on a suspicious
looking piece of ground off to a right and so on no chat about rations or leave or letters from their girls they were all eating the same rations there was no
leave a man's male was private here and there i noticed there were blackened places in the snow where incoming shells and hit no one mentioned them the company
frontage was astounding once again the school solution was in discard dog company under strength was covering about a thousand yards of front or than a half
mile of rough ground now the company commander jumped into the trench a dirk carboro waist deep with dirty snow piled on either lip got to stay in the trench
from here on chaffed show you why in a minute they proceed along the trench eventually meet up with one of the other potentates this is a teiflen chaffy said
you're in his area now he introduced us and we shook hands flin two had a mustache but it was scruffing chaffey's elegance he wore no one signe of rank not
even a collar bar and looked like any other marine he had a good smile now the reason that brought that piece up is because you can hear chaffy says you're in
his area now so he'd given that ownership to find he wants to make sure that every boy knows this swindle down her and that continues we got back in the trench
chaffee let lin led the way it was his neighbourhood now the trench was head high and even deeper with ammunition boxes said it in here and there as firing
steps when past two bunkers each with a heavy machine gun and placed here there was no hair cutting and the men were all under ground so now were back in old
trenches war or one style an ice bunker wondered had his back to us his face toward the firing port open boxes of grenade stood inside the bunkers at the third
bunker flinted on the shoulder of the man on watch he backed away and chaffy squeezed into pierceth ough the port he knelt there for what seemed a very long
time then he scorned back out and waved me into place for the first time i was looking at ground that matched my notion of what it would be like there were
three untidy fences of barbed wire a few yards the fundanius contenting a wire looped farther out beyond that where a field of snow packed by shell holes a few
scrub pines badly chewed and about a football field away a long dirty mount snow i turned back and found flint's face very close to mine those of the neighbors
the buttoned said now they continued on a little while longer and then chapetolle them will skip the right flank to night you know some monastere dy smote one
of the other tonometer besides we only have a little daylight and i want you to get settled in by dark you know the division order replacements don't go
forward of the moor for the first five days it's a good order let you get the lay of the land last summer we lost some new people just because they got mixed
up and made a wrong turn they just playing out lost not their fault of course but their gone none the less mack looked down cast a bean shackled don't worry
caffes five days go pretty fast and will count this as one day so you only have fortegian whose all fired up about getting after it he hears this rule about ye
ganler until he been here for five days and he osandon androtten because of that back to the book they they get to position with their bottoo to sleep on the
back in a bunker now and he sort of back in the rooting the rear but he's a little bit the rear hesit a mortal position so the more poises obviously aren't
right on the front so he's back with them in its time to uh time to time to lay down back to the book i said that that was fine and laid down my mind churning
with events the day hopes and fears both but i was very tired then the air was full of sound i sat up porterfield and dodge were gone to the two guys living in
this subularia i pulled on boots and snatched my helmet you slept fully dressed with your web belt on so i had my smith so i had the smith and wesson outside
it was black and then just below me a blinding glare as one of the mortars fired it was followed by another off to the side and then by a third somewhere over
the ridge there was a rip of machine gun fire and an unfamiliar fire from another weapon i started down the hall to the mortar and placements half sliding on
the hard pack snow portfield grabbed my arm lieutenant you ornatest yourself you need you sleep the night tell you i'd be probably have a fire mission what is
it goops are pasturing mister flint again is all listen you here at that bernat's a burgun once you hear it you'll never mistake it for anything else i like
how the the guys are out there doing his mortemain in there just tell to lieutenant at and you can do stayed we got this dory about it he's all fired up right
and down there they're like a we got this owe don't you need your beauty sleep there is serjeant a bergun this is a very common weapon is benno's common weapon
here and in the corean war for the for the north koreans the north koreans made is called a tight forty nine the chinese made of verse of the called the type
fifty all based on a rush an version that was called a a a keep he s h forty one and this is a seven six two by twenty five a milliner weapon so not not the
same as an a cayote en a little bit smaller around but a very a very reliable weapon where the caliobre crewall nurse usumcasane bisinya noise it makes that's
why they called that yet seems like a bur would be like a small burst of like click round like mishini actually i don't think i've heard one but you know you
can even say he says you listen you hear it that burt yetive to burgun so must had a really distinctive sound when i fired now back to the book the morning
offered no evidence of the night porter field made coffee and said there were no casualties any one knew of though mortars might have gotten some people on the
other side where they could not be seen the other side they called them that or books or people they also called or coreans books the chinese were chinks but
we weren't facing them right now it was all very matter of fact i we spoke the enemy now obviously those are not the politically direct terms ah to use but
obviously i'm organloft with the book as hester at the guys used back then the the term go from what i understand that i read about a little bit it came from
there is a there's a term there's a corean to say america in or american in careen the term was medecin so i guess you picture gies meeting you know some
careened and and their traneens and they go a megone you're got i'll acol and that that kind of stock and like me jacko the touches agitating that kind of
thing all right back to book the next four days would pass slowly by felt self conscious about the simplest things should i walk in the trench or a top it if i
stayed in it people might think i was afraid if i stayed out some one might accuse me of drawing fire and being a damned fool they didn't teach you the finer
things at conico i compromised by walking a top the trachine but walking slumped so a couple of things number one that's the kind of thing this young leader
thinking about like a woodier like to the men if i walk hiding in the trench than a malaumain and if i stand up through tall on the top of the trench then i'm
an idiot so which one do i want to be so we compromise you takes the the little thing i talked about with when jas on about how guy's kind of see dumped down a
little bit they did arch there they bowed their heads when they're walking round just to make themselves a little bit of a smaller target that's what he's
talking about that's what he did that how he solved that problem now he as he as you start spending more time there we start meeting the gas in it he very
surprised that they are not exactly as cold uncasqued away as he might anticipate because he's gisarines and he's coming from quantico where everything is
spitting polish right back to the book of fresh from quantico i knew i should not i should be righteous about it but it was chaffee company not mine some men
wore knee length parkes others pile vestal jackets on a forest green overcoat to his ankles there were stolen army jackets turtle neck sweater a lad sweater
made respectable by an issue green scarf tossed gently over one shoulder there were fur hats and hats with earmuffs ordinary fikees and a baseball cap wolston
caps overseas caps helmets some with green somewhat tan some without any camoflage cover there were formal boots an ordinary boondocks and jump on to liberated
from the army men were now in signer black stripes pennon the sleeve or metal badges of rank i did recognize that they'd got from every breast pocket gleamed a
brass spoon hammered from an old shell casing a gookoo i did not know what they were and finally asked one marine words purple heart another a nineteen forty
eight due for president button so that is not what has used to disused to see if guys totally squared away and these guys are an have obviously done whatever
they can to try and stay warm ye back to the book phillips took us out to the right flank to see some monuste glad when we were there but he looked very weary
tired though physically in good shape so summonest heard this story that somone a pretty awesome operation where they went across the valley deep in his
maneant territory and killed a bunch of north koreans and then made it back with no casualties so kind of a avenue impressed in the operation and back to the
book max set something about his patrol the one young doll was bragging about that was the mission at when across the valley we were quiet and we were lucky so
monacid it was obviously in one to talk about it he excused himself saying he was inspecting weapons to morning then as a walkin along all the sudden fill up
moving fashioned a plump man shot dropped into the trench down he shouted mac an i jumped in after him there was an explosion in back and black smoke rising
somewhere behind us and then another was with a bang on the end of it seventy six is philip said squatting in the bottom of the trench flathery weapon not as
fast as it sounds if you hear the whiz you can usually beat the bang i looked past him at alan mac was beaming when the shooting at us i asked phillips likely
they only wasted too so they couldn't have been serious about a destroying to instill a little discipline in the three damn form marines he intend angry of
being shot at but we stayed in the trench for a hundred yards until it dropped away below the skyline he was all very casual max pleasure being shelled puzzled
me one thing to be done how about going to war another to be delighted some of the shooting at you maxiouis pretty cool talking about the these getting some
education now from one of the one of the enlisted marines named dodge and dodge says most the most of the enemy weapons are russian and the russians a pressman
weapons their mortars are on meneer larger in diameter than ours we got sixties and eighty one they got sixty one and eighty two so they can use capture
american morter shells they slide an easy and just a blue fractional loose but we can't use their shells they're just a tad too big for our tubes so soviet
unions pretty smart when they came up with that idea with that plan back to the book around three o'clock off the left here was a sudden mash of incoming
morterfied than a distant shouting chaffy just back from his scouting with scouting mission with listing took off along the ridge towards flintstone i started
to go but red pillows barked at me stay put till we know what happened then phillips ponein it was flintoff his men sunning themselves on top of a bunker taken
it direct hit from an edito millimeter mortibus and thrown up without notice just one shell but two of the marines were dead another and lost both legs and the
fourth was badly holed they brought them down past the sea p the dead shrouded in pontos the wounded conscious and impains tood watching feeling a stranger one
of the dead was cousin to the man whose legs were gone they came from a town in massachusetts the rine without legs didn't seem to realize about his legs but
he was talking about his cousin poor reddy he said what's that he's mother gonna chaffee was with them at the corner at one corner of the four men carrying
eddy in the poncho he turned it over to someone else and went into the sea p phillips and i following get em on as chaff he said tell him to send three men up
to flint for to night to fill in the line tell me fenaison people were i can i'll try getting him so more men in the morning he can have my runners if he can't
if i can't get anybody else they'll have that bunker okay before dark it wasn't banged up too badly the men took most of it while philip made the call chaffeur
to me well that happens no one to blame blame the sunshine of you have to lay blame truman himself couldn't keep marine some getting some son good men too he
hate to lose them any way but losing them like this is stupid at her even more we learn now you won't see any one doping off on top of the bunker for a while
he picked up the battalion foam to call in the casualties so you can see chaffey's got like a a certain level of detachment right eases got over i would say it
actually a very good level of the tachment where he is even in his own sentence he said it's horrible lucy's guys no one to blame we did move forward it like
the right level of he hurts he says at her teepee but he's not goin crazy as not being himself up he got jobbed to do so there's a good level of detachment
that he's got going on and you're going to hear more about that as well now this was interesting um you don't and on social media people are always asking
about ed c which is every day carry they say tochered c what he very every day that's a that's what people want to know and when i read this ah this paragraph
or is thinking this is the e d c the every day carry for the corean war thunder beset is a a gun or disasters i rahere eye for you care for night i await you
know your your various things that you jarette agedest back to book talking easy we forgot a lot of what they taught us a quantico but i remember i remembered
joe wills lecture well was a captain who benine hard fighting around the proces around prison the first summer of the war there were pictures of will and his
men and life magazine will had really been to korea and it fought and so we listened and took notes well didn't talk about war aims or strategy or even small
unit to tactics he told you what to take cotorie in your pockets nail clippers if your nails grew too long they caught on things and became jagged or maybe
even ripped off one a day viteman you're going to miss me all and there was no fresh fruit or milk and you needed vitamins to keep you going a knife not to
kill people with bunch just a boy scout in my for a couple of blades and a screwdriver and all toilet paper there was a package in every ration box but there
was never enough a flash light she used in black rubber for insulation and against hard knocks a pen and a small smart spiral note book you wanted to keep
track of your men and to be able to write lists to leave notes for people a good watch with a luminous dial you could read at night a couple of good size
bandanas you could use his handkerchief there were you were always wet and were going to catch a cold in your nose with run a tooth brush and tooth paste a
small bar of soap a raiser of course the soul also worked as shaving cream some raw hide leather fangs in case your shoe laces broke or you had to make jury
rig repairs to something a plastic bag keep your wallet in when you got wet an extra poper of woolsacks as if a lighter for smoking and lighting fires you
didn't need any stamps or money there was nothing to buy and no place to send it the dog tags went around your neck you hung them from a leather from leather
fong at different length so they didn't clink together and make noise you were two dog tax to that if you were killed they would cut one off and turn it into
the graves registration or some other authority and leave one on the body to insure accurate identification the marine cordate for just about everything people
a conical said joe will did on drinking nights at the officers club but he gave a good lecture and most of us remembered what he told us as i would as i was
pretty sure i was going to remember what i was learning now from chapiters and tax less less men and sergeant dodge so there's your easy sea for corea it's
it's amazing how some of that small stuff gets like in the sultans that kind of thing that you'd get turned over from somebody that was in an air you were you
were and you be all happy to get these lifters so is a you will need this up here you need that in it be always good and be bad when you'd forget or some one
wouldn't give you a good turn over and you'd say ways cond i should have the squittinio tell us as to me it was interesting seesawed first got over to one of
my first upon the era man we were leaning so many lessons about what was going on one of the biggest was how we were operating in humbeline because we didn't
really do that much before the war started salasar learning a lesson the day in out to operate without these and we just the logged all down a passion so the
next guy's new oleson's coming eh captos lessons learned and passed them on and by the way when you're coming into theatre and you haven't done the job
whatever johnsonate over from somebody listened to whatever they're telling you don't go in with your preconceived notions you might have your own ideas that's
fine i'm not saying don't have your own ideas but listen to what people are telling you because they're going to know some things that you don't know and
that's all there is to it all right now there is a point where it looks like chaffeuses which one of these two guys a brady or mack alt is goin to get to take
over his petinka er and there actually going to do a a a a kensit decide so that's as utes and it turns out that brady winds the coin toss well at your
protonotare chafe says caffies i won't worry about how you'll do both of you ready to take paton's you'll get your son allen when fingoes home the finger
remember is we were all pettonius wants a good job the finest command a man can have nowhere i don't care how long you live or what you do will you ever have
the wreck responsibility for so many men you can command more men you can be a general with it avision but it's no longer direct colonels and gentles are
knotted into the system the whole military bureaucracy you make your own system here you run it it's europeon an i have to agree with the fact of being atuned
is also and that you have told control in all i will say this though i was look at every job like that like every job i got my only or interogatin charges
something whether i got put in charge of radios when i was a new guy and i just had to be in charge oristagny people i was just church of radios is that all we
had you i do i'm a set these reds of like this i'm a i'm a make make that my world no right and then when i was got promoted an i was a squad leader and almost
an ye like that smike quadded things and we in so was to have had that feeling of a water it what it is basically if heligolanders ip right i been take
ownership and how as did that but he's right in the fact that won't you go above tincander now there's going to be other foes going to be someone else it's
kinda actually own those guys no is not use so you got to give those tecoma or of space so they can do their thing with good job when you get that opportunity
fortune starting up atoneth for eton commander it's it's about as good as gone a get in my personal opinion all right here's here's a again i talked about how
how chaff he sort of a reason why i wanted to do this book but this is a class it example good leadership lessened for anybody here back to buck another order
came up which sounded tom so do i thought chaffy was jollying us you order was to pick up all the brass expended along the line and send it back for savitch
brasses the military term for empty shell casings ejected from weapons when bullets are fired in the states on the firing range you're supposed to pick up the
brass to police the area to keep it neat but here the following morning chaffy as usual was up and down the company front with his wolf's lope moving fast
without seeming to seeing everything knowing every one he called me into the sea peeta your machine gunners or picking up the brass that's piled up around the
guns and down the slope then you give them the order i said i hadn't considered it a serious order all orders are serious chaffy said and turned away i was
ashamed and angry it was a ridiculous order but chaffey was right i should have carried it out now he caught me doping off this was a chaffless a chaffy i
hadn't seen before a man with whom you didn't play games i would not again i didn't want to look i didn't want that cold look coming down on me again he didn't
shout or curse when he choose you out but he didn't have to you understood so that any of these anybody that thinks they're yelling and screaming that having
this huge impact of your probably wrong your probably wrong i should sell them have to do that furled ship position back to book i hustled down the line to
give the necessary orders to gunners who looked at me as if i were mad i said they were chaffey's orders and to be obeyed shrugging and sulky they started
picking up the brass so what is he to what is bradeen's is a gustice up the brass when they start looking out him like all this is ridiculous he was talupa a
affiches do it so do it which is not going to leave him that's not cold beershop right he's passing the buck on up the canadian as his boss is this if the boss
is plain i don't agree with it but we have to do it anyways wrong and he finds out just how wrong it is here back to a book it was not until later i learned
that the order was from young doll and that chaffinch it was a name but in do company he issued orders as if they were his own idea without passing the buck or
permitting any reflection on higher authority it would take time before i learned to do the same so you passed that word you can argue all day long up the
chinamen but once the decisions been made and now you're talking the boys that your order now that's your plan that's your idea you own it all right now they
spend a little bit more time upon the line in the nikola to the reserves in into the rear frothily and when they go back to the rear it there they their marine
to their continuing to stay disciplined they call em night problems we having exercises when i when i say promise something on to forget to say it but when
they say problems there's talk about exercises back to book the night problems went on and the inspections in drills and all the chicken ship of reservery a
chicken hidesato that they used the military is just stupid stuff that they make it do for the reason righteous is a chicken ship like hey organtin these paint
these rocks white that's anthing you a goin to clean this icidal again here sweep up the parade ground again we stop that yesterday were in supergan this is
chicken ships stuff the weather got colder and worse but i began to feel wonderful suddenly i stopped thinking about mines and about losing my legs the hell
with it warring it and being afraid i wasn't going to help after that i felt fine one afternoon coming back from a live fire problem mack alan and i were such
high spirits we fell behind the party just to wrestle in the snow on a pure to light i was easy for mac but we had a fine time and rolled half way down the
bank and nearly into a stream mackry face with snow before we quit and stuffed a handful down my shirt it was boy as it was silly and we knew it but with
another tour on the line coming up you took pleasure where you could so he he's got a little attitude came number one he's the over this idea of being afraid
of mine and being a phrase these are i can't control it do hinting i can't mitigate but it is what it is and then of course sometimes he got a little college
little bit of a roll and now they get back back on the line and again i am obviously skipping sections of this cause i'm not going to read the whole book you
should read the whole book but there back on the line and now brady is in charge of tunis a potion commander and chaffy comes round to the check out his cane
has his section of the line back to the book my bunker was toward the base of the nose where it joined the main ridge though now a little the train feature
that stuck out and that's where his bunker is i showed chaffee the ground not going all the way to either flank it was too late for that and dark was coming
but i gave him the gist of it keep fifty per cent of men on watching i tell you different all right i i sir this elite good line ready better than the last yes
it does sir we've got work to do though i get some more wire in plot the minds and don't get to relax just because it's high than he hill marines can climb
down the goats can climb up get relaxed and you'll find trouble i said i wasn't too lax chaffered that with a grin i don't matamano are first night on the line
with a new patuone i laughed it was getting late the sun gone now but safe walked away but chaffey walk with me for a way the two of us alone not much i want
to say ready you'll do a fine job for me am not worried about that but one thing they don't tell you at quantico and may be they should get to know your people
as marines as professionals learned their capacities their strength their weaknesses but don't get to know them as men none of this first name stuff don't ask
about their families or their home town whether their married if they've got kids do that and before you know it you'll lose your judgment you'll be sending a
man out on point because he single and not because he's the best point man there's something else get to know your men too well to personally and when you lose
one you'll be losing a piece of yourself a otometer can afford that is bad enough losing men without losing pieces of you to remember that brady it's hard
learned and it's right i said i would remember jaffe went off bouncing along the icy path and down the hack out steps the reverse slope in the gloom a lean
tireless figure who did not look back who told you what to do and left me to do it now that that section obviously in in in the selem in special operations in
general there is deftly at much closer relationship between the officers and the senior listed gusndhe troopers that just the way it is i mean you're doing
everything to gather you're going to traineth r you you're doing everything together sou that that that wall between the ranks definitely gets degraded
somewhat and this is something that i talk about all the time in this is part of the dicotomy of leather this is part of the back one we worship and and what
you do is you know you're going to have your relationship when you guys but you've got to make sure that you are not you got mature you keep those under
control in an mike for me i will i wish it was fairly easy for me to have really good relationships of guys that to have guides that were my best freak in
friends and be like okay and you're the best after the job or you're going to do that and i didn't i i never let the personal things cross over into my
business in my my tactical reasoning ever it just didn't happen and that's why i definitely had better relationships closer relationship than what chapeau here
no doubt about it um you know and i think that's beneficial in a lot of ways because ye you know you know what making guys tick and obviously the downfall with
that is that when you do lose guys do you are going to lose a piece of you then that's that's the reality of it not going back to book um he gets another visit
from the colonel the colonel comes up on the line said the guy above above chaffing the chain of command comes up same thing just look in at his trenching what
is not going on backlook the colonel said where are your machine guns the answer was i didn't know exactly what i said was there downward the squats the first
squad has one and the second and not lieutenant what punchers are your machines in guns in do you know their fields to fire how and they laid do you have
aiming stake in no sir you should know shouldn't you yes sir been find out i i sir the words floated in the crisp cold of the hill as the colonel hoped jentle
into his chopper and left i got on the phone to call chaffey i told him i thought i'd better since the colonel surely would caffie didn't say much over the
fone well he said i guess you'd better go out and charge your guns hadn't you now this is something if you're learism an you get inspected up the chainman o
you and you said you of ohadi tell my immediate boss that some one come back yes you should is the answer yes you should don't let your bosses you don't ever
want your boss to get blind said to it something thanking you in the military we have guys getting trouble out in town yes and like get arrested kind of get a
red attention eat whatever now this is this is what i how i would handle those situations if i could contain them right if i could contain myself and i could
punish the guy myself on hand let at my level i would do it but if it was something that was going to get out of control and it we warn't goin to be to stop it
if it was going to be a newspaper something like that with an i've told my boss he let this what happened i had one of my idiot guys went out got drunk on a
fight went out caused some problems this what happened at was not in fine sight bid he can prepare for recent have an answer he consented disappoints bein
dealt out or whatever i get the thing and if so when something like this happens tell your bosses going on just it's going to be uncomfortable for those twelve
seconds than it takes for you get those words out your mouth for one whose words out i mout i promise you feel better you will definitely feel better back to
book chaffins anything more he didn't need to but i knew there was plenty he would have said there was plenty to colonel the regiment would say to the colonel
of italian who in his turn and in the hallowed traditions of the corps would have a few words for chaffey i felt pretty bad it seemed on fair a fine officer
like chaff i a good man should suffer because a green junior officer doped off but it was the way things were and the way it had to be later in the day chase
met with phillips and the three buttoners he stressed as i might a teacher in kindergarten the importance of basic things the precise location of machine guns
being only one of these fundamentals he made no reference to the colonel none to me he simply reminded us of the things he wanted done and said he expected
them to be done then he in philip's loped off to look at something in the rest of us drifted back to our platoons i wanted to tell the rest of them it was my
fault we'd been lectured i wanted to hug tra chaffy for not saying so these were mistakes that came with still being an amateur in a professional war so
there's another just great example wetersoons he could hammer brady and say look brady did this and he doesn't know his guide are doing it you know as machine
guns are made us all look bad he didn't do that no no in said he doesn't mention brade's name he tells everybody that got to get stuff on now it is breaded
better for him he asked he absolutely doze an he's building that building up that leadership capital with his troops by not dropping dion somebody makin out at
example out now is a time or after do that of course there is but this one was nothing major right a little stern talking to from the carnal hey i can absorb
that nocendo in make brady look bad but i'm going to build up that loyalty yet now they go out an operation and a guidami ah gets wounded and almost easie and
brady's actually also very close to the mind that goes off but he's okay and at night they egitated back to his bunker and there's guy prince in whose taken
over his his senior and listed guy conestoga at work in form and here we go back to book that night i worked heart a tidy my half of the bunker at very little
but a joined what i had and tried unsuccessfully to get princeton talk about the day's events i gave that up and row number of letters separate ones to my
mother and father telling them one happened and that i was okay and that i love them and another to a girl the girl was tall and lean and very pretty and quite
exciting but we had never really meant anything to each other now i wrote her quite dramatically that i nearly been killed that my eyes had been opened and as
soon as i got back we should begin to consider the future we wasted an awful lot of time you and i the letter concluded it was a college boy's letter and in
the morning i tore up all three letters chiding myself for being callow and sent a free paragraph let her home in which i discussed the weather in some detail
princeton who wrote to his wife once a month shook his head over all this correspondence had i dislove that these these is growing up is grown up fast on the
line and corea verses right to girl i almost got killed at this with condonation to consider her futteghur that up in the moroseness hersebom the weather ye
tell that's closing and i totally agree with prince whose right and want you don't if you're on the planet to get in this mode where you're spending all your
time trying thinking o what's going on back home contention you're doing over seas the most bed the best thing you can do for your family it's concentrating
what you do it overseas so you can live and you can win that's what you want to poison you let your family you know contact at once a week hey what's going on
everything i'm doing great that's another thing as you you know you don't need i tell your family back home all the stuff that's going on and just say look
we're doing great i'm having the best time it's a lot of fun missou and i'll be home in whatever i albertus johnny's you know grades and kindergarten let's
talk about that how is it how she like in his judicasse is is he working on his arm or houses cameroon let's stick to those subjects if not at all crazy all
right now this is up you start going into a description of what some of the guides were like as now he spent it in time of the andes getting to know them back
to the book i started to get to know my men like most people my age i'd been brought up on hollywood idea of a momentito a demographic snickle balanced blend
of wasps and the rest of us you know a brooklyn jew street wise but sensitive a big city italian talking baseball and making it seem orgustus behind your back
a demasted farm boy with a girl back home a heroic black man a porter reconnection with a rosary muttering spanish wisdom a fice you little jimmie cagny
irishman with a chip on his shoulder a guanita o tips the reality in cree was somewhat different my petuna no jews one black no hispanics one indian surly and
sullen there were protestants and catholics and few or nothing and that was it some irish some poles some italians a few french and the irish were sober and it
was the midwest robes who got emotional while italians were being my fatica and flegmatick nor were the battalion officers what the ring cordati been southern
gentlemen now we were easterners ivy leaguers college kids california's californians men from detroit and chicago and seattle so will different from what you
might imagine not quite as diverse as a midout to be in in hollywood i gointo a little more detail about a rifle pecuniary corps in korea back to the book on
the reniform was a superbly balanced tactical unit with enormous fire power and an eminently sensible fundamental premise eminently sensible fundamental
premise in combat no one man can reasonably be expected to control directly and effectively more than three other men in a firefight you can't keep tabs on
more than three marines and still be aware of the enemy a marine rifled to asthore squads who squallers are trained to maintain contact with the botoner when
he is used orders he issues them not to forty men but only to these three sergeants in their turn each control three fire teams each of which is commanded by a
corporal fire team leader they looked to the squaw beater for their orders he to them for action in the fire team the corporal has three men whom he controls
and who look always to him during a fire fight so this is just a very clear explanation of decentralized command and when you're out on the battle field you
can't control thirty guys or sixty dies or twenty guys or even ten and actually he makes a very good point he says in a fire fight you can't keep tapsummary
marines and still be aware of the enemy so maybe if you weren't denary about the enemy and what they were doing maybe than you could handle six or twelve but
yet where it would the enemy doing do you not another stuff to worry about so you can handle three eyes in you see this this happens in the business world as
well were people start to build the role worlds where they have where they have direct reports they have eighteen direct reports the that's not going to work
you should not have eighteen in the administrative situation i bid you can handle seventy eight may be you can get to ten maybe i do recommend it to be the fur
direct reports you have in the more you ponthier off you're goin to be the be the more you can have a look around the more you mills you where your competitor
doin more time you have to spend on strategy when you have twelve or sixteen direct reports you don't even have time to think cause you're in their world all
day long you're not in your world your in in eighteen different brains that is doesn't work if so set yourself up do we decentralize command now we go into
back into where there just all the wine and were about to have a little bit of action back to the book we were waiting awake prince in cleanin one rifle like
most marines then the first grenade exploded followed by a second and a third the phone sounded that my ear there was chaffey the man never slept what have you
got up there breadsoda were were getting her nades yes sir over by the heavy machine gun section i gave him the closest mortication as i was trained to do then
i tried to cool down the affair but there's nothing else may be someone's all shook over there throwing it shadows no firing anywhere well or not supposed to
throw ganadesha ows chaffy tell the whole her fire until they see something while me come up there no sir jaffas be kept informed so japest saying hey look get
this handled but you want me come up there thus iterance up there if need be yes no i got it and then the snow comes and when the snow comes it's brutal back
to the book even chaffy was grounded by the snow he held his daily company meeting by telephone transmitting the password giving a brief account of fighting
elsewhere checking on the conditions of the men and irregularities and supply there were no patrols but chaffy urged thus over and over not to be lulled not to
relax to be alert when everyone else might not if to scout out the ground each day whatever the weather to see to it the weapons were clean and light the oiled
oil froze in this cold you couldn't use much prince nigh alternate visiting the flank of each pontoon once a day in this snow it was easier to duck into the
bunkers to talk inspected weapons to question the men at the firing ports they brewed coco or coffee and i took it so i this is something that we see
consistently from chaffey is that he's constantly honest guys to maintain her disapinting when things are going okay he always says a youtman that deshayes
arcola and that's exactly what he's doing right here urge is open over not to be lonato relax somebody's got to be driving that back to book a new tenant a
jest joined fox company and a napless graduate a trade school man a matter of understandable pride already in the battalion are very own academy graduate he
had four years in naples behind him all those parades all that tradition all those army navy games and another for months at the basic school at conical box
company was very excited having him and made everything so official so grand but beyond that he seemed a good man a cool professional young officer who would
do his job his name was fuller and his nickname was lucky and he was twenty two or twenty three years old when the bar man squeezed off the burst marines came
out of every bunker along the fox company line and on my flank a dozen men with rifles and bars started down the hill after the raiders hoping they could move
faster than the dukes with their prisoners hoping to catch them before they crossed the river and disappeared into their own minds folder who had not yet been
out in front of the line because the five day rule was one of the first men to reach the grove of trees as he and others ran through the low pines hurtling
over the spring the deep sunk of mortars drifted up to us from across the valley all round folder marine threw themselves flat in the snow pulling helmet down
tight over their ears legs pulling clothes cupping their bodies against what they knew was coming fulgere heard an incoming mortar before one of the first
shells hit lucky folder emarine who is near by said folder made no sound could not have known he was hit no one else was hit only folder scary thing and i
talked about that before her and been beating situations where you can hear them more darsanas you learn what that sounds like and foeheard learned yet it did
not is like in an you know probably known in even probably no one even thought that you know the one thing about houses happened to an tells me to get down
i'll tell how that happens every one else is so instinctive at this boy they hear it and they get down the outlooking around they just think everyone knows
like all you obviously got more scoring no one is yellows out an in coming they just every one gets down ain't he just doesn't know it yet and that lack
aknolege cosmas life that's why other thing what you're doing to over with guys over seas like a going to detail on stuff and stuff that you take for granted
don't take it for granted avoit you think if you worried about a peering condescending to some one just go at an appear condescending ill hadn't goethe details
salutandi don't mean on a know you're not stupid but i'm on goes just in case you didn't know yes here's the deal when you hear this noise functa means more
are coming so get down now we get brady started you some patroling it back to th book i took out the first patrol for don company nelson squaw it wasn't
required that the button lived a tenant go out but it was sensible showing in wooden sentaro where you wouldn't go yourself so common thing you know you if if
you're senyor guys out make sure they'd know that year donegore you're not just sitting back in the bunker we saw that in bucinator member the book in vietnam
were a ampere very day is poteen are going out or his squalid and out but he's just stand back there a hiding yeh don't be that guy moving forward a little bit
back to the book i lost two more men one of them danger had a fire team in the third squad banker was one of the men wounded in september on its seven forty
nine that's a hill binion big battle seven the hill some forty nineteen hereabout that brady wasn't on it but some of awathy veterans war his room wounds were
cured but he was only a month the way from rotation and he was shook that's what they called combat the teague danger danger did everything he was told to do
but he was afraid he begged prince and to do something then when a chaff is runners broke a leg on the ice steps and i sent dancer to the sea peas a runner he
came to thank me lieutenant i haven't shirt you but if i have to go out another ambush i'm scared i'll do something bad and get people her i don't know i just
can't know me more control a way i am the way i feel i used to be a good man he began to cry then i turned away and told prince to get him saddled up that the
captain was waiting so were starting to see some some psychological impact on the guise and tiding chicki think that brady handles this perfectly very similar
to wait dick winters with and i oh we got a guy the cartels losing a little bit can't him off the line give him a break give harassed and the big thing that
winters points out dick winners i'm talking band of brothers first to five or six one of things that he put points out is if you get the guy off the line did
they'd come back there bekannt you grind him out it's like having an engine that's low on oil if you get it to the service station don't be morrill in there
come back i got a little osgot to be fine if you keep driving up thing dry on oil it's goin to be destroyed and that's the same thing that can happen with with
people with people's minds is she a more mind kit start to become affected by this back to the book kalsomine gunner lost a man it wasn't the goat that did it
but the wind we'd been on the line three weeks and the wind never stopped one night calls corporal went baserk firing off a heavy machine got inside the bunker
chinois rats that no one else saw they carried him off in the morning cursing the wind and the rats dewing and trying to tear off his clothes prince and looked
at him faultily i was shaken by the sounds coming from a good marine a solid and see so again both these guys dancer and this this guy writ here they're good
rents that just couldn't duthes this had enough and they need to get off the line that needna back to the book we lost other men only fitz gerald squad did not
lose any one fits would not permit himself to be evacuated the morning i trip the mind and he would not permit his men to quit he was tough but he was more
than that he was the best we had and his men knew it and they refused to waken even when weakness closed in on them fitzgerald ve them and they drove
themselves at such a great indicator of one leadership as all these other people are losing people people are going crazy there there there there combattirent
overcome fitzgerald is a eager and he cold the line and that makes his dies hold the line and i says you know it's he was tough but he was more than that the
not just about being tough fenton get you part of the way there this is a thisness of men is just awful back to the book macallan lost men his paton sergeant
took out a typical patrol terrible cold but no fighting they came back in about two a m using a fixed rope that to help them scramble up nearly sheer ice below
the wire came in half frozen and tired back was there to meet them to check in each man as he questioned the otonacha about petrol the sergeant remembered
damme mister allen we left the rope out there hanging down from just below the wire the sergeant yelled for another marine to give him a hand and disappeared
over the lip of the ridge with a husky blond marine into mack was back in the bunker taking off his boots when a burst of machine gun fire then another ripped
through the mountain stillness outside marines were running macpolonius and crawled out grabbing a man running by where's the potion sergeant where's the
sergeant and wingate in the confusion it took a few minutes to find them they both lay dead on the forward slope being wingate draped over the wire the
sergeant curled up looking like a man taking a nap on a red and patch of snow one of allan's machine gunners knew the patrol was in but no one had fought to
tell him about the two men going back out to retrieve the rope as they came back he took them for gokral ng the patrol home trying for a straggler and he fired
off two short effective burse he was a very good gunner had he caught both men in the face the rope was coiled neatly over the sergeant's shoulder when gate
was in my machine gun pootoe on seven forty nine before being transferred to max buton not a terribly good mine a brooder most men disliked him one of the few
frenzy had was the gunner who killed him knowing what losing sergeant and wingate would mean to mack i called to him all the company fondato about it he
wondered if he should have just left the damn rope out there dangling no matter that the sergeant should have passed word that they were going back out this
was mabutin and these his men and their deaths his desk he carried the body to the supply tent just below the company she panadero the cold would take care of
them through the night and in the morning the gout train would come through but when the goose got there and a stretch of bears fell out to approach the supply
plant ten to pick up the dead and carried them down the hill on the rinto them the gunner who killed wen gate and the sergeant he had sat crying all night in
the tent sitting over the bodies and now he stood just outside the tent flap dry eyed but holding a forty five automatic you're not taking them he said the
book dropped the two stretchers and scattered along the path and both directions crazy marines the stretcher lay on the ice chaffy walked up to the gutter give
it to your corporal he said you know when gave wouldn't want you doing that stay back skipper the corporal said he waved the gun crying again now and shaking
his head i was down there by now with all the excitement and to me was pretty clear a fast man standing this close could jump in and a new chafes very fast but
the captain just stood there easily hands on his hips phil he said fill you know johnny wouldn't want any one hurt over him the corporal didn't move for an
instant and then he shook his head and his right arm flexed then fell the pistol hanging loose his hand chaffy reached out to take it then he did something i
would not have done as he slipped the forty five back into the corporate holster patted him on the shoulder and waved the goose to come to the tent then caffie
and phillips and i with the corporal's help lay the two bodies very gently on the stretchers they were frozen solid and handled by cordwood the corporal sat in
the snow crying until red phillips got into drink and coffee and go back to his bunker i realized it was the first time i had heard caffetal emarine by his
christian name so this bombona seem to hit this in every book that we we talk about it for some reason if something that doesn't get taught a very often it
didn't get taught to me ah i great detail to detail i wish it got caught in something that happened happened to simple as this i was rapoport go back out grab
it and then you got two dead marines killed by another marine i mean it's just awful situation so don't ever take any part of an operation likely ever he make
sure you keep people informed of where going to be on the battle field and there is nothing harder to earthen you leave in the lines colletel know don't take
it for granted that people understand what's going on so these a kind of things that are happening back to the book so the gooks were not the only danger we
were killing ourselves and breaking our legs and falling sick and cracking up and being carried away it was how it was in a mountain war in deep winter but the
goose were to have their chances both mac allen and i had lost men than now it came some monastery so some onieguin that a isent at down a big operation is
pretty successful hadn't taken a gasolene killed a bunch of enemy and now were about to it do any counter with him some things are going sideways for back to
book i heard the firing before i was really awake part reality part nightmare i sat up suddenly in the back prince and was up and dressed and he handed me a
canteen cup hot with coffee very strong and black the way he made it prince went on fussing with domestic chaiske ping a tiny bunker mister simons's catching
it he said simonetta en a patrol down the mountain and night before that ambitious a fear a fair all the way into the valley he should have been back in into
the wine by this time it was almost six i tried to call the sea pepanon answered they must all be out trying to do something about soonest i remembered that
chaffey wasn't there he tore his hand helping men lay barbed wire it had become infected and he was down at the battalion getting it repaired chaffed no
business out there musling wire but try telling chaffing not to do things so there's chaffey's not around the square awake company commanders not around so
it's actually fillip such a run in the company right now and you got some ones supposed to be back in the wire but he's not you stuck out in loneful and
simmons had had radio contact and he been caught out there at first light as they can across the little stream and they got mortared they got hit and so a
final brave goes and i gets to fillips and just talk to phillis as the back of the book fellow sustaining from the spooking son look red i'll take some people
down there few want with stretchers and help some ones get out of there phillips looked at me for the first time and in what seemed to be focus yeah yeah he
said that's a good idea i sent a fire team down already with a corn and in some blood but they're going to need more than that good idea innis squatter people
together i appreciate this get them back i approach it the came to me he was afraid maybe they wouldn't be back and so brady gathers up his troops and they
take off he he says if she won't afraid but he's going anyway and they take off down the hill and it's a it's it's a long distance but they get making up very
quickly because they're traveling light and there hadendowa hill which is pretty easy goings obviously easier than going up hill back to book i was at the
boterberg i expected a dozen or more brings lay around in the snow some under pines under some pines at the edge of flatbottomed dead monuste and seven wounded
out a twelve only one of the wounded was really bad and he might not make it the others were walking wounded it was the mortars that caught them in the open
ground at first light they must have had the concentration registered he said because they were no ranging shots to silence one moment and shells warring on
the next there was no firing at all for either side to one thing that one thing about mortars is is first of all there are the hard to shoot accurately in
restocking what you do is you shoot one o you if you try to hit a target you shoot the first one long and then you shoot the second one short and then you take
the two the compromise tutemet minorite target so that's that's how mortars work so what they have in this situation when he said that they must have the
mortars registered at methera know that spot and they don't have to range in all he can just drop him and the other thing that so mortars they can just you do
always hear that sound of them being lotharial if it's further away you're not going to hear that or different atmosphere turton's ah conditions you know you
got heavy coover that reflect the noises but if you don't may be you don't hear it may be different train doesn't let you hear noises just like noises
reflecting round in a city any other thing about morraha is as hard understand more recoming all different shapes and sizes and small mortars are our tiny
there i tiny little sixty one in for motors that are to play and i mean the six centimeters right that's how bad is at their twentymile things and then it goes
all the way up to a hundred and twenty millimeter on now at day the beggar than that but came on is you know as big as a hundred twenty momentarily diameter at
tea yet it's big as and so what you end up with but the main point of this is that these things were mortars hit the shares the the the shrapnel that comes off
them people think of shapes being little tiny things and and of talked about this before shrapnels big shapes giant trap can be a can inches long i mean just
giant and their thick trapful be as a half inch piece of steel just a big chunk of half inch pieces teal that ates brule and so when it hits him in these guys
you know totally unexpected there's walking and boom it's it's devastating but the shooting it stopped back to the book they had stretchers out and rolled the
bodies of board strapping them on with their own belts and then for men lifted coffeed and slittered on her him so coffee lesbian gue um they said he's over
six six just a monster of a guy god knows what he was but he huge answer they got to carry him and like i mentioned running down hill to get to him will not to
get back they got to go up hill at a whole way we heaved him up and start off up the trodden snow slowly as it had to be with his weight all the hill the hill
reached endlessly upward so they are trudging and it doesn't take long for them to be liking soft back to the book the other three men looked as bad as i felt
we were all tired to four of us and among us that wasn't a damn shred of sympathy any more for coffee the cause of our exhaustion of our misery we all hated
poor coffee when i realized this some pride seated back into me we were all in the same fix i didn't want to be the first give up but if i didn't give up soon
i would die there with colfield there in the snow broken by the impossible load we carried i was climbing now with my eyes shut not wanting to see how much
he'll remained my mouth wide open and gasping we all fell again the third time like christ under the cross this time i didn't get to my feet but crouched there
going air around me the others were still down then simonist my side time to change over we'll take him for a stretch so this is just a brutal physical
evolution that's appening i was back on the book i was thirsty but my can't keen was frozen solid princing was always warning me about that but i hadn't wanted
to add whisky the way prince did i regretted it now and scooped up smooth snow from just off the trail and let it melt in my mouth so magenta you're just
devastatingly thirsty and boom you go to get your drink your cantinas frozen completely solid brood now they continue i mean it's to it it's just a a haines
evolution that they go through they finally get im back up back to the book the climb was over for ten hours after it began over for to day to morrow could be
the same organs it really wasn't fair that having done so much there was still so much to do you never really mastered a word never got on top of it it was
always too big there was too much to it ever to finish the job now but go from that just brutal situation imagine thirteen thirteen hours but you think if you
think your old be back in like forty five minutes right at wornout while these guys get on stretchers the and the you you run down there and thirteen hours
later you d i dreaded but he starts to go into some reflections now of what it was like some other parts of the war in earnest and osculate back and forth as
he described some of the stuff or its old really good information and things to think about back to the book when you won't fighting the war was pretty good
mornings were the best time the terror of the night and did the patrols and ambushes and duck blinds men slept late when there were snowed in the night it lay
smooth and untracked stria smoke stack or city sit turning it down and gray no vehicles to churn it into slush it hung glistening on the pine branches until
the sun warming as a rose fad eating to tiny shining icicles glistening melting drop drop drop men crawled out of the bunkers into the morning calm the
industrious using entrenching tools to dig away the snow tiding the trench so there's that's the dichotomy a war then he's goin to go back and forth on the
dionetta deep yetholm i mean a guarantee in said two were over all its just as really junk situation over all but then all those little almost like microlestes
you know how it hosile thing they canna add up and then you kind of miss them you're a ostentate even mind micro iistral what that's one reason i'm in this
chapter you see like he can goes back and forth year about a what makes it good what makes it it fundator some notour her something so pure about being over
seas fighting a war i think about anything else i like you don't think about anything else in it just as pure thing that you have then nothing else in the
world matters and i feels good i love that feeling yet let even likely if he think packet or about an old boot certain some people that like all you in my
college days where i was britisher there's all this like junk stuff and how much of ederisa but you think back on just the the small good parts he don't like
my head yereafter now you everybody self and its their past and remembers the good stuff more than the bad yet right i mean that that definitely happens yet
and i didn't happen you you know i hearsay if that didn't happen women would never have more than one kid it cause it cuscatlan really told an i don't want to
do that again up the reality as women have all kinds against it is he like the toughness of that evolution because i reather good stuff her especial ensome
times if they if they can leave that experience with the like a bad idea of it then and they'll sell at it the other way like all was just jump but oh ye in
the those times when it's like well ken miss villainies all kinds of when you're on deployment there's all kinds of frustrations and end with so there's a
infighting in his always problems and then you get back for an oven has each other the back in rooms like all you have all yes did you set all that stuff as ye
yet when i fire when you on de pointment if he make it back in you know and get back at the know you've done a good thing you not to go fight for your country
as a good thing straight up so you know that to you it's pretty very good emerged thinking a man we should be done that kind of the noise steffanoni i'm in a
olvera bonover all so that's one of the things where ye insert way you're going to sell that it is going to be in the good way you and i'll so you can be high
miss a miss that time because in those miserable and and i think which cool as i say you're to cheer this year he goes back and forth by he's definitely yes
adding some of the good stuff but he's also gone right into some of the his description will get to it here in a minute i think it's i think it's in the
section by talking about like wine night comes it into moss we'll get there to me a back the book prince and like most regulars made a fetish of shaving daily
water was always short we melted snow and canteen cups over colan stoves and parcelled doubt from five gallon jerry cans water may be as the heaviest thing
marines ever have to carry we never washed there wasn't water for that i suppose we smell pretty bad but you stopped noticing the air in the bunkers lighted by
candles and worn by colman stoves was so foul that you spit sock and body omer odour didn't really register you never changed clothes except for socks i had
two pairs of heavy wool socks i tried to change every day the so she put on were filthy but after twenty four hours they were dry the sweat of operated frozen
feet were continual fear we all knew the horror stories from the winter before men he lost toes or an entire foot sometimes both feet if you could somehow keep
your feet dry the cold wasn't as dangerous you might if the coreans didn't get you or a mine or accidental discharge or short round survived the winter with
limbs and tact how the socks smelled didn't matter only if they were drying there's a part there's a pardon of book that i didn't talk about that i didn't
highlight that he said don't think i did but there there showing them a film to get ready to go to korea and the film is of a guy with frost bitten toes and
the surgeon these not even using the up a knife he's just the toes are just a third coming off like breaking off a collie break off a twig off a branch and and
you know that kind of thing right there well may the trinket your feet dry back to the book if i had one i smoke to sir gar chewing the stub into pulp spitting
jean to the snow at my feet on to my tormalot it didn't matter which there were no inspections up here none of the garrison chickenshit you lived with a
quantico pennelton or even in reserve these were good times too afternoons looking at the mountains in the snow and smoking and speeding with no one to
complain scratching yourself where you witched your going or your belly or wherever in a country this lovely unless you were some one was shooting at you or
sending you out on patrol if you could stay warm and dry and you knew there was a one more can of sweet peaches or pairs back in the bunker the war wasn't so
bad so that's all that's on talkin about your over there that there's no it's weird cause it's all kinds of rules when you're in combat but they're different
rules and the the rules of normal life they don't apply any more he do whatever you want they don't lot o cases you know all this is a recesses it oh i don't
like this in a braikenites something over there shoot at and its fun it's awesome and then yeah and then like you he's literally talking about you know
disgracing yourself like you're just it's just man's willing right i mean the least it was for me just a bunch of guides hanging out with a cool job and so
with as it's fun now things you're going to see this is that this is that a paragraph that i was talking about so awesome then by two thirty or two forty five
in the afternoon the sun would start to fall toward the ridge line and the wind out of sight bury would pick up and i would begin to shiver not just from the
cold but knowing that the good time was nearing its end that darkness was coming the dark and the night and the terrible cold and unless we were lucky the
fighting i hated the sea the dusk come in combat there are no beautiful sunsets a falling sun is a warning of the night the shadows lengthen and the
temperature falls in the wind seeks you out men togane to move around now restless nervy busying themselves with charette their minds off the night breaking
down weapons one more time for cleaning rearranging the grenades in bringing in the sleeping bags left out for a day's arrangeing a supper of lime of beans and
ham before dark once the night comes there may not be time once the darkness falls the good times are past pleasant indolence the contemplation of the day is
gone by for thirty there is no more son and then only a swift dusk and then the real night cold and frightening and too often deadly yaas this is something
else to think about this is like a daily reminder to me because i always ill i was watched some set of i have the opportunity to give but like i re read this
book from the pocasse lately now when i watched them to somethin this is what i'm thinking about and not what these guys would think it it's all nice and
pretty her california wants to sunset not always like that do you think that that kind of rot ye of the experience here or deeply get add to that you abstained
per cent because i'm not sitting i don't i'm not in this reality i'm not in sartarelli my reality some set means all looks nice the wind calms down you get to
see a beautiful sky and that's what some said is but i get to contrast that with what these guys experience with the true darkness coming to what that meant to
them nefer that they run there going to face every single night and its amazement every single day they'd wake up and enjoy that day a joy that icicles
dripping water and they would relish that even with the eminent darkness coming they relished what they could and i think that's a good lesson for anybody to
eye yet the saif you can manage to do that you know not only do i keep things in perspective but it will in anser experience you know actly you got another
darkness but a doctor the book if you've never been to war and this going back to issawassi a little bit in the other direction about the good times if you've
never been aware you cannot realize that some of it not all of it of course but some of it is such sheer boyish fun you lived out doors you are physically
active you share the boisterous comradery of other young men you shan't fat and put on to see now and muscle except for those nagging miner forts you were
clear eyed and generally healthy and your body responded instantly and instinctively whenever called upon you slept like the dead not even the dome men you
have the rat on box killed appetite you saw the dawn and the night and the stars and came to calculate time and date by the faces in the moon and on those rare
days of fall he heard the gurgle of running water under the snow heading toward the valley and the sea you smelled the pines and listened to the wind and you
could send to an the snow was coming and new to the instant when the sun would rise and when the sun would set a city boy i was falling in love with the
country those first months in the hills if only i could get home to tell about it i hope that would live until spring so that's the other side of it and that i
completely agree with it being ear ear ear your so fousan your with your disinters nothing else to worry about your work in towards common at this that's just
the dicotomy war moving on back to the book you learned from men like chaffy a gale with a wall low degree from harvard who came from money a handsome man
physically courageous and tireless from all that could have come arrogance snobbery but possess he possessed neither of those traits he was only calm and
vigorous and efficient usually cheerful decent and command a good man a fine officer and you learned from men like corporal guest come here one day expounding
on what was wrong with born movies i noticed in the movies desait marines never ship john want or none of them they never have to take a crap never how can you
believe the rest of a movie were no one ever takes to ship i rafter agree with that and actually if you read this book he goes in this on details about that
better better really good dis some of them mind you details things like shitting that that a really is here there hilarious to read i sit to drake stuff and
it's again is the kind of details that esther of the wife the only piano in iraq you you basically are always shooting in these little port abodi support our
portoganasees right and so there's a whole like their neuer time they're like sane we valleralla a canoe blue and there's flies on the visicom that one little
thing and ends going to talk about that day i mean i guess i just did you put that tie that's a big like when i go when i'm in adam a vent somewhere and i got
out your fire baas backs you put me into a port of poti somewhere to talk on thinking of in iraq in instantly and the flies and it's a horrible that's the way
it is that's one of these things that he definitely goes in this great details in his book about all all contest that we only think about one lifting that was
interesting as he talks about the turn of the wisps canteens being frozen but back to the book in this cold dry air your throat was always parched your canteen
might be frozen and you longed for drink i vowed once the war was over never again to pass a fossato pausing to slake my thirst with a glass of cold water the
youthing about these guys by thirst that they were absolutely now we get into some back back toward some of that cyclonic issues that gods are coming up
against weregin ing to learn a new word for some one who to had a bad scare whose losing his nerve we said he was shook english major's such as me wondered why
it wasn't shaky or shaken or something dramatical but it was always shook and you knew what it meant it had little to do with the old world war shall shocked
that was another very precisely to fine thing that came from being too close to an incoming shell shook was nerves in general and once you had a man who is
really shook you tried to get rid of him because he was no good turny more it was the seventy six is coming in flat and fast or mortars dropping on you or fear
of minds for may be too many duck blinds at night ambushes or a wind that never stopped blowing those were what made you shook and so i actually he said that
it's different from being shell shocked because you sayin that shall shock to was a precisely define thing that came from being too close nincom ing shell and
they actually so they actually that not true i shall shocked was an only from the fact it was not just from the concussion a concussion absolutely causes
promise in your mind but shall shock world war on any war that you go in though it's it's this d right i florist's fear it's the thinking things to give then
your toniello things building up yes fear of losels things so when he talketh says i was not the same thing as shell shocked but then he says he was the
seventy sixes which are rather jack tore round coming a big giant rounds coming at you mortars dropping on you fear of mine so i being afraid that's what i
talked about is what made you shookum thing a lot more on a word or two ye good to any war and you want to know what cause psychological damage in prolonged
fear of maiming death and send your friends getting mametkul that's the one i believe it is now the shell owat i heard that i'm shell shock is like when they
say shipmates in shell referred to your head i your shell got rattled on the use that football or something um i am buthune for me shall shock that the reason
i said i was in showing you know that's they said i am well and again go to estates on the pack as before go in you to be watched the guest came out a world
war one without where shell shocked it it's horrible it's a horrible horrible thing to see and i like makes just makes you feel so a thankful that you did have
to go through what these guys went through and and but it's the same you know it was to an extreme in the worst part about world war one of faceabout this too
is like when those guys reached their breaking point they got called king out sent back in and like all this cassowary and of course the people that are
calling them cowards were people that were never on the line and then a lot of them and so that's really it's really arrabi think we do a much better job of
taking care of gusta a you you went and did this recontre and you went through a little bit too much occlusive you break let's give you a breather aright and
take care of take care of our veterans something we absolutely we do better than but we always need to focus on tantararara here's an example of you know what
what these what condition these guys git into back to the book the most bazar was an endless demand in dog company who been out a long time and who had been in
a lot of fighting a fine marine of good solid man but now with the rotation draft beckoning he began to act funny refusing to wash or shave and he would not
get out of his sleeping back that was the strangest part he didn't refuse to muster a goon duty but he went everywhere in his sleeping bag he caught up the
bottom that so he could walk taking mincing little steps his arms and bodies completely inside the bag in the hood of the bag over his head only as bristly
face showing he lined up for meals that way out of know how he handled going to the head macat was a psychological return to the womb i didn't know what to
make of it he only had a few days left and no one wanted a run im up or bring charges because he was benevente good man but people moved away when they saw him
coming because they knew he was spookees they had he had begun to smell much worse than the rest of us maybe he was shooting in the bag some people insisted he
did he didn't seem to mind being snubbed as he hoped as he hopped around the batalion with those little steps content to be at his bag he was shook gonemon
some said i and i think that's the reason i highlighted that one is cause they're takin care of though i he were not going to ring off in charge getafe days i
let him walk round her any baggages all good now hopeful they got him so help you git what he got out or what he when he got on got off the front and said hey
you need to go talk to somebody and you know relax a little bit give this guy little breather now moving forward again jumping forward in the book a little bit
there their planning an operation and they called this operation more moisse did plan the sort of exercise they would probably be discussing it staff colleges
for years bragging up its genesis lying about its actual accomplishments so here we the talking about ah what the plan was they call it mould the ideas that
the day after to morrow towards sunsetting will be made to see that the entire division and divisions all along the line or pulling back to new and better
positions for after the snow melts and when the fighting resumes we will seem to have pulled back several miles may be more will sit there on the reverse slope
and then until dark and then will crawl right back into our bunkers then fulford five days we sit in our bunkers knocking out at all by day and little as
possible at night no patrols no firing no nothing and wait for the boots to take the bait and come marching up the hill so that's the plan this big deception
plan and that they all think it's pretty they don't think it's the most effective plan they could come up with and back to book it was all bullship a silly
flampoynt canario and not a real operation that was how we felt and chaffy must have known but he didn't curior with subordinate by criticizing the brass marie
that again he didn't curry favor with the subordinates by criticizing the breath he had argued with the italian and was here he passed on orders and said he
expected don company would carry them out in pectable so gin you she chaffed never o never breaks even somethingheim if he made his arguments and then he says
okay god here's a rented and moans up being fairly on eventful and they they end up coming back down off the line a week later we were relieved in a regiment
came down off the line don company again going down by helicopter we have been forty six days on the line living in holes i not take off my own tewarri six
days my hands were so dirty if i rubbed them on the bare ground they became cleaner since the skin couldn't ebor any more dirt but only shock it off under
friction my sore throat was gone and i felt wonderful i was not the same man who gone up the hill january tenth no better or any worse just different in a
month and a half of fighting we had not moved an inch forward or back a few men had died on both sides the men changed but the war did not again very similar
to war war one trench warfare not as bad in terms of devastating numbers of casualties but the progress is just not there they come down off the line now they
get some good food to get some showers they get lined up for showers i was at the end of the line he sent the enlisted men first of something pleasant shower a
shower you went first if it wasn't the rules were so simple once you learn them classic classic leadership you know if you're so some good to be done give it
to the boys if not you got o a you got to do it now this is this is a very another just three view point so they when they're in reserve so the there they're
all one on the line on the hills in the trenches or they get pulled back off the line in their back in the rear and there's no real threat in their doing these
exercises in problems and clean to weapons and maintenance and healing up and all that and during that time they actually have opportunities to fly to japan in
the case and they they call it like legists run to go to japan the what there really going to do in a gentaman is get with some women and get for the potion
granet with them women from themselves on her for the tutoring back to mooselike a moose run and in order to be the guy that gets to go for the guisers you
draw straws and oliver got drawstring a great you it go to japan for whatever it is three days have a great time by baba well he draws the straw and he decides
that he doesn't want to go he wants to stay with the italian he doesn't eat he could be wasted on him to go and he is wife and so i stayed with the battalion
the thought of that girl of any girl was immense within me but that was another world those things didn't belong here after five months this battalion these
halls these men were what mattered there was a purity of life on the line a crude priesthood of combat that i didn't want to soil for a few days of pleasure
you didn't get laid up here you tried not to even muddle your mind thinking about it i had no religious scruples about it not this time it was as if japan a
trippin would have spoiled something but traded the battalion and my men and myself i couldn't imagine john chaffin boron and for me chaffy was the model so
there is a dark about that purity it's a real thing contello it's a real thing the real thing the pure of combat and of war the real thing the evil thing but
there some persome thing about it now think starterng time comes in things start to fall out but you can his not all good back to the book the fall brought up
green buds and turned the roads to mud here in the valleys all the hills there were snow slides and at the briefing gregory told us that along the line bunkers
were collapsing under the weight of layers of sand bags in one regiment to men were suffocated in one bunker another marines back was broken when his bunker
slipped sideways and slid down the hill fox company lost a man we stepped on a mind during the night exercise both legs were blown off at the knee and by the
time they got him back to camp and a surgeon he was dead a machine gun he shot his bunkmate with a forty five then one night there was an alert and the
battalion moved out fast and trucks to a support position the alert was nothing the books never came but a marine fell out of the one truck and was run over by
the trap behind so the war went on no fighting bespeak of and yet marines continued to die the mountains killed them and the cold and now even the far
conspired to kill them and they killed themselves and each other and sometimes the gout boots had their turn at it so spring time don't even really don't even
really mean is goin to get any better and it's going to be fighting season as well so i haven't talked too much about the enemy and i thought that this was a a
really good little ah xer of of the enemy and give you a good insight on um so one of the guys comes back from an operation and tells him jim we killed one
giambresi brought in the body because we wanted proof you know they carry this little kind of service book in their pockets this chink he enlisted or got draft
or something back in nineteen thirty six he fought the japs for nine years then in forty seven he fought the reds for chime then when champertoun bud out to
tie an they just turned him around put a red star in a cap and a nineteen fifty he's in creighton us now he's dead sixteen years of professional soldiering and
all that combat and that son of a bitch is still just a private soldier i got kids of my person got out of high school last june so you get these guys again at
such a crazy life right you fight you fight the japanese for nine years then you fight when the communists were fighting against a jane i cossack your fighting
with him against the communist and then one that doesn't work out you just turn round and you start fighting with the communist against the americans hard hard
enemy in the the korean soldiers were hard as well be curing soldiers that were fighting along side the americans and they still have a reputation of being
very hard on never actually work with a corean marine but they ate a reputation of being very very hard and tough soldiers there is an example that the book
may be a little too hard some concreteness were on seven forty nine two that's the hill i talked about earlier pier said when we made the top and there were no
more gooseflesh out we dug in hoping they wouldn't come back we were thin we didn't have much left across the saddle the corean rings were on top to the hill
was secured but there was a bunch of careen reins over their shouting and arguing about something then they kind of stood back and one of them met knelt down
and this guy came up very close behind him and took out a hand gun and shot him through the head one minute he was kneeling there and then he was dead i was
tired to hellus od up and started yelling across the saddle at them a yelling at them to stop and waving my arms and one of them waves back being friendly
later i found out they executed the guide because he was slow getting up the hill but when i saw him he was on top and none of them had been there very long so
how how slow could have been but they shot him anyways hard now as far as a little more detail all memories stir each marine rifle the italian has one or two a
eaters who are active fires but who for brief periods of time are grounded and attached to the battalions to call in a coordinate air strikes or direct
reconnaissance over enemy lines so this is the something that is one of the things that makes them recourse aloof you can imagine that so you know how hard it
is to train a pilot right the thing epilog to be a fighter pilot is like you know there's just a tiny tiny percentage of human beings in the world that are jet
pilot fighter pilot and if you are in the marine corps and your pilot at a certain point near career da pull you out of your fighter jet and the poyou on the
ground in combat to go and call fighter jets for support and this is a a a you end up being a group in a group called anglica which is a arnival gun fire
leason company and there so there marines and they do call for five then call in aircraft in we work with ah we work with them extensively in remote and as a
matter of fact we had anglico with the anglican went with seals on to i would a ninety something per cent of the operations that on a anathemes put a mass of
number of operation about fact one of the guys were progenerant one of hot tageous that was eveena thing that a doctor about was it was a a fighter pilot and
so we shall find remodification the ground when in all kinds of operate one of konopatin with lace and a manapiari him on a pack as as we just be easy to
awesome guy and here his here his story but that again that's one of the things that makes the marinor so awesome is there i owe your spiropole and your
superhis in your well than that's cool that that fine your riflemen get on the ground and sargolians awesome at one of the one of the anglicaniae had her um
back to the book we remote had been shot down the month before his plan had gone in over friendly ground but he had been concessions it with the battalion and
at least for the moment once again a foot soldier of course in a sense all mariners are still infantrymen this is what the book says in the court tries to make
it so with every fire reverting for two weeks a year to command in troops a running problems as an infantry officer all them were trained that way in the
beginning a conic but some fliers or naval aviators as they are called sometimes are softened by the good life as pilots still in a pinch most them can do a
companero the ground in that yeah again that's just the one of the things i love about the gringos they do that and we're going to get where you my body gave
on here a talk about what that's like and what was like for him figueroa year and get you know neronian a jet fighter plain your missions are going to be a
couple hours long right and so long they're going to be and that you be back on an aircraft carrier with or you know a ornabat with the good cow and all that
stuff and be you know what all that's going away where i put you in the field near one after using so very cold all right now we get into just so so alarm so
there's a corean that comes in to talk to the the approaches them and in an ettal them about something and he's the head man of a village in the aventure with
them and we'll go to the book he says two marines came to their village this morning he shouted for women the people closed themselves in their houses and a
few andante fields the marines tried to force some doors open but couldn't get in then they went to the house of these two women to the guy as through women
with them who are mother and daughter when the women would not open the doors of reinspired their guns in the sky the women were afraid so they opened the
marines went inside and closed the door when they came out they went through the village shouting at the houses and telling people not to tell any one they had
been there or they would kill them this man knows some english words he understood what they said then the marie left and the people came out it was agreed
they should come to tell what happened and to ask for justice that is what he says so obvious to baringo had gone and to this village break to these women and
its brindisi with mack i believe to investigate all right colonel gregory's at regiment all sin you to investigate as investigating all search report to me
when you have something he turned back to go back inside the tent one more thing i don't marmin marines being a little wild and i don't much like goats but
we're not going to have rape this became is going to have discipline there marines we will have rape he went inside so they do investigation and and it doesn't
take brady long to figure out who who these guys were and then they do a light up basically the bring a bunch of rings in and they do a line up in at the women
there and the women identify the rappists and back to the book scott dismissed the rest of them i turned to the machine gunners you men are under rest jardine
sasso take them down de zack if he tells you take them to division to the brig mister al alanna'll write the report it discussed me marine shooting up a
village terrorising people raping those two old women with their faces like baked potatoes how could they do it how did they think they could get away with it
this way we were as bad as the notes and the japs attacking civilians attacking women then on did everything we were trying to do saving their country for
these people giving it back to them in that village they wouldn't remember that americans died for their to bid village they would only remember their day of
horror when two americans two marines for god's sake and raped their women and gun point the blond marine was the son of a minister the other was up for
promotion to corn corporate the records had been excellent and now they faced a general court this damn reserved this being around civilians it was no good
we've been too long away from the war losing what we adam a line the pride the discipline the professionalism not wanting to say than to gibson who wouldn't
understand or even to mac who would i longed for the clean hard purity of the line dedication and celliers and cleansing puritanic that was the line that's
where we belonged ye and this is again combat leaders out there or you know this is the kind of stuff these ere two marines that didn't i had good records and
you get them off the line he put him back in reserve now there interacting with civilians and you know there rooting there there rodin's women's lives their
ruin in the steinar and the runner on lines so as a leader you got a degoutee her eye on this back to the book another section two nights later cater one of
the new dog company but through tears took a combat patrol out the route we had scouted crept up quietly on unimportant bump in the ground called hill sixty
nine and caught some chinks asleep catherine as men dropped bernadino the bunkers and shot them down as they came scrambling out they killed thirteen chinks
and came back without a casualty unless you count emarine who tore neon the wire i went over with catharine morning the maps and paper and other stuff he
brought back cather was very relaxed and calm about it so much so that when we broke i verely very nearly snapped off with salute the man was so young so new
yet so confident an unexcited about what he done in seven months i hadn't seen a good as action as this one a perfect exercise and cathartes em slightly bored
even the colonel had catherine to shake his hand and tell what a fine example except for the rest of us so here was a new guy been on the line for a couple of
days goes out and come docenten killed thirteen no no casualties back to the book the next day catherine down with a bad case of the nerves a delayed reaction
and announced to charley logan headed one to take out any more patrols they a transfer could be arranged he would welcome it loganhouse's have an officer who
was shook leading a rifle put on and the transport came through him motor transport and cather the brief and onexpected hero went off new god taken as still
gets done so he don't you got to add the open mind on who's going to be affected by the stuff and when as you don't know when now we get to aid brady's back
all the wine and he's running basically a distraction operation to the main effort therseln one hill and heise's hitting his village where they cinaloa of
chinese army activity and they're just doing sort of a a a distraction operation on this village to take away from this man attack that's going on elsewhere as
they're going in all of a sudden there some sniper fire and one of the lieutenants gets it back to the book mister settles hit some one said i ran along the
trench bent double unto where i got this day laid setout in the trench sniper sergeant told me i didn't know his name i recognize his face must be a new man
but he was a cool one i would try to keep that in mind where is he any one see muzzle flash that's what counts first in a firefight not the casualties but
where the fire is coming from i think about that one that's what counts in a firefight and awilheads these are but where the fire is coming from think about
that every aspect to your life not just like gay all this is bad the happening okay what is creating the problem an you know i see that with business as within
it focused on the the the internal that's fine but no what where is this problem coming from what is causing this problem so when you have bad things happening
focus on where it's coming from with the rude of the problem now they kind of deep get pin down a little bit and they're not making any progress in finely
brady says look i said missus just a diversion were here to hit that village with four deuces that all but this sniper didn't any one see him even get a sniff
no one had looked this is stupid one lousening a foul up this whole operation it's five after six now we're late we've got to hit them as soon and take their
minds off fox company out there get your riflemen your bars set up sweep the valley fired anything to see moving there's no high ground within sniping so he's
got to be down there in that bush and tall grass you observer tell them they can start with their ranging shots agg around the village then we'll give them
complete in a couple of minutes fire for effect got it every one said yes sir so i've got as this i think i we we actually answered it on the poles but this is
a situation were things are starting to shake and this is not i not throwing out the plan like hey what are you as think we should do now and he here's the
reason why now he said this is what we're going to do he make happen and every one looks out of you know what they say yes sir and they're not just saying it
because the well trained marines they are saying it because in a moment where they their unsure of where they're supposed to do the antero what's going to
happen and somebody steps up steps up and takes a leadership come and of the situation you don't people say they say yes sir and you see it like this they
teach at the scene of an accident you know they say someone you have it on as a go call in on one otha's du and people go okay they do it well because there's
a preseruation going on they want to get that thing handle but they don't know what to do so when you when there's something to win on and things are started
go a little bit cconi you know set up and say take charge and make these things happen in that's wife by pointing out that example mergency situation you know
it's not it's not the debate time dinled back he looked the cornaa still working on settle but another brine came up colinsay he's okay got knocked out is all
i said good now at this point is still trying to find out when the sniper is and so he decided he can stand up and make himself with tarins insides when i
stand up look conteining malpas he gets up no one sees him and finally ah they do start calling in the fire on to this village and will go to the book now the
first ran round slammed in beautiful watch the red burst and in the firework streamers of burning fosters shing out from the burst you knew it must have been
different at the other end a preview of hell one hot was hit directly it was on fire another hot started a burn fast or said splashed out and now some one came
out running i thought it looked like a man but at this distance you couldn't tell he was in a long white garment the son sergeant shouted in my ear do we fire
no hold it hold your fire then chinks sometimes they dress up like that maybe white stuff over there uniforms i know just hold it more huts were burning and
another figure in white spring it out and fell then the rope began to burn from another hut came two more figures in white and not the cake of chinese uniforms
they ran fast and bent low zigzagings the central clearing of the village then his chains lieutenant women don't run like that yes i said there were half a
dozen people running now through the village all in white one of them on fire all sprinting away from us toward the chinese lines one was carrying something
they could be rifle it could be a furled umbrella it could be anything lieutenant jesus let us fire that's a weapon okay sergeant i said fire it will the bars
ripped off automatic fire heavy and fast two of the villagers fell right away one trying to get up and then falling again you could see the bar fire kicking up
dust around him then a white foster shall burst right in front of him i couldn't see him any more through the fire and smoke the whole village every hut was
the flame now the bars fired and white clad figure fell i could see three or more or four of them running away and one of them was on fire behind me in a
trench in the trench some one yelled christ were killing women i whipped the round who said there women how do you know a marine stared at me his face was
twisted and i didn't know him then the women you can see the dresses you can't shoot women there men i shouted at this distance you can't tell me the women not
the way they run the bars kept firing nearly shutting out the fire light fire fight up at two mary no and you can't tell me their men the marine said not
shouting now but still staring he looked as if he were going to jump me i looked at him trying to look absolutely confident that i turned back to the plutonian
keep firing the soldiers chinese soldiers i was not sure of this not sure of anything but i knew the probabilities and i also knew i was scared from playing
target so when he got up and walked in front of them he was he was shaken up from doing that i made the decision to fire in a couldn't back off now because a
marine just a scare i was was yelling at me he was guessing that's all i continued to kneel there not really seeing anything any more not really focusing they
ran like men dam it women didn't run run like that behind me the marine was still there i could sense him without turning he said go back to your post if
you're all that worried don't fire you don't have to fire there was a sort of sob behind me in a stirring movement i felt funny kneeling there with my back to
him from renewal shook armed he could shoot me right here i forced myself to stay where i was then there was another sound as the marine crawled away killer he
rewhispered hoarsely as if through tears then he was gone and that that situation is actually not it doesn't it doesn't get there's no closure in that
situation he doesn't find out as get resolved in the book he has deleted day at the village they did cause it distraction and then they leave and he never
really goes one way the other saying or never finds out he suspected they were with that they were men but he never finds out and that's you know obviously one
young green thought they were women he thought they were men no one really knows for sure in war is all now the next thing that happens is bravalla um ah
bradinan create like a a there on little special unit and they to go out the travelling light not traveling so much gear in the nogana or units they're goin to
be deteste operations things and their planning to go with them of course well finally it comes time to go out an operation and the colonel says oh yes allen
one more thing knew neither you are brady goes i'm not sending off strong six man patrols pick your best sergeant to run them so now mac he puts up an argument
as no man let me go no sir let me go no not going to do it so eventually the guys go out on the little operation you know well special operations missionin
fultrade in me lines back to the book thirty minutes after they went out no longer there was an explosion from a line not jumped up up bang his head against
the overhead logs oh damn it a mine a lousy mind they had a mind we knew it was a mine they weren't all far enough to have hit chinks not yet of all the
stinking luck it was midnight before we got them all in back and i went out with some riflemen and brought them back there were three hit the sergeant lost a
leg mack walked all the way back with the stretchers talking him all the way trying to comfort them saying he was sorry it was them and not him the marines
even the sergeant don't up and lashed to a stretch her kept telling mackaws all right now could have helped it it was just that luck the colonel disbanded max
alfitte next day he was understanding saying it wasn't taxcal or mines or any one that it might have happened with any patrol e set out bigger small he was
just rotten luck no one knew where the damn minds were no one could help it and the reason i put that in their assisting about like they disbanded this unit
that unimitating in fact right they might start doing really good things at my start of break through the lines or coverall kind o good stuff could happen but
it just has shut down immediately i'm not sayin i was right a wrong to me it's actually wrong but but i it's it's the risk right and if you are a leadership
position and you take a risk and you get smacked on your first attempt that doesn't necessarily prove you wrong you might want to saddle up again and try
something again may be assassin but these are minds you know this minds all over the place and gus walked into a mine he's like nothing it's random and that's
the one the pressures of the of beninobenone is your in a take these risks and even when things go wrong you got a press through you know you got to keep doing
him that i definitely experience that i mean your body were we're getting you know we had a guy get winded believe in me that they won't wear seals were not
taking a lot of cash is a rack and two thousand five two thousand for two thousand three then all of a sudden were taken casualties and were doing different
types of operations were going out the day time where he isn't really risky stuff an so for me to see a well we took you know we had gagged bad we were not
going to do it any more i that would have been such a wrong answer for me to to have you in the chain command in an anybody to have that a atitude would have
been wrong a counting like that it be did have that attitude in it seems kind of natural just because you know you get you get stung he kinda rather as a you
know for sure they can definitely happen i mean you can it it happens in business people take some risk into an sat bad luck in in in situations on the avedit
sometimes even for instance you got a good great guy that you know you on good rest for of the twenty gainstood striker and of course the rest of the ocamo
take him down well there is a chance that you get caught with a knee on her shot and you get knocked out but i mean you am never going to shoot again asked the
wrong answer and got a good just strength and now um this one there preparing for another mission on degoutante mission and the special it's it's it's on the
hill called the o a little a little taranfeather and there getting ready to go out they got another night before they leave and here's back the book i didn't
fall asleep immediately i kept yawning but didn't let sleep didn't come that was nerves you never knew when you went out through the lines you never really
knew and for the first time i began thinking about rode being rotated home it was obvious that i was never going to become a rear aslon poke that so long as i
was in korea i would be with a rifle but talian all the line now i had near me seven months in had i not gone and had not many more to go two months maybe
three or four taps now i was going on patrol as i done that first tour when i was scared because i didn't know anything now i knew a lot and i was still scared
so that tods not he stiches scared and it's interesting to you he is not going to be meresleigh he said as opportunitate back now he's he's even though he
scared he stand alone now there out approaching the the ah yoke the heading up the slopes of the yoke to sail back to book the first explosion was so shocking
we thought we'd set off we fought we set it off ourselves and wondered why we were so stupid and noisy some one must to trip the mind some point man got it
then there became the rip of boat guns from above and i realized it wasn't a mind but a grenade there were chinks up there i looked around raylway nearest me
it was his first fire fight rablay great lieutenant i am think we beat this lucky the first time out well that was a healthy positive attitude so this guy's
out of the first first operation ravelled a get there started to crushed with cernas now that there's up ahead of them they keep her in machine gun fire and
grenades back to booker ne crawled over to us he was bloody too but i couldn't see where he was hit he talked fast excited but he didn't seem badly hurt could
be able to made probably less we got up the wire and then we'd when started getting through it they hit us with the grenades they orcanes up the ass they were
throwing them down and we was thrown him back that's how mister rowe got it he caught a grenadier off he's an eye he shy and eye and looks like some fingers
how many dead if we got just the point man so far unless some of these hit guides croaked but we got lots of wounded just about every one picked up something
in the wire so they're getting basically attacked with grenades up there and this is and with doctor but remade battles in it when we talked to us some of the
world war one off but this is guys are catching grenades and thrown em back as that's just just getting after antonona so now what they do they call in fire
they call in their own fire the one o five hundred five um artillery stay low the one of five or combined they shuttled then very loud to smash into the
hillside above us i could feel the yoke jerk under me i thought maybe i should pray and i started to hail marys but i never finished one short as they were i
would start and another three shells of coming over me and banging the hill and shake me like a rat my body was trying absorbed to shock and i forgot where i
was and the prayer and had to start again i stopped watching the shells come it was too much watching them and worrying and i just laid their slates i could my
dirt in the face my my face in the dirt shoulders hunched and my neck screwed down tight between them trying to squeeze me more more of me into the helmet
shells came in like that for maybe three or four minutes you couldn't really judge time and had no meaning in a situation like that dirt fell likely light
beyond a feeling wonderful being only dirt on pebbles and not hot metal then the guns secured i think that short one that so one of the one the round fell
short i think that shot one shook the gunners up to if there foreber saw it maccari was now on the radio give us machine gone till that crest again now the two
guns rereived their chatter with a cardoon keep your heads down and poured on and then maccartie orders to the reins within hearing on three we go one two we
were all up and running all of us rablement to me running up hill but not feeling the grade or being winded elegey just sprinting up there were rains their
worries all around me some of us some of the wounded must be coming with us going up a second time i didn't recognize any one but abluted n't matter we were
attacking the yoke the yoke together in daylight a salting a hill and we are going to get there i fired without aiming just fire vaguely towards the crest the
hill it felt good to be running and firing i fired again around me there were shouting i picked up the shout no prisoners i yelled no prisoners kill him all
that's what i was shouting what the others were shouting every one took it up now every one near me any ways it was stupid shouting stuff like that my job was
to get prisoners dead chinks couldn't help any one but it just seemed like the thing to shout at the moment and since it fell good i kept shouting it and so i
the others no prisoners now when they get a little bit closer up on the hill now i could see grenades in the air one derned seemed to be trailing something
tied up with rags i could understand that organed went off right in forame stinging both my hands and face derias just dirt fragments of grenades would have
been hot i didn't feel anything beyond the staying so i couldn't have been hit i fired again more danaides were in the air more going off to both sides and
above me a bit gun ripped off a cry quick burst i looked round another reneged on ponomo then one behind i still didn't feel anything pull back a voice came
from below it sounded like mc carty pulled back get out of here so they can't quite get it together to take tell nose guys are dug in and their throwing so
many grenades that the guys have to retreat i moved along the flissinge back they get to little position with a conticuere i moved along the file of men and
then we stopped at the little knoll where the machine gunners and set up malarias jotting something to note book later he figured out sixty four of us had been
on patrol with forty eight actually going up the yoke and thirty two of us had been hit heavy back to the book i don't know how any one who hasn't been shot at
up close in a real fire fight can possibly understand how good you feel afterward men have been hurt and killed the fight has been won or lost but there is
only one truly significant fact that you are still alive that you had not been killed later i was sure i would more n the dead and the damage but not now if
you were not truly happy at a moment like this when you just come down off the line walking perhaps you never would be happy and then he goes on in this his
crisis is a this is the crux of this story by now taken to figure out about the grenades had come out as looking like they were wrapped in rags some one
brought in one that didn't explode it was in an old sock the change tried to increase the explosive effect of the grenades by putting them in old socks full of
black powder but the chinks out smarted themselves doing it the extra charge just bowed hernes to pieces not in a nice size fragments acold kill you that's why
so many of us were hit but not badly the fragments were too small well you fought and you learned we heard from division that roll would make it as on the guys
that was wont to they put him up for a navy cross and he was going home the other badly hit man didn't die either only a point man the first rene hit was dead
all that firing all that fighting all those people hit and one marine was dead and i couldn't swear to it and he of the chinks were dead i got real lucky on
that senario back to the book no one i knew who had been there long enough miss the winter but this fighting in the heat possessed its own dimension of horror
you could see the wounds see what killed people the explicit manner of death and injury a leg severed at the knee a mangled arm how startingly white a man's
ribs look sticking out from under a flat jacket paint at the centre splendore ends with little bits of needeth all winter you were so muffled in clothes layers
and layers swaddlin the cold that a man could be all shot to pieces literally seized but unless you were a cormantee an after look at the broken bones and the
torn flesh and see the blood pulsing from arteries and veins the bodies were just as her just as broken but it happened under a couple of pairs of pants and an
oversized parka then died more neatly in the winter more modestly covered instead of naked and absently ripped apart both co heavy clothes gave death a certain
muffled discretion a man could die in decency after the yoke i found harder and longer about the accident of battle the heads are tale of combat this was it
the ignorant fear those first weeks of war i knew too much now to be frightened by everything and too much ever to turn smug yet combat was still a great
mystery mingled and fear and excellin a sense of accomplishment off set by neronic guilt sheer joy and coming through a fire fight and knowledging terror
wanting to flee the battle you were drawn to its furious centre no one who had not fought could possibly imagine the contradictions or the new ones some fled
battle and others embraced it that was the enigma i was one of those torn in both directions they caught of war common atuonans brady now starts lookin like
he's going to get rotated out back to the book there are rumors i wasn't going to be there much longer than if there were a big summer offensive as colonel
gregory cappitin i wasn't going to be in it i had mixed feelings about that most marines did i guess you didn't want to be a rear as alan poke you wanted to be
with a line outfit but once you seem combat it lost people and have the usual close calls for most of us that was sufficient macallan heard the rumors too they
say you can extend if you want put in for another three months if you do it to day they give me a rifle company why mac just why this was dumb and being
stubborn and i was angry at mac for saying it macree up his face as he did when he was thinking hard and being serious about something jim having a good
company a good company like dog was when caffie had it that's the combination of everything we've done out here being a tumler is wonderful but i've done that
being an exact roasta this way is nothing i've wanted a company since i was a scared replacement pescon okola and all the time a vei i kept thinking about it
sure i'll extend if i can get a company i'd never forgive myself if i let it slip what's three months nothing not when you put it up against commanding a
company of the best soldiers in the world the words man been corny but not the way max adhem in sure enough mac does go ahead and volunteer to stay on board
and do another tour as a company commander and brady gets orders and he had time and here is brady on the ship get ready to hand home i land the birth and join
the novelty of electric light and the sheets and the pillow and the tiny wo and the shiny white paint of the ceiling just a few feet bove me even the rose of
rivets were strange and wonderful simple joys i was very tired and now i could sleep with no one waking me to go outside and be shot at i guess most people
were anxious to get home but i hope for a long crossing a leisure transition from one life to another my life would my name would never be recalled as one of
those who changed the direction of the war but no one could take away my memory i lay near sleep thinking about the war and how i would not have missed it not
for anything or gave you a perspective about things even painted seeings and orderly rose of little bolts are used to read our old soldiers sometimes went back
to walk over the ground even had organized tors men from world war one going back to flanders to trace where the trenches had been where they had crouched and
fired where their friends had died towards for men from the second war revising normandy and walking the beaches see in mont mountmoin places in the pacific i
knew i would never go back to corea never signed up for old soldiers tor and i want to see the hills again or feel the cold or hear the wind how of siberia
moaning i didn't want to disturb the dead for all the fire fights frill the swagger i now permitted myself i knew how raw still was as a soldier and as a man i
wondered whether any one ever became really good at war and a natural act killing and trying to kill at that was what i had been trying to do since last
november when on this very first day here in the first hour i made my peace with god now i had a life time to ponder the mystery of who lived and who died but
even as i lay near sleep in that resplendent i knew it wasn't ability or courage at a got me through as much as extraordinary good fortune i was warm and safe
and alive and i had been neither in competent nor a coward to be twenty three years old and a live seemed a miracle such i would never know again no matter how
long i lived then i was asleep to dream of ordinary things without significance lolly the vibration and easy motion of the sea and did not realize the ship was
moving now with the war drifting slowly astern and the apologue of the book or joance wet he gets home and settled back in and then he gets notified by the
marine care that they have his foot backer had been shipped back from corea back to the book while it was still summer the rinconete me my foot walker then
ship and i could pick it up a grand central station my brother who is eighteen and on his way to seminary drove over to help me with it it was stored in the
deepoe cellar down there where they held fright and kept lost luggage and such i handed a paper to the employe of the railroad and he led us deeper into the
cellar there along with the lost baggage and my foot locker with the coffins of the dead from corea stacked and tidy each with its american flag neatly lashed
on like mack and simonian captain chaffy and me they too were home so here we are living our lives safe and warm and the live and we need to be thankful for de
sacrifices that these veterans made they as i always say we need to make sure we remember the sacrifices and the rennet live a life that honours their
sacrifices when beyond that let make sure we learn from what they went through we learn from their experiences from men like brady men like chaffy and
princeton and mack allen let us be there students but is alone from there to lighten let us let us be better better because of their knowledge and because of
their sacrifices let us be better and let make sure that we never ever forget these men and this brutal savage freezing and echo looks like it when a little
oenone here so i don't think we're going to have time for any cuneus perhaps you could take a moment while i decompress over here and you could talk about
possible ways that if somebody would like to support this pot cast fate might be able to do that yet sure of yet little bit of a rough transition of spectabis
talk about on it like we always do i kind of feel like we haven't talked as much about fines may be we should have or may we have been onnoth that being said i
got em and live thing a warrior barns balaena on your proving them i'm about to the ain't come in yet but it were him and work sabot that oh none the less if
you like on it supplements to which if you like supplements than you will like on it supplements because their legitimate bon we already knew that angle you
can get temper sent off at on it dooms flashed jocum wore your bars i recommend riol i recommend shimei recommend some one asked me on line about strong bone
yes i use tongue it would is that it's glucose ye a for our joint and of boaters so now recommend in the recommending strong bone in an order so and i'll give
them more accurate report they have there's a new thing like a amisia a a quantity of full recovery are work out and recovery get it drink i am i no be idea i
don't know but ye i i saw it like the randomly to attalie trill of a story or a low somebody asked me somebody's asked me on toward of you other day and even
enchantress i ask men to wear her like it was like a donoho old the deed was but he says something along one of like cross your heart and hope to die do you
actually use honored ah yes i do i absolutely do and i take crooel every day if you wondered about the doses i take three of the pills so as offten i think a
lot of drillers i'm a big believing and ah sir yes take that every day i take strong born every day i take chotei don't take every day and in it takes some
tack when the anticipation for situation arising footwall it's four aggicatin ortavit distrait up yet and a adinapur i take fairly regular i don't take it
daily again i know i think you're supposed to take there's matter of fact you are supposed take that but i don't ye did it like i take it not every day i take
it several days a week i should say maybe because your satisfaction in regard to your cognitive performance is pretty high your satisfaction of it may be
because alfreton like one of these ones that they're like hey lemme at me get these herbs and i heard good things about these eartstrings there and hope
lyonors better not like that like big they put through a and you can read about it on the website a montbeau not going to a rigorous scientific testing renanot
aided her allait but i you know that they have the actual but it's like the legitimate cantest you know like guzzling bow like that injections it'll do the
policy whitestone placible effect is a big component of white a lot stuff works the efat so if if you're trying to test something you got to do that poocaetes
you know so you give some people a just as sugar yenimahale it a let you make him believe that they take the real thing you're like a a you guys goin take the
real thing in this alofah know the policy bow or all unerhoert at a oxactly all do the desput it it basically filled throughout the fakers dominey's brongniart
police boat affect take hers but it's basically you believe it so your body kandaules you know he whose real yeah right purses told me really real yes but
alphers like pass that test orative basically kept well i think if panlogistic up proven yet but even if you are to do it not been made a saponaria like you
work for me but it won't woradda like the doom puzzles at speed an do without yet i did testily that batori desierto the pot cast she i take it like the night
before on to the parasite it and then the morning i'll like it an then all take a one more before it's good evening i go time yes when it's yeah seenod you
know but settees i can't i can't play around from we need to bring it here hidetada cashier now but that that's that's what's called an anecdote ringwork on it
as clanmacnalty being causes all these other factors what if your mind say gets into a great mind set anyway you know it is the point the point i make in is
uppersole that they actually do the test in the results or or scientifically proven measureably that it increases your cuneatum tunlike memory in like
initiation the lisiere i get on in a literally get on it ay on it do just to do the stainsforth pocasset of force and you get him to get at off prototype walls
and you get to take a smitten' tell you right now but where are you arsinoe what i did without before ye no a sudders and like three year old like some
tetotailer taste i gonagall onasie toinon's cause they're coming might be kind of space i don't know enaoachment of that it is more stuff on there really good
stuff also a cool way said sport emson someone conocida t in the about this is well the art to support mocassins the amazon link in linthorne do your shopping
we get a little kick back fry furl famoush ing on the indefeasible thing as i igiea to sport the poyets a big deal as far as results go as far as doing it it
it's a easy to do that so i said i forgot it little thing but you know the thing on the old little lu small step for any one listening to pocassett for those
that are making a baccanali that am like a grenade or something he like you verdienen antlike backing science class when they put the little up he sicilian in
the water and then crazy to boneshaking that but there on the old joculator out come there is a like began the topertoe click on it take it i'm to leave the
details out but riots on the many supports okaputa and you can see the bannitone somebody in metherley where the banner este there at all this in an
bathinghouse right but i'm trying to figure out a way to put that man up there a new platform it's a long story but none the less go to support jacobugath and
is on the store by the swartouted to hieronomites not hard is just not eddoes forebodest got a jack pot that aconitine front on the side there a ergo on the
top left yenissey the point is a good way a sodium in the water wing to support this mates especially now when christmas is almost of your order and all kinds
of canals as i could be that way like a big piece of selim with a big explosion of yon a sport saif you in the moon you know as ye don't have to but you know
some people choose to get after it aince detonate you can subscribe of course on the ice hunsford that's that's oliver evie if you're in the mood to don't be
honest if you think that jackasses kind intent good say so don't say anything about me or subscribed to the usual i recommend that ye and starting to put more
videos of i'll shooting with calm you don't hodenosaunee gentleman ye in we're doing it i'm not going to get a run around through life for the name a call and
be a sperrit so are understand though i'm not going to tell you what video were doing but he has these huge you know the strong income petitions you know the
big dear rockafeller and you carrying it in pushing it up a hill so i'm not exelution but i don't think i need to amalek we doing the video but to nanteuil
this ballybron at two hundred state pombo hundred and like that dolansky and is like a well you do you know with your wants so he is like he looked at the hill
and it's like it's tsalal it's not like terrible but it's a legit like without the the the rocks we could do it solidor out on it so um he graating is going to
grab the smalling i'm like i don't know if i can even pick up the lionetti but none the less he graded the two hundred pump rock twice hundred an eighty parent
would you say no there was a a two hundred fifty a two hundred and an eighty oh okay taygete basically the portuondo one of two unepauletted with a handliner
this and anyway he got asked her in a good ship sat the good so susette channel that's the point in all these rock paining things were talking about the fish
cause you know bonaparte's on their some more videos put them excursory by size jacomina sherbet you made up anandamaya had i undress hashishin a good name
though she could sometimes i make no bettifers all straight marked i'm sure by macdonalds yeah insure but we're not initiate do different product in the gig
lemmeno esurierit you to get it yet on it and you to pay like a circular logic thing i'm also the jocko story mentioned there's also a peril on their if you
into it oh you know some women stuff i think women are or starting to be more and more represented in the store or the few items there um all the little
patches the regulation side o ye to ring the lusion color very flat dark earth is the color regulation don't oh sea belgrade's on there which are pretty cool
those coolahan a genitore sigi guess you do my wife was wearing her as i say and the other day just the other night certain elise cold i know we'll just say it
the temperature terterter ottanoonsis consent echo opalines cold yet and from cicolari ferent sangdien place anyway here inside it garcons wearing one other he
looked at anne in a casual sort waystation some good shirt felie literally some good shirts um you'll know what a tomatocolored at a hainya jocoser do come if
you like something you get a shirt matanuska and a patch on you good to go and he spotswoode get something in return ascalonite something every turn so that's
clear ye peyala it poor christmas coming up it's sorlouse coming up i the reason of laughing in cause em there's one thing that you didn't mention about the
shirts and i don't know if you did this purpose of your not perfusely but there was one thing that you didn't mention about the shirts that you always
mentioned about the shirmaye in the side nothing extant now and want to leave an oh oh at all can anaesthetist reserve the layers in all but i eritis it is
true had the thiselton the shirt but sometimes if you don't know about the acarewana someone mention this before he the email me up because i think you may
have realized that talking about the layers connotates away then the impact of the layer jackonet ten like you just brought it down i education nights at
lettie you're going to the situation not knowing this layers and you see the layers i think it comes as more of a treat to rearward etoile from the henceforth
it we shall no longer mention or to speak of a lair the later visited from now on that we out there they'll be there not come for you you will just have to dig
in and find in layers on their own discover to cover or one may be will talk about again with ever at saying homicide i like a reward being dug for a far and
like that more to boom and also a where your on amazon there's a couple of the things you can get when you clicketing dominus a couple of things to it you
might be interesting getting rather army they might come hard to get which they kind of are a one of them things that you can get is is called a while there's
a mug that says in after on it which is a good thing to have because i remind you to get after it and there's a little also a little a proof a a stamp of
approval from for me as it has been proved and then you can sit to back away to which there his bed some so somebody finally post the other day the like o
cause i i announced that will never run out a white tea again could i ordered a ton of it and of course we ran out well we actually techy did okay we the way
anson works the stuff shows up there they can only in process so much the time so atonement showed up there they started in processing at boom so it showed up
everyone yes so be but then they imposes more you know the next day so what you're going to see now and i apologise for this of wai can get this logistical
thing smoothed out it's just it's taking me some time where they have so much that will be imposes an we will truly never went out but what you do right now is
if it's sold out just keep looking back because they'll come back it theether restocking day boom they'll have it so we'll get there i apologized the tete is
awsome it tasteless and um when you have it you will refuse flat out do during any thing else in the world nothing is going to come close usable where money
was much acalycal when i was drinking at the thing one of the things that i did do significant le an talk about the first time it when it first came in the
first time the fact that you made it you know the fact that you contributed to the actual making of the formula of duty like that actually like affected the
experience of your fellels like a isn't to hannett that makes sense right you know i dress soaked well i guess we spend a lot of time doing his bad gasped and
then you got so it's like one it like estates correct no wibaut when i watch on one of the year videos i feel as i manmaille there is i feel the same way red
and i feel when you crackle can for a box of jackway tourana for the for the for the team if you also will your name is on you can get a copy of the book
called extreme ownership which i wrote with my brother lay babin and you don't want i got this to say don't be selfish with your knowledge on to hold it back i
don't this is this what people get worried about right because you want to buy it for you think all bye for my subornation by it from a bossoir my family and
you think then you shortened scared you gets here because what you think is people are going to like it see right through you etherington you read this in that
book and that's why you're acting as what he rather i not give it to him to ayamonte you do not re by that is hers why when when people have read it and they
see you acting it they don't get mad they actually detain overshirt just an starts to get that more you could get more people on board of the program any
mature everything better so when people see extreme overshines speaks so when you see people and acting extreme orders you don't get jealous that's not a
afoura the book you like broth waited they go to ship it at an that's also and i respect that a recognized you what's happening so don't be afraid like you
were a few minutes ago you buy this book for your your supportasses nobilibus even see the only thing is we think all you know i want to be the guy that came
up at the plan i'm a to do the one say want to mind it is yours interestin i didn't invent it we spot it out there so grave hold of it and it's it's a a really
good gift cause it's not just going to be a gift that they get and then they don't get anything else for he is going to keep given retaining all right by the
book i also got a trumpeter come in in new york city may fourth and fifth were talking about tamayori lay and i the first one was awesome amazing the back
across the board this one going to be awesome w w w dot extreme eldership dot com the registering it's going to sell out it's going to sell out so if you want
to go in a couple of months or i'm not going to go to help you you your not going to go to say he jaakan i go i will have all bellhop you i there's nothing i
can do is easy be taken so register early the also save money when you're a sterile and all that so do you that he and we preciate it now um also if you didn't
know this much we are both straight up on the interweb where there tutti and ef you want to talk to us some more on twitter on in stageman also all that base
book bore ha we got to be there echo is at echo charles and i am a jackal willing and now to you listening sanctus port and to the military personal things
were going on the attack and defending freedom and offending humanity just as your predecessors did in corea like we heard about thereto the police and fire
fighters thanks for keeping us safe at all and for the rest of you coon melian differebat in this world make sure the path that you are on is the right one
curthe horion make sure your path isn't one of passivity and make sure it's not a bath of regret make sure it is a path of discipline and is a path of progress
mixture the passage you are on is the war path and that you are charging up that path ferociously and getting after it so until next time this is echo and
jocko alto
