dis is jacopo cast number of fifty two with a charles and me docile good evening ah good evening so to day is the fifty second episode of the jackal pan cast
which means that it's been one year repealer week and people been asking me you know he inattention special for the one year anniversary a special gas star was
special book is a whatdooral on this day and my answer is yes we we are going to do something special because to day is special but today isn't special because
it's the fifty second podcast the djuke i don't go overboard with special holidays like birthdays or christmas or valentine's day or bettersea ven memorial day
to day isn't special because it's the fifty second pot cast to day is special because it's to day to day a special because your alive cause will breathing an
when you're here and your alive ain't you recognized that recognized that that you're alive to death that makes every day special makes every day of merle
makes every day a gift and that might seem like a trite platitude but it is the nityo seeing brave young men who give their lives on the battle field for the
brothers or you seen still wick young children facing some kind of terminal disease or you have had death attack you life with its multitude of heartless
weapons cancer and disease and suicide and accidents in a diction and murder and war the few scene those things that you know it isn't a platitude in it is in
cecie's true every day the especial day every day is a gift every day as awesome and so what we goin to do special for this pot cast right here the same thing
that we always do it i give everything we've got well got to leave it all on the mat we prepared we invested we studied we thought and we're going to get after
it why not because this is number fifty two now because it's been one year not because we made it this far but because this is the one the one the one life we
have this is dalton shot we did it to day this day now and so we are going to get after it like we always view and were going to make it count so eclat's do
this now i did go live at long at the last last part casting now we were introducing the corean war the coldest war on that last episode so i went a little i
went a little crazy on alan and we all need to hear about that were near some more but to day cronstadt to cuba from from the interests so achochre what have
got question number one go it okay for question jocko how did you have time to train in marshal arts wild deployed i figure that you were too busy with
combative think about training while deployed thank you for information occoopied things i always brought mats with me when we deployed and there was really
good you know cause i want i was in a bearship position i could kind o make that happen pretty easily with how is that how does that indeed just say hey i am
so i he tell so hamath no i had matinal got match for the team and then we were just put on a big pale when you deploy you you go on you you put all your fear
on these big pallets so amontons palefaced some method when we would go into putting a pre war it was you know we we going to playmates bring mats and train or
ever we could train and then once the war started and i still brought mats as a pay war business soligen how his working twenty four hours a day so and if they
did we just wouldn't be able to train but i was prepared for training and at what what i did both for my deployment to a rack as i had a what's called a g p
medium tent which is basically a really really big tent and they have air conditioning and they have doolally kind of cool and i just made that into a little
many fight room but mapother i would distrain on winter was down time and there is down time when you're on the pointment i mean there is definitely down time
ing on the plant in it like what you going to do with your down time is the question now some guys with their own time they decide to do something that's maybe
not super productive and he gave you the example that there were some guys on my first opponent iraq and they played halo its video game have you heard of it
yes okay it's a first person shooter that the game and so my guess or so they displayed any time we weren't working which now our missions at that point were
doing will direct actionists they don't take a few hours even you know the planning and ye know every two or three days so you you you had time right and so
all the time and they had the they had wires set up so they could play different um each other in different tenesti was really ridiculous and meanwhile guys
that were lamarque were training the gifts letter but but these guys and actually these gold good lungs too but what's funny is so i kind of thought i would as
wrong with these guys were they do the spot you know whatever and then all of a sudden they had a detherves the group that was in charge of the seals that were
there um it's called the seegooche combined joint special operations taskwork that group they posted a halo turn of hananeel the different special operations
groups went and did this halo turnament and i don't know if i'm proud of this or not proud of this but to my gods that entered the tournament they they comply
won but not all did they want win i guess the way you play he low you get you can die multiple times and so after a certain number time that you play to a
certain number of deaths i guess but anyway as the in the finals these two guys beat the other dies that were from some army grouper or something they beat
them fifty deaths to two so i was to sadie really not so many ways the next appointment aupan someone i never in unemployed games but the other guys played in
well mereman he guides were plain i found one to say john madina aseitas see addunno cause i onlaying techeechee charles but ah but what i was doing there in
those times during the down times as yes bring um bring mats and tragediennys guys even though there be punitives and we we trained to get you for sure and you
should make time for it because you know what you you you think about em being under a stress situation well what's goin t help you the stressful situation a
physical outlet a little mental brake and guess what guess what gives you physical outlines you met wickenden some jitters you know of course there's times
were we go and we'd go on the field door we have both backtothelander and mendocino a deal of course their job takes their total priority over it but um yes so
i would always train and in all to one more thing when i would go into planet like let's say your guy that trains and you go into ployment well there's got to
be somebody that will train with you even if there are never trained before somebody's goin to go yeh i'll turn with you and those guys that's it that happened
to me you know where i went on to point with a bunch anguished n't know anything and i just was teaching them and when i came back from a six months ployment
this is before the war i was definitely way better than i was before i left so even though i was only training with guides that were not even close to his good
as me just training all the time and just going with guys you know strong tough kemeys made me better and when i got back i had improved a lot in comparison
with the guys that i was training with before i left that which i noetics you can make improvement even if you're just have bodies to move around you and you
can focus on your offends you can put yourself in bad position bunch of ways to get better while you're doing it to you and you can train you can train all
deployment for sure we set a couple of guys a come back from the payment from the marine corps and you lay there were out on a ship or deponent they trained
all the time you know that i came back to victory on the man the tavantaine an old line they got good too they improved their game a lot yet seem to his train
i think was army goes there train the train with the jacket on and ease the jacket and a giardini ferent behind of the oh else i am re you know an i done that
too in fact the early days of judicium me i spent that's why when no de started getting popular i kind of knew no gee because we used to train in bed pants so
in a campanians and athirt at that all that sort of seemed like a good compromise her and then then plus beat and i trained no duel i even though dean was
dentistry no geese he wrestled on and it need doing em a man softened he did do you did not keep way before he did a before he did amabel were treated no get i
don't even know what it has been where the idea came as even in some you are jacket right maintain he was a sagacious will do you guys go like all when you
train like a ma you know i'm just one of the team guys i don't train you go to your like heligoland to what did you do polonini like full of six you know at
mintern or didn't rayther when susan thing i benefactor the four like i would get guys that were training it even if there are a lower level an i jes train of
althea don't wind them up and go and then they be trainait each other to an when i would teach little classes and in hands i do these you know you you know me
i kind of like to roll i'll yet more but so does end up rolling a lot but you know you get good coffee guys that rattled the etheric school as the land judo so
this guiseleys bring it the line train to wintatime in the gaol there is not like an they got great cardie when the strong and then you know any time there was
marines around or or soldier you round or some rangers down the street from the ottring the few good those caacupe times so ama get after it you can definitely
you got to find a way to do it and then you make time to do it a nequeo my boss instituted menditore uncompensated monthly meetings with the added warning that
if we miss there be repercussions while this is in an unjust move on his part in justin to remain silent and not complain i decided that this is not enough of
a of a pressing issue from me to speak out against that was the next time i decided to actually raise an issue over something i'll have more of an impact this
was influenced by a decision to only ask for or as relishin for help only when absolutely necessary because of this when you did ask for something your request
was taken much caserios ly do you think this was the right what a lead up the chain of command in this enarea yes i think that's a a very eated up the chingana
that senario and you gotta choose your battles a because it is possible in any job to to cry of right its volintsev's this way we came to this and it is
possible if you complain about everything of venture not getting listened to any more so what i would do here definitely attend meeting spread you show for
meetings you tend to meeting you see what their bones you with a deal is what is he trying to accomplish maybe he has some really good figure trying to comes
out put out wore or we don't know yet maybe his vision is that this only we call no nanoes manator meetings until he gets a flow and gets everybody on board of
any thing o kotorago do this any more you guys got it i don't know what is visionis in on what a trying to make happen let's give them that credit as the
leader to say hey you know your call this meeting wardenship there ran a do are best to participate and and get the most out of the meaning find out what it's
all about so go to the meanings then now you got your god so you my beliard about your guide right saying hey will you make no suggest this meeting that the
most and we got to go to and all that one what i would likely do is make every one at ten a few them and i would do it to hay eyes the boss having me in one
onatoga paid but luck when it word when finola's going on so i wanted rooms everyone's got to be there right so you don't pass the buck you you you maintain
the the responsibility of what's happening you own it and then maybe maybe after a little while though you look at the bosses hay boss you know what these
means are good to go and get a lot out of a by mycanae my god o want to make my gisgo i want to pass the word to them so is that a right if i have done
skippies but i'll be there in that put up the information and you know most likely you'll get a hay that sounds good especially if you've been attending the
means said you've been participated you en raise your anisado takin notes and say yah we got that possem that happen if you've been we arisakas ask none of no
it's building relationship right now there is a disatisfaction right between kissing asbersion ship and don't kiss as mason building relationship when you gets
as as a matter of fact people are turned off by it so you don't want to be that guy he of what a wonderful meeting i got so much out of it not of enough is a
participate and get in the game that's all saying i'm not saying as ask is it out of going to get you it's going it's going to look back i mean order some
bones that that feed off that yes there are and we got to be my veto play a game a little bit you might have to pay a giorno goin to feel good that's why we
have to put a yoong check if the man yes that's what i would do so i think you made the right call let's get in googoo bunch these meanings he with her all
about and and maybe you know eventually your saying a boss you know these are uncompensated we could probably utilize these hours better if we did some this or
we did that so the good distraite forward method i think you made the right call and let us know how those yet yet i cinating if for no okina they everyone to
be in have to be i mean really were you doing in your trading you're a long term respect your train it in for that short term a popularity to no widow that
with just the boss by the way like all you tell peeeter popular is going down to everyone what looney like look at that guy is he as look at um even the boss
even if he likes it if there's a big part of his reinitiation erirola so seeing that you have cesarine you do have to get us but you know what you awardest
boston some of that kissing her attendant will when one why do you as some one has actively participating like a professional ill that's what they want yes if
they want and sothat here done for the cotton exact thing i'm duforte cause i all tell you whenever robinson that so you are you know that and have been but
ultimately if you're down for the cause your boss is caused the whole cause or whatever em that's but the gainsayings with your addite in if you're a patiole
all man this is more going gordon's men had payatis is really cool at a leap at the base stepping up and trying to get us engaged in this i'm in going there
get after it let that i strove change rosebright there i've dug out of militia that lili had said all right my bonnie do what i'm in any let's go look make it
happen i'm an m beget after it what is what stupid thing is you goin t tell me your bodies stupid thing you tell me do all my oustide that at wells on all her
candidate school in there's the thing at all sergius where you have to yell every thing that you say they call it being ballistic they say you've got to be but
lessons it's pre cited do it actually they do it because you get some people that are common in the military cause we got to eyes most of the people that are
going through asia with have never been to military before their coming from college and the graduate college now the going was yes tight weeks to get turned
to an officer so what they do is they make you yell everything why do they do that the reason they make you yell everything is cause there's some people that
aren't confident when they speak at and so everything is it to say there can be shy about saying it will toes you've actually got a yell and in everything that
you say cause you can't go on the bridge of a ship and say a can can we turn the ship you know ninety degrees to the port not one you have to speak up you say
hey we're turning ninety to report rinato and as i had mister face wore for all sir but you don't you say a were turned ninety grees poor you can't say it in a
timid way in or they wait an beat that out of use by making you kill every single thing that you do when you're in offcecious what we did was the upper
classman that control you when you're going through there's like a class at getting ready to graduate and they condoctors the you when the driscoes aren't
there and so they also make romany for their fun and way to make money for the fund esseling soon candy in the little iscariot niti's of thorisend so my class
i said hey guys when you go into i was the class paseos in hivohitee in two the office to buy candy or soda which i don't recommend but if you do i you do do
it going on and be the listic and there in like wild it because those the rules and so every one lined up and they would in this little closet the yellowtails
a watch like or sparse and after ten people the the first met in the the upper class in comes out go you as can't know all gerald to be felipenas i will the
way that we wadawasee i excitive that bud to do stuff tito the extreme i like you got to get wet and sandy and buds and which men to get to get jumping the
ocean and roll round the tissandier jump in the orsi would row round the sand and then when you get back to the instructor that told you go get one and you
have to go back to them and say who on struck or charles to make sure that they knew that you got wet the sandy so what i would do as i do go it didn't do to
me but i went i figured out that i could do this i did it i would go out get wet i would get sancom lately i would completely cover my every square age my body
with sand and then i would put sand into my mouth are filled by a thou my nowsaree up to say who yagonirunon when i say who you dry in that not if i know it
will go he was pretty fun so i like that that attitude like me you amansomi great i'll do it and i'm going to do it with with vigor and his team and and then
we literally in my in my buts class when at a certain point they told us we weren't allowed to get wet and sand any more in the little that and ah they said no
dressy antalo to get wet any more he and and we were saying what's wrong lesington that it ootanga's ousley anywhere it's kind of like the boot they're like
kind of fish pushing you down this hill with his expert expectation that you can be potent in one on the breaks as honister yea till like the more she pushed
down the hill the war your natural tendency hopefully is going to be the put on the brakes that's why all that work you know like oggetti and said is all that
luck but you're like when any time as do his going a thing that is it a and then you away you can put on the brakfontein going to your weissenrode we she was
something called slights were you run up this hill and you carry a pallet on noopawt is right there i don't know ever made a wood to or sneered both fair they
call in flight the action a little sight dower just a little then i will oniononi and yet i'm petetin on your back or you look like an airplane and you run up
the hill and come back to raisin you do it is a squat and when we get back to the to bottom they say okay who came in last place we how many catodon guy one
pallet ye won't ye per powerie who okay who came in last place and i say i came fasten you got to do to get in but the funniest was when you came back down if
you were slow or they just want to hand you more than to her you're on fire go go put it out and which mean you got a run then your palate down to the ocean a
ansell to one side i came back down and at one time i came back down i said they said you have to request permission a land and one in a time that count said
ah i can't land a on fire and then oh kayanere re better to that will it a couple of days that i came back down the said request for mission that touching go
thickening mass and in my left as you know you you land in the take right back off so i just they go permission granted a sonorous with butter of that very
funnin doesn't that like dis cause basically the i that start with just embracing the attitude he had thus what can starts with have a good one and the net
result in all this to its crap with face a man that that go get wet and sandy i mean from a normal standpoint your is like is a logically not fun yes or for
either as the flights broyling acolites not cool but in it that way it's just as hard kind of physically but experienceable experiences lay that at all the
antiente put me always had a good time and we were to like we we used to go on we on ship and you go and the ship do something called them on rapere you they
load gertie food and supplies and fuel from another ship and we would go help but we would turn it into like a sport for her i a move is much boxes as we dared
and dogs were all sweating and dust getting after it instead of being is it a been cause it's it's it's whatever it sucks right you get up there move a bunch
of oxamine party basically it but we actually turn into a moving part is yanson party we have go out a fan be laughing throw stuff and and just basically
getting after it and those just labor but why not have a good time but lets a good idea so that a you got a really man up with it for sure but once ye if you
can kindle that flits no that's good i changes everything burwell you get that good attitude going ye make it fun idmen these pallets ye lights we do we do or
quit pulling only huge beach on sand and you do get to the beach seven mile beach but honor make bonfires with his balance or it year marubashi now known on
annotator ever sure to nikitin boduoc do you have any recommendations for careers that are similar to the military and or careers that are based on leadership
context to the context or plied to canadian armed forces to be a signal officer and i failed my medical significant yet richly communications officer at
inelegantly looking for alternatives well i'm not sure what the physical short fall is i inoson that the physical short fall is something that was disqualified
you from any type of miles or maybe that really bad vision may be you have really bad hearing in an ear may be of some irregular heart thing maybe there's just
some blood type o it something it is it on a bunch of things that can do that to people and so i'm going to soon that it was bad enough to chikandin the
military at all okay the next thing is can you get us some kind of police along foremen that that's the next question because maybe there's something that this
qualifies you from the from the military but you could still get into police and monforte and by the way you know if you can't get into that well what cunning
may be some kind of an anti terror agents that you could possibly go into and i would say the next step for there is a you know what kind of intelligent age
she could go on for you know what kind of a person you know it could you be a person that burns a language that learn you know some technical skills that
allows you to pursue people through the interweb in little lot i terror happening on the interests and needs to be stopped so who's doing it cabrera's real i
mean it's it's real so is there something that you could presume their and guess what you're doing it you're doing it virtually right but you're still hunting
down terraces and and catching bad guys and preventing teriaca even though it's not you know shooting a machine gun it still is a has a huge impact in and
oldly what in future in the future it might even have a bigger in fact than the guys that are shooters so there's that there's that avenue to look at and same
thing in in in landforce ment there's certain profession that you can get we are not actually a plisoler but you're a a the afritic a friend excitest i goes an
looks cimetiere what happened so there's definitely some some uh road to go down there then there's fire fighting of course there's been a paramedic that's
another good one those raw all service based ain't and so that's licole grow right that's the whole thing in and in let's say you can't do any of those things
we will then what well for me it's really easy prince traction soft wear engineering being a sales person going into technology being a plumber beat an
electrician going into automotive prayer automotive what like what all those jobs if you are getting after no jobs it there all you can you can excel you can
on your company you can get after you can lead you can make a ton of money any one was judging an make a tone of money any of them if you are a professional
and you take pride in your work and you make a saw something to other day i wish i could find it i try and posting it it was just a a plumber had obviously
done this massive job where all these pipes were all coming and going into one thing and and there was you know probably tony or thirty little pieces of pipe
but they were all perfectly aligned perfectly exact and in it was in some you know storage you know machanics room when it just looked like so professional and
that's the kind of thing that no matter what your job is waldron do are ye oh you need to do is step up and get after it and all those jobs any job that your
doing that your work that you enjoy new you somewhat you enjoy and what makes you enjoy things to me what makes you enjoy enjoy things is doing a will in
practicing in getting good adamantine prinet's also so i would say you know you got to go yet a find something that you like doing and get after it you the
lute desten general for his finding me what you wanted do you know sometimes you he i like to i don't know sir suderoeer instructor eroine usually how to find
what you want to do doesn't have to do directly it's like what are the things that that stimulate you were motivator whatever that that make you like serfir
make you like whatever it's like so lot of it is real like basics like i like problem solving this way or something like that so tip there is look at what you
like to do or like what licorice or fornever i like to work with my hands o can't good than you need to be a carpeted or your plumberridge lectica now i like
to work with my brain okay that you like to solve problems okay become a software ingineer where you're trying to figure out how to maple things together or a
statistic i like to a numbers of maybe a say so yes absolutely what are you interested and in a hot gabrie that side of mine settin skill it's it's always for
cause i work with someone different companies in every different industry and when it everina there's always a group of people that are just into their job
right near into it and they want a be the best and it and it doesn't matter what it is and i've i've had you know i work with companies every different
industry and sometimes i think to myself i whittier in shirt kind of i kind of you know just think you know it's weird that i'm going to work with this
particular company to this is a weird industry i then i meet the person that's bringing me in and they're talking of to me about their business like they're
going into combat yet mean that the most positive way there like he is will want to do this or vision right here this end their talking about you know selling
shampoo i may you don't hit mean like just a something that the that there into and made just wanted to the best that they can not antaeos a passion and a few
so the it's it's fun to watch its ondach any dozen any translates you know the attitude that they bring to it and the leasure to translate into their life
that's how was well thinks people successful in business and life is when they are they bring that out it to ominousness of my ability and when a grow and we
get better and of a fine my weaknesses under work on those and next thing you know these people owning their own businesses and it also you know eques was to
that why do you never or rarely swear or use profiteersmen they went that patarenes why i never swear us for many be partly in question is what do you do to
combat burn this my schedule isn't helping on a prosecutor constantly overrun with violence and despair up up at five a m to play music or read agitable belt
trying to keep up with the man the young monsters on the mat but never seemed to have enough time because life is always making huge demands and try to get
better at gymnastic strength training without neglecting my wife and my dog thanks for encouraging his regular posted dig a little deeper and trial of harder
well the swearing question we actually talked about the oration on the earlier pocket i don't know which number as ah but it's covered an great detail i think
it's an eighteen minute conversation lest not reach that one is just to clear clairfait a morseograph will just a question would be to modify the why do you
never or rarely swear on while you recording that is true cause he get your swearin from time to time i i would not i have used i give myself a six foul
language you suggest per month ten outside you know outside recording whom in oficiales ill i do swear i canendesha thaisa i don't know it's carnot in a pipe
do know it but i don't swear here and it don't swear or when i'm presenting it in all swereford my wife and kids and i really not avay wife not really let's
say that bad enough if it is in john really sure i mean i try get give her some respect and treat you know speak in fact when i do swear in front of her i do
it knowing leave and i'm trying to make some kind of a a statement about to get like a interlining yet where you emphasize something they will fit some as good
okay now let's get to the combating burn out first of all sounds like a this garet here has alone which is also good for you that's killer welcome to life
right now able things right in i guessed this might be a little rothenburg and make it fun i do set of viewing these things like an oppressive grind i mean
just the way that you know at a match is a on the mats that don't have to time and life is making huge demands and of trying to smile try to do just gymnastic
strengthening but without no collecting my wife and then everything is a grit no it's not you have the opportunity to do denotative and that a dog sat that's
that's awesome as chousay the doppers what you know well instead of looking on like that let's look at em at what we can do to get more donegay first what kind
of time continues can you put on things right for yourself to do some things faster okay um the frinstance reading first thing in the morning i don't know i
don't agree with that like why would you get up in the morning and read a reading now and of the day okay playing music first thing in the morning playing
music she should be found in enjoyable as should be so getting up and going okay i'm gonna go play music your turning it into a labor right you're turning you
think we all labor it should be something that's down in winding you down at the end of the night so when you wake up in the morning do something that requires
it some discipline in and has u get after a little bit and with you up a little bit more right monnehan is you know you use how this weird question how fast
can you trade you get to because i can tell you for many many years they and also want parteth ogita to you and what party to getting the most out of cutterman
many years especially on the war started when i i would show up the train a basically at the attend of glass and i still do this sometimes i show up when denis
done teaching when jeff is done teaching believe me if i had unlimited hours i would sit there to so everything that they have to say i learned something from
the esther day i couldn't believe it i couldn't believe what i learned from demitrain believe that i didn't know it i couldn't believe that i didn't know it i
couldn't believe how well it worked and i couldn't believe that that bastard never thought of toisich made me really angry but that's the way as i've been
training for twenty years that he talked me basic fundamental thing that i did not know so if i could i'd course i'd be in their own time you know learning
absorbing clovers the same way clever teaches you little things because all you should do this right ocamahowan i not know that so i would learn i could but i
don't estimate for that so would i do show up when that's a sober and go in a train a get it on and and how fast is it some sin how fast can you what what what
gets you the most impact in the shortest amount of time so for me it's a i was feel if i don't have time to take an hour and a half class without you know a
ten minute warm up a thirty minutes or forty minutes of instruction a ten minutes twenty minutes in his dwelling and then the half an hour of rolling a howling
that all put together as but but i'm going to show up for me the most important part at this juncture in my dedicace is the rolling some one shall for that
last you know forty minutes forty five minutes on the get my rounds in maybe that's what you need to do because you can't you know a time to take an hour to
half class with all that of a stuff so see you can do that the other thing you might have to do is prioritize the ah the the the extra extra curricular
activities right well he got you masticant beg join on you got reading music on on how do you umour those things together or how ye priories them so that you
are you focus on which one's going to be no important that's a bottom one right cause you might not have time to do everything and so you might be just
dabbling in all of them and not making any progress in any of them yasala's not good another thing how can you manipulate your work skinner what can you do at
your work schedule that will you could squeeze something for instance to be partake a lunch break you people think a lunch red i haven't taken lunch in the in
the iliment take once you know in why would you take anch un o men go for an hour of time and go to a place and sit down and eat in no i'm an eat my desk
warbarton from never going to take lunch so maybe during your work people are you know pepeeta ground have so much cool that's what i'm goin to go do you know
five hundred buries all whatever the gold run to the gym real quick and get work out of every misprinted so see what what can you there may be maybe you could
get more work done in his time were your waking up at least you want to get after it maybe that's the time lee you go to the job because no one's going to
bother you can get a bunch of work done and then you can take a break from from seven until nine when the rest of his coming in with their coffee on a talk to
you no that's when you're working out or that's when your doing something else so how can you maximised do this winowski evaluations for all our nisana's a big
pain in the navy and they have to be perfect and they're getting recording as record so you want re perfectly want to take the frigate saugus get evaluates
they can get advanced so you want to take your time with it but during during we get you i was in charge i gettee big stacks of evils at after go through an
it's corrected so basically don corrections the papers over and over overagainst the perfect and its meticulous for work answer what i would do as during that
time period it would take like a month to get it done i wouldn't work out first thing in the morning i would go to work to meteor ing and while every one else
was either not there or i would work i would work and then whatever when showed up you know at eleven i go work anteroches just you know if you want to come
back to me cause vernonnet talk to you i ever awesome some lady you annuitants leave me alone some tin o work but maybe you so how can you manipulate your work
too to maximize what you're gettin out of it another thing is maybe take a little break from some of the activities may be take a break for music may be take a
break from or maybe you say oh you know what i've been doing an hour of music a day you don't i change that i'm going to do for the next month olindo fifteen
minutes just to keep my keep my skills maintained by macetas of progress and understand that in or maybe you take a break from the mats for two weeks i can
tell you if your trading every day a two week break from the mat in many cases myself definitely i take a jump up i get better if i take a break that's why i
travel for me i don't like it when it goes on all the time but i go away for six days and don't train i come back and i feel one bit better at some stuffed jes
on the brain and an so ye i have no promenades to make den as a mortonian of it amicae home from deployment and you know her training and i was just so fired
up you know i and i was kind of smashing him and i'm young on him you open on the plume i've been overseas what are you ben do back here at comorn you baba
baba just crushing him at that and so he went home that night and he made a miserly had a burned to the head to burn seeds he made it he made a sea deed that
was called killed john alleviation a metal songs or he came back on the next a gavack and destroyed he killed dufaye did kill jacquenetta yea so taking a break
some time just to just to focus on some of the other stuff beyond his think okay you got your wife and your dog spent time with them while you're doing these
activities right your dog king a running with you right that's awesome your dog come to park watch you do poupit your dog can chase the cattle bell that you're
said your throwing or whatever the the the shop putedinis you can you can ham be careful you thronerhofberger away no catbells is to with my body merridew
jersey one time and we went through cattle dollies winter time and we were from cattle bells and the cattle bells would get it was part of the work out
wheathedge cattle be back upon a bug shall herron ways so what of my point was saying that if you throw your ketelboeter dog it would not be good so don't you
that one but take a dog with you to park go have flown hang out and sainting with your wife you what your wife doesn't want to do some jugeait did you just do
before she was pregnant so much you was coming the gemonteerde you training and then you're just let's bring it into the family a little bit gatherings is get
your tim fairest agree on with with your girl right that's the same thing yet her in the game have her laid down some volkerak right got leelang bowels for
mama lets her with that sounds like and that way you're doing the stuff that you wanted to which your bringing your family in the began a little bit and i i
said man have fun because all these things that you're talking out even being a prosecutor which i'm sure like you said in bed you and just violence and
disturbing things all the time and it's a challenging job but but enjoy that challenged how can you do it better and how can you win you know i i'm going to
have fun with it he had fotonovelas i had fun in iraq i had found on the in the bowels of a ship with i was deployed on for six months mahathamadat laugh
hysterically at things and it's the same thing with with me resisting with working now and jugement you got enjoy them all and when you're on the mat you have
competing st these young miles i just train compete with everybody just trying get better cause at his winning and and that's what's going to make you better
in a long run cause i'll make you stick with things make you stick to em because if you don't enjoy you geogony five years they don't enjoy and use it why
would you keep practicing it so my final folloman my brother have some fun with the stuff ye the dannemarie cut or that the paint job were even when you go
home brought it to in your mind you know to get aritho experience its like danish my job is taking up so much time true so yeatman that would make it more of a
like a difficult yearning the balaguere out that way to leave a job o leave your job at work ye right we had wisely i just had this conversation we got to day
just because he if you're looking at your you cayuga the way you're going to do your bat job better as a prosecutor is not by just being one hundred percent
focused on that to one hundred percent the time it will not do better john reif you do good job if you focus on that i'll want and you still do you get to any
still afraid and you still get after you to you that how many good ideas i have so many good ideas at como me one of workingwomen yard work because you gotta
get you got to give your brain a little space to think it it's just like planning of a few operation if you're sitting here looking at the map from two inches
away the whole day trying to get this plan perfect here not that i see everything and it's the same thing with a any job that you have if you get yourself
polly wrapped around that job you're not going to have the be proper dick hatchment from the job to see the bigger picture so you must get some space between
you to jobson think properly here and dilige and that other element like everything you do studying working out is like this where you you've work hard you get
your wraps and then you get your rest you can be an push ups all day every singin you won't get stronger actually yet right so when you know just like studying
where they say like i guess when you study your memorizing or both whatever and then you go to sleep dot toe they get sich your nor old connections gittatevi
get at ye when you sleep that's not on your study sifour priming for a test we tunasan sleeping you know to won't help you as maetaer hours properly get in
some of that tolerates goelette thing thing with the job you know i grind on the job there and amen forget about it for a little bit when you come back you
don't make me materosa yedward i consent not what i just said happens a yesternight just saliency right and a little tip in onananiche i notice because i know
how that feels when you're like tang i'm a hooroosh and i'll have time to go work out or whatever or i'm always pressed for time or whatever you can kinda
overlap the two so i what i did can't go to work and then right after work and go home a changed and then i'd go to the gym and then i'd be like a man out of
have temperantia if i expect to work out as much as i need to in my mind or as much as i want i can have time for anything else or you think you got to do have
time when you start to overlap so and this is sound rabidus in simple but sometimes you kinda ye miss these little things so what i end up doing which a lot of
people do is tell just be just bring your work out clonourry work out to the two work to work and then go straight to the gym any yourself all kinds of time
yet and you actually got your out you save forty minutes yes by doing not that was your work and that and that's nothing mention you when you go home let him
youths a lot of time in some conscience to it that you start to just smell about you you her my mill so the cantor you keeping to work out become sideless
atata different thing for sure but um that seems like an obvious thing you know like an bring your foreword out of it seems obvious i know but there's other
things just like that in like life or limits on her lap lumber you all just like eating a lunch at your desk to saint marie out into straight up efficiency the
i ask to do a whole park cast on just how to die more efficient we at so if you're keeping your eyes open for a calciminer late here or let there an you be
like adding i don't tiers at the end of the day right now here just more time to do more stuff in no i said keep your eyes open man and let you get to think
too that the gist requite um he said treat focus on like the part that that help you the most lincoln you know don't quote implore of interest or time on like
the warm up and you know if that's not reatest learning before you do that clear it with the instructor or answer it and struck at all diggin you just skip the
warm out roland what is time to rondeletic he got to you at a say like a lad like an i'll do the auditeur instructor an say hey i'm working a bunch right now i
got this case going on and i got to get through it and so i'm only in a come three times a week and all i have time for us to come in and roll yonath you
anything to say no ye or i had this time coitain only have time to robelia you want to get my less than the oromasdes so you say i can only come in at this tea
i've been in that situation were you not been working on the seeing and in also other schedules i am an you baby and all this stuff so it's like danaon time i
can come in realistically ah was that to get there at lateat thirty five just a year on year on you know at the end the lane you know the instruction
startington then i i know jeff was like a gefaehrten he can just well out on now if he thought this and not as probably the uninitiate felt that but i could
have been a bengali a gran incourages that by the way great train starting courages if you get more out of just rolling than you do the less i like when you
get to a certain belt in your who you know you are tingitane shape like what are you learned better he encouraged it but the only thing is that alice i just
just say what i just learned from the niagara and how what other things have i miss ah but here of menatonon cost situation in all abutilor ant stuff mainau it
that negatived i always a but even if i'm if i get the little dat'll be like i look and see what moves they showed and in all and i'll figure out of hers
anything i didn't know you have how can you figure out if this on the editor don't could i say he get what do you detestation i'll watch case would you guys do
pot you gits over say that all this money capital work for all the hidden want suthin here so i'll just ask him you know basically repeated the whole class
denon in each case as i keep i said my learning is developed alingayen over this escape right here we went over this finish and hears how you do it or this
transition river so but that yet you got to cut connoisseured aspect you are instruct ye tell the next russian i've been countered in fishin the work place
i've never dealt with before i'm a for air force as to adele yet leslie a combat and joy they call in they call in aircraft they set up the call fire they set
up a they set up air strips of field rule job elegante their orosmane leo as a combat control age i'm not sevillian mechanical engineer and pigot in the oil
and gas industry through a traction the people i work closely with havered a little about what it is i used to do i'm treated noticeably different as a result
for example some refer to me as mister s s no my current approach is just a laugh it off and ignore it but how can i respect fully indicate that when i in the
office i'm not that any more and no different than nell well i figure taking the right approach not as to ignore it am a i think there's probably something
about your history right that people get a little bit either intended at indoor able within some way because they think all of a sudden you know your your this
different type of thing but i i think it is definitely something where it won't in the sultans the minute you say he don't call me that like people that's we
at your nickname for life say that so you know i i think the now for one thing it sounds like you're not refer back your time in the service on the lot but
another thing is don't a salting as don't answer to you know mister asa dis don't answer her now nothing you have to be a jerk about it but if some one says
miss mister asa aha mistress fust like keep doing what you're doing unto and so don't reinforce that that's what they should call you right missus lycabas ic a
basic thing but i think you're doing a right thing and i mean if you ever wanted to say something about it again the man say to the round at nowloon into big
deal now people wisdomthat like to talk about it raratongans with the rout so man just ignore it keep workin and i mean carry on with your with your mission
with these with these guys in the gasoline of that ring in a gasolene stratemeyer did you am when when we were with gasolene of that maybe that's more on the
front line troopers but matter met a bunch of no bunch of etrance um so i don't know maybe maybe they maybe they saw a little a little reaction they got from
you yet so let's make sure what i do that just eight nor an carry on the best thing you can do right in no one to seelem if somebody does something that a
noise you do not show it same thing in like to my family with my kids o man will might kids figure out the something a noise one of my other kids dey just
prerolles annihilation with that whatever that they is and i did that when i was a kid and i was you know my sister's noweres mean to each other on whatever
enougher's that sort of a tradition in my family as you know um it sort of a tradition is of no emotional mercy right if you find something you're just
gundigan it and ate that's the way it works and also no credit no credit will be given but this i claw'll be given you is a oh oh yeah welemisl ah be manicore
dell get over it tentaculi heart member lying heart when he legite van dam will be band anyway he goes into the final thing against a big didoinusos without
maretas cheesy movies fro and telling her to say doesn't matter the movie cheesing it exact same concept he can't show it so he goes in broken ripe all the
money on you know the table whatever broken rabies like he gets it in the rioient get in in the rip you like to go to him him in the rain he flinches like all
quick and the guy that begiddig ting oh boom with flint of liking or sippican sold at old a no good is he ever chose question by the year next question texture
all right this is just my question on a busoni the middle of it last obeis it ever ocatilla quare values to achieve a gol okay so first of all really obvious
your values and your gold should be alineations now be adversarie they shouldn't be counted to each other and if you think about what your golds are your go
should be set up in a way that they support your values and vice were that's just the way it is so not sure where this is going to be an issue of your setting
up gold that are contrary to your values you got some issue now i guess if you had the goal of winning the blue belt judischen ships and in order to win you
you cheated like you claim some one was weeping your leg and you said as you happen you get a guy to capitan you win that could be an example right now do our
support that no you know that's wrong you you don't want against the values of actually the values of marshal arts to do that so you didn't win anything he
didn't give your gold because you were actually the best so i say no one not one of another one let's say you wanted to make a certain level of profit at your
company so you cheated a little bit on the quality of the manufacturing you sold by them that weren't quite reliable you i support that no right for animal and
why let me tell you why because your goal your goal is not even a line with your goal itself because when you start making substandard manufactured items
what's goin t happen long run people mesa we don't like these men not on a bimane more so you didn't win you might ha wanted to shorterbury didn't win in any
gain you're going against your value should have values that you don't want to you know take profit over making good product and again in a long run that tales
going to cost you right people aren't going to want to buy your product any more okay nother one i could think of like let's say your goal was to lose weight
or to gain weight or whatever some kind of positive physical change answer you work in a pet then you side desiderio jump on the stand right right you jump on
tarots and and you get that go right because steinar huge advantage but again i say no because i think about what your goal is like why are you trying to gain
weight or lose weight your gold is to be is to be healthy right that's your value as you value your health and so when the minute you start doing something
that's countered your health well that's not he not helping your long term this your value is not allowed with your gold your goes on lindora so get him lined
up so at now in my we at some point compromise or values compromise a values to reach a goal i ain't a changes dansera little bit right we might compromise i
remember that question that we had about the people that are snakes and how do you work with them they don't should you work with some one that's dishonest or
back stabbing but there are cabin the machine of your team in your values right they might be a call a personal and sauromatai or in no want to work with you
that that might be what your values tell you to do but your goal an you do that you forsook progress you don't your team doesn't work better together they work
horse together and so in the long run you don't win because you stock hard cortoran by the way if you stick with you if you if you bend your values compromisee
bit to get through the trains or so period now you get promoted no goin to sit with will you can fire that person that the back stabber so you you have to
compromise your values as a personal little bit in you know there's the enemy of my enemy is my friend right the enemy of my amused my friend so you might
compromise your values short term working somebody that you're not totally aline with valise and again if you're going to get a long term strategic go well
then maybe it's worth it because connaut you to position where you can then hold your values better if from a from a senior position or from a more powerful
position so you might compromise them a little bit again hear small compromising you should have things of course we got things that values that you are you
never going to compromise on right um hitting a girl no it be you should you should never hit a girl right never had a woman now with that being set if there's
a woman not about to do something truly evil you know kill a child or some kind of a terrorist act in the only thing you have that you can stop it is the
hatter will guess what she's getting hit you don't have men so even then your value of never hitting a girl can be compromised momentarily while you stop a a
child from being murdered or whatever eh um you know we as we had we hold a value we always want to tell the truth but if you have a for extreme examples yet
some kind of a state secret and and you got captured will procure you might lie about that and there's little i mean we you get into a hole like white lie
discussion on stuff like when your wife asks you how is the chicken and you want to tell her if the most dry and in charcoal pacing item that you've ever put
your mouth that's not going to help you long term now so i i i might compromise my values of being truthful and tell her it's pretty good can i have some more
catchup have organette more barbecue sauce fall this answer ponciana now animal curasore water would you like files i might be compromise my vis a little bit
there ah so i guess on i'm saying is in people this is the thing people probably what they think of my persona because people will think otasco to be this
uncompromising never sat all allow no slack kind a person right that's what people want it want they don't want i guess want to see me as but the reality is
well you in right we've him and fought ken can override values for the right reasons then that that lie we can think there's the wire then in her there is
actually times there's actually times when old being near valves goes and ganser value so so if you are back up your friends right yola's back up your friends
but then your friend does something that's totally a moral end is against your values bitten you can't back up you can't hold the value of backing up your
friends because i guess what they did something a moral heysten that was wrong and so if you held your values you'd be not holding your values that's the
dicotomy erata's the economy that and the additional the economy as you hope your values right you hold to those basic principles that you believe in but at
the same time you've got a applied logic and reason to them to make sure that they are supporting your long term goal and your long term values cause you don't
want to you don't want to make a hard stand on something that cost you everything where now in the future you can no longer manipulate me more situations as
one of things that makes leadership and in life hardiage is in blackana it isn't black wine it's grey in so artisians undeservings este channel and is of
leadership and there's there's no way wright or wrong answer of of saying if it's right a wrong to violate our your values to achieve a gulf that initial
question there's too many variables in that there's two witty very able but start with this part that i started the whole answer with all in your values with
your gal that's where you start and then you use reason anteoni and fought to determine your actions based on the situation wait against your values you have
to thank yeh so given what you're saying yes it phillips less like just values like yeditor plate with yours my values can a thing it's more be higher key of
values so you will violate your values if it's on you know level too of or a level for the nitial hit the hall not a girl right up if it's in the way of my
higher value which is protector far predicament family or he had you know ones same thing with girls don't matter lady rather don't mess at goes familiam and
at you you know obviously same thing with the you know the the urining on your or backing up your friend you have not my values i can my firm not level too you
know the whole air moral things a salting a girl out on a whatever that you know yes that's level for so sorry number two you know and going for namefor can
isolier to got a little higher cue valerianum you know obviously there so that i i can't eat you now o ye could give any of one of your highest values that you
could come up with and you could sit here and and theoretically come up with a situation where you would sacrifice that value yet and there it herodotus gesso
that's why where humans we have debility to think we have nobility reason and sometimes you might have to compromise your values a little bit too till sirmio
one bret etourdie and get so that you can long term carry out your values to a higher degree yet ye like the hum and the back to the people want to lose weight
you know that he is usually people who thought no on an ages i would imagine that usually people would take troy their value is it the help it's like copeley's
it's on a medical thing you know for your poem you know the stirring thing for it for to win or to put me go who yea which is constrained but you know it's
usually the wind a comeatibus um but not less i think that will to give you now he said and i think think it kind of kind of come in again her there i think
that it is like icy of value yea yea and if some one's going to use staroste cheat that's a mean even that red meriah other discussion yet but what are they
really proving what are they really winning right yet and that goes back to remember a why for it will be talking about like some people like they will do when
they want to appear to win you know especially not you can see on like online that you don't spend the mutilated distrusting face book but you see you can be
soon that you know oh no there there there about to murder each other husband and wife they hate each other they don't elleam room but they went on vacation
with their kids or whatever they're like all so and love and from the perisher the waterfall or whatever holy pre you just want me but think you win you just
want a peer they on one you know but not real that's why people cheat yes that's why i like the guy that you just do things when they're like okay i'm on a
annistay this guy we my leg on the cat all his decent do that but you know you cheated kind of thing he his gold wasn't to win it was just to get the medal and
so the it's you know well her it all at a island here but he's just he doesn't have the proper values at hope the winter he needs to check his values he needs
a check his higher archy values as on the elutes tho didn't want to actually lean on it to mental to appear that he pentheus is there any way to recalibrate
the flight or fight response i get that x i get that excess in adrenalin i i get that excepting a gentle aggie the wobbly legs and the flight response how do i
go about reaching my reaction well absolutely em and i'm not a hortensia situations you're talking about but any type of danger right gives you this flattering
response so trained sarto training juge boxing moti wrestling shooting competing competing right you get you so butterflies and you compete you get those
butterflies in the indigo to him and so train and get used to seeing how that reaction what that a tenant feels like and and also get used to understanding
what the superior action is right fight or flight cause sometimes flight is the corrector spots sometimes fight is the correct response but what you want to do
if you want to be able to assess and dick take which responsoria give and not just do whatever your instinct tells you cause i'm not durenstein might be wrong
and so again i don't know what you are actually you the the situation here you're going to but whatever it is because people get the fight or flight response
to do every day things too like public speaking right i brought climbing um and as i sail it do dote things train in them so public speaking rock climbing in
if you only to get a rock like a going to get over that fighter flight orsons you get out go go or let you used to it you scared of hightoft parachuting you
know you'll get used to it you're scared of a water get worked up and go through swimming and then in come scootered just the things cheer not comfortable with
get comfortable with being uncomfortable in it while you're doing to wallore doing them a attention you god teach a little bit when these things are when your
training to tatch a little bit in see what is going on your mind said he what red flags that you can see what things will make you aware of the fact that your
nerves are your adrenalin in your you you feel yourself conchon your fist you know case of cuttyawar of it so that you can change it so going to just it and
put your again put yourself into the scenarios and as late obstare arenarious norse nor until you're until you start to get control six maisonette weird nas
not were you not going to think to this were but oh what are you to get supper nervous about it her flight responses poseuse but that that's not worse than
that the note torn out worse in arly but just a different thing is like confrontation you know like like he is whether some one's come fronting me or some one
or i got a come front someone who know it's like this barrier young and all you know some people don't i step back and forth that very thought come fright you
and then go back to just be like artemia to work kind of thing or school whatever but man i've always seen it when i's younger whatever as this barrier than
sake you don't cross until they tongue sent go time so any time in close to the barrier ticket super nervous because like dan outagamis competition being
physical fighting or just on general physical injin are anything like if something happened with somebody work and with and they was something and you had to
go confront amon it you that would make you get yellowly anything you know we're distrusting you know fully but an let's say men our crew then say i juan i'm
teasing you about something and then you like did it like something and then i got you went from like this till like you know what i mean like you you didn't
like what i said or i die like had in like that and it became at alnifolia yeh yeh for what is in it that it's the i can be crushing i can be on good terms of
some of wanetes bad it's like to me i just looked at it as this just this huge barrier that so i i i actually i actually get a something like that and for me
what it is sainting but when as soon as i feel it you know i do i can i go like i go if i have it are i just do fall because i and i sometimes what bothers me
some one you you don't know what have ye oportune like let's say i get an email you was as he i really don't like to do wayis happen and babbabooma me
ministerially to bother me of some one said he when you forinstance this is the kind of thing that would bother me as someone says he you did this itselfe you
know you were putting me down in front of all these people i'll feel bad about it right i'd be like it would dry and so the only way free to get over it if i
want to talk to it to hay and as we did i'm going to set out an email to everyone i make sure that they know that that was you know my evil wasn't my don't you
know say that you did a grey job or whatever just try and make it right but the only a otherwise it just turns the burns me up and i have to confront it i that
the thing that bothers me and i used to like i recognized this now when i was younger and lightnings it i would just sit there and nigel know what to do but
now i know this solution the solution is with something mother and you you go and you address the problem you know like my my kids will do something now i'll
be all angry about it i i just go on ottolais go talk to luther what did you what are you doing why did you do this here's the impacted house on the family
here's the packing has on your life here some other opportunities that you might miss out now here's a thing that you could do better at it we know her some
correct of actions we could take whatever the warst thing i can do is sit there and hold for its side and not a good thing to go yes and and and i knew that
fully i mean that that is not a good thing to do ah but it was just one of those things that that really induced that fighter flegere response and the strange
what help the lot even just seen regular confrontation any at it intent specific type a confrontation is not the kind where you ahowlin you you say something
that you leave and then you think back rolandi i insult him janitors me but that to me all call you right now only pay i says that's no problem that the kind
of it's all the only kindness stuff the order the only stuff that did it was stuff that to cross this line puts us on bad terms temporarily or permanently it
puts us on like not good terms in yesapan but unless you want totally helped was digitata where i i still don't want a but if i think that competition has to
go down for whatever reason it it's just weesie to do her titular bump rolled it yeeking of a thing in all but i mean you got to do a crack you don't ally
young lose your temper or going aminabad you just you can address the problem but the the key isn't about like a camp good at you know bringing up and in going
through barriers intervention potation it's not that it's that barrier no longer produces that response cos i can dance up to the barrier if you gets cross i
gits crossed you know and like your unrestored not everything more comfortable crossing the barrier if me be whatever to ely now you get the ass i deal i'm not
going to trade across the various hors being good term fetherletter golden bed terms any time you know be impolite as a modoties not but i mean that that's
where depends on what kind of person you are i think i think um but leggiadre key for me or that to the element the critical element there was that barrier how
i felt about being near it for crossing it in a coffin whatever um didn't cure it but how so much ill to get on make the story long wet this week we are all
hoping to iii canaster i said it is i it just an example so i'll don viewer for as for this gualandi say who doesn't matter and he had found out that i was
doing other video work on and on may be at a sense of like owner and he he knew that or he found out a new that of doing the for not a competitive thing enough
in like tut this other video were kind of like he way you're not spending all your time on my steps kindeling that's what i got the sense of but none the less
and had to do with travel you know sol travelling here in a place i got to go cause i have to travel now to this other place and is gone that's where i felt it
oh none the less so the video was in due till like the certain date and then am of the get my prediction i should have it by this date which was way ahead of
the date by the and then that day i didn't have it and i was like all you and i didn't think it was good to be a big deal cause it just didn't seem like a big
deal your predicted date didn't get there it wasn't a due day or at right not even canoes and an oh so other go i don't have it you know it's you know been
working out but you know i don't have it may be to morrow like something like that in the unlikeliest lingen one hour i'll have the free was it in that or body
was like an all have a tion eulie i'd thought given a pen aristor whatever it is will go call cool to morrow let's we'll see it to an make sight to see a kind
of a thing is what i was expecting em but he was like his like o k to morrow oh you know i really disappointed and said you don't have it for me right now and
i was really expecting to have that to see something and i really disappointed that you don't have anything for a merry now as like bone heart just being
little the phone do by the way that he is not like oh i'll in one frontino know anything it is just that in protogene know what to say for what did you is like
a a don't even know what i said but i think it was just a kind like it and santin and was like so as that may be one of those one of the things that caused you
to really hold back on making a bunch of ideas for tracassier's much among that want to make a fine call to you well if it was i point in a liteinaia listen to
this pocketward to support the if that were the case we intimate that be making to everything if that were the case well i wish woodenly over here on our and
anyway the sanehat's an example at a psychotically when i think about it back like the one big confrontation pray let to do it xtiana but yet for some reason
though generally speaking that you justine is only of is you have genuine intentions i think it at compotations got a cog cool next quest the serious question
of the bows coston indirect approach i the history of starting things and then giving upon him when i get bored from the same way by the way or any tea friend
of mine is the same in working on it by sticking with one thing making a web site which will be done into e i call my friend once a month any always tells me
about some new hair brain idea that he never acts en i tried suggesting that he picked one thing and stick with it but he mediately shut down how can i take
the indirect iverach and get into actually follow through on things how can so you turn to help your friend prior is mexico which is billy good to go your
friend sounds like you need sir prior is next cute and gets him follow through going on with that as well i would say this you and little indirect there what i
might do with him is getting volved in a project with him might take one of those wendells up at a lowlier brain ideas and you think it's a decent one say okay
cool let's rock and roll about i want to get in the game and then lay out some dead lines i have this well we eat though my heart is ill event be done by this
point i'll do these four items you do these four items and that's what will be going here's the due date i will get him done by sweeeee this launch boom right
and then you delivered your end you deliver your aunt and then when he doesn't now you could have a better discussion that's not so ah aggressive you have
reason for it you know and then you know maybe even suddenly telling that year a amogada go proceed further with your idea like i'm you're not going to do it
and i outdoor ages became my idea right then cause you're not going to excuse because he needs some understand that idea people a great glad you have a lot of
great ideas but it doesn't know doesn't get anything done and ideas without executions ideas without execution the ideas themselves literally do not exist your
idea is worthless it totally worthless if you don't execute on it so you have to execute any the execution of ideas into a play we will that's what it is when
you will you execute an idea it's creation is not dreaming it's not thinking it's doing you re creating something and that's assist creation is is an awesome
thing to be a part of any son awesome thing to lead and to take an idea an turnin into something that's real and create an deliver it that that's just a hugely
rewarding thing in life and he obviously probably has an experienced that many times and so how can you let him know that let him know that you know ideas mean
nothing without execution in our goest create something and again i think the best way to do this to join forces with him and drag him along sweepin get that
feeling of the satisfaction of how could feel to make something happen now that the bad news is if he doesn't let like if he doesn't do his things she doesn't
do part you can coach him you can prodmore you can do what you can to help him but eventually you got to go out and make things appler own man that's just what
you've got to do and you can't it's very hard i can't somarata but it's very very difficult to help people that don't want to be helped that don't recognize
their aris that i've there or eagles to exalt a people that idea of people they'll tell literally tell you that you know it woltemade god that i do either and
i you know you say okay cool i be a go for your actual make things happen so babyyou ideas so if it's someone that aroint like that cushat's that's a level of
arrogance right halloaed this little labor stuff i'm not a guy about excuse will i do said ideas a brilliant that's what i do here that's does people are not
rebisso eventually you do it you can't help out you trying get him involved in some of your projects help all we can get him all the way through a project
where you can see the in field the gratification of success in execution in creation but if you never taste that blood he's needs going to be a vegetarian
ogasawara down he vasaly de infinitated nothing all being salottino i eat salt salt with stake all i brother so true so my brother you know jake he does as
like it obviously you know his company that they do at so abel let's say that i'm the same in general now absawb sights um video in my case so i these are
things as on it the other industries is kills whatever but these are the things that attract the idea of people he got any of it of for the like o idea foreign
as i can be for website i gotta to rime marthe were we attract these people for so it's like when you encounter that it's kind of like me sayin i have the idea
for the cure for cancer so what it does is it goes in and it targets against ourselves and it leaves all the other sales alone all of em just leave them alone
disgust kills a contesse so that say in like out anaho dred years that happens right now like the wise finiront was was the er idea lisies me not till lake i
used to say it gets and to say gets annoying i mean that's gonna not the most accurate way it for locations re interesting that it's not that clear to people
you know when if your cause execution is everything ninetieth nk might have been tempersome something ideas worth like super it like the super small amount all
even go further and say it's literally worth worth not insist like you to like it i guess there's some granular ity of of i eathenish weird it it's it's a
dichotomy because the idea is the worthless and at the same time it's the most valuable trying but i only get value if it gives executed on otherwise he has
zuriel yea and to the execution part execution in a confused get to and i actually in a way was kind of one of these people were i to lie collides so the first
thing i monado when i get to identical by the domain right i'm going to you don't sell this you know whatever and by the domando o executing boom step on said
oedipus done that you know this guy who has these ideas and of the cave ironfirmary one man is aviticite new theriagene um he might you know he might see if
the trade mark or the whatever as you know taken in ones topinard string you know one was the one the work starts you like oh well i'm kind of bored right
thing bored to that and meanwhile i that's usually the fun part you know the excitement oh i feel the potential and of this gulf but when the reality start
hanging and you know the hills gets steeper and so like an a hard war ye that the actual part no home idea in a terse yes when that comes to view or consent em
you know into play that's when they call uncle kit board if and when you take one maybe two steps back and this it's really clear because you you consider the
the percentage of people destinie for successful in like their dream thing amacante programme and now i own a computer programming bus on my ample the amount
of people who have that actually happening or really few and furthermore you ask any one of those people it was never like i had the idea about the domain name
three weeks later it we were moving it's never that it's like all my cash flappy face fail years decades a lot of the time you know is a grand cry and that it
and that's all that execution right there executing his heart one time i silcotes invisente colored contact when is so totally eleison have done it i imported
him from it now nine import on but at bottom from a web so i read back to the values conversation in the crackingest alar while they were at fort scarsete all
good you can buy of is just like but none the less i bottom and they bade only take like five days to get here so i i knew how to make website i knew other do
all that stuff i just mean weblike gomicourt mundasti knew about sellin sufficed the website you know eight bucks a month or something or a year for the domain
website was free because jaded the platform is good make wesso shelter was a contact a colleen time comes round perfect as to calantan by him from me to god by
a like will be one and everybody just buy it from the west side comes in and just send them to the execution of so you your fraudem not part of you all in
contact i'm prediction part in joe and then it sortiatur aboard within so all right next quest the ablest next question who or this one time he jack i was
wondering what your opinion was on went start a child in jugum daughter was in the game and eight seven and i am on the masses well my son is three and a half
and it has expressed that he is very ready to start this well my concern i starting him two young him getting crushed in falling out of love with judith for he
has a chance to fall in love with it these sorroma yea a okay so president on the maturity yet yeah and am sir as how old was your daughter when she started
training to to i'll tell you what the ear comes dances no too too straight up to me she let leo and half sheerly mature really smart and athletic and durable
so that's that's like his young as you're goin to get ye um and and what what why are times we portugo too and was there other small children in the class yes
you had some kind of a renoune somebody that was all spring in their kidder something like that in a good play made in there well and he to make the fat intend
of the long all all tell you about it for sure am basically it ah you don't mat becker and then it's a it's gracilitas said or up in least smaller on jim but
so you know they have programmed for younger kids or whatever in its essentially like ye you modifying the young kids frut which is like for our day for a
alanis playing that's what it is but his a thing you learned you go to life and your in in there you'll say you'll teach you that this is judicata you're there
there's gonna tell you not orther person down i don't know that it's a mount it's intertaining they're trying get out of the mouth yes just think they're just
trying to get off the body up yet and they they have games where you balance on stuff in a work on their balance on the you have these than in of the mids that
you hit in a way to me they light them up and you get to it in a walk in on the butte they play all these games but it's crazy out like its trifle corradiate
you in grierson was on to a coffin then and they get good at the wax on my off cause it's kind of fun he was an comeatibus the stuff you do in there is fun and
then when the like okay who in its really you you got to find the right person and the right teacher has been mad he's like he so gentle kids are red costive
other young a yeaning are you know they're not he he he knows he knows not even going to be paint attention to know you and so they got to know how to deal
with kids but a man she she took it in whostood er and and there's some kids that are eleven and twelve years old that aren't ready for judicetur just not
there yet and i would also say lest his more for a young kid you know you don't want to tondertontonk smoke a moment every day make him look forward palm off
the mat they won't say let one we got at lenolen em have some fun but am i burned my kids out yea and i backed off in time for my sons to younger and i didn't
you know cause my my daughters is a complete train compete train compete o i'm a you now have your way class the older kids bracket i mean i just did it wrong
right just did it wrong and an i didn't back off in time and so now they trained you know i mean not as much as they should write must untranslating um but i
did a bad job of making this fun right now that's an that's what you know that's why i like you the fact that this question he said my starting mattoon is goin
to get crossed hey you shouldn't you know jim that you take your screen aalf your old child too should be lowing him to get crushed a that shouldn't be
happening so if you have a good jam we got the right instructor um dat in gondet him have fun and make sure to stay fun in any they don't love it you you can't
make out them love its nockin now this is a good story one of my son's friends who always want all everyone to trade you through obvious this guy's a a friend
of mine known for long time in his as a son that my son's age and so they kandagro up together and you know my son's always trained you get to and i would say
a you know when you were six years old he have your son come in and try it came in and try to wonther later now you don't i hear one something like that
thirteen months eightmonth comes any year later tries to gain is icnow seven years old hattitude t like it can't stand it then comes in at you don't nine years
old comes in loved it during every day now you now me drink all five and an you don't know he's my and in an ill that this is what's cool is that he's it's not
like he's a million years it's not a sooty son trained three years more or maybe even forty years more than than this other kid my son he is that kid caught up
right i anathemas still little bit it be little bit better but there in the same game right there is not like it's not like that my son has this massive lead
lithe kit loves it and you can learn you can learn and get better you know at any age but my point and say that is forcing him to be in it for those three
years would not have helped he would have you of quick dugout men but just having a shown it to him and said he this is what you do and you know eatin' like
gettin choked night that's in and maybe that's means my buddy son so he looks let's get after all betide won't let im get choked but he just didn't like the
castrovillari and in there is constipent feel that even in it even in a gentle situation with a six year old veldon you don't like it now he and like it ye how
he is a whole people down himself so you you you i basically what i'm saying is forcing some one to kid to do something for two years you think you're getting
this value to yours with value your not getting two years worth of value you are actually going to direction so you might as well just let him try to
casionally and i said that sometimes kids who at my jim now a you know my son dursen't want to do it right now an i go no problem they you know i say they say
iduna i come i go don't make him come i go don't make him come let him come when he wants to you know you are a yours your membership that's cool seances to
him in on saturdays from bring him in you know you are to come in once so you don't want to months to to just do keep him familiar so do that i just do that
you don't grind their brains out when there whatever little kids you did me kit i think i eat you know how you feel like you yet you should be fun so the if
okay selika you you're watch a bronx tale your moolay i go now far on that here for a you know these birgus marner you know casioned out at actly right so
that's what it is in this was as lattice got to be cocasse never seen frontal these by croisette bar and they're like causing trouble and on the stuff and and
then the people there he guelders the lover say hey eyes sleepy you need to get out of here he alliwell do it of rewarding that a local leave the limmat one
bear in the inherent won more bearing big of the foreman shake to bear all over than in altis stuff laneway they locked the doors as they we ask you to leave
now you can't leave right bad situation for the baker it so this is was it in imition this guy has to avoid like of his son three and a half is like dan i'm
sure an interest on money get kind get get on the metal that jump in here you with gongonk like fun a man jump in don't be like ah you want to get in now you
can't leave don't that rinaldo at leave the door open the right to as exactly so as you know presseth and a half now where she went to at victor a while and
earned it and in it was cool and now i just bring her with me to want a week with when i go on fridays or whatever um he i bring her with me i don't tell her
jumping the class and just come de the miller with a mat to sit at rolling you see jocko rowing you see and you know the find there an talk him i should pretty
ruin she has fought out now she just likes them the masses far in you know i would go in to her she she she hangs with them oh she coaches you christal son is
there yes she she cheers for me to but you costlier earlier for favorite deitiesfacing is endyore oh to me now so she likes it she the male familiar nothing to
say he were here so we got to get our wraps to day no no it's not that when she wants to come like mount in the will she be lacaita all lemme show this die
there is amairgen his name it is a case lemme show him mount and there's this whole series that she learned from a unalike finding arms linked in the balance
all the stuff and she likes to do it you know so now she always wants to go very go and what an a at home or whatever when you on my mom come and visit he
taking in them we shall grandma mount and she wanted to do it you know a beautiful and so that'll keep her in the game and when she starts to getting a lot
more bit you know age like three now now so like coeditor five six severe she's goin to start to realize all shoot i can do this stuff now he know because all
these little things an i learned a spot plain around really and that's kind of what you want with that but if it's if they look at it the thing that my dad
forced me to do it so hard in costafuentes eating on me and i'm going losing no whole time to it i started and i rontheim and his you know kelly me or whatever
and that's my experience my whole regard for the gittagoin to be like to odin's also a little bit rebellion in all in most children in like my one of my
daughters she doesn't want to change to get you but you restless and ice cone that assumed that the i think that to which he almost does that just to be you
know no i rest a little then she know she paced fine she got sankont ye man i i think so i mean the haktite question i think that um there give in a certain
type of teacher which i mean the demand on it teacher for you know a young casanre so hard so you got to for it's rare to find a teacher especially if you have
a teacher who doesn't like do that you know if it's like caenationes in for this cause i seen guys they're comfortable their friends in the gym and a thing and
they're like you my kids do but it lay all like each other right then i jump in the kids classes too he's run around he's interrupt you on as laughter is like
yes no it's not good if he could not read in the teacher that that's not a compatriot up to his not ready will say he give is not ready yet you can't be can be
an here ye come back in six months you want bring him in to watch on saturdays cool i get out you have you to bring him in to force it's a time we're going you
know a hopeful is that disruptive hopefully well they can't be disruptive or they can't stay ray right they can't do that yet you well yes so the next have you
know it's not going to work but ye that's it just like i said just bunner i'm cruising in her look as though the doors all in in prison i'm doing unstuff come
on i'm not going to close the door niagaras still on you you know play do it my opinion she had fortunately jack have you most out doc i have mostly lived a
life dominated by doubt and fear what are your thoughts on how i can step into bravery you know i actually took the cousin from tender and i answered the
question in one work you've lived a life dominated by doubt and fear how do you step into bravery step that that i you step in the bravery step take the step
step aggressively toward your fear and that that step towards your fear is the step in the bravery because we were pestered of what we don't know and there is
only one way to learn and to know and that is to confront that fear you have to step you have to go and this simple action this simple attitude it answers so
many estions so many questions as how do you get to the gym every day you step you go how do you how do you change your diet to stap you go how do you overcome
fear of failure fear of success or orfer of fearest an how do you face the fear of the unknown step don't wait me more don't think any more don't plan any more
don't contemplate any more don't make any more excuses or justifications don't rationalize anything else no no a no in stead egressive take action now can what
is the first action that you need to take the first step you need to take the first step you need to take is just that step are i think that's all i've got for
to night so speaking of stepping achochre if somebody wanted to step up and support this pot cast what would be good stepping making that before going to the
good day where you bart came in fun i mention i tried the alpino on anyway came in to day not standing oh ben you know this the been pine can offer the stomach
flew in her to emerine to see what up turned you know so i kind o be not he began two weeks out of the game to they would my first back in the game first day
back in a game did a machan lifted some weight into the uses yet but oh yeah fully functional all good life and seeing began then the warrior bars coming did
day for either great day oh werry bars on it whereber and don't rotters i back to the sporting the piegan and on your like as that of buthering the potato on
it worry bars on it is supplements i remember back in the day trunkener when i first not first let me few years into lifting you know people till just get
supplements the strange weder supernation paid back waiters and you know all the batignolles a greetin you know eve over the pancreatine get you if ferrei
found that like supplements and milsome no factor doesn't no make a difference like when i was on supplements as like what can her any den of lunch or wait no
more than i would without supposey but point there is supplements or lack in my opinion and when i found out that you focus on the wrong thing on its far
supplementation goes he can be waxel aunt on it do come splashed jocko slashed open the further temperate only get to that and do this as doctor in the outcast
so on it they have the correct supplements and not only the correct supplements the good caught because he supponato have to be anything you don't have to be
yeave chappell delaines your mood and not enough whenever increase in owain whatever but these are liege and one of the few yea and okay so if you want to
supplement something don't get like awake gainers you know to you again late and you can do that in the correct way without supplements this what you
supplement what you know as you were interiour joint you joint don't get much blood flow like a compartments so they tend to get more warner with less like the
first speedy recovery to an ustler quicker than you triforium something simple that that needs some one tation if you're getting at her it creoles lead if a
row and let i can say take crowell it'll help your joints like okay you don't because every commercial or every what arthog we all take this little help this
you need like some contact context and like the information that kind of back said a new that'll be real and this is real not less quiet oil is one of the
supplements that i recommend for i i told the story about how when i get out of bed and be like all jacked up gold my daughter was jump on my back right out of
bed like but you got a warm up for that can to stuff typically but not not more cause i been on the cruel strong bone by the way for your joints is well it's
not strong boonton ran bone yes i don't know the a i don't know the reason aratus don't like that i erlking for it now agen it strong as rejoined in stuff
though when i see too alfaro course so the point behind all this shack shote here's a trim tectosages what it does you the thing i'll think so i i he it makes
you get after it for longer whatever listen the poncas every time researches i monocar fight on the clare okay i've you know what go for it you don't want
elesia ogalala fit to you only i and hoisting or disagree if this is correct or they so i an't ennoyin fic terms just put into perspective so inioni not alone
on a wanton you have not enough of halfbreed is in office terms it otasite ver terms of an eating women you i may tell me constat you come quickly he that can
i let it do like ten miles to jettie runs yes to whatever if i'm not on the text sport by the tropic immune what music works so that it helps you like you lies
oxygen to what that means is when you hit the you know when when you like in a car where it goes to the when your red lining the needles it in the red brow you
can't you can't pull ahead when you're in the red cap belied when you're in the red now that so if you're not assume taking you hit the red and don't be half
way through your work out when you're tenedos heating the red your red lining and eat you can't go past he kept pushed through what the shriek does if you have
that an you that needle won't go towards the red go up there it'll go the green may be even in the yellow and in hanging the yellow and you be pushing our half
way three quarters last you know minute two minutes of the round you won't even be by the radial still be in the yellow tetaheite as agree agree baldassarre so
text or by the far so now the flash jack a wattap signifies if you get temperato god deal i wouldn't say retail price is for suckers i would say that but it's
not true parietal if you want toriest got on it do come and i just get it don't get the temper in off the hundred percent you on the less you at the hotel he
got the worry berenike i don't thing is well looking to that color you i got stuff in my opinion he helps that lie it's not like the batignoles game five
thousand or it doesn't help this is the fur panthan helps understood are to refer good no one but him teeayter body else you love her is like to already know
this i know you you already know this but you know you got to put into perspective sometimes lay you just certainly did on it dot com flashed jocolate things
on there and it's you can just kind know you know when you went aeesthetic crazy for honor i got no anyone like on it i'm going take you like a laborer nice
yet because i do you you like she i would it known this like what i'm saying now oh like beat for cause i'm slowly getting new stuff of course i got the worry
or an i took shrieker i know that but i'm like looking back on a new like recovery a pretty work out and recovery drinks'll in one and i'm like proof i would
ha known all this i would have got anything in the game with this stuff long time ago see you're providing a public sins her ginnistan right now i'm letting
him you know it war good you may come on said a where all tell you another one that had got off the reel i guess it's on their record but it's like a it's not
peanutter you know how they have amendmenter there but it's like a aminta's like a mixed nutanute it's pretty do from on it on it the fear trees semilune of
the major key is that it's like ligitimite getters it off if you want it so halass jack or just got out of a coming get the person of whatever you like you
know another way to support is the amazon flicked through that's like what is if you don't know you go to or website jocopo castoon over on the side to the
right you'll see just basic amazon banner you click through there before i do shopping or persisting or your bidasoa that kind of supports the potassic makes
that mason or amazon gives us like a little kick back that's a good way to support i made the comparison to a little piece of sodium likens like this teeny
tiny thing because it quick is the raison and shopping white fifteen tiny three second effort but it does it ideal you know as far as supporting me the means
we don't have to run advertisements on the pot cast ye re i had which i don't believe i think in a do it not goin to do aside from one wild technically that's
well eastington but is taken on it before this onuella you oh i but you know what cold on a second while we go back commercial break ye no don't want to do
that yet this is an even a partial break visit as far as it is it is the deal were doing it howled on if i throw member the does i'm going to do like a fake
commercials during the next houtcasts or like in aporataeeion fake commercials and on that make every one just suffer can face commercials just to see how much
it it's horrible and then say if you never want to hear that again ariarathes yeah that's a that's a good way o speakin a fat commercial so i did these two fat
commercials made em videos aryavarta beer and then there's part is prime which is like forty out the lot of stratonice no but nonetheless em back to the amazon
click through being at the good with it the port so bevete sodium if you understand em and of course subscribed to the pot gas on a tone that he that a big
deal on and leave a review he if you're in the mood do you read the review at a o i do read the reviews and what i notice i was i was looking at some other
reviews to day as i read i read or refuse to day to see there's any good in but there was good stuff i looked at alter what what this kind of got me motivated
to see is that weevil at right arrives there getting in the game the landing full paragraphs with detailed likes and pros and cons now that you do so other
people's that that have feedback on hers there is just two words good notes or i love it yes i love it five stars is that i love it five stars is a lot
different than some one saying what i really like about the jocolpus is that big on to detail in these leadership elements that it helped me in the following
ways but a negotiate hole thing ye that's really good support prepares i'll tell you this but that because really when you think about it if if you're to slake
and some of them are funny by the way and the answer for jonathan are names on i'm goin to have to figure out what to publish so man who something with a
consumer or all thideric eric was insane but there's been a few of them yet as even i reach weeded punch of him yes so everybody legalite hard to reach item
soeder out a way to reach me tom better but capture screech or something but near so good they're so fun are all of them are pretty words smith as oh some more
long safeties me six minutes to read it and i want to actually high light stuff and take notes anamabu yeah yeah that's it that's a good on the roll it when
you think about it it even if he is some one in the mood to brighter view and they're just like a i great pot captive stars that i do that that's true true
doesn't have to be long but you what that is when people like new or i like about it whatever that's just all that is is the result of some one being in the
mood to write a review and genuinely writing it pricking also could be on riding it i'd said faust getting after getting after it yes i you know you see
unmergeable and all things or is it getting out it in all ordinately her miss medallist on allaraine discipline in all things mean given after the one thing as
i know that's new fiction with it so gemariah review surprisit protonoe wore videos on top of the pocasse excerpts from exter callao on twitterin exert want
series of to figure out what you want just tell em what you want give em the toupet and the times time hack you'll pull out a wooden on thet ye i will yet
that's that's the thing that the challenge anything in going back and find in overinterested talent does not so well tis the it is a little bit because you
might not in something might not struck you the way it strolleth true that's your in so it striking one person of there is probably striking at least on known
before five more petatone your that xerses given to him is that echo pocasse time stamp that will be easy for you right yes now as we don't want to stress you
out or don't tressaillit we know that understandin to that and no one to be disappointed in you except if you're breedy lest a dead and any one that we thought
don't be like hey i like this time stamp because like we said your name on the podasma exidint say that sethos people can can't do that when i i guess for they
should be there listening ah they probably have good input and lands can be like twenty second song in a part where you spend good twenty seconds as fine in a
understand i felt people want to watch stuff to win as iconography don't want a watch twenty nine minutes it's a talent exert joliet a store we do have a star
felt jackass door elaine already mines but well no real new developments there really but if you didn't know that is a good way to support any of gets some
stuffing return to bombast if you're down if you like him this one's jackass face on it said good ackward backwards so if you look in the mirror it's it's for
you that message is for you layers one yet to look at the day's brash guard there ashore for you know that you get for any physical activity where you need
arrange a motion rushed they look at two according to people he was a tip for the resort and i think for the shirts as well if you're one of those in
betweeners like that in your sight like a hay i use i war a large but if it fits slim i need actual are like that kind o people it fits like this much sliver
know that so if he rashly to enter everything restored and the shirts go big gold to the bigger sight if you're on between adria for sure he's just a tip
goosie cause the end that's good news for you though you know what out of the past thirty nine minutes you've been talking about this way to sport the
pocassett was the most important thing that you say at that was the valuable festivation arguably yet just an over her i respect your hand the manner is so
women stuffed too don't neglect the ladies ah this is in my opinion something that i overlooked you want to support the boat you know at you know like all my
girls birthdays coming up in this case christmas coming up i only bought my wife one thing and it was it wasn't that good cause i don't have that creative to
if you think o that get them a discipline equal freedom women thirt veek pink or black or odether the collie but there is pinking one of that against my that's
a that ll have a two prone to fat boy get her a solid shirt that you didn't you know get at the swanee quality said the other good shirts you know we made a
point to get the good un got a good quality shirt and she became instantly in the game so frontest get that breath you want not to suggest it and three
promotes a part the pocasset's somebody's in there is well for the cold weather and oh yes some patches the official like two baeren sd flat dark earth colour
ficial where with your uniform bone available all as they say in your suffusion also at jaca white tea now jocolate t is in apparently extremely high even why
is its awesome and it also makes you feel good and it's got fantoccini you makes you healthier yes and innocents any scientific turns is going to tell you is
dipinto it's been it's been in eight aman we have would just acuisse right straight up so it shall we not be amazon it's getting going through their system
just keep checking an we've got at a i told i do every one that we were never run out of white this is a mistake i promptly i did not understand the logistic
challenges that we would be facing now i have not even doubled down and not even tripled down i have dropped down to make the future bright we will get to a
point in if future where we will literally never run out a jocolate but for now we for now am he check back on ameanin up to the notification thing because
when we when they clear it through their little system a shows up and every one that he has the notification is binding immediately so it's running out the
other day it was up for eighteen minutes or something he was gone we would not get out the naaman but ye you can sign up for notify me when this is back in
stock in at also when that happens boom you can order to mediately the mugs the mugs that say get after it all then and that have a little approved symbol with
some one's head that looks a long likely on it you can get those on him as on his well and their big here bigger than normal because you gore that way you can
sit more white tea in it and be more better and you can get those those are also saint thing on am was on again i apologize but the way this is the mark their
coming in they show up in the may and then they take a certain amount of im put them into the system that then they don't realize yet an amazon immondes
they're not be game yet to be quite honest with you they're not in the game they don't nurse than what's happening we're trying to explain it to him that
people want mugs they want when they want mugs they also want tea to put into the mugs were getting there same thing logistical will get to a point where we
were we will and not ronan's now i do know the mugello making forever i don't know because santerne has one the no say okay i got mine so than most of making
him but you can get him on him as on you can get the ton him as on you can get the reload which is a hundred bags you can get the ten which is quality
container that you can then reloaded with the reload so do that that's on him as on dockhouse extreme ownership muster number two in where new york city is
going to be made for and may fifth w w w doric stream ownership dot com go get registered do it fast the price does go up the close we get to the date so a i
don't want you to pay more be it's going to sell out so the faster you do it the the better chance you have of going and of pain a low price when we get there
if you're thinking that i'm not going to sit there and talk to you and i'm not goin to sign your book and lay not on sit there and talk to your lifelong both
you're wrong we are going to sit there were going to sign your book with a talk to you in a dress your problems were going to hang out we didn't go behind the
curtain and all meierites actually we didn't want when the thing was over we walked back off staff of the of the stage and behind the curtain for about three
minutes as we were a little bit fired up at that point which is to walk back there him decompressed the came out startide books that's one time but the rest
the time oh is there cavernae up a ten minute break we'd go to the front and signboard booretta people or address something or whatever so this is a a thing
where you go and we're going to be a youwhipping out like on a rock staring not a rock starent oi'm not nothing and to my purpose of being here is to hang out
so that's why we want to master that's why we having the muster so coming to mister new york city come and hang out you got to learn something i'm going to
learn something we're all going to learn something and you on to me a bunch of people better i hate usenet but be at a like minded fricase really can do mines
be alike no they can't be but can to people free people three hundred four hundred and fifty people that are be now kit that i want to get after it can they be
there yes they can then they will even first until we get to the master in the mean time if you want to talk to us the gestohlen that we are all lepinette what
twitter on instar and as you might have sensation that faith bookkeeping is at achochre and i am at jackall and trappistine you follison thank you from
listening for the past year fifty two straight weeks no breaks but i want to say this i'm going to tell you something else then i want to make this clear don't
justless don't just listen do i'm i'm not just talking so you know i'm not just talking i'm doing in on a want you to just listen put this information to work
make to day count every day go forward get aggressive and attack whether it's on the battle field or on the bee or in factory or on the farm or on the
construction site or on the website in the garage or in fire house don't hesitate step step forward and get after it so until next time this is echo and jocko
old
