this is jacopo asked number fifty three we at charles and me jackwell goeing acho good even at what point do you quit at what point do you give in i appoint do you surrender and
want is it that makes you surrender the enemy at hunger thirst better cold who are these men that the side that they will not surrender no matter what what will what human will do
they have that they decide they are going to fight on no matter what they face well i will tell you these men are men there human beings like you like me human beings at the side
the are going to fight on despite being surrounded by the enemy despite the hunger and the danger and the thirst and the bitter cold they decide they will not surrender we can
find examples of these men throughout history but one of the foremost examples comes from the corean warm in late november and intermitter of nineteen fifty when thirty thousand
un troops mostly american were surrounded by a hundred and twenty thousand communist chinese forces in these americans were attacked attacked by the enemy and attacked by the the
bitter freezing cold and attacked by hunger and fear and yet day would not and they did not surrender for coniere going to hear from a lieutenant in the united states marine cord
joseph are a win who served as a mortar section commander for baker company first battalion seventh marinere gement first marine division in his book which is called colder than
hal then the book starts off with one of the best short over views of the corean war i ever read likely because it's written by a man who was there a man named general raymond
davis ray davis who first of all he was a metalanim nder in world war two at the battle elaborated the navy cross there too leading his men against overwhelming japanese fire and
in korea he was aware the melon as well was to silver stars a legion of merit they end apron star as the commander of first potation seventh marines and beyond that he also served
as the third maine division commander in vietnam and nineteen sixty nine where he was awarded the navy distinguished service medal and three republican vietnam gallantry crosses
so when he speaks i think maybe we should listen and a retort with that forward by general davis in the book colder and hell by joe owen twice in nineteen fifty during the first
month the creen war the united states faced a military catastrophe both situations occurred because of american errors of diplomacy and faulty intelligence and because our
military was not prepared to meet a determined enemy on the battle field north korea and china were the enemies that exploited our failings on two occasions that year they
conspirers launching mass of attack first against our allies south korea and that against our own inadequate forces both times the consequences were devastating there were tragic
numbers of casualties in the ranks of our soldiers and marines and american prestige world wide was severely impaired the surprised invasion of south korea y north drea with the
support of communist china in the soviet union was virtually invited by the united states in the south coreans south korea was vulnerable he at soldiers were ill aquite poorly
trained and improperly deployed the american forces at that time victims of washington politics and false economies were nearly as bad off following the end of world war two
drowned drawdown they were in skeletonized formation sad be under trained and inadequately equiped so there's a little warning for us to day the unentombed somebody asking that
question what's your form policy can you say it a hundred forty characters some he asked me that untoward i answered it in one word of my fort and policy is strength this is why
back to the book moreover our secretary of state had proclaimed to the world that the corean peninsula was outside the area of american vital interests north korea china in the
soviet union read that message to me that the united states would not defend south korea against outside aggression south korea would be theirs for the taking we now know of
messages exchanged between joseph stalin and the north korean president came ill song that explored or weakness and concluded that south korea could be caption in five days
subsequently the north koreans launched a sudden and massive invasion soul the north green capitals quickly taken and soon all that country was overrun except for one small pocket
around the port of poison that pocket was formed by american troops on ready as they were that present harry tremenhere into crean response the crisis at great sacrifice these
american soldiers when he follow on bidiane's held the preesoner long enough to love forces to assemble furnace and thibault on injun behind the north korean lines we recaptured
soul and the north koreans were put on the run fearing entrapment they fled back across their border to the north america in south corean troops were joined by soldiers from other
united nations countries and pursued the aggressors deep in the north korea our mission was to fold tockus the north koreans and to block the chinese peoples liberation army if it
threatened to enter the war because of a failure of intelligence however we were far too late to deter the chinese they had already positioned vast numbers of their well trained
soldiers in the mountains of north korea we were soon under heavy attack fighting a new meric we superior enemy in unfavorable train and blumpudy cold weather the un forces
predominantly american were chased out o north korea at the chosen were as of war where we were outnumbered ten to one the chinese generals prematurely boasted of the destruction
of the first marine division yet the opposite happened there although the marines were forced to withdraw we destroyed several chinese divisions as we fougeray to the sea and to
escape or withdraw was a successful one but we paid a terrible price casualties reduced and the vision to nearly half its strength the three rifle companies at first batalion
seventh marine regiment which i was privileged to command in durdles of even greater proportions my batalion had been hastily activated in response to president thomaner ent call
the action it was a throne together rifle company a collection of regulars gathered from the rincon stations all over the world and reserved mostly untrained who were suddenly
called from their homes jobs scrolls with only a few days of training they were embarked aboard a ship heading across the pacific and thrown into combat they had to learn to fight
while under fire their saving grace was that they were led by dissapint officers and enos who showed them by up front example how to fight like marines although they suffered
casualties that proper preparation would have avoided they learned well and they hardened into fine rifle company no north korean chinese force ever stop them from taking it
objective or overcame their position let us do all we can to assure that no future generation of young americans need to go to war unprepared as were those heroes who went to
caria in nineteen fifty and again that is the ford of the book which was written by general ramon davis metaline winter and like i said the book is written by joe orangish owen
who was marineros and let's continue on and now we start hearing from joan there at camp lion north carolina nobody i can't live uninspected a shooting war we nor we were ready
for one so there they're there an they're discinae time peace time marines you know kind of doing our thing and all of a sudden the north greenstick in and here with a we go there
all sitting around listened to radio a bunch of marines the announcer continued more than two thousand americans military advisers and civilian workers and their families are said
to be in the path of north koreans surprise aggression their fate is unknown at this time american involvement in the new war is not clear war a reposit of american marines in a
combat roll excited us so these guys are on not all them there is there's there's definitely runrunrun world war two veterans but the young kids they don't know they want to get
after it their their fired up they're so fired up back to the book one story alleged that a command a force of volunteers was forming up for the mediate commitment to battle that
one tied up foinds on the base as we tried to track down the come tendo headquarters in order to volunteer there already trocero now then they start seeing what what's beginning
to occur they see that were surrounded they see that we're kind of getting that the north renare getting the best if not rounding back to the book americans at home were stoned by
reports that dare army the conqueror of the mighty germany and japan only five years before was out numbered out gunned and out for by the up start north koreans general mc carter
called for a full division of marines to help him turned back the north koreans the marine cordelled the call but we did not have a full division to put in the field like all the
services the core had been stripped of men and weapons in order to reduce itself to the level of the nineteenth thirties both the first and second marine divisions were less than
half strength the corn would need to draw men from guard detachments ships companies and post and stations throughout the world but it still wouldn't find enough truth to fill a
division president truman thus authorized the common on of their rancours their call up the reserves so the it was again this orning as a nation and an e as an individual human
don't let down your guard peace time will not last and the weaker you look the sooner the peace time will end now they get the order stand by the ship out on the saturday evening
before we left camplaine dorothy so that joe's wife to her he hired a baby sitter and we went to the officers club for dinner there were candles out of our table which was covered
in white linen and set with heavy silver where the food was delicious plentiful and i would think about it often and corea when my men and i were hungry and cold that night
dorothy's hair glistened like gold in the candle light and her eyes smiled bright and blue and warm we danced and laughed with the other lieutenants and their wives for some of
the couples are closest friends it was the last night they would ever have together so they depart leon and the show up that can't enticin and they get to camp penline we will
well talk more about this but campanelli a believing in an some coast of california and there's some pretty agressive halls in calificacion which i have spent many nights on cause
we would work up there and ah they they can they can turn some soft men in the same hard men pretty quickly more break men if their two week so back to the book are ranks were
filled by two hundred and fifteen men and seven officers who had never before served together half of our listed men were infantry traying regulars the other half were reserves
most of whom were youngsters who knew knew little of marine infantry and its methods methods five weeks after we first formed up a camp pendelton we went into vitai st north
korean soldiers who were dug into a hill north of soul and we had spent half of that time on board ship on the way to war so let me break that down to you they have five weeks so
five weeks from when they form up five weeks later there attacking north korean troops so just fiiteen that's going to iraq we to work up for a full year visit after we went
through selrain afterward to see qualification training and after all the guys shoved the team and go to special schools and any get formed up into tunayulef able work up to
prepare and and the ricardos this to me the army every one does this now that the amount of preparation at it takes to prepare for combat and here these guys five weeks all which
we was it half that time i spent on a ship to sailing over unbelievable back to the book the sun scorched hills of camp pendleton had over the years tuffin the legs and tested the
spirits of thousands of america's best fighting men one of those towering hills loomed across the road from our training sight so again you want to get tough gianone hills with
the ruck sack on your back in that that will do it to you and i guess i kind of included for those little sections about campanelle for my own pleasure thinking about those hills
back to the book or go huge putabit rough the straining and there getting ready to deploy and we'll go back to book now dorothy took seventy five dollars of our scamp resources
and both an air line ticket from syracuse to san diego each night after we had dismissed the troops bill an i has a bill graver he's another one the officers billie up caught a
ride to the hotel restaurants in the little village of saying comment were closed that lake but dorfe witout a cold supper waiting for me then we would stroll to the beach and
listened to waves crash across the sand during those walks we talked about the babies and we made plans for my return from corea my next to simon i sure her would give us at least
two years at a good duty station may be i would be seen your nough for us to rate decent quarters in the mornings early that still dark built graver and i would ravaudan camp with
the other officers every one except the drivers slept all the way crowded against each other and the tight seats of the car we were very tired but we were young men and we did
dearly love our beautiful wives then you're gone see throughout this book that even though his wife was not with him she was with him to olden like many spouses are when guys are
to poe overseas and now they are on board the ship the ship is getting ready to pull out the san diego bay back to the book the wives remained on the dock long after we had gone
aboard the skirl of bagpipes sounded as we waved to them pastime killin able company stood on the fantail of the oak in agin and his bag plegs filled the fading afternoon with the
marines him handkerchiefs fluttered from the dock and the ship's horn blasted we were under way there were tears but marines and marine wives are ashamed of tears when there him
plays so now there heading over to korea barencourt rs an done a couple uh deployments on board ships and theirs in fabia ships is what they're called and these ships were meant
to take people overseas to the ones that i depot on war when what drove us what drove soldiers to vietnam we used to deploy on lochias for six months but it's just really cramped
you know their baser basically like a cattle car a giant cattle car cattle ship and they just packed one on there that really tight and ah there's not much to do on her but you
know you take a bunch of reins to put him on a ship and they figure something else back to the book staff sergeant rich revealed himself to be an all purpose and co and an
acquisition specialists one day he produced a set of boxing gloves and the men of baker won seven immediately became abbot pugilist for three exuberant round though the delight of
the company the little bull a pipal and the little grilla lupicina engaged in mutual annihilation when sergeant richard claimed his mess gear to end a brawl the troops and much of
the ship's crew were in a cheering frenzy had had been a grand fight both men were covered in blood and bruises bruises and at the final clang they wrapped arms and leaned against
each other exhausted my moreman swarmed into the square pulling by folk with congratulations perkins who had been holding by forks glasses placed them carefully over his swollen
eyes i saw burst then gently guided by folk out of the ring ginory lupicinus breton sergeant followed with his men and baker one seven was still whistling and cheering when the
two fighters and their handlers went through the hatch and down the latter to sick bay joe her saba stood next me so goat joke or sob is one of a ton commanders stood next to me
this outfit has come in together he said joe rarely smiled but there was a big grin on his face after that fight so there's you you notice that in these stories about combat
wrestling fighting boxing there is something to it there is something to it that bonds man together fact back to the book when we weren't on deck with a troops the officers spent
the waking hours around the wardroom table of the worriments where the officers eat captain wilcox of the introduction introduction to captain wilcox he's the company commander
and ease of that from ijima captain wilcox let us and refuse the principles and lessons of the of rifle company combat he in joe he saw a use their own battle experience as
experiences at as illustration they focused on the cookham bat and how the best laid plans always decent to grated under enemy fire that's why we got to keep our plan simple war
is hell captain wilcox who had much experience at it would tell us but you never know what particular kind of hell it is going to be we studied the after actions report that it
come for the fifth marines and north koreans they in faced were tough skilled fighters every bit as tenacious in battle as the japanese had been in the bitter pacific island
fighting of the last war the red soldiers fifth reins called them books were well trained in russian style of combat with effective use of supporting or moors and artillery they
were men who also were adept at night fighting fighting at night was a combat skill we had yet to learn we would do so under fire and at a terrible cost so joan is actually he's
not a platoon commander he is a ether mortar section commander so in a company of that call it two hundred but two hundred marines there is multiple trifle potions may be forty
eyes fifty guys in each one of those rifles and in there's a little section of mortgages and mortars are in direct fire weapons so for those either don't onything about mortars
mortress shoot roused that there estimees there a tube there manical a tube and there at really high angle and the andropogons into an they fire at a very high attitude and high
angle and they dropped down from straight above and hit targets and so so joloans companies in charge of the mortar section back to book when baker went seven was still on the
weight of war the first and fifth marines forced a landing across the title flats and in john harbour the radio in the ship's wardroom was tone to the tactical net and we listened
to commanders on the beach as they reported the action to their senior ashlands and made call for air and artillery support and ammunition re supply over the static and crackling
transmission we could hear shells exploding small arms fire battle field curses and the streams of wounded men the transmissions were piped out on to the deck with the troops also
listened to the grim sounds i left the wardroom and went out to be with my mortemed they sat in a tight cluster staring intently at a loud speaker as they heard the war that was
about to swallow us that's real introduction right there you're you know you're going award you get to listen to guys on the ground in a fierce fire fighting her shouts and
screams of the wounded that's a reality that's a reality check right there for those guys so at this point a on he he kind o wants to pick up a poltoon instead of being the mortar
section he kind o feels like moresco you know they're a little bit in the rear and he wants to be a right to come in if you if you remember what mat allen said i that the last
book we did about the green war and you know a rifle command a rifle then come and to ride through the matter that's what the hour gone ho that's what you want to do and so
jolande feels kind o like me i wish i was at dooneses rifleman der that's what i want to do but he's a mortsen commander okay that's fine will he tries to get that job and he says
as he kind of pressing to get that job up the chain i command i should have backed off i plowed on sir the word is that the first and fifth rains are running short on lieutenants
i like to request transfers replacement the captain turned the can first sergeant if you will excuse us i like a word alone with lieutenant owen yes sir responded canso kinda gets
rid of the senior listed guy he knew i was about to get beamed and smirked at me as he disappeared behind the pile of crates captain wilcox gave me that glare once again you want
transfer out a baker one seven sir he oh it's only that i want to put my train us ouse before the fighting ends and to hell with your men to hell with the company as a right
lieutenant no sir captain it's just that it is it you want to jump ship on us the skipper's face glistened with pressed perspiration and he turned into a steaming red he'd been
angry with me before but never like this sir i okay within it fevered you put your request for transfer and writing it all forward in approved no sense holding back a gun how hot
shot and second lieutenant sir it's not that i want to leave the outfit it's just that i i thought that put your question writing that's all ieutenant dismissed sir i dismissed so
that you typical typical will meet ball that thinks he's got a the you know you just been gone home trio make something happen yet not a not a good way to be and you can see that
so that's another thing to you as think about of the people's perspective right you think about your bosses perspective your bosses sitting here trying to get this company
together and then one of his section leaders are lord whose world in kanarese what is meat meal o sorry that's just an expression for its expression for a new galanthus you'll
team span meat ball or meat stick or half in any one of those can be utilized a fine so i guess i threw it on on the the new guy here i tied a slip out of it now they get on shore
in back to the book we passed a company of fire the talian that had been pulled off the line the men were sprawled along the road unshaven and ragged wearied by days of fighting
so as another another little wake up call seeing the guys that are coming off the line now they get into position spaker six moved forward out captain wilcox ordered when we all
reported ready as we started across the bean field we were greeted by a fusilade of flacking sounds north cream bullets tearing through the bean plants black black lack all around
us i kept an eye on my men they crouched low but they stayed together and moved to head then the cry corman god in it a few feet from me a marine from cider but to ride on the
ground his hands clutching his belly grayish red intestines pushed through his fingers and blood stain the ground as he thrashed about screaming in his pain and terror for the
first time i felt the shivers of dread the awful fear that comes with combat i froze a second how how many seconds until i once again became aware of the flacking sounds in the
bean plants and i yelled at the men moving you people keep moving they bent lower to the ground as we went forward the north korean mortars came spouts of earth and black smoke
leaped about us laced with flame and screaming shrapnel the leaves from being plants fun in flurries and the ground shook i was suddenly in the midst of a frenzied storm of noise
mortars whistled and crash bullets wind and leaves tracked men shouted prayers and blastoidea bean field was the dyke of a rice patty we headed for its cover a string of mortar
shells exploded around us and a man threw himself to the ground kicking and screaming can't take is a kid take tis screeched the fierce stricken marine then he curled up himself
into a feedle ball i ran to him and prodded him with a butt of my car been on your feet his head was buried in his arms cinaedus he wailed get up hrossholt you the sound of the
words coming from my mouth was unreal to me jesus don't shoot me the man wind tears cut pale streets through the dust on his cheeks as he stared in horror my car being which was
inches from his face i grabbed the man by his collar and pulled him up to his feet move i yelled sergeant dale from the first patoon ran toward us i got him lieutenant teaser my
croton dale said so this fear that you can see joe in his feeling fear and is dealing with it and this other young marines feeling fear he is not dealing with it then they they
finally get to that dikers the field back to the book i crawled up the dike to pervert the top smoke obscured my view but far ahead and across the road i detected some movement
the enemy positions were difficult to locate no flash came from their weapons when they fired i raised my binoculars before i could focus on the target however a flurry of bullet
pelted the dike and spurts of pebbles and dirt stung my face i jerked my head back down and cover beside me a rifleman tumbled away from the dike he made a choking sound and his
helmet bounced to the ground blood gushed from his head which suddenly became a wet crimson pulp another wave of fear shuddered through me a massive paralyzing force again i froze
aware only of that blood drenched face and head captain wilcox cracking crackled out of my backyarnder five this is six come in the voice snapped me from my paralysis maker six
this is five come in six i was scrambling back up the dike i knew the skipper wanted the sixties the sixties are his mortar sixty more memories to bear on the north koreans who
had us under fire did those guns crying up five over roger at six i said at the radio on the double sergeant wing its gun was a few yards away behind the dike and a crawled over
to get in front of it stand by for eighty five mission i called a wing it number one gun standing by eighty five mission the staunch wing it called back with all the will i could
must ride forced my head above the dyke by nocuere the terror of having my head blown off to a pulp was diminished by fear of losing the respect of my men so there's a couple of
things there he vermes he trained how you fight what they go back to is the fundamental that they practised and trained and weeding good dog too much in the training but if you
ever if you ever seen marines in the field with his actinometer i haven't seen army is i'm sure there oceangreen you see them marines setting up a morter for five mission it's
beautiful it's a beautiful thing and necessaty what it's like even in even in the nineties you know forty years after after the korean war when i would watch them the mortemed up
a mortise it was just like that to be saved by a fine mission and then you know one of the sergeant call out number one gun standing by eighty five mission you go back to your
train and these fundamental basic that you learn the simple commands that's what you go back to that's why you train that's why you use repetition so when that fear comes up you
go back to what you know your instinct becomes instead of cowering your instinct becomes to do what you trained out on de back to the book all along the dykes or marines were
sprawled head below the edge the cormon had moved their wounded alongside the road waiting for the ambulance gets the meat wagons to come up there were two bodies face covered by
ponchos they were baker one seven first killed in action the caister's makers a company at their on the youth to keep her furnace one seven first italian baker company back to the
book someone said won't be nothing left up there by the time the arar tillery gets it so what's going on here as they call in some some big gun some big or sixty momentous small
and you start calling in how it sirs big giant bombs are coming from the sky ah that's what so they call some of those in and you know you're sitting here said he watching the
mountain where these were these north koreans aren't there seem to mathefelon and so now back to the book someone said wo won't be nothing left of them up there by the time that
our tory left up stated sergeant richard the company armeris crouched near us don't folly yourself he said artillery never wipes out the goats softens them up and keep their head
down but they'll be there waiting when the guns let up so noteless on we learned a lot about you know you think you think that no one could survive something indeed to survive it
if we we used to when we were running training we had the the hume would be shooting blanks straining to the humes beat big fifty caliber machine yon and each blanks into a
building and then the guys in the building would come and she back at them and the guyandot the training that selsbee you a week we shot a bunch of fifty cow an there those guys
wouldn't be alive and you know i would say only they will be alive they will be alive cause i've seen it and those fifty cows there on all some weapon but there's a guy two rooms
deep inside that building you can shoot all those rounds in there he's going to be okay and his son as you let up is on to be there shooting back and you nice same thing with
obviously with the big artillery and the north koreans are dug in i scrambled to my feet keep moving the men were all up and they ran after me bent under the weight of their guns
and amended as the hall out of her some one cried and so wolde they do they attack so when your pin down it is another example when your pin down attack and here's what it looks
like back to the book to have kinder squads moved up and short bounds while a third laid a base of fire cover move your sycomore all throughout this book and every time we bring
it up on the aventine as i want to make sure everyone at listening to those folks that are in the military you hear it every single time this is the first one of many two of cider
squaws moved up in short bounds while a third laid a base of fire the first fifty yards when easily then the north koreans popped out of cover and took us under fire suddenly the
ground before us was scathed with torn of bullets mortars whistle thin and explode the long cord kaiser's line our men corman so if you don't know a cornassack in the inarm at
emetic in the navy it's callicoon and navy coran are the ones that go in to play with the marine corps as made so that's what you hear those those corn and calls that's what it is
gorman corman came a despairing wail and top alert step from prone position and ran toward the wounded man as enemy bullets spurted round him beside me another man went down with
a grunt then did not move fear slammed my got once more and i was flat on the deck nichols was down there with me what do you want to do tenant nichols plump young fatface
streaked with dirt and sweat showed the same fear that had me in its terrible grip jesus the boy depends on me i forced my head up that's a go classic what do you want to do
lieutenant i was as i think i might talk about this but i was in when i was in true lock and i was a young kid and there was all those guys that were hard core combat veterans and
one of the captains army captains again threaten or be captain in bittonto huns of combat and i was talking of a trinitarian formation about war because i hadn't been in any and
even in a tone he's a wounded and trapping on his face and i'm talking to you know what about it and he said you know when you're in the war he was it's pretty easy to take care
of yourself take your yourself like i said if i was in a warm if i would we were in a firefight if i just had to take care of myself i'd be okay but when you're in charge of every
one is totally different and now the sudden you got people saying what do you want us to do lootenant's the pressure which i i will never forget him done in that story and that's
a great example of the right there sure he scared the scared but he's got a morterfied for them to wait for him to tell him what to do to save them now we get into estudiante ant
lee whose at shines so merican guide very by the book and very hard corner play by lieutenant lee we can at least came upon baldwin's gone sir i think we should move this done
baldwin said to his intendant it's kicking up dust you have a good position here baldwin responded lieutenant le i'll sell you to handle the dus probably opened up his canteen and
walked around the machine gun sprinkling precious water as he went now fire off a burst ordered le machine gun fired but raised no dust lieutenant le walked on up the hill
ignoring enemy bullets that had around him moving forward a little bit a lee called by folk did down were getting shot at by folatrent les attention lieutenant dashed to where by
folk was hugging the ground you would dress me as lee he asked standing over the astonished young marine jesus a get down your drawing fire you on your feet demanded ly bullets
zip to the year punctuating the bizarre scene of a lieutenant bracing a peace to attention in the midst of a fire fight you call me lieutenant le or sir you understand that marine
yes ned yes yes sir stammered by folk wishing that he were in a very deep fox that you never forget that understand now carry on said the lieutenant and he proceeded to walk
further up the hill seemingly oblivious to the enemy fire what the hell thought by folk and he got up to walk behind ly the rest of the motor squaw arose and followed so leg i
said lee is by the book and that's an extreme example i don't think i necessarily agree with the sample either but leave it all blind and maybe there was much danger as a as he
thought but in stilling that discipline he's giving no slack back the book while the mortars obscured the enemies view van winkle moved his people up so yet the borders dropping
fire and not lousened moves people that's called covering moved by the way nearing the top of the ravine hand kiser position his assault squareall a braggin des into the enemy
positions as soon as the mortals left it she got three situations you've got the mortars are going in that's the first cover then once the mornes left there going to progress
that's your second cover the alcarias for the marine machine guns filled in with riflemen on the line of a soul ready to charge up the last few yards of ground lee was with them
bayonet fixed to the top of his car been the mortars fired fired a final borage their explosions were followed by the sharper in back of grenades thrown at enemy holes shouts and
war cries swelled from charging marines who leaped bayonets pointed into the enemy positions that were dug in along the face of the ridge some of the north koreans stood to fight
their bannets also fixed but they were cut down others scurried over the hill many were shot from behind as they tried to escape we all knew had been a far from perfect exercise
some of the men had been slow to respond to direction not all over orders were clear enough for quick and effective fire and movement we were fortunate that the enemy had not
chosen a fight to the death defenses hill as they would have advanced as they would would we advance further north so think about this point not all of her orders were clear
enough for quick and effective fire movement these not even blaming the gods he knows that the mistake was that they weren't being simple clear concise with their orders and that
makes everything flag back to the book on we had nearly reached the top captain wilcox pushed weavers buttonhole kaisers for the final assault but to insurging king led the charge
and we could hear his piercing rebel yells all over the hill once again it was a ragged performance orders confused in the hellish noise men who bunched close together and some
who hesitated to risk the move against enemy fire however clumsy we were though we had the fundamentals right the engis directed their sectors of fire the fire teams went forward
in bounds covering each other as they project progressed and our machine gun and order fire stayed a head of the advance and kept the enemy heads down at the that's what that's
what small you to act exarticulated move covered move now there digging in some some night defences and because their these peaks i mean a huge mountainous terrage steep cliffs
they end up disaggregated across the battle fillson they're not right next to each other because its valleys between em back to the book we had we had to set her own isolated
perimeters and we couldn't tirfing to the other companies for mutual support the same held true for attack almost always the battalion was channeled channeled attacking some with
the one company one hillaton this sort of isolated fighting made it difficult to communicate with battalion and other companies that problem was not solved much of the time we
company level officers were on our own initiative decentralized comment dis decentralise comments imagine as you can't talk to me talian there is a hill that cut your radio signal
you have to be after no at the intense of the operation and you've to be out there ready to raid execute on your own to the best your bility underneath the commanders intent back
to the book i learned how to deflect the fear after the first jolt evit which came with the initial shock of coming under fire i would force myself upright and attempt to read the
situation before the skipper's voice came crackling out of the walke talking one i had rammed myself into action the fierce subsided it never completely went away though so people
asked this all a time how we can overcome fear and what did he do to overcome fear he forced himself into action didn't wait you start feel that fear go go get up take a look at
that situation try analyze it and and in his own clock when he made for himself a time or that he made for himself with amadain of accesses situation before the boss calls me so
that's the time we put on himself that that force to into action so we say this over over again you are afraid of something step into it take action don't wait back to the book
there was no deflecting the confusion that i came with every fire fight the will during patterns of noise and grotesque stems exploded all around men screamed in rage and pain and
fear swarms of bullets wind and splattered close by the mortar's blasted hurled flames and slices of steel and raised clouds of greasy black smoke the sparing voices yelled gorman
and some one would surely call what do we do lieutenant in the turmoil the oficers in sergeants made themselves visible and we shouted orders watch your sector for new vatber on
me or poachin on penacook three hundred yards we subdued the fear and showed the men that we were in command and of talked about this one before too i thought all time otoo
explain everybody wise you got explain to wife you wanderfoot be alyattes the plan with you and you want to be there plan you up into take ownership and then i also say that when
you have a critical situation you aslide and that's what he talking about right here you have to lead and that's what they do they would give these to orders simple clear direct
orders of what to do in this situation and show the men that they were in command back to the book we could have alleviated some of the confusion of her walking talkies it worked
in that as advertised the hand held to a radios were supposed to transmit and receive up to a mile in distance we found that they rarely functioned over a hundred yards never over
on even to rain we tarried them because they were all we had but we had little face in them instead just like front line military leadership throughout history we relied a
linealist communications are man hand signals and we sent runners back and forth in notice first five days of combat i learned to stay visible and i learned the value of a good
runner the north koreans used a whistles and bugles for babette command more effective by far than our walk takes and a huge proponent of verbal commands and the icicles told the
story of untonsured is he's trying to tell his guys what to do of the radio and i said he lay give him verbal commands and cause in geyserite when you're working there is this
weird there's everyone talking on the radiotime noise and so there not responding but when you give a verbal command in the seaweeds in the military you get trained that if i tell
echo plight you are going well you hear that your instinct and your training tell ye to repeat that command so your nepete the next person when at her there on a repeated so every
one repeats the verbal command the when you see verbal command that take on the radio like detaining you have got it in initialing but in all at relateing he is telling and so the
the radio just sometimes you know an art a radios are infinitely better than these radios and even while i was in the radio pomate vast improvements and by the yet by the time i
retired the rates were pretty damn good but there are times if the radio is not working you got to go with the verbal commands and you that on you got a train you've got to train
for the verbal train without radio so bunch i was not as a take her is off make sure i do oreithuia going to go if there communication neces down you've got to have that back up
communication plan all the time now here we are in another one other fire fight the space by a massive book of fireflies back to the books the north koreans disappeared into the
deep ditch that ran along we other side of the road they were moving in a garenton and we dove for the iron ditch to ned's flew toward us the land and wide there was a machine gun
up a head however i couldn't locate it and it started and i started to fire down on us i tossed two grenades in the ditch where the north koreans were concealed and told burst
have his men crawl up call craver a clump of boulders twenty paces away when the squat in its mortare in i told nicholas to go for it we were crouched together but nickel by as
nickles turned to crawl away a bullets speared his chest and threw him backward against him against me his blood spattered by dungeree boy made a terrible rattling sound and then
was still his teen age face expressionless burs watched horrified and i waved him back when he began to crawl towards us then i took a deep breath pressed myself flat to the
ground and crept rapidly away from the ditch i left nickelsen me where he had died harsh fire fights and they they they wrap up this they keep taking their objectives there taking
along casualties and this section hers after the fight is over back to the book we grew silent thinking of our families i took the snap shots from the webbing inside my helmet and
remembered their images one by one then i thought about the days next mission and reviewed the fighting we had done that day i tried to blank out the blood screams men killing
each other and dying the ground exploding burst of flame and stabbing tracers a hot smell of weapons at full on a madic the stench of guts and feces oozing from a dead marine and
the shuddering fear and they continue pushing the pushing north and there on one of these patrols adding north and will go back to the book through my binoculars i saw a bearded
old corean emerge from one of the huts paason we called these grandpas who wore traditional garb of high black top hat and flowing white robes the old fellow stood before his door
way watching the wildered as weapons laden marines pass through his village crack went braine carbine only a few inches from me and you old man fell the ground the tall black hat
fell beside him got the bastard exclaimed brannic his carbine was still up surging for another target god damned fool i yelled astonished at the murderous act without thought i
slam the but of my own carpet in the brain et ribs grain extreme with pain and went down to the ground rising i stood over him poised to deliver another but stroke god damned fool
i screamed again as right came from behind me and held my arms wing it was with right and pulled my car being away hold it lieutenant right shouted in my your hold it what the
hell happened you see what he did i screamed i'll kill the the torski the cornet was already kneeling beside vranic he snapped the seed of morphine and jabbering i never to
control myself deep breaths okay sergeant i said and right released his hold the men were circling looking from me to bring a they were silent got damon he shot that old man for
nothing i yelled through the pain brainard i thought he was a god damn goo aanaware an ef you seen what happened wingate the men no one responded no witness is right said softly
to me whatever happened nobody saw anything the realization hit me no one except me at witness brain excuting that old man but there's someone had seen me hit brain i could be
subject to a court martial for striking in listed man no witnesses write said again no one saw anything this stays in the mortars i heard some one say meaning were just going to
keep this amongst ourselves yes i'm one else responded the stays with us there was a murmur of assent shall i move them out lieutenant right asked yes sergeant i answered numbly
moved them out the morphine not yet taken his effect on braine he ground his teeth together to hold back cries of pain and he re scared i bent over him and said you know you and i
know what happened breniere going to have to live with it braincon in his head he said nothing but blinked his tear filled eyes and nodded his head take care of him dock then i
went to catch up at the mortemain i walk past the old man's hut a circle of women and children surrounded the body crying their sorrow and old woman caught my eye i'm sorry i said
although she wouldn't understand my words were all very sorry it madness in gin you young military leaders out there you've got a watch you people and you got to give them good
commanders in ten they got onderstand they got onderstand what's right and what's wrong anathoth come from you now at this point in the book and again obviously i'm not reading
the entire book but you all should so you can capture being that's in between but i'm jumping forward a little but here they get relieved by the army they moved to the rear and
they started getting word on what they're going to be doing that the book under the glare of the lantern captain wilcox spread a map on the hood and we jostled for a view massias
part of war were scarce this is the first one we had seen of the country beyond him hung it was a topographic chart made by the japanese during their occupation of korea the
character's language on the map were japanese placed names and legends had no meaning for us but we could read the physical features and the contortions the terrene they showed
was a military nightmare road block and ambush territory it was a country of high steep hills deep valleys and sharp ridge lines the lower elevations were largely forced it
settlements were sparse and the few roads twisted snake like through tight passes and along river beds at the northern extremity the map at the end of seventy miles of a narrow
corkscrew road way was a meandering blue do that was the chosen reservoir the chinese have committed themselves to this war began captain wilcox they are in force they are slicing
through the republic of north korea army up north like a hot knife through butter a here the use is banatin or to indicate the chinese advance the people will wait we will fight
are the hundred and twenty fourth division of the regular chinese army definite and confirmed no matter what tokyo wants to believe so the military command was in japan they
weren't drea the military was the military command the generals were over in tokio so he say no matter what tokyo once to believe this is orfling back to the book their tough well
trained soldiers ten thousand of them in all of their officers are cambaceres their very best after the brief i request a word alone with captain willcox's him if we could leave
sergeant rites so sergeant right yever name mentioned a few times he was the senorita guy work in directly for capinera and it he's it's actually time framed to go home i
requested along with captain wilcox to ask him if he could leave sergeant right behind with the comendacons moved out sergeant white has done a good job for us but he's a short
time or just waiting for paper work i offered further more sir is not good for the troop to see him with his more alban i liked to replace him with sergeant wing at before we hit
anything serious at the head good idea the captain said except it's too late the talian says we mount out as we are i'm not about to snarl up with them on a transferred tail right
now you tell sergeant right that i'm sorry we can't do anything for him i i sir so that was all opportunity for sergeant writing get out of there but it didn't work out and now
just talking about kind of the moral the troops back to the book there was a great energy in the ranks strong healthy young men on the way to adventure we cleaned and recleaned
weapons and earnestly sharpened or bay and hats and fighting knives the old salt retold stories of japanese ferocity on the pacific islands others remembered pitched battle with
chinese bandits along with the pleasures of the north china occupation the newly blood and veterans of last month's fight boasted to the replacements about their triumphs or with
the stubborn north koreans all hands speculated about whether the quality of the chinese army would be equal to that of the north koreans we had beaten down south the fear that
settles in the gut before combat had not yet surface on that crisman with our clean shaven faces clean dungarees squared away dear full canteens full bellies and full issue of
ammunition that marine of acre one seven feared no one the start had enough north in one of the colonel's out colonel listen burg was there he stood beside the road as we passed
nodding and smiling at his fighters you're looking good marine you're looking good marine he kept saying and all the men waved and smiled back at him the veteran from down south
recognized all recognized old homer they had seen him frequently up on the line go hunting owen go hunting young man he called the mears i passed by now he has that opportunity
now to me be figured out a way out for right to hate the opportunity go away while the men were loading up on him i talked to sergeant right no sense for you to go up i told him
your orders could come down from the talian eighty time now stay here with the gunny i appreciate that lieutenant responded sergeant right but i do want to stay with the mortars
it's okay with you that's what i'll do i nodded it's okay with me sergeant i just don't want you wasting time getting back to your kids he said stiffly i'll stay with the section
sir he didn't like my favouring him he went back to the motorman and told them to get ready to move out i'm telling you there's a a certain bond there's a cercamon and obviously
in this case it's a bond that even stronger the body as with his kids is the bond that he knows his dis brothers in arms are going into harm's away and he's going with him no
matter what sir now we get a baker won seven there their dugento some positions they've moved out of ginesio back to the book in the brushful kinaston chinese assault squad waited
in disciplined silence for the rockets and bugles that would signal them to attack their quilted uniforms kept them from shivering in the chill night they already knew in detail
how kinders defenses were set up and the location of each forward hole and our weapons for the late afternoon their officers had watched baker one seven diggin and they knew our
line as well as we did under cover of darkness the assault time teams had crept soundlessly into their jump off positions within grenade range of the marine mine these soldiers
were honoured that they would be the first chinese to attack american marines so these gaerten and ready and he we go the sound of a rocket ripping cover close above us jolted me
awakement me upright in our whole kelly was with me a streak of foreseen crossed our line followed by a red rocket from the other direction bugles blared and whistles shrilled
down the solon valley the luminous hands of my watch said zero zero three zero baker one seven was under attack a sudden clamor rupted from hand kinder side of the hill the
ericaulon die molinie issuing from a chorus of chinese voices then the crash of mortars the boom ocassion of grenades and the sharp sputter of bergons seconds later there was the
deeper sound of answering marine rifles and bars joined by the pounding of armathie guns and the explosion of marine gernade the screams of wounded men soon added to the manage of
sounds along with profanities of rage in both languages fast ford a little bit chinese grenade exploded into the line in their bergun blazed the first wave of enemy soldiers
rushed in and for holes were buried in mounds of quilted uniforms clubbing and stabbing the chinese surged up the third fortunes hill behind them will let deadens and wounded men
who cried for the help of their corman and one of the things that they talk about nearest one of the tactics at the chinese use is not every one would even carry a weapon when
they would attack and the if you were god it wasn't carrying a weapon you would go attack and in soon as some one got shot you take the weapon acarryin so that's how the that's
how many people they had number one they also didn't have you know a weapon for every due opposite that wouldn't give it him but they also you know what here's the plan but then
think about how now light you are you're not even caring weapon then carry any every national ighting you just you're just able to travel and it's it's hard for people that were
never had never put on girvins you down so much it just makes you so you get you to a sure but when you you can get as used to as you want when you take it off you feel like
superman is so these these coreans are farther to chinese or feeling like super man sneaking up into these positions all quiet they also had real legit winter bear at least this
group were in running so good that did ave it but they got these nice coated ah ah uniforms and jackets so that they there just bringing it there bring it it back to the book
vanwinckle ready to marines near him for the next chinese to tack putting his people into recaptured fighting holes the men stacked chinese bodies in front of their holes for
greater protection somebody yelled the vanwinckle that his own shoulder was bleeding the big sergeant felt his arm and found a chinese bullet had indeed passed through his
shoulder didn't care nobody near a sarney a man on the ground sobbing and shaking my body my body goosht his head clean off the orange glare of a chinese grenade aluminated the
sobbing marine van winkle crawled over the man grasped his arm saying come on kid come with me you'll be all right he rose from the ground and pulled the kid up with him
leadership going forward a little bit archie van winkle now found himself on the lower fringes of the chinese attack he ignored his wounded shoulder and fired his carbine one
handed he called for near by remains marines to follow and launched his own attack into the flank of a chinese who moving up towards kaiser thirty got a guy wounded to stickenup
young brings to get them back in the game firing his rifle with one hand and leading in a leading in a tack on the flank of the chinese detaching his body higher up the hill
gonfaliere brought sherman rectors to machine guns from first pratonia commenced to pounding down kinder slow withering fire exploding grenades now from both flanks and above time
the chinese attack there was a series of whistle signals and the attackers fell back they crawled over their dead but pulled their wounded with them as they backed down to the
bottom of the hill and in the woods they were supported by well directed covering fire and they held good order as they withdrew when the chinese were finally off the hill the
marine ceased their fire and both marines went silent folk the chinese wall so doing coverlets they even as they gleamed as they would draw the there there in another little fire
fight and a wind trying to quickly get his more rapt and they drop up they drop a morton the way more works you dropped the more rintherout round into the two and it fires if
there's a misfire to relieve it's a scary situation because so if you drop the mortar ance to the tube and it doesn't come out it doesn't shoot when i've got to live round inside
the moratio have to literally pick up the tube and let gravity pull like let the let the more eround slide out and you put your hands there to catch it if we don't why do it
exploded that's not unlike a time enough and i know i like his in pete's got a little not that anither ye make a shoe and you got little propellant em around the sin that makes no
give em ranges but essentially you dropped this thing in their desposed to shoot out and it when it does it is a scary situations now you've got to lie round inside your mortice
and in order to get it out you you you just lift the mortar to up and you kind of pullet in on her head so they get a dug round and there's a bunch things they can call it cause a
dug round him some of the can be you know a bad batch of him munition but that's what's going on here they get it dug round done round trying another one i told wingan to try to
get some mortars down range so onaparte enderson at by the way too don round trying other one i told when yet kelly yelled trust to hurry up winedark me to wait while he checked
the two for an obstruction he grabbed a long stick which he shoved into the tube he pulled out a cleaning rag the cause of our miss fire it was i was careless that we had not
checked the two furnaces struction before we fired we eat said i won't tell anybody about this if you don't and he has shot up dame i yelled at him and this the reason hided this
caused my fear showed itself in anger and i think that's important thing to think about we all know we all know when some one's getting mad that that there probably afraid right
there afraid of something that's so we all see that so if you are to leadership position and you start losing your temper it's it's very visible everywhere that you're just scared
ye you might be also frustrated but it showing you what it showing as that you losing the to of your motions and that's why we can't do that and leadership possessions you can't
do that that's why i so much infinitely better to remain calm yes one ah look for astrateia the sun so if you go into a situation where it were your scared you know so i lotoides
especially if you are like a pan alpinist person or a powerful person you go and feel that fear it's basically the feared can is this feeling of both weakness so you a natural
tendencies goes for pretty much everybody in laurit yeah is the itabolays o so you your natural way to involve power is a girl like this anger aggression type attitude so one you
know leaders or what one they feel that fear is like on my powerless it's like a sub consciousing i'm powerless right now so i got it i got a fight back so come anger in this
point and in the thing is what you just said we all humans now that instinctively so when you see a leader start alia it becoming very clear that there is some emotion there some
fear some frustration to manity and that's gonna spread by the way if i start panic any are getting crazy and get to town you know i'm scares inistore an wait of jackaroos scared
now and now we start having issues sir try and remain calm he is the is the basic principle so they get done with that particular fire fight and we got a little deep brief here on
it back to the book baker one seven lost more men that night than we had in the first five days of our campaign against the north koreans captain wilcox raised hell when he heard
sergeant dale in his men and been killed in their sleeping bag on an cover this section but one of the one of the small elements they were in their sleep back scowering killed so
captain will carts raised hell when he heard that sergeant dale and his men had been killed in their sleeping bags he made its standard operating procedure that the company stayed
out of sleeping bags at night and when we were on the line tell your people that they can put their feet in the bags and loosened their boomed doctors that's as far as they go he
told us from then on no matter how cold he became we slept outside of our bags and our boots only came off to change socks now i didn't cover this port where this happens but one
of these guys sergeant lonny he will he had he he had taken a patrol to another area in one of the mortars and when he went they got lost and in when they got lost they ought
overrun and instead of fighting or duty in the unjust all ran the is all ran in different dresses now actually all over lived miracle all of them lived i should say they got
overrun but fighting broke out and instead of doing something organized they just all took off and so some sergeant will money he's they come back and they say what we you know
how in says he what happened out there in his abstergent just you know basically said every man firm self and so he's about to get relieved ali's command which means he got fired
to the military back to the book sergeant loney i relieving you your squad you extraded but his eyes moistened you let your men down last night you abandon your responsibilities
it's only good luck that the squad wasn't wiped out they could all be dead or taken prisoner lonnie's voice trembled leutenant it was pitpan there we were lost i used my best
judgment i can understand getting lost i said but you set no security when the chinese came through you forgot to take you forgot your men to take care of yourself lieutenant i
panicked i admit that but if you give me another chance to your stream down his cheek and he looked to the ground i can't give you another chance your men don't respect you you
report to the sea p not give you orders from there his head bowed sergeant lonnie i'm sorry sir uberior am sorry too sergeant dismissed sergeant lonny walked back to the section
perimeter gathered his gear then trudged up hill to the sea no one said good bye to him i felt sorry for the man and i couldn't forget the times that fear had taken me close to
the edge of paniculata why i included that cos olwen was going through all kinds of fearful situations he knows that he's been close to that edge but he doesn't cross the line he
holding an that's the difference nowther pressing forward again this entire book is them either present forward or you're in is quickly that if it becomes them trying to leave one
there surrounded back to the book maker one seven took point and marched for more than an hour without any sign of the chinese a single file of each of us on the side of the road
the men moving heasily so their push and board and nothing's happening all the sudden don't like this one damn bit lieutender in o brian said to me he was a reservist combat
experienced from the pacific warm it is it natural for the gottley us move up this easy were walking into their trap all i know is that a carter says the first green division is
going to go for the yaalewa river i said the yellow river was north korea's border with china so they're going to be ordered to pay you're going to yale wherever an pretty much
there all saint this point they all kind of feel like it's a trap there what they're walking they're not getting a resistance back to book the troops were in good humour they
joked and laughed as we marched and made of seen comments about the things that were central to their lives the chow the train the enemy the lack of women second thing i'm going
to do when i see my wife again i take off my pack said one of the merry reserves in the column oh yeah gave me answered by the time you see her again you'll forget what the first
thing was all it'll be so long before we could back stake side you will be too old for that stuff someone else joke to the married man who is nearly thirty years old i'm telling
you guys keep up and good spirits and that is that is it's impossible you i got include this because i wish had fun on the poments i was saying that the veda we laughed out loud
but once a day in iraq laughed out loud a sterical at something so that the falsetto civilians are don't have any comprehension of this kind of thing guys that do the military
they have a good time even in the worst situations there having we have fun you have to and you know it you can apply that to your job for your job when things get stressful when
things are getting hard as a leader if you just bearing more stress on everybody it's not going to help on the best ways to leave ye attresses to have some fun and that's exactly
what's going on here the guys are on talking were not going to shot out so yes what let us this guy's ask about missing his wife no problem at leave some of that stress you don't
need to just bear down and create more stress on your people not been asked that a couple of people as me that on social media to you talk can you tell us about you no humour in
das a leader when do you use tom humor and epical tely we always have fun and then there's obviously a time to be serious but there's plenty of time when you're going to joke
around and have fun and poke fun anethe all the time ye do you ever run into like situations where you know some people they just joke more than other end then there's a in the
opposite does holes you run into a situation where you are serious and then some one like trenima joke you know and and does get annoying or in the way of i don't know that people
win wenuses i don't go on jokesters in the gaieties i'm saying mostly in when when i'm gone i mean and i think i think there's a pretty i mean maybe that happens in inyongo
setting you were or i guess in a business setiacum happen but if you got a if you got a good team that works a lot together people know we know or ye yennikhan i at once you tell
a joke or you crack a wise crack and nobody laughed and you just get a look for people going hayashi up that is it you know so maybe i've maybe that's happened to me a dozen times
in my career where somebody at something it's you know everyone just said okay we you know enough and are everybody feels it her yelagin two working that clothe with important
tasks like that important people are pretty going to be pretty much in tone with the the comedy dynamically no i had a guy that i i worked with when i was the animals aid and he
he and i he was older than me he was actually retired captain is in my favorite guys but i was the admiration young you know young lieutenant and he was a retired captain in we
would go back and forth all day long regardless of what the situation was we would never say a serious thing to each other the entire day for months on end nothing everything was
the sarcastic i don't how entreat and i made a pretty a pretty miserable job of beams and is not a fun job it made it like we we said a good time to sosone again reeving in a
situation where hay i'm in a uniform in an office all day from six o'clock in the morning till his seven o'clock at night every day day on dick you don't in the military and i
innocently and world when you come back from a trip from somewhere thouthern yokosome in a little at lake you got back at midnight the art of your amusing your coming you're
coming in insecurities there's no there's no broenner family and two weeks of us colwell see it escocheon tomorrow oh you want to take your daughter to school now not have to go
so it's like that and yet what i had this one guy that i work with who i we we just we just never said an'teros to each other and always kept it light fond of that that was pretty
awesome was that de men thinking back these think that that was on purpose or did it just cansakala out likely as you don't go out you don't eat you said a pony pathway or a
relation jeroslas we were just to guy at a like to give each other a hard time about his stuff and said each other up for stuff and just just be we both knew her he was under
stressful job as well you know he's got he's got a lot of freshen him and so what we goin to do said there and be miserable all day now you know what will gonave good time even in
this you know fair leave miserable administrative scenario that will live in kitai with em cause some people do it on purpose where it's like a dancing a getting real tense here
not a hour work or what is lentilles they're going to be on that fine line between okori now things are tenth why do you say that chikaia and the others at esifeni help you know
fan like again like virgin eye we would be even in the really stresses situation where no one else was going koomt like you shot him a look across the room and rolled my eye that
at him by vidisae this comin did ye daft guy and remus be laughing yes even in a really stressful stuff we would we would like it up yatasses you know that's the persons that we
had now all right speaking of not no joke whatsoever back to the book major tide the operations off sir told this that there were increasing reports of heavy and my concentrations
on all sides of the battalion or over general carter himself was expressing impatience with the slow pace made by the first marine division in its progress toward the chinese
border the army was trying to light her fire under gentle smith the division commander so you got the ring or send a looloos like were starting to get surrounded here and
coralillos on the book the marine too kind of slow rolling they weren't they weren't making any great effort to go as fast they could because they felt like they were going to be
trapped so they weren't tryin to move his fast they could in a carpenter's general party in tokyo by the way said he are come on the rings you know arms pushing up their requires
only to guys but they're certain gettin tell reports of their being so surrounded and oh by the way a lieutenant lee who i talked buttered by the buck guy he he actually got
wounded and when he got wounded take in hospital he went on he went on he went absent without leave a wall i will wet a wall from ospital to get back to the line or the yestefday
arm can't move it said a slang doesn't matter only slight and speaking of le talkative leave putton here when they weren't on patrol leap put his men through a briggerland program
of small unit tactics they maneuvered all over the nearby hills and they bitched it some extra work we paid little heed to the grumbling soon we will meet the enemy he predicted
to his men we will be ready to lesherton his guy's evertook the veherov in up north and ever there was an easy day of the trakener the chinese are pushing hard against them right
now so what did he do at night o o gods were on to do some work when he got some tactical frills back the bilian article of faith with lee that combat bearship came from the front
in the attack he positioned himself with the most advanced squarest behind the point he wore a bright for essent pain vast fashioned of cloth panels that he obtained from the
taxation the intended purpose of the brilliantly colored panels was to mark the for extent of our lines for supporting aircraft lear his vassilan his men could locate him quickly
during a fire fight he still has sling on his wounded right arm and he carried his carbine in his left hand he fired from the hip using it to shoot tracers that marked sectors so
le isis i mean all aethereal home other level to an lee at this formed to ely now we get to a situation the chinese were dug in above we they had him machine gun in our line of
rifles more fontan their usual defensive formations they were expertly deployed below the crest and their onomastico weapons fired short disciplined burst tracers streaked and
bolts and shrapnel swept down the stroke slope it took leasem to locate the machine gun that was giving the most trouble when he found that he fired one hand it to put a tracer on
it his squaws moved into skirmishline then the enactor own tracers to mark for their sectors the bar and re and miss and rifles followed sending a great volume of fire up the
slope at the chinese when it waved to me to let me know the mortar was ready i ain't a tracer toward the machine gun and pump my arm four times the signal for four hundred yards i
saw around leave the tube and followed its path that disappeared over the ridge line wing it realized that he was too long and without need for my correction he came up the turn
so he adjusted where there were the more derondist on his own his second round was close and i waved him to fire for effect we seldom wasted amo bracketing the target amicae up
the hills was too valuebowles on the niceties the enemy gun slackened as wias wing it pounded them leave squadroned up upward responding to the encoignard with short bounds fire
team by fire team five ten yards at a dash then the ground bearing their enemy on the bearing fire on the enemy as a expirees covernor its happening again the mortars are covering
formance dividual a fire team is covering for each other it was a cassican rifle tactic that lee had drilled into his patoo during the is extra training sessions a marine went
down and ride on the ground the boltons corneville davis dashed low across the slope and craft at the wounded man's side another marine fell in didn't move again his body stabbed
the dead man's rifle into the earth by its bayonet then continued forward the chinese found it difficult to defend against lead and her getic tactics or coordinated mortemain gun
fire kept them pinned ieron they were no longer able to apply aim fire and their effectiveness even diminished as are riflemen pursglove in on them converse the by the way there
is a reason why when i wrote down the the fore of the combat the number one rule is governor this is why le sent a squad qualchin forward into grenade like range i signaled the
wing it to cease fire and the mortar stopped exploding along the ford crest the hill the chinese soldiers heaved the bride of their potato masher concussion grades down the slope
the marine through a responding volley argentiere powerful filling the air with bits of hot flying steel both sides do for holes another volley was thrown le ran forward waving
the carbine over his head and calling for his marines to follow they surged for the top screaming their gun hole and rebel yells the chinese withdrew he pulled their wounded way
but left their dead on the slope leap pushed his men over the ridge line where they prepared to defend against a counter attack lupicin stood beside lee his bar at the ready
lupicina had appointed himself leave body guard sergeant bondurant the potion guide rifle through the pockets of the die dead chinese gathering material from telligence people i
sent kelly for a detail of the amilcares to bar the castetis bill davis had two wounded men doped up with morphine and out of pain and there was a one marine dead already covered
by his poncho when he was certain that the chinese would not count or attack lee ordered us off the hill and of patrol all the return march to the company primage no one
complained about lieutenant leaves excessive training methods he walked along the column and thanked demand for their good work i wondered to myself how many fire fights leave
would survive standing at the fun of his troops clad in that brilliant pink vast so the excessive training everyone complaining when they're training then you get to a fire fight
and every one thankful that they had good discipline leadership a little bit more of renown this point again there there continuing to get pressed by the chinese back the book
more chinese fire broken out far to our right in front of leaves in front of leadline they fired from a sharp short hill that rose from the meadow lea wheeled one of his rifles
squads to face the rise and manoeuvred them forward burns's gun was with lee and he traversed the face the hill with eighties before the squad moved up so ateeshoo mortars and
purses is one of the mortemain ease covering from the movement of lee as their pushing up the chinese ceased fire withdrew quickly of familiar tactic we stayed with the main body
of his baton and sent a fire team up the recorder the top when they reached the top of the rise the four men walked along the ridge and search of the vanished enemy looking up let
saw his men still awaited against the skyline and yelled for them to get down they were perfectly outlined targets the chinese solvent and already had the ridge line registered
for their mortars their first round bo amerine depeches the next baraclan two more the fourth men dove from the ridge and leaped rolled and stumbled down the hill he came to a
halt at the feet of lieutenant le lead seen three of his men needlessly killed and he stood in silent fury his good hand gripped his carbine so tight that his knuckles went white
stupid he hissed through his clenched teeth stupid stupid over an over again stupid he turned a ginoris patuone sergeant see to it that this never happens again sergeant you tell
the man if you if i see another marine on the sky line i will shoot him myself then at least strode off to be by himself until his fury and frustration subsided so you got gudeman
big mistakes and treason or stand what happened when you stand up on a ridge in your completely obvious very clear and leave watching this happen and he that is guys are all right
be target yellow out aments too late the mortar said now we get the company here moving a little bit for now the company is actually pinned down the company's pin down back to the
book when the skipper had artilleries fire control on the radio he called in the coordinates coordinates for registration round the battery of a hundred and five millimeter how
waters that supported was dug in a mile and a half away so in a mild a half away you got these hundred and five millimeter howitzer big giant cannons less than a minute later and
nougat the company commander that's calling in calling in to to tell them where to shoot these to the mile obviously can't see there's no satellite back then you can't see so
you're just going off of bearing and distance back to book lessoniae we heard the heavy ripping sound of the first round cutting the air over our heads he landed a hundred yards
of frontino of where leave captain an ice stood stabs of flame flame like lightning from a black cloud leap off the ground and we felt the earth tremble from the explosion
calasoma two close shouted the skipper then into the mites add three erosite add three zero zero to e telling them that means add immenso three hundred meters further the next
round landed further away and we barely saw the stabs of flame it was where the skipper wanted it the enemy machine gun fire had stopped the chinese knew what would be coming at
them repeat range give me concentration fire three volleys on my command the concentration fire would saturate the area where the chinese were concealed the captain waited a give
order to fire until sergeant king had positioned the covering squad in front of us fire twenty seconds later the first rounds of the braeland ed less than fifty yards away short
round meaning that the rounds didn't go as far as they were supposed to we do for the deck all of us even lee the following round dropped among the front of the squad that first
book toon had position to cover the company withdraw streams from our own men mud and flamed and crashing thunder the skipper yelled into the radio ceased fire ceased fire short
round short round friendly fire the worst thing that can happen in combat are dismal day turned a horror cries and moans and agonized screams pierced the black smoke that drifted
over the broken ground dark makins and joe king were already working among the wounded and mangled and dead marines bill davis and etape other petonar sprinters the field to help
captain wilcox edito the radio as the next line of shell is exploded now away from us farther to our front they had been in the air before the gunners could comply with the order
to cease fire they did us no further damage but their noise added to the hellish scene i arose shaken and not sure what to do i saw sergeant right at the edge of the field and
called for him an bring the amilcares forward we used them to carry the casualties away joe her saba had already brought the company had quarters people to lend a hand with the
grizzly work we had for more dead and three wounded casata went to the skipper and send that we should get the company out of this place and back down the road the captain shook
his head a few times to clear it and thought about joe's suggestion for several seconds then he got kiderlen the walke talkies and told them to prepare their buttons to move back
he told me to walk a screen of eighty two hundred yards out to discourage any chinese from following us when i reported to him that the mortars were ready to for the fire mission
i thought i saw tears coming down his face although it could have been the drizzling rain eight dead marines for the day more wounded and nothing accomplished the rain and sleet
turned the snow wet sticky stuff that coated the ponchos covering the dead man a truth struggled down a wet slip retail to the road bearing the dead and wounded they were so tough
and spoke no words except the blast find the god damfool who sent us into this miserable wet cold country friendly fire blue onblushin about it trying keep it into frontier head
when year in combats at uation trying to keep it in the front of your head trying keep it as a real possibility not impossible to have it happen in the nittin like in fighting
when they say it's the it's the it's the diapente the youths that that's the one that's goin to knockout m it's the same thing in in in this situation if you could see that a
beobles going to take place you would stop it you can't see it it's not it's something that's going to be unexpected that's why it happens it happens because its unexpected and
this one you is a low things it can happen when she start bringing artillery in there's a bunch of fairlee that a really argicultural ah but it is obviously it's a nightmare it's
it's a it's a nightmare and in ohadi this conversation with one of my selenite other day that's why you train hard that's why you prepare for it that's why you create chaos in
confusion inside of your training so that you actually forced buonoparte moonblue you force these fratricides situations to happen so that they happen in train that they don't
have em on the battlefield in a eciton same thing with the police pantelic apartment sometimes has as bloomless train hard set up the crazy scenarios make people do unexpected
things all right they come down from that scenario and they get a day rest you might think he you know you took a yhtill and multiple more wounded i will give you some time off i
got time off one day one day a rest and then their back on the march back to the book the column marched north in a cold swirling wind that swept the road clear of snow we put on
the ponchos again to help ward off the wind they soon frow stiff and crackled as we walked in a enoie as they left that on their situation the rain turned to sleep in the denotat
like it one hour winter was here and were now you're going to do you no start here in about the cold big time the men were in a foul temper what kind of stupid masters we got run
in this god dam war came from the column don't worry about them guys runnin this god damn war there sitting by a stove some place sticking pins in their maps yea and no get their
pick of cold weather dear before they send us ascended up to us poor suckers so did the italian mess line said them rearason bastards are already wearing big fur coats and winter
is you boat boots that's okay we'll get the stuff next spring sure what's left of it by the time it gets to us will be needn't jungle gear at these guys are is a let now their
frustration in anger the worst suffering that day came from our feet we only had thin cotton socks under the boom doctors little protection from the cold especially as they were
still damp under our leggings we stopped away the freezing toes the pain of the freezing toes and kept the blood circulating there were complaints of numbness some men felt as if
they had pebbles in their socks we didn't know about frost by yet yet know what boomed dockers are there your basic like the most basic form of a boot lever rubber soul that's it
that's what i that's a boonoong concocts now they get some new gear and when the piece that they get is called shoepacks go to the book shoepacks which changed the way we walked
and bring us the crippling sturge of frostbite they were big and cumbersome twice the weight of our boom dockers they had thick moulded rubber bottoms with heavily leaded souls
the tops from the ankle up to the chin were made of stiff leather that laced tightly she packs were clumsy for climbing climbing and slip reon the ice the worst thing about them
however was that they were laced up when they were laced up no air conseruation a steep climb or in a long marsh are feet would sweat no matter how cold it was when we stopped
moving and the cold said in the sweat soaked felt in serano would freeze long stretches of wet frozen feet spelt frost by the into you remember this release we did but then i
didn't include it but one of the videos that they showed later to the cure to the soldiers and marines at were going over to korea was to warn them a frostbite and it was the
doctor's with the frost bitten feet and in they weren't surgically removing the toes they were just like break them off like cause they were just frozen dead tesney would do break
out the vide the shot him he keep your feet dry and but it was these poorly designed shoes was one of the problems that they triremes guiseppa boots doesn't wots not that easy as
a as make him so warm and so water proof no hairoscope from omnino sweaty feet and now your feet of it free now we get this one of the replacements that comes in is a giame woody
tailor unner a little bit about him and there's a a little fire fight it takes place and captain wilcox who's the company commander maneuvers somewheers guessings go check out out
over her what he tailordom like it those are my men says what he taller so here we go captain wilcox taylor called maudiboy to the skipper if you don't have a use the word skipper
bunch i should have explained what it is skipper means the commanding officer of the company just just just like the skipper of a ship captain wilcox taylor called loudly to the
skipper he was red faced in the outer breath from the run up the column that a squad from mapleton you sent over there on the flank yaletia i saw a few bandits over there captain
both are my men taylor interrupted my patoon mose on my orders captain wilcox glared at leaftenant taylor i'd seen that cold book manytimes before when it had been levelled on me
i figured that woodyard not be long with baker one seven or new tenant and the captain stared at each other woodhead notched sir he said i'd much appreciate it if you put any
orders to my men through me colonel davis sent me up here to run this button that's what i reckon to do ceylon the skipper were eyeball and the skipper realised that he had indeed
violated the chain command the lieutenant he said you're right that's your bolton and i guess we understand each other i guess we do captain said woodyer all right then carrion
the skipper dismissed his new botoner we figured wood he tallows going to have was going to be one hell of a fighter he was the last replacement officer to come to bake one severe
seven and he was with us to stay to littlestone off but there's a lot of little things that go on there right number one taylor was to aggressive out of the gate you know agesides
you tawast grated he will able to catch himself back off and say his rudely preciated he if he do come with that attitude from the beginning he would have he would have a better
chance of making what he wont to have happened with no rescue there was a risk here there was a rescue a cap well crossest up might be your portunity it's my company don't talk to
me about this again he goes said that but also he's a good leader that win got pressed on this he said by only one lemme teach that getting mad he was getting mad he beat out he
said okay what is i can whatson here this young loanhead of the ton i just ordered his gudrund about telling him now he's mad about it is at makes sense yes it does he's come down
he's geese he talking to me in a better tone now he's just ask me he's that he's appreciated i can accept that i was laloutoutline and they were able to solve that prompt soilte
little dynamics sometimes all of a battle field going on more fire fights apenrade going on they get to the next situation and now we have colonel davis again this is the metal
waterways moves in charge here back to the book connais came up to make her one seven to inform us that we were moving out again to morrow morning we would advance up the west
side of the chosen whereas a war are objective was the town of oudame miles away this was not a patrol or battalion commander told us it was an attack and we should expect the
fighting to get serious right they have any serious fighting right oh no way yes they have then expected to get more serious when he finished briefing the officers colonel davis
asked me to bring sergeant right to him the hardship transfer order had finally come through and are colonel wanted to say good by personally to a good marine and so is a great
moment for sergeant right all the company all sers were there in the colonel expressed his appreciation and best wishes to my departing staring captain willcoxen wuetenden added
their own well done sergeant wright had done a good job of whipping the mortar section in the shape and keeping them squared away the mortars had a four farewell party for their
sergeant who had been up with them since the first day at camp pendleton the rifle pouncer and came by makings and devised top o each bringing a canteen of sick bay alcohol was
skipper and joke her sabbatie us in for a few taste toasts when he was ready to leave weapon in gear all squared away like a proud like a parade ground marine sergeant right
approached me his eyes glistened probably mine did too sir i think we did some good with these people i want to thank you for giving me a chance to serve in your outfit thank you
sergeant you're a front fine marine an ciego bless you and your family sergeant writes snapped the saluted me and strode off i would never see him again and i would miss him very
much the fergus serait headed home i guess so it was his time and he pushed on when when we could have gone home a lot earlier but he pushed on and now they're gettin ready to
make this next move and it and he has his orders now at hand and a word or orders so he had up back to the book the weather turned only again as we formed up to reserve resumed
the attack to the north a bitter cold wind greeted us filled with a stinging gritty snow it was my birthday after the troops were squared away i crouched in the ditch alongside
the road and took some time to go through my snap shots i thought it doorkeeping the happy birthday song to the babies and how they would try and sing it i saw there little pink
cheeks and bees and dorothy's golden hair rough way from his penis birthday and as you sit here to day wherever your listening to this now that somewhere in the world there is an
american service men that's out there celebrating the birthday in a similar manner i guarantee it away from his family and his loved one what else is he get out for his birthday
and gets the man amy activity back to the book the enemy fire became heavy about fifty chinese were dug and against us and they were serious about defending this place lee took
his poltiot road to extend our firing line tapping wilcox came forward with garcia and the big radio and set up in the ditch just behind kaiser i marvelled that his easy ambling
gait during fire fights he always stood up straight his like j p the static of the scar three hundred radio out it added to the pounding of our own machine guns and bars rifles
crack johnson's mortar thumped out eights and enemy bullets in through the air and spun off chips of boulders soon came the urgent cries on women o god corman and the fear came as
it did to me on the onset of every fight the corn and cries the booming explosions and the wine of bullets blood trenched parkers dear god not this time please but then sergeant
king from tailor's button crouched among some large boulders above me he shouted down that there was a machine gun near the spike of rock that marked the thanes main position i
will myself to climb up and get a better look the fear submerged and the cold was forgotten overcome that fear take action now they continue in his little fire fight and then
finally we get in a fact about it before we get some air sport marine corners for got some runs on the ground that a pilot what we now call angelico the marines are on the ground
these are fighter pilots that go out and do infantry work and call for fire and so here we go back to the book bob wills and broad in the cours airs that were on stationed to
cover our advance i call down to burst a lay down around of white fosseuse mark the chinese guns and the fliers came in on the calm of white smoke they flew in low barely a book
above us their great racketing noise overpower all other sounds as they flashed by on the first passes they fired the machine guns and cannons these had little effect the chinese
were dug in two well they followed with a napron a spectacle spectacle of awesome and terrible beauty the pod slid from the plains tumbled across the ground that exploded black
smoke billowed and red flame leap against the white snow and seconds later we felt the blast of heat that consumed the ground two hundred yards away chinese soldiers were a flame
running about in frenzied circles they threw themselves flailing into the snow there was sudden silence the chinese ceased fire and her own weapons were quiet we were stunned by
the power of that close in flaming strike two hundred yards away that's not a big distance in my seelie a big distance that is not a big distance when you're an air plane and your
commando to drop nay palm and kill a bunch of people that's a tiny distance re copilots getting after it called danger close by the way so if you are going to call in an air
strike that's collot your positions you have to say on the rare a danger close meaning look i know it's close by you got to do it reitfontein big day sniff out that one but yes
what the d chinese are far from done back to book the chinese showed that they would not hibernate from the war because the cold weather the farther we advanced the stiffer was
there resistance the hills continued to grow steeper and each clime we made and cumbered with the heavy clothing became its own ordeal most of our fights were put tonsiled kaiser
or leg or tailor manoeuvring up a slippy slippery snow covered slope at dislodge force of chinese who fired at us down the road so as the moving down the rogers having gone to the
high ground all the time and take out the chinese here is a year's italie anic dull story they get pen down and colonel davis is there and they're trying to figure out what to do
on a going to the book colonel davis was at the head of our column with captain wilcox when the chinese opened up from across a chasm three hundred yards away the skipper called
me up front can you knock out those guns captain wilcox asked he in the colonel crouched there are knowledge ment of machine gun slugs that torn to the slope above our heads yes
sir i answered crouching along side by two commanders so there's a machine gun up on the hill and they kick get it with their guns but they wanted to get his his more etudes up
there and then drop morteros on the on the machine gun position so he also to his runner so his runners is the guy that spreads word he runs out to his his runner cattlebrand up
johnson's gone i command it you go with with too kaisers patoon leading the column that day they were just behind the bend i e ser snapped my runner in a way to impress the
colonel colonel davis in captain wilcox continued to scan the opposite slope eleven o'clock said the colonel indicating slight movement in an outcropping of bolgodde yes sir i
have it i told my colonel as i located the enemy machine gun through my own by nocuous and another one at ten o'clock fifty yards higher sir good eyes leutenant said colonel davis
there was a sudden commotion behind us the sound of marine singing as they double time up the road kelly was leading the mortar men forward and he had them sounding kate with his
party of an army marking song song marching song sound off how can a moreman survive for in the man who six foot five sound off put your rifles and machine guns away the sixty
mortars are all no way sound off sound off so there in the fire fight their pen down and these guys come running up the road singing gains and by the act got to mention this that
owing his six foot five so he is at the tertain about there was no ditch so he go could not take cover from any fire while setting up his gun he indian westport spread the by pot
on the rear of one reared of the flat open road surface i stood behind the gun as they were quickly the volume of bullets increased eleven o'clock you go i said give me three five
zero i fired a tracer from my shoulder westport had a more to round ready hugo with his sharp shooter's eye spotted the target and said three five o pusher he laid the two in the
direction of the machine gun and cranked his elevation fire he said to westbury the round thumped out and we followed its artignon the chinese bullets that were bouncing off the
frozen surface of the road and the sophie us the first round was a direct hit god bless you hugh go johnson captain will well cox called out for the pecunious the march colonel do
davis approached the gun he had a big smile you tell your men are shooting his right on lieutenant he said he glanced at our quire director call and added but telling that there
singing his way off key like i said even having a good time in madness of fire flights the cold is getting brutal back to the book we seldom removed our knitted gloves that we
were under the canvas mittens bare fingers we found froze to meddle they froze to weapons bayonets buckles whatever we touched the cold forced a cormittee their way of doing
business with the first sounds of a fire fight they would take several serrato morphy and put them into their mouths this kept the morphine liquid until the threats were jabbed
into the wounded man's of flesh to relieve his pain there coronary only ones who worked with bare hands in the severe cold and they found a way to keep their fingers and nimble
while attending to wounded man the heat of the man's blood did the trick or his guts as they were stuffed back into his belly freezing cold back to the book despite our efforts to
keep the men in clean dry socks were wolosin the fight against prosie which resulted from damp cold feet the men would complain of pains or numinis in their feet and when they
limped badly we sent them to the talian aid station many never return some of waited too long to turn themselves in and by the time dick the doctor saw them their toes had become
purplish black and had to be amputated because the ground was frozen hard digging good fighting as was nearly impossible dining in became a matter of chipping a shallow pit in the
unyielding earth beneath the snow than barricading it with rocks or tree branches if any dead chinese were found on the hill we added their stiff corpses to the barricades to make
level places for their guns the mortimer took turns at the concrete like dirt with entrenching tools and combat nodes and there continuing in this freezing cold they get to a
point where there in sort of an open area and will go to the book the chinese manoeuvred down from the ridge jined all around us they ran across the snow in squadon then formed
firing lines among the boulders or prone in the snow chinese mortars began to fall on us in the sap which was fifty yards or as and the sea picas fifty yards behind us around
exploded close by and lifted me off the ground i was dazed for a while and went full wareness returned kelly had me by the arm leading me toward the sea p where we going kelly i
did understand the wire heading away from the line did it corniel at you i thought you were gone or back there he pointed to my park of flapping around my knees it had shrapnelite
don't get closer than that to tearing your balls off it's a good thing you got me around leutenant recording the sea was far too busy with the seriously wounded to tend to my mild
concussion the casualties lay in blanket covered grows doc torski davis and topos a cornet went from one to the other they jabbed morphine slowed bleeding cleaned out holes
blasted flesh patched them and wrapped them as best they could the cormon had their mouth filled with mouth filled with surettahorn and their bare hands were bloody when they were
with the with they worked with enemy more as exploding bullets stabbing the air two feet above them weak frightened voices called for their help donakins from first button took
some shrapnel then a tony find than a slug in the leg where he was patching the wounded action on woody taylor's line the stretch of bare is dragged mikonto the sea paladin in the
line a casualties next to him damming the chinese in his arkansas drawl was sergeant king gouden blasted by grenades and hit by a bergun paul rend in a machine gunner with the
pucuna there too a leg shot up the first buttons wrapped the foot first petunias being rapidly repeated to plead it and was having a hell of a fight holding their end of the
primer so these guys were in a perimeter like i said and sort of an open area in the chinese is come down and there in a full on attack on him full on back to the book the
afternoon light faded and we worried about whether the amba would run out the chinese had fully and circled us their volume of fire was just enough to keep us pin down they would
wait for dark than swarm over our lines they had plenty of people to do the job our band that's were fixed and are gnats ready every man had a target sector and we kept fire
discipline to conserve amo we began to set in and wait for dark as bullets zinged grenade exploded and marines cried for help some one yelled out that cop captain will coched been
hit he taken a bullet to the face and a piece of shrapnel that shattered his arm joe her sob took over as our skipper as soon as we heard about the captain we ran to the sea pa we
found him there his head wrapped in a big white ball of a bandage unable to speak his blood soaked sleeve dangled beside him he kept struggling to get on his feet when the docks
put him down on his spread out pancho after while the morphitic in and the skipper nodded off groaning softly before they stablished a line around us the chinese porepis button
back almost to the sea pie so you got the patons vases the is the canelike the brains of the edit right they got the different tunes or out in a perimeter in three hundred and
sixty degrees and in the center that you got the command post to see p and you have the radio men in there you have the people are going to fire support maybe the mortar sections
in there and then you have the leadership is in that see people now we start to see that the the pitons are getting portendick towards the sea p they're losing their perimeter
just as joe persagadae in to take over command to the company what do e taylor stormed in demanding that we get to hell out of here the groups have all the high ground they got a
surrounded he boomed they're going to pick us a piece to night joe her saw answered him whitely we need there support to run in her fair for us then we might be able to make a
break for the road they'd better do to work mighty fast said woody well we have a few minutes of daylight left so there's joker sob as keeping a cool but gain world war two vet
now just out here getting after it and that's what they need to what they needed they need the corsairs to come in which if you don't know the course of course there's an awsome
aircraft world war two then did and you can call them because they have very distinctive wings that have a a distinctive bending them and they're very ah very distinctive looking
aircraft and obviously very good at closer support back to the book all afternoon joe had drink the air controller had attempted to get a piece of the air support dedicated to the
fifth marine so there was air craft work and another group of marines working for another group of races now in the remaining minutes of daylight he called a flight of four
circourt airs in search of action then he calls those things in yet gets them all the horn calls a man and here we go the four course there's streeties pointing themselves at the
chinese position less than a hundred yards away they dropped their big earth shaking balms and they stated a long deep valley when rockets and heavy caliber slugs the chinese
succor and we moved out so it that's covered moved once again all they needed to do to get out of the situation with the needed someone to cover for their movement that's what
they needed and they couldn't supply it themselves or shooting up hill didn't have the fire power income the course airs to get after it and give them cover a move back to the
book i lost ground men that day the lad who who had tried hard to be good cambalaine he was running toward me carrying a helmet filled with grenades taken from the wounded when a
bullet tore through his throat the shot did not come down at first just through his head back an i saw a fountain of blood spurted from his neck he staggered a few steps then fell
face forward in the snow which quickly turned red when i got to him he was already dead it took hours more for baker one seven to make its way the mile down the road colonel davis
brought elements of charley company out to meet us we loaded our dead and wounded on waiting trucks and sent them back to you damn the chinese had caught off the massareen supply
route between you damn and haerere the cure informed us so now they are truly trapped on the march back into the u donnerit past midnight the men were silent spent from this cold
botilda and captain wilcox had been a good skipper and when they get there lee was waiting for us when we staggered into you donnee perimeter many of the men limped with the first
stages of frost bite and there were some walking wounded who elected the stay with their company undisguised tears ran down leefe when he saw the column make its way in and that
was the reason that lee wasn't with them was cause he literally got ordered and that he couldn't go because his arm was becoming infected and he e was e codino they would not let
him go and so he's there in undisguised tears ran down his face as he saw the calm make its way in joke soberfied a sup at first light while to coursers were blazing at enemy
hills he told that we were going to aid charcot the it of charlie company which had been posted on turkey hill to guard the mizar last night after we marched away from that area
that chinese sit prout of a hills and surrounded charley charley was fighting for its life when he went to pull them out so there's a there's a small company of marines charlie
company and they are surrounded they go up and one of the one of the able companies the table baker and charlie able company sets up on the flank and then baker also patrols up
and kind of sets up two to come to their age back to the book he my by notes i had a good view of charley's perimeter four hundred yards away they were in a tight circle not more
than seventy five yards across half way up the slope of turkey hill chinese machine guns and rifles infested the hill round them firing at any marine who moved charlie's people
were thoroughly pinon so pictures as a little circle all year nourhalma maybe there's a hundred made could be a hundred fifty i think they've taken a bunch of wood by this point
but got a hundred guys in a little sevntyfive meter circle and you're all pinned down and no matter it every time you move in time it had gets stuck up your shot at a fact the
book leap put his machine guns on the chinese who were firing into charley's perimeter from the lower slope my three mortars had the same target ables machine gun in mortars wake
the hill above the perimeter soon our tracers line the sky and passed he black smoke from the mortars dotted the rocky hill then the big shells from artillery and the italian
eighty one started to fall and the hall rocked with expertos chinese soldiers scurried for cover my class may pay tention to this my classmate in stamped ables o salt down the
ridge line and into the chinese the enemy soldiers had their heads down from the heavy covering fire once again covering fire and stamped pocoon no orano them through the
binoculars i observed one squad of temples marines led by a giant of a man in a flapping parke who swung a huge double headed ax the chinese soldiers seeing this great maniacal
devil charged at them branding brandishing a bloody axe abandoned their positions and terror so they have it i never i never i don't even know where you get a battle as in the
midst creator but this marine right here attacks the chinese not with grenades not with a bar not with a machine gun he attacks with a freak and battle axe back to the book the
chinese quickly lifted their siege of charley company and made a rapid retreat from turkey hill as they fled able companies down hill a soul they had to cross bakers line of fire
wood etales buttoned come up to extend our line in every weapon we had was trained on the chinese as they ran to the protecting slopes on the other side of the valley turkeycock
hill or people called it we were at rapid fire with the mortars and machine gun and machine guns the bars and there and the rifles even cohors rocket launcher few chinese made it
all the way across the gauntlet of exploding flame and steel they dropped an heaps even before the australian plains came down on them we hadn't work with the australians before
and they were out to prove that they were done howison marine copilots they came roaring low along the valley from behind us and when they passed above leaves glowing pink vest
they dropped even close to the ground the therough to cut off the chinagos tell he clipped the plains had their blood their guns blazing and the chinese went down and bunches the
australians made two passes at the end of their second low level salter were no chinese soldiers left to shoot at it took on most every able bodied man that charley company had to
bring down their dead and wounded but over night the fence of turkey hill had cost dearly and they got one more resumin basically to do there is a a fox company is now in another
situation in a horrible scenario and first baker one seven needs to get to them and it is a treacherous treacherous movement and they decide you remember early in the book he said
you know we weren't used to night fighting baby mostly worked during the day will they aside that they need to do this at night so they go on the patrolling the going back to the
book under the heavy parkers are body sweated with the strain but our hands and feet were frozen numb the wind borne cold attacked with terrible fury when we stopped for bearings
we stood silent and motionless because we needed to maintain silas we could not slap our hands against our sides or stump or feet for circulation the cold now that our toes and
fingers and eight into our bodies the sweat we generated while climbing froze against our skin we shivered violently men muttered through their clenched teeth as if out candieres
a tether and they push on i returned to the side of the column many men at collapsed in the snow curled into balls like eskimo dogs and see moved along the fallen prodding in
kicking urging them to their feet i glided with another marine churning forward through the snow both of us fell and as we wearily recovered i realized that i had knocked down
colonel davis what old up lieutenant was all my battalion commander said that he continued breaking through the snow to the head of the column time had no meaning we labour
through infinite darkness in ghostly clouds of snow over an icy path that rose and fell but seemed to lead nowhere we saw only the back of a man's head a hunched figure in a long
shapeless parker whose every tortured step was an act of will we carried on with the only strength that was left to us marine or discipline they finally get within range after
this brulez march and here we go the night exploded with the flash and sound of the fight emerines had the advantage of surprise and momentum they fought with fierce energy now
released from hours of cold and misery the chinese could do little more than try to escape many of them were on armed and most ran off to the south so that the the chinese run
there some firing their subsiding but it's pretty much a row because they had gone at night and they had pushed hard and he had that surprise and violence a bacon back to the book
down arrived gray and cold and we jumped off the second phase of the brake through able and baker attacked on line headed out for fox hill a thousand yards away minutes after we
moved out kinesipathists walked into heavy small arms machine gun fire from a ridge on his flank the sixties responded with an the ridge and kinder people broke through the deep
snow to melt the hill when they neared the ridge line we lifted more fire in the patoora through then reposition on its own fire power covered move at it again we were astonished
by our first view of fox hill the snow field that led up to the embattled companies position was covered with hundreds of dead chinese soldiers many of them seemed to sleep under
blankets of drifted snow but their bodies were frozen in spasms of pain there would jumble of corpses in patted green uniforms a white clad calm and fallen in the formation that
it attracted the attention of fox companies machine gunners craters of dirt and snow made by the big gun sor rimmed with bodies and parts of men thick bands of dead chinese lay at
the base of box companies perimeter we stood in wonder men bowed their heads and prayer some fell to their knees other briefed quietando oaths of disbelief tears came to the eyes
of raggedy marines who had endured bitter cold and savage battle to reach this place of suffering and courage some of let loose a wild cheer and we broke forward in a jubilant run
across the snow covered and corpse battle field the marines of fox company waved brightly colored banners the blue yellow and red remnants of the pair she drops at its sustained
them for nearly a week around their perimeter fox companied constructed barricades of frozen chinese bodies from behind these walls of of the de from behind these walls of dead
the marines had mounted their weapons and maintain a fight against enemy whose numbers never ceased now the men of fox company arose from behind these groseilles to join us arms
slings and blood soaked compresses were common among them men hobbled about with make shift leg splent all hands were haggard and dirty as war we we exchanged profane greetings
that did not conceal the love that we marines felt for each other son came out and marines appeared along the sky line to the north then we saw marines marching down the narford
us there were columns of riflemen at first followed by a long trail of vehicle and vehicles and artillery pieces are coarser swooped in close their crooked wings wagging in salute
the fifth and seventh marines had broken out of damn now they broke out they have a path but they still have to go fourteen miles to get out of there back to the book all the ton
sergeants had been hit as were most of the squabblers we had corporals and private stepping into leadership billets but they were combattere nce marines and they knew the work the
rine column that came out of the besieged you done had hundreds of jeeps ambulances and trucks as well as the big gun to the artillery regiment many the tracer filled with wounded
men and some were stacked with the corpses of our own kildonan the walking wounded one got to picture this calm a moonmad max looking column the walking wounded who could carry a
weapon were turned to as riflemen to protect the column every man who could walk hobble or limp was ordered off the trucks the only riders were those serious cases the gun wounds
and blinded men along with severe leg wounds and men with frostbite so bad that they would need amputation many of the wounded died in the trucks some froze to death and some were
shot by the infiltrates the fourteen mile ride was three days and nights of grim survival the rifle companies of the fifth and seventh marine state in the hills guarding the
amharas the column pulled in two agarrie the garrison town came out to meet the bedraggled in the lines who had run the fourteen mile gauntlet of fire and eyes as the walking
wounded came within sight of the town some one commanded them the falling to rank maybe it was the limping sergeant who gave the command the old salt who had set the defences
along bob fishers stretched the column that could have been father griffen were sergeant wing it or corporis were carpadon the wounded men and some who were unharmed but who
staggered from exhaustion formed up into three files shouldered their weapons and marched and ragged step slowly the tread of their thick rubber soled pathock on the icy road
became a steady shirt catenae haggard and her marines put their heads high captain wilcox who couldn't carry a weapon was in the ford ranks his arm was in a huge cast and splendid
so it was horizontal to the deck his head and face were a catron of bandages but holding himself erect he picked up the cans and march standing straight in to hagar of the talian
sergeant of the time surgeon took time away from the hundreds of wounded men he tended in the age station to witness the columns arrival those bastards those magnificent bastards
were the words the doctor used to describe the worn and torn marines from donnie and i watch you to paunchier that image that image of these hundreds of men just battered loomed
barely even able to walk frost bitten and their meandering in the camp and when they get close someone says hay fall in and they follington and they begin to march for well that's
human will and a human will under the power of leadership and he doesn't even know who gave that order somebody said fondatrice thing to do and they do it they find more they find
they dig deeper to fall into ranks and hold their heads high as they walk back into town back to the book except for the road weomen hatteras under siege surrounded by many
thousands of chinese soldiers they had been held off by a battalion of the first marines and a hundred of rear aslan people who had referred riflemen for three days and nights the
cooks and bakers truck drivers and artillerymen office pinkies and technicians dogging along side in patrimonies they threw back every thrust the chinese made against the
hagarites american soldiers were there too are metcha support people who picked up rifles and bars and went up the hills and filled in the marine mines wherever there were gaps
the artillery through in massive bombardments during daylight hours a coursers foinet bombs rockets and napalm to help hold the attackers at bay the three divisions of chinese who
tried to isolate a fifth and seventh marines plus those out been it fox hill followed a souf and now they added their numbers to the encirclement of honery single road the mar to
coo we and our only way out was caught off the hills that flanked that road were high and steep and there were as many chinese imbedded in them as there had been a odometer still
completely surrounded her all this stuff is happened to still surrounded the engineers with their heavy earth moving equipment had died a mighty the frozen ground and levelled an
air field margin of for cargo plain to fly in a out of hoary air force pilots flew in the big clumsy plains loaded with replacements rations and ammunition for the return trip
they filled the plains with the most seriously wounded when they landed in too they had to fly low between the hills that line the valley the plain became slow moving targets for
the chinese guns in the hills and every one that left hagarites perforated with bullet holes the man on the ground marvelled at the courage of the air force pilots who kept flying
in and out of there she got just cargo pilots flying into this place insanity now there in a position on a primer because this because they survived all that they still at a back
out holbein they get out the whole trimeter and here we go back to the books through my glasses i saw a calm of fifteen riflemen marching toward us out of haerere there were two
files of the moving at a brisk pace alongside the road but long i both sides the road they wore crisp white parkers and santer arms smartly because they were clean sheet and an
energetic we assume they were fresh replacements fallen in from the air strip we found out later that these clean and jaunty troops were royal british marines who had fought their
way in to habere from the south they too had found the mazorbo and they had punched through the chinese forces far superior to them in number they were the forty first command of
a unit that roughly compared in size to one of our own rifle companies like us these marines had suffered heavy casualties the royal marine calmed in spread into ditches along the
road near our sea p a freshly groomed young officer strode toward kelly topple and me with the young officer was a grizzled sergeant whose proper military bearing could have come
straight from the pages of kipling the sergeant had a meticulously trimmed broad mustache that would have stirred gunning buckley's up envy like the lieutenant the sergeant was
dazzling clean and squared away i binoculars hung around my neck which is hollenden distinguished me as an officer certainly there was little other difference be among calliand
toto and me or parters were all stained with blood food gun oil dirt are filthy faces were mad it with bristly beards that bore icicles of newcassel the lieutenant concealed his
disdain for her appearance braced himself and delivered a broad hand salute i say sir be ordered to extend up a tall beyond your lines i'm to get up the covering machine guns and
i would be most grateful for your suggestions appreciated the british leutenant curt courtesy and if i press a rage i would have shaved on the spot to make myself more presentable
since one is as anchored this cause people always asked me you you ever work with any other militaris and i for with the british and people say you how are they for this is how
the british are the british are outstanding the british are sold professional the exits its it's in so impressive there mihintale just the way they describe that's the way the
murderer less to it a bridge military is there out standing back to the books of royal marine lieutenant and his sergeant followed me to unaching gun positions and they checked
out the field of fire for their own mission as he walked a line together week xchange observations about fighting the chinese the british lieutenant knew what he was talking about
colite but about the army unity army outfits that went east of the reservoir were heard be patched together and poorly equipped for their mission the artillery and tanks that were
to support their advance were not organized in time to accompany them when they move north of how out of hogarth heavy weapons that aided the marine break out west of the
reservoir were not there for the army and many of the soldiers in that fight had not yet received cold weather dear scores of them froze to death it was the army's bad fortune too
that a large number of its officers and experienced enios had been knocked out of the battle at at the onset the two senior commanders accurante outen at colonel walkill at the
front of their troops most of the company commanders and potiers went down in a short time the casualties of all ranks out numbered the able bodied and some of the wounded had to
be left behind but oons and squaws doing told to a few men and coleshall bands that fought until their ammunition was gone those who could walk or crawl then made their way back
across the frozen wears of war to the marine lines at hager for the soldiers it was a disastrous fight but it had one good effect a chinese division that molten was aimed at the
attack on the hargarethe fight the soldiers put up on the east side of the reservoir had slowed their advance and that bought valuable time for the marines when the army survivors
made their way into haerere those he could still carry on or reequipped and formed into a perfusion a batalion that became part of the first marine division a fought alongside us
for the remainder of the campaign now like i said at this point there still surrounded and they need to now break out to get south to a town called hung now for there's a port
where they're going to be extracted to rebelled out back the book one seven orbital and two seven war olean to break out from coterie one seven was to take the high ground east of
the road to seven the west for miles on the masarins had blown out a bridge over a deep chasm the battalion of first marines coming from the south were take the ground that
commanded the other side of that gap then the engineers were put in a new bridge beyond that was a fool army division the third waiting to give us cover after we crossed the
bridge the army would take over the fighting all we needed it dew was get a few more divisions get through a few more divisions of chinese soldiers so even on the division level
pen thousand were talking government even on the division of so it's an individual thing it's a squatting in supporting it goes all the way to the vision of a cause they need to
have the cover the army to get out of there here we go able company went out in front the chinese the waiting chinese immediately put down a sheet of fire mortars machine guns
bergun rifles able casualty soon started to return we huddled against the blowing clouds of snow and prayed to god that able wouldn't get so badly mauled that we would have to
take their place our prayers were not answered italian ordered us to pass through able and continued the attack although it was daylight we could barely see where we were going
the chinese did not need to see us there was only one way for us to get at them straight along the road they had or broach well marked and covered with their weapons as soon as we
went past able the chinese motors began to drop and their machine guns opened the tracers were weird streaks of orange that flew out of the blinding snow clouds are new corman was
quickly put to work the chinese were shooting down from a hill that flanked woody as well as from straight ahead jodan one ascend any one up that hill fearing he was loosed them
in the heavy snow keep uscian at the there's clouds up there at altitudes use getting shot from his snow in iceclad that shooting machine gun fire at you to night mare back to the
book we were getting nowhere joke her sob it was standing alongside the row behind leason he called me over to him bullets zinged and shrapnel wind around us but joe stood
straight and i stood with him he had decided to risk a move up the hill on the left flank moved her patron up their joe o by the way at this point joe had taken over a potion he
was no longer an just in charge of mothers now one of the sergeants was in charge in the mortars so he now in charge of a rifle to tom moved you porton up there joe he instructed
me see you can take those guns after killing us he spread out his map and trace the route and spread out his map they traced the route that i was to follow he fell silent a
chinese bullet had found its target just below the rim of his helmet in the centre of his forehead a small black hole appeared there joe her sob his dead eyes stared at me for
several seconds before he slumped slowly to the ground i caught him in my arms as he fell and held him for a moment then i lowered him gently into the snow jesus god to her sob my
friend joe who would help me so much show me so much who had gone to bath for me with captain wilcox who had been my big brother joe her sawbath i loved taking them that from his
mind hands i went forward to give it to leave and for him that he was the new company commander on the way over i got on i walked to tell the italian that casabas cia there see p
was close behind in the walke talky worked through the murk i spotted leaves best he was walking the line behind his men who were prone in the snow covering fifty yards of front
lupicin with the bar was with them i felt alone without kelly the chinese fire was passing overhead high the enemy couldn't see us either her sob as dead i told we caught one in
the head dan was all leave said in response you're the new skipper i added giving him the map joe told me to go up the hill on woesin see i can get around those guns and take them
out you still want me to do that we must do something resaid their killing us up from up there that's what joe said yes see what you can do your radio working yet i just talk to
it tonno let me know the situation when you make it and when you're ready to attack if we can get our tillery i don't watch you to run into friendly fire i e skipper i said first
of tenantements little smile at that so they're going to go up the hill and try and take out that machine gun and as they're going up the hill he started hearing something someone
called from behind us sir lieutenant on owen it was woody tailors runner he was breathing hard from the effort he had made to catch up with us sir oetanata to want you back down
with a company lieutenant leaves been hit and lieutenant taylor wants you on the double he says damn it to hell i might have been able to roll the chinese from the flank and take
out the guns that were holding back the company i tried to get wooden my walk a talkin i got more static i waved for morson to rejoin us and a tiny peckton slipped and slid back
down the hill as they came behind me the men cursed and complained about the second tenants making up their mind would he tallitahe for us at the bases slope he was seen or to me
in rank and with lead down he was on new company commander he said that the talanteia pair of tanks and their fire power would cover a frontal assault up tell so here we go find
me we get tanks and any one that doesn't know i a huge fan of tanks i love tanks in all you tankers out there thank you for being out there for this ground pounders so he can old
school take that little fall on the back it up on the back of the tent to talk to the guides that were inside the tank he picks up that tank as they get prepared to do this
assault and he says put your thirties up below the rich growin got a ten o'clock then in my command hit them with the cannons we'll jump off on that attentive came from within the
tank here you mouach thirty caliber tinmines began their jack hammer pounding i watch red tracers bing up the snow covered hill toward the dog and chinese gun that we could now
see dimly now he under that fire power they started to attack our line moved up the hill twenty five yards above me two chinese soldiers appeared from behind a large boulder one
had to rifle the other bergun as i swung my carbine toward them i heard a grunt from lupicina he fired his bar straight into the air and he fell forward in the snow he did not
move and i knew he was dead the best bar man we had got dim you've lost lupicin i couldn't get my weapon on the two chinese above me fasheous but one with a rifle put a round in
my left shoulder that spun me around its impact generated a shock like a powerful jolt of electricity that went through my entire body damp how can i be hit after all this how can
i did hit i saw the burbun trigger bursted me the snow of his weapon flashed and i could not lift my feet above my need of above the need deep snow to get out of the path of his
bullets two slugs torn to my right arm to more of the electric jolts and my corbeau itself away from my grasp i saw it rising to the air as i fell into the snow discint be
happening i tried to raise my head and reached to retrieve my car bengtsa my arms wouldn't move i could not raise myself joe's down some one shouted bill folks get the pastors i
heard myself yelling dictees rds i screamed in pain and overwhelming anger and my marines rushed past me and up the hill leaving lupicin and me in the snow gattabatton i yelled
tagin and again it was all i could think to do the young corman's to us for the day's battle cry for the day's battle heard my streams although the enemy fire still flayed the
hail key ran comely through the snow to reach my side i was flat on my back and he crouched beside me o kalitan he gasped for air with the exertion of the run laden with his aid
kit and cold weather dear his breath made posvit steam and his smooth shaven face was red with twenty five below zero cold with bullets is anging all round of the new cornet
caraway my parka the bullet through the shoulder at nicky long and blood was gushed and blood gushed from my mouth and down the front of my parker covering his bare hands give me
morphine i told the kid the pain was terrible i can't sir i'm sorry he shook with the cold and with his own fear bullets stung the air and raised little sounds of snow a few feet
away cimmeroon dim morphine a yell sprang my blood on him sir the more finis frozen i i can't give it to you what thou's wrong with you during the god dam stuff in your mouth
don't you boots no yes sir i i'm sorry sir he put the suet in his mouth and continued to cut away at my clothing just just trying be still sir even with the pain and the rage i
realized that no one had told the new dorotea care of casualties in below as erawa i greed my teeth and tried to shut up i didn't feel the jab when he shoved the surrendered into
my flesh but i soon felt a wave of warmth come over me the pain float away and the noise of the fighting above us receded he ragoo lad i told the corn man i felt his hands doing
something you'll be a good marine yes sir he sounded far away before i drifted off i remembered the photos in my helmet does the photos of his wife and his two kids my pictures i
said that's my wife and kids don't let the gookin i won't sir said the corman who had risked his life to save mine and whose name i never knew would he taylor was the only law
officer left with the company he led the troops the crest the hill fighting as a rifle man himself the chinese one on the run and petaling ordered bacon on seven to keep after
them the troops were frozen and exhausted beady pushed them on lad in the day they reached their objective with their small number they set a type perimeter on the high ground
overlooking the gap in the road that the engineers would bridge the next day so they get that tart of secure they did that hill top and now they're overlooking the gap where the
engineers are going to build that bridge and they set into a security permit what he taylor put the weary company on fifty per cent watch against the enemy a soul he knew what
come in the dark it was the coldest night that the men had yet endured a reported thirty degrees below zero the wind howled at them in every direction all through the unbearably
cold hours until dawn taylor and sergeant richard moved from man to man to assure that no one frostola a detail of careened who had been attached to the army arrived a bolster the
parmiter but most of them felt through the way during the night several times marines turned the enemy moving around their lines in the darkness but no attack came would he put
out the troll was early in the morning before light within a hundred yards of a line they found frozen dozens of frozen chinese soldiers whose feet and hands were frozen to ice
the extreme cold had been on our side holding back the attack on the next day would he taylor brought the remnants of the company down from the hills marched them across the
bridge and into the shelter of the child town of chinon their battle and did there sergeant richard took roll call his final count was twenty seven men twentyseven men and that is
that out of the original two hundred plus man of the company and then on top of that another hundred replacements that filled their ranks in this battle so that three hundred men
and only to one seven remained twenty seven now few of us will infer face those kind of odds in feaster ever going to face those hellish demands you of us will ever stare at hale
like these men did but now i want you to think about something i want you to imagine a magine what we can accomplish if we apply even a fraction of the will that these men
displayed the iron will a will that is stronger than their bodies a will that is stronger than their minds because celery let's face it their bodies their bodies were broken and
there mind in many cases for broke and then in one to go on but there will there will prevailed will will conquers all and our will is delivered to discipline and as joe on stated
many times in the book sometimes the only thing that pressed them on was discipline discipline the discipline to push yourself and you know we are all capable of more i and
capable of more you are capable of more you can overcome the obstacles and the challenges and the enemy and you can overcome your own witness that you can overcome your own desire
to go it let let me men let these men be all examples of how to fight and how to use your will and how to drive on and let these men be rexall's of how to live and don't don't let
these men down and i think that's all of god for to night echo if you are wont to give me a second here to recover and talk about some stuff over there i'd a be much obliged emanu
be one of the rougher of transitions you know i got remind yourself this is a book this happened this is happened this happened this happened in the fact that these guys could
adore this and fight on if that doesn't give you the inspiration that you need to step past whatever pathetic little challenges in front of you you're wrong don't listen to this
podcast any more go somewhere else you yet he edito forget it because of the kind of the contrast of our like our problem or or whatever you want all your talent your task right
issue that your tranter come and then contrast with basically the luxury that you live in and that luxuries pened put on you this kind of wave feeling on a habitual level so now
your face with us task compared to legionnaire comfort did he weepered yes i bet you will comfort exactly right anglicani woke up early in the morning yet you don't hate me ay i
worked out we'll hard and shetlandic but really sent all i got i need to step it up man ye a new stuff yes and this you know i well up her line morning or you know i can't get
that much sleep so might a rear or yet your foot not freezing off your body yet you don't what mean ye and and what importance but this is every single time you go damn you know
i'm glad they made it out of that then it make it out any other's illust tound it ah yes and in your sting is when you do remind yourself of this kind stuff like that right now if
you don't feel the way i do i feel like oh i i feel pretty much red you an ated when i panolas back to my life for a second alaman i got as goes i see him till you know if i got a
work out when it crushed that work up because i got all my lambs right now than i resolute so the point there is when you re are reminded of real adversity whether you remind
yourself for the or book or or something you see or hear about em like it it gives you that like that added will to to over come out maybe you you actually can take some of their
wind you can learn it yet you can verneyson what all i'm cold right now you're not cold yet you're you're in you are not cold you you're tired right now no you are not tired now
you're afraid right now no you are not afraid learn ye yeh learn your game to shear will to knowledge a real thing of struan will you do with my point being when you do remind
yourself of this kind of stuff and it helps it'll help you do whatever it is or work overcome the satiates you realised that you that human dings are capable of more weltereoden
what you know no more than i know i'm capable of more than what i've done i mean i do more till i'm gonna get after it harder that's he that's what i take away from this these
kind of books obviously besides horsicle tact or lessons and there there's a credible beatership there's increbuit testament of human will is in colis unbelievable howell test in
a through ye so now i feel like a seems like you know that one wore face or when i am face did like all this is too hard or ding i got all this the head of my tagetty all that is
now looking at it it seems like all it is is a deviation from my habitual comfort diseased and out i was awesome the way that he reinforcers vera times because people talk of
firola fear him his pock as before but you know i can say he take action if you are afraid you got a step into it and in that open over the he actually had a method all of you kay
if i'm afraid i'm going to i'm going to get mormousman up among get erect on a fine at what's going on i'm goin to get i'm in i'm in find out i'm going to cessation before my boss
calls me that's my time line that a one and that's intersitae action on so many so many green lessons learned in there ye well ye i feel like hell we can turn this on over to was
to support will yawn people if people do want to support the boast of there against you could if you're in the little ootoogara so the first way in this is kind of a two was
street you know ah gad on it supplements ran supplemental kinds of cool stuff in fact my friend from quiet carrie he had me up and was like a what's a on it has this it it's a new
a pre work out mum you know but it's not stealing easily pre worked out i crush up a bunch of federate feed it to you m de actually get up but seems like they do i'm not saying
that's all about thing but it's not like healthy you know so anyway this one is like a help ye one is like non steamline here you try all i got a just got it i atradates but when
i get roorback you once you idrieus if you're into like you don't sometimes you go in the website and you get like caught up reading all the cool stuff and all this stuff like the
itonian look at it if you don't you you made omelette actually mentioned that a lot o you go to the hon it website and you don't i i i maybe i just don't use the row researches
you when it comes to checking out where my crillon from butcher i know what i'm looking for an i got t do it but if you're more like echo and you want to spend time on the website
easy in research and of good place now is on it dot com threw a last tarkondaraush little body save pfenings tempers and temper set off flashed occasion it duck one's last of
inward to got some good stuff einhardi much rest and not pretty much you can rest assured that it's all good stuff it's not a bunch of federach gain to powder form you know and
they're selling it as a one annot's croasdale or or something like this bigoted very oracle i read the sonettiero on its on it dot com flashed jacob stretches do to emparan these
are all part of the what do you call it c o every day carried terveer day comes some sin every day consumption i like that right a cold oil dictated an already all for brain that
like every other day it depends some yield des and on it yet i get an alpha branded some people take it every day here some people take shandeleery year i take from techenie ye me
when anticipated needed yet ciller day growler day for sure without quest strong bone every day yeah i got up henbury your bar when we be ye went in i have been a having one every
lad to every day from the assiento so easy yes oh i want to eat something healthy in the taste goenoeng and i want to get it really quickly without having to do anything but
beloen a rapper bone worry bars in the eager anty but yet isenstein pen a butter on up about his cash shoe all men and one something but i got real corn made to mc tee was
solitary good stuff in a adyou ever emptied you will pe by the way yet i take the cocoanut and seti from on it and i make it with heavy whipping cream i don't know i don't do that
until it's whip cream frist poured in a little bit in there i stirred up and i drink any whipping cream which is is all fat which is all her with any t which is more fat and
entering all that yet and i analysation fat but it also it's it's a very very fulfilling her he very nanaimo on talking i will it's a little bit big way i have little glasses that
i make is it they're bigger than a shot glass oh but they're smaller than a cocktail glass right it called the rocks glass perhaps and the bar indigo don't more about that stuff
ye it's big enough yet yet my kit i mean not to go into all the fat and good featherbed's more fulfilling fat has nine calories pegram to corridan hurtin have for warria all
saintyleany now on good alcoves not i don't think they saw all on on it so if you're all good there so but that's a good way i feel like i'm repeating it on it dooms last jocabed
if you do want the temperate off you got to add to slash joojoo it pay the full price which is cool too by the way is gaining in another way to support if you're in the mood to
support the amazon link clicked through christmas chris come in prisoning up what is today what are the date is did it christmas coming up with the inn within what three weeks and
ever anyway when you do your shopping if you're like hay i on a shop for christmas for my friend family whatever and it's in your mind that you want a sport pocantico to our
website jocatore up come or jucunditatis out caught made people ask me they wear to our favorite books that you've read can you send this elicits visas yaowania case donaonda the
books that we talked about in the pocasse book that i read to day go and by it he going by it older than hell in marine rifle company at chosen reserwoir joseph or owen by it read
it i could have i could have just read the entire book on air novisimo in a do that but tomtoolan a long time but there's so much stuff that i that i absolutely had to skip into
aistulf with myself going a i i used up most of a high lighter and a half high lightens you order this book you'll have it on a website yet ovulation the year on the piegan you a
you know books from the pocatello on it and it there's lingerest to amontillado her way to support but it's all amlici through a yoursen regular shopping this banner on a pen on
the right side you clicked through there to do shopping and it's suported birds on stone i nothing i know also you can subscribe to the pageson i tune we jacopo wonnered mentioned
this oh we got on the top poetastery sixteen lest i too figaniere to there you do not no you too but i ygene you were on the top pocahonto cows and sixteen list for my tunes as
your lithonaetta just popped him in head cause when he subscribed you subscribe on ighten leaver evie if you're in the mood actually leave review and mature its awesome i not also
in terms of good but is mentioned that it's fun for me to read tethelenai a more the will to read or agafon read some good points that you like or don't like and yet i like
reading those i do i ran iverson review so that an i'm reading em good and in a essaye en you make sure we're to live in a goitre am the crypto the you to channel so we've been
slowly putting more videos on there you know exertin went not jocline wore you can sister or share you know with your friends or whatever quickly and put more and put more to day
on em and then if some good at exerting so strive to that stand formed video wise also we have store joculator got jocatore dot com so if ever we all were close tesires right why
not make it a jocalder that's kind of the tithing you know oh it's oh to think you don't brought house is so cries out don't know if i shall do it so chris reis or forensic data
want to say or i i don't even know the whole story all trying to call em muselike tollet there's no italiotes story ye ll fill ye he's uh the one of the one of the cadet yengeese
at weston a still oh he's a donoho ideahe he had on how we saw him or one ever but a cadet at west wendon have i don't have his name retourner ye he's in uniform but the uniform
if they were called up there say rathee basically tiajuana prend underneath the cape he had a a a jacopone had actually he actually had the straight up jacobson that big and it
was a sea posting assuitur on social mediate him of him a pullin up his cap and he had that that that teacher on no tullispaith maybe that was the secret weapon that led to ye
army to the first victorious over navy and football tom kneel tommelise eve was the cadet doin it you have any in the wild in the womaneen the wild yes well that even if yenowine
that's i mean i don't know what the regulations are but i'm not farurantes the jacopo cast the shirt is not part of army regulations something that it is not whim definer now
perhaps but then he's been he's been actually in touch before he went to west point he was angleterre i go he was like reaching out and he's getting after reorus it etouffante
some no gas you tsetse now i yet so jocasta dot come not three in gettie cool sherrill freedom you know all these things also women stuff on there some goodies on there some rash
guards on there for for yes said activity in order talking about oh and some patches on there the ruralities one widow the hat on the valeria's on their smoke susie go in there
look at it yotting look at it if you like something quite getting good way to support and be me to a shirt am also kassotis the he things started a while ago kiss so i'll tell
this story on capitibus like i don't have echonton dates so and it started with a kind of nothing so you know okay we're talking about luxury and like ocasion got six hours sleep
on usually lesto eight and a half or something like that right so but i know i can do a work out and i know you don't get that much sleep or if you're tired o not tar to what it
you still pushed through the work out some but i'm thinking ye ye your hard your money whatever but you've got a there has to be times where you got a basically talk yourself into
a basically so my garlike what do you say to be got at you know beyond is like wood say you know to yourself and i i figured it i would have you know like a lot of stuff that you
cannot we say like you know libois luxury and almost from my gate but the men classed you and what you told me is sikota old good sellette so and in a work he totally worked oh so
what i did nadowa one thing like to another kind in my head falsiron wedron a record that you're going to say that i'm going to record it and on top of that not just the work you
know and usually like with food and stuff like donnotaurus that i eat like cold things of orioles it kanoatinos like sometimes i do be on your duty but i have a will polina's not
a problem with but i'm some people don't slake the if that work out thing that you just said could apply to like all these other things organico that too then you start thinking
onorat of people have been singing what about i carrington you shave wrington or you know o for my harm and all the stuff so that my garibaldian one thing like toinette we
recorded him and i put em on etincelle bit it caliginosa good move i think on my sword all right you see us aitin's like yes it were that and here's an etesian of time about to
ikenobo the pot gatelock so we hit labour eight to ten birds with one stone with this it's nine linements for crack reiny like the lanes like thirteen fourteen trucks on there for
nine bucks i think that's kind of standard the soul that's a much thumb i put it or a list is as many do donatt as your ring whereas one for waking up actually there's two for
waking right so you carefree up maybe hear but there's a few that i an my mind i pictured people a a you want to wake up cool weak and come to on that i do so that every day
waking out well loadstar sort of like a song that you could buy it sikeson at you could buy on i to demeanor how rawbon yes same process you asenion you buy one track tetrax or
the whole thing would inlistin nine cents though it's not like yonder in parastat right his head a little tip of thinking about though so you need your wake up there's like so a
few wake up one or a mention that he if you put that as your realer clear it with your wife or wherever sleep in with i'll tell you right now if that in but if she don't know
about it and that comes on odasete out i am i cried so do that's a little protetht there hesit i will have warmest all say it's a hundred per cent gantier if you felt like a how i
felt with work out like i'm really not in the mood to go to work out and you listen to the work out one i will say with one hundred per cent certainty you will not skip the work
i'll say at franois liefly psychological warfare who on i ernesti think it's tawell okay i think because i have visnomy artist right ter think so does it just become an artist the
that is cary let's call it from you can't eat comiston else you can go too aranians into it though so you know artists ought ter a acasto technically as that a thing anyhaow tegi
you what they had ophionidae rione here being an artist at happened one but it's all you know ran not in half a night's all for the cause though i'm telling you because if anyone
who like i am which i am i am straight of it's more than a sumption i'm i am out theliene people are like me in that way where a distant feel like it i know we just read this and
now we all feel like it understand that but you have that feeling every single day entemena help this seegrave help me for sure in our psychological warwick tea all right i also
hay on i tunes or sernatingen amazon you can get so light tea it's like i said where were confute supply chain issues but it's been popping up every couple of days they re fill
you can order it it tastes good and it makes you feel good and it will increase your dead lift capabilities to a minimum of seven thousand pounds many are getting up to eight
thousand toneless from dickensonian can get up get after a mug by the way too so those are their bigger than normal also a ether bigger than normal mug onomaus not as big as a get
after a movability it with every sip like your action your doing by superos you like her i you getting a aclaimin still have from peterson's that i also an amazon you can pick up
calderdale book i read the day do it put it in your collection of bad as books you can pick up a note book that's called extreme ownership and that's written by me and my brother
lay babin it is also a book that's about combat but it's all more of a book about leadership and if you want to give some expecking of the holiday season if you want to give some
one a gift that's gunnoonoo gifts that you get they go in the drawer that doesn't get open any more right and then it takes you a couple of years anfitryon give that gittagoin
that someone's going to say gouyave you a pocket i read it oh i implemented this hey what did you think about the gift given a gift that's goin to have long term value long turn
value gintale book all extremes you get on antinori a espedito a tremor ship also we got the muster number two zero zero to made forehead at the merry at marian new york city now
the last one that we had we had people from forty two different states we had people from five for in countries and we had leaders at every level of the chain of command in every
size business that you could imagine so it was a super diverse group of people that are altogether with the had one similarity in that as they want get better and crush it in
leadership in their business and then their life so that's we do at the muster lay and i who are there obviously when i say were there i don't mean where there mennonite same
building but were hiding somewhere to tilework there we are actually with you we are sitting down with you we are talking we are we're not hid the undercurtained we don't even
have a back stage tassait well where do you on your back day jerdon need one were not going back stage people want to come and talk and learn we want to learn from them so come
and get it i said this every time this going to sell out i come sell out in the you'll be able to go and also the prices are going up so as you get closely vent the prices go up
the reason we do that is so we intend if i you to buy the tickets now so that we can plan better right we like to be plant we plan and we prepare thinks if all of you sign up you
know april twenty second we got some logistics prompt i don't want to be in the same boat of in with a jack owie tea robes viginti ly and it takes me while beget it back on track
so sign up early save yourself some money and let us be better prepared for that if you got questions you can email muster at ascalon from dot com or you can check out the website
debot extreme ownership dot com in we will see you there and we will nouse me you'll see life you'll see chochere and you'll see everybody else we'll all be there getting after it
while your waiting to hang out with us at the muster if you want to conan out with us virtually well aconite kind of cruising the cruising the interweb twitter yet where there
instigate there and you even an i see us you even tennesee us on that i spoke by echo is a chochere anne i am a jacala finally we appreciate you listening and supporting the pot
cast and of course spread the word but don't just listen do execute take a look at your life and see where you can apply the kind of human will we heard about the night the kind
of human will that overcomes challenges and obstacles whether your fighting a war or your fighting a fire or your fighting crime or your building a bridge or your building a piece
of soft ware or whether you're doing hvarenda work or whether your healing kids or your teaching kids no matter what you are doing what can you do to do it better what can you do
to make you better ask yourself that question apply that will and get after it so uncommenting this is echo and jocko it
