this is jacopo cast number fifty four with a others and me jackwell in good evening ah but even uneasy lies the head that wears a crown you got some shake spear right there got
them henry the fourth part too in that play is a play that came just prior to henry the fifth the hero the war year the leader of that few that happy few that man brothers well
his dad penreath was adrouth time in the kingdom facing rebellion and is appointed the play were he the old man had been forty can sleep can't leave because the pressure the
pressure and the weight of being a leader any a great if a great cone of the play it starts about line uneasy lies the head that wears a crown it and actually doesn't start with
that line that's the last line it starts off a little different extorts off here how many thousand of my poorest subjects are at this hour asleep three senior there ye other
tousands and thousands of my subjects that out there asleep and right now o sleep old gent sleep nature's soft nurse how have i frightened thee that thou will will that thou no
more wilt way my eyelids down and steep my senses in forgetfulness three talkinge sleep is like a like a god to him at this point and he said what am i to do scare you off when i
do how come you won't bring me that goodness wait on my eyes go back why rather sleep liest thou in smoky creed upon uneasy pallets stretching thee and hush'd with buzzing night
flies to thy slumber then in prefume jambers of the great under the canopies of costly state and lolled with sound of sweetest melody three haskins sleep he say look sleep you're
there you there hanging out the smoky filthy houses and ovals and people are sleeping on boards and and and to low people to sleep in those situations its insects buzzing around
their heads you sleeps all there taking care of those people but sleep doesn't come to him in the most beautiful in the most luxurious state rooms where there's etherege tle music
playing the bogs flit round it all gentle music playing back to the play o thou dull god why liest thou with the vile in lonesome beds and leave this thy kingly couch a watch case
or a common larum bell so it sang same subject he say look why do you dull god so do meaning would sleeping doll why are you hanging around the nastiest beds but you you know this
beautiful bed shall come near it you leave it teanie a like a watch tower like a bell tower will thou upon the high and giddy mast seal up the ship boys eyes that i was talking
tartarin about even a sailor at sea high uon a mast right a giddy mast you see you up the ship boys eyes and rock his brains in cradle of the rude imperious sir and in the
visitation of winds who take the ruffian billows by the top curling their monstrous heads and hanging them with deafening clamor in the slippery clouds that with the early death
itself awakes so he send the sailor and her sister at sea whose didn't punished by the storm and the funders clapping and the deshistan ing back and forth a guest it's the falsely
he goes asleep no problem can't thou o partial sleep give thy repose to the wet seaboy in an hour so rude and in the calmest and most stillest night with all clientes and means to
boot the night to a king so he sang again in an hour so rude storms may him at sea he gives the eisbosler sleep but in this calmness and most stillest night with every available
usury to boot yet sleep is denied to the king and then he says then happy low lie down uneasy lies the head that wears a crown so then happy low light out he said a look glow by
low he meshes ants lick aright then you happy happy low you peasants lie down by don sleep wid you got to you get but uneasy lies the dewerstone the leader doesn't get to rest the
leader doesn't get the sleep and that's another example of what we know and that is that meader ship is hard it's a heavy burden it's hard business and it's part science and part
art and part of it is natural ability and part of it is learned and the book that were going to dive into the day isn't shakespeare it's actually a military manual military manual
written by asta marshal but guided by gord general george sea marshal and ditties now and the book was written just after world war two now if you remember hackworth if you've
read about face hackworth talks about marshall selema and any he did some writing in vietnam that pack worth was a little bit not impressed with and theirs certainly some
controversy about as aamara in some of things that he wrote in some of the things that he said that he lived through there some controversy if not proven fact that he fabricated
some stuff but i think you're going to find as we divine this book that from the leash respective the experiences that he did bring back from old or on the experiences that he got
from eyes an hour and from the other marshal i think it's a really good reflection and a nagold look at sameder ship lessons learned that we can take something from now the book
is actually called the armed forces officer very simple title and the the the version that i'm going through as is book is stolen publication the version that omneis a nineteen is
from nineteen fifty nineteen fifty person like i said it's written word which is afterward or two obviously so the lessons are fresh and i guess that veneerin has been cleaned up
or or something there's there's i guess that the nineteen fifties version isn't fully politically correct i i don't know because to be frank i haven't read the new person cause i
got the old version i want the real deal and i don't find anything offensive in this in this one so maybe someone else will i guess there's some things that might be a little bit
border line but ye i'm not i'm not really feeling it in this book was given me a long time ago by a friend of mine that said you might like this then he specifically said
potomekes this one any more but yes what everyone's love cause they do they've brought it back then they brought it back so the book is the arm forces officer and it really goes
into how to lead how to lead so going to the book to call forth great loyalty in other people and a hardest to any noble undertaking one must first be sensible of their finer
instincts and feelings certainly these things at least are among the gentle qualities which are desired in every military officer of the united states so here some basic things
that the officers the military are supposed to have one strong belief in human rights to respect for the dignity of every other person three the golden rule attitude toward one's
daily associates four and abiding interest in all aspects of human welfare five a willingness to deal with every man as considerately as if he were a blood relative the priciple
rule respect other people the golden rollyno treaty while you want to be treated yourself that these are the basis what they're saying you need to be and again lest not actually
i'm i was going to go into this bothering into themselves so regular to the book these qualities are vapid me of strength not of softness they marked the man whose capable of
pursuing a great purpose consistently in spite of temptations he who possesses them will all the more surely be regarded as a man among men take any crowd of new recruits the
greater number of them during their first few days in service will use more profanity in obscenity talk more about women and boast more about drinking than they have ever done in
their lives because of the mistaken idea that this is the quick way to get a reputation for being hard boiled but at the same time the one or two men among them who stay decent
talk moderately and walk the line of duty will uniquely receive the infinite respect of the others and never fails to happen so little contrary to what we might think and there's
definitely or when you get the military of one to boot campers all kinds of people after like touffus all kinds of people acting like not gas and that that happens to the one
thing that happens in bookam i i i bet i met more potential professional athletes when i was going through poison through but camp every one was i was about to go in the end fell
on and i was about to be a pro baseball player i don't know why but then up in the military ye it is interesting that kind of like the guido's five hundred in all in the streets
ememey decides a work out too well all right and obviously in abridging this book all bit skipping through her regal back to the book men beget good will in other men by giving it
they develop courage in their following namely as a reflection of the courage which they show in their own action these two qualities of mind and heart are the essence of sound
officership one is of little avail without the other and either helps to sustain the other so you got good will and he got courage and they help each other and the sustain ech
other back to the book as to which is the stronger force in its impact upon the masses of men no truth is more certain than the words once written by william james evident though
the short comings of a man may be if he is ready to give up his life for a cause we forgive him everything however inferior he may be to ourselves in other respects if we cling to
life while he throws the way like a flower we bow to his superiority so i guess courage gets the stronger not out of that situation that the book fears belt one said if he had a
son who refrained from any worthwhile action because of the fear of her to himself he would disown him soon after his return to civilian life general dwight d eyes and howards of
the worthy worthwhileness of living dangerously and officer the united states armed forces cannot go far wrong if he holds these ideas it is not the suitable profession for those
who believe only in digging in and nursing a soft snap until death comes at a rifle age who risks nothing gains nothing nor should there be any room in it for professional
smugness small jealousies and undue concern about privilege so you can't be hiding all the time you've got to step up you got to lead you out to take some rest you got a leave
dangerously now of course young troopers out there specially guys out on the bole this doesn't mean running to your death is not what it means you will take risk in business world
you'll take risk in the military you'll take risks if you do either in business or in the military you take risk stupidly you'll die or you'll lose all your money leather one of
those is good but that doesn't mean you hide and does mean you take no risk in you shy away now the next part when he stalked about small jealousies and undue concern about
privilege this his people lupin destroys people in that light he we go back to the book toward services other than his own any officer is expected to have both of comrading and
imagine interest any army officer is a better man for having studied the works of admiral and familiarized himself with the modern navy from first hand experience those who lead
sea going forces can enlarge their own capacities by knowing more rather than less about the nature of the air and ground establishments the submariner can always learn something
useful to his own work by mingling with airmen the airman becomes a better officer as he grows in qualified knowledge of ground and sea fight so you got a lean erkowit other
industries learn about those industries learns much as you can don't just stay in your own little and you don't little world because your comfortless happen to alina us you get
comfortable in your own world sassory want to stay and you want to look back on a pair of be ignorant and admonishing of the well you was a civil war at mosmayer fact but wrote
wrote a book called the influence of sea power upon history which the germans and the japanese both utilized against her sorority so lit above little terrestris also something
that guided to the thought and the building of the of the modern us navy now we talk a little bit about what life is like in the military back to the book the military way is a
long hard road and it makes extraordinary requirements of every individual in war particularly it puts stresses upon men such as they have not known elsewhere and the temptation
to get out from under would be irresistible if their spirits had not been tempered to the ordeal so you got to be ready for the hardest you got to do things in your life that get
you ready for the hardness tattoo if nothing but fear nesserole ship if nothing but fear of punishments were depended upon to hold men to the line during extreme trial the result
would be wholesale mutiny and a situation altogether beyond the control of leadership so the only thing the only reason that your people are falling you because it is because i
fear punishment when the going gets hard that's not in a work so it must be true that it is the out that is out of the impact of ideals how do the impact of ideals mainly that men
develop the strength to face situations which would be normal to run away which it would be normal run away also during the normal routine of peace members the arm services are
expected to respond to situations that are more extensive more complex and take longer to reach fulfillment than the situations to which the majority of men instinctively respond
so things in the military take a long time in your big part of that in the peace time big bureaucratic machine i can be really jenge even the length of the enlistment period looks
like a slow march up a sixty mile grade promotion is slow duty frequently monotonous it is all too easy for the individual to worry about his own insignificance and i feel that he
has become lost in the crowd now this is something i hear a lot about once ocia media more people send me messages on this or or face book messages i guess um when a feather in a
cot noroton there doing a job that only like it what's what i do and i think this next little section applies to that doctor the book what is the main test of human character
probably it is this that a man will know how to be patient in the midst of hard circumstance and can continue to be personally effective while living through whatever
discouragements beset him and his companions can you drive on that's what it as those that job that you don't like good good it's a little test now for a situation that you don't
like you drive on in that situation and also you figure out what your execrates gonna be you don't want to go through life miserable you figure out you start saving your money you
start on getting on another education you figure out of the job you get yourself footed you dot you got to do but don't let that monotonous job that you are latent that day to let
that bird you found ye that's kind of that key there were you drive on and like you drive on in life you don't like necessarily have to drive on and keep doing that jolly it's
like you drive on as the poses to oh sir complaining or go into some thing we get self destructive or you see cotison kind of otoscopes i'll let or something like that but i'll
tell you you do you drive on it you have other options right you worked those options but whatever it is that your job is and you kick as that of her tastes what she do a dominie
you start slack in your own backwards don't do it societee fit you to her for that you're goin t get serbentum you're goin to work your eight hours a day you're gonna make your
twelve dollars an hour are you going to do it a slack away you or you gennarino in and also way i keep in a hot i'm a doing it also ye in that's what's goin to get you commodita
what you gonna get you that's what's going to get you taking care of you in the long run if you or you you like you say this thought where you even if you're going to do something
even if you don't enjoy you still you do it just the best you can and you said that i from the beginning and i for some one like me when i look at it like that oh of course it's
on like good idea to do it that way but after you do it you kind o think back and i've done both of them done it where i like i hate doing this on just going a basically go
through the motions until his finely done you not i can can be really her whatever the but when you think back of like any remarries doing more ever tis that job or whatever he
when you look back he kind of have this fulfillment that you did it the best he did you know you never looked back in de like dang i'm glad i've found it in you know you always
like it even if you didn't like it like you you're always satisfied that that he did it the best that i could so do it ye do it the best you can now here's a couple of the less in
this book as on another one this is a one of talking about the dimple virtues that provide firm foundation so he rego one a man has honor if he holds himself to a course of
conduct because of a conviction that it is in the general interest even know caswell aware that it may be to inconvenience personal as you know tion of grave physical tres town he
says general interested talkin about like the team so you're going to hold that conviction even if if it's good for the team you're going to hold that course even if you are well
aware that it may be to inconvenience personal loss humiliation or grave physical risk bone at her honor as you hear honoratus that well very often he has veracity if having
studied a question to the limit of his ability he says in believes what he thinks to be true even though it would be the path of least resistance to deceive others and himself to
this is kind of in the same vein if you if you look at something and maybe you don't agree with it but the easiest thing to do is just be agree with it no you don't do that you
teutons no i don't agree with us now we could go into detail on that in the times when you when you do want to maybe not be the most truthful one person in the world for instance
we talk about this before when your wife is making chickenhood it's dry right it might not be the best thing to tell her on the the amount of water that you're going to have so
but it real things in important things i tell the truth that's the book number three he has justice if he acknowledges these interests of all concerned in any particular
transaction rather than serving his own apparent interest look out for others numerare has graciousness if he axent speaks forthrightly agrees warmly disagrees fairly and
respectfully participates enthusiastically refrains from harboring grudges takes his reverses in stride and does not complain or ask for help in the face of trifling calamities
those are just solitus those disolit i would say this though sometimes got asked help right that's one thing that i wouldn't work with businesses there'll be somebody that you in
extreme ownership and i'm not i'm a oneness and all of ennerie a year on an out you're not going to be a success at it cause that's the toomuch for you i mean he help you need you
need what your eagle in check and you need be at racehorse look i need to help on this ice i don't have this cover this is too much for it when its pectinate is my hands in the
air let me go in a gitshe and sometimes seems like it's not necessarily even egoisme like no i guess it in a way its eagle but it's more like shoot out a one o be the guy who has
to be depended on somebody or something like that like i you know which is what extremitis is ego actually if you're the guy to other one to be depended on other people that's
probably regal but you are i i think what you're trying to say is that i don't want to be the guyas as for inditers my own load yes like an you don't want it please this on on
sealed patrols a couple of times in my career where guides were over load it and they didn't want to ask for help right i got this case it's humiliating you know it till you carry
my ammunition or hay keep carry my radio all the key turned my weapon that he had a eoethen i've carried some extra weapons from time to time at all it's a bummer you know and you
don't want to you know what i take the weapon a man okay getter in you you know ah but that's what you're talking bout people don't want to be tongue but what's going to be worse
if i if they don't take a load off and did get a heat casualty and now their down well now or now i got a carry him not just wept in which is a bad lion have any more yeh yeh yeh
andy can he do not bipartition do anything then as the pole to the other guy who doesn't know the difference between meeting helping one thing out yes just like all me ye if you
don't want to work i had a gaboo we were on a long patrol this is back in the day back in a day this is pre war and my radio man cause i was reading the isanusi and now i wasn't
ready to manaos and and we were on a long the tall anne my radiomen was going down takias denominate it was behind her and his weak and so he was bumpy know he he he couldn't keep
up with as any one and i said okay to when we get your radio some taking a twenty pound radio off his back putting in my back and carried her for a look out at the half a day and
then we get to a like a lap point sir leswarre going to cut at first a million this organical out koenigen we get there we get a rest supply of water and to know gate arad or
whatever so alviano everyone's reiterated and while we're in there we got to make a communication a hit to you got a call headquarters and say ah this is our location so he comes
in and takes the radio out of me out of my backpack dear comes to an lietrinck the commutation a gol yacop n up a bag give it to him and you know he makes the recommunion in our
mouth done like a recondite of the area to find out what roteron to take anyways i i fought you know nothweiller diououl be back and back in the game so i come back and when i get
back the radiovision gone no but you know i did playback of my rocketeering do it um but yes sir you you want me that guy yet once you get reiterate get your way back on a butte
difference between needing help and one the year any did need help yes at one point what is only wanted a gait a rage come in yooooooo negotiat radio back i was i was a chuckling
in samanon a radio bit placed back on top of my run hunt inside but just placed a a you you got to from here yet you put it again and i onweloome good times and to you and of a
last one here she has integrity if his interest in the good of the service is at all times greater than his personal pride and when he holds himself to the same line of duty when
unobserved as he would follow if all his superiors were present does the classic what he do in your not of evolo then i hears another point the cause of much of the friction in
administrated machinery is that at all levels there are individuals who insist on standing in their own light elicited act an a look up standing telyatin your own way i mean your
diary preventing your your preventor own success and he uses the term olenin standing in your own light this is important table that there is some special magic some quick
springboard does success they must takingly think that it can be won by bootlicking apple polishing yessing higher authority playing office politics throwing weight around ducking
the issues striving for cheap popularity courting publicity or seeking any and all means of grabbing a spot light so this is the guy everybody that's listening to this pocasset
now knows that went darkaoa githa guy that's just always trying to kiss every one's as and make himself look good in and that's you know that's a short cut right this will mortial
saint as he is a short cut or a spring bordeing it's a quick spring board back to the book any one of this set of tricks may nablin to carry the ball forward a yard or two and
some special situation but at least this comment can be made without qualification of the men who have risen to supreme heights in the fighting establishment of the united states
and of had their greatness proclaimed by their fellow countrymen there is not one career which provides any warm for the conclusion that there is a special shortcut known only to
the smart operators true enough a few men of gained fairly high rank by dint of what late mister justice holmes called the instinct for the juggler a feeling of wind a jump and
were to press and how to slash in order to chief somewhat predatory personal ends that will casionally happen any walk a life and i said this old tuoad this on his pocket let if
you got back ye that we're talking about sometimes they're going to they're going to get a better recommendation you become times they're goin to get they're goin to get that
promotion that you were wanting and you you just you just how the line and were a good person that person took the credit for something and no one really realized next thing you
know they get the promotion but i agree with what's being said here that does happen sometimes in every walk of life but in the long run that persons going down you know that
person's going down in the long run yet and the more you cindidae on that sort of thing the less likely for antinoues anyway absolutely yeh yeh and he says here but from
washington wayne and jones down to eyes an hour vandegrift and nimitz the best the men best loved by the american people for their military successes were also the men with
greatness of soul during world war two there were quite a few higher commanders were leaved in our forces because it was judged for one reason or another that they had failed in
battle so relieved me to got fire of the total number there were a few who took a reduction in rank went willingly to a lower post in a fighting command utter no complaint kept
their chins up worked courageously and sympathetically with their commands and provided an example of manhood that all who saw them will never forget so with you get i get aces of
convenances a compleating demoted or some as not the mode but i got past over you some one else got promoted of me what should i do get after it that's what these guys did that's
what these guys did he screwed up you know what check are it cool let's let's in wather's what i must up that was my fault i'm ready to rock and roll you put me down he put me in
charge a less people i got it i'm going to do well though their names need not be mentioned they were imprinted with the real virtue of the services even more deeply than many of
their colleagues who had no blemishes on their records their character had met the ultimate test the men who had the privilege of working close to them realized this and the
supply sublime effect of his personal influence helped strengthen the resolve of many others actually inspirational the people around you when they see that in thir'een many as it
unknown the bounce back for some kind of from some kind of you know career problem they mess something up they got they got fired and they take it they'd be humble about it and
they come back and turn it round the person he complains and thinks that their eviction to work out for him and that's an innocently sector and in the military sector now start
talking the little bit about being a re crew and the kind of the mental training the mind set training that happens as a recruit to the book his pet his perseverance in the care
of weapons in keeping his living quarters orderly and in doing his full share of work is best insured not through fear of punishments but by stimulating his belief that any other
way of going is unworthy of a member of a fighting service precision in personal habits propersition in drill and precision in daily living are the high road to that kind of
discipline which best insures cool and collected thought and unity of action on the field of battle yet you ye you know it's just that it's it's basically he stakeout the the the
unmitigated day we discipline in all things that i derived that insures cool and collected fought and unity of action on the field of battle i got nothing to say about that i then
yes old man here's another little sex she in the when men are well led they become fully receptive to the whole body of ideas which their leaders see fit to put before them let
think about that when men are well led they become fully receptive to the whole body of ideas which their leaders see fit to put before them so what we're talking about here as
when some boys a good leader the the troopers around them the people that are working for them the starting they believe oh by everything right they started believe everything
that you're saying and that's powerful that obviously fourfold ye can agoes back to like what what you were saying about him like if you're a if they feared your punishment
nothing lead you know iron ships and in and they fear the punishment so they are going to do enough to not get punished but they won't do anything that like they don't have to yet
her it so it's only what they have to do so you won't get people doing their best and now i mean so ye ye that that that punishment piece that i kind of brook breezed through it
is not for fear of punishments but by stimulating his belief that any other way so that's one per cent right and we've snead all time if your if he bore of doing what you told
them do just cause their afraid to you sure you can get yet that's going to work for a little while you know o fire you okay what's that person doing what you so putting his
puttin his resume on monster do come as a footer job the kid too in love best and none of to get fire is not heard so he's all right going back the book though it has been said
before even so it can be said again it is paramount and overriding responsibility of every officer to take care of his men before caring for himself yet many junior officers do
not seem to understand that steadfast steadfast fidelity to it is required not lip service and of this as adrian would say man would say comes much evil the loyalty of men simply
cannot be commanded when they become embittered by selfish action so a minute your troops ye that yer bein selfish for your doing this re yourself that's the beginning of what we
he says maman says much evil is as evil come from that we sort acting selfishly as a leader evil comes from that if an officer is on a tour with an enlisted man he takes care of
the man an he takes care that the man is accommodated as to food shelter medical treatment or other prime needs before satisfying his own wants the vat means that the last meal or
the last bed is gone his duty is to get along the hard way tom take care of your people now again this is written in nineteen fifty but even in nineteen fifty by a disportest were
in or to caper eight is actually called getting along with people bone now here's a real some of the stuff is so simple so obvious it's so simple and so obvious that they had read
a book about it so that people could do it because we all fail to do it there he regain you like people if you seek contact with them rather than hiding yourself in a corner if
you study your fellow men sympathetically if you try consistently to contribute to something to this excess and happiness or contribute something to their success in happiness if
you are reasonably generous with your thoughts and your time if you have a partial reserve with every one but a seeming reserve with no one if you work to be interesting rather
than spend to be a good fellow you will get along with your superiors your subordinates your orderly your roommate and the human race he let all you got your owner body now one of
the ones that i i you know these are all pretty obvious but one of the ones if you have a partial reserve with every one but a seemingly but a seeming reserve with no one so with
that means if you're not defying off the handle you you just reserve a little but you're just you shall restraint but the restraint doesn't come across his aloofness right not so
much for you you know if i come into a room and i m in a show restraint on moonish you i'm in a come across his eloping like me but if i but if i was to walk in to go a go my
brother i'll give you a hug well you're not going to like me either why well you're one of the few people one that the hawaiian and you allow a pirate figure so but so it's it's
that measured reserve that measured restraint balance is a little back ome there edified a good gribonille again getting along with people back to the book by the scores of
thousands precepts and platitudes have been written for the guidance of personal conduct the odd part is that despite all of this labor most of the frictions in modern society
arise from the individual's feeling of inferiority his false pride his vanity his unwillingness to yield space to any other man on willingness to yield space in my heating on this
lot because again because of my personalities can be a little bit forceful people think of just now oppose my way or of a way and this is what they're talking about i'm not like
that i'm open to suggestions i'm willing to say you know that that's a better idea ornati like your idea could we make this adjustment to it or yes i can change my idea to fit
with what you're saying because it makes sense people that don't do that have unwillingness to yield space to any other man continuing on and his co consequent urge to throw his
own weight around right these are just ways to not get along with people in speaking of ways to get noting with people here is the thirteen mistakes the thirteen mistakes this is
from the united states coast guard magazine thirteen pitfalls he region to attempt to set up your own personal to to attempt to set up your own standard of right and wrong to try
to measure the enjoyment of others by your own to expect uniformity of opinions in the world to fail to make allowance for inexperience to going to endeavor to mold all
dispositions alike not to yield on unimportant trifles saint thing we dissertating that don't matter who cares let the guys do as they're going to do on that to look for
perfection in our own actions to worry ourselves and others about what can't be remedied why you were about that can angele's not worry about it let's just move on here is a big
one not to help everybody wherever however whenever we can at a big ask and that's a big request that you don't know wot you do in your life help everybody however wherever and
whenever you can that's asking will that's a big one to consider impossible what we cannot ourselves perform kidnapper do that right to believe only what our finite minds can
grasp must ilagan to believe only what are finite minds can grasp that humility to recognize that you understand everything in the world i don't understand everything in the world
to a there's things beyond my company anon and after kay you got omit to that not to make allowances for the weaknesses of others to estimate by some outside quality when it is
that within which makes the man so very simple interesting how you can make allowances for ercordin to the thirteen things i make allowances for an experience of others but not
the weakness of a note excess it is not to make sovietist ake it would be mistake not to make allowances for the weaknesses of others altshuler aguanos yehoudis disguised do i got
a agerola a long tough lechelle the allies little and not fly off the handle ye back to the book it suffice to say that when any officer has the inexcusable fault that his takes
snap judgment on his own man he will not be any different in his relations with all other people and will stand in his own light for the duration of his career again there's that
term if you're if you're making snap judging people you're you're not going to do him justice and that something that i was always very careful about because i talked about before
this holtes her reputation is a very very important and and everybody that's done something stupid in the saltees every single person knows that i mean at a high level of
stupidity you if i might have lineally stupid everybody else about and in minor stupid things a lot of people know about it and so you you develop a reputation over time and it's
very easy to fall in that category virentis guise you know conditur or whatever and not give him a chance but i always i always try to give people charital me too this casually
like and i guess i would take a little personal colgate was a guide that was going to be working for me let's see if i can make this guy rocket will you know the mossified made
this guy in two a solid seal can always pull it off as a eginetan second chance some people go too far with the mistakes that they made on the non get a second chips okay we
talked about this before let talk about it again they were gilt the man who will not listen never develops wits enough to distinguish between a bore and a sage and therefore
cannot pick the best company the vacant stare the drifting of eyes from the speaker to a window or a picture or a passing blonde though greatly tempting in the midst of long
discourse are taken only as signs of inattention many a young officer called to the carpet for some trivial business is managed to square himself with his commander just by
looking straight and talking straight in the few moments that decided his future so i guess this might be something that didn't make the politically correct version if your eyes
are wandering on a passing belong let larger ones conversation for that might be one of those things where they changed that for the two thousand and seven a letitia equallie that
the show chauvenseer shoved astriction it inside girl take well maybe good point maybe it's royalities any brown haired people ye ye jennetin this is important though you go into
too and shall give you there look straight an talk straight for a few minutes with the boss had his bosses what happened to one i did this mistake i met that's got infinitely
better chance of of you recaving from that situation as when you go in there to look their botryoidal gold me that kind of elsewhere in the book a great deal tensed about the
importance of the voice and of developing one's powers of conversation not a great deal needs to be added there but there is no excuse for the officer who talks so that others
must strain to hear what he is saying unless he is suffering from laryngitis it is simple enough to keep the chin up and let the words roll out many persons have the bad habit of
letting the voice drop at the end of the sentence the effect on the other party is like watching a man run away from a fight notices said fight really loud yet i want to be to
gather was dropping off on the end of his eye so you talking about speaking and how you speak and speaking clearly and not mumbling and not fading off on the end your words this
thing is a busting it a gold mine this book actually and this should be issued to thirteen year old nation wide and my opinion a we could start a camp panamanian good actor a book
carefulness in the little things count count much men develop an aversion to the individual cannot remember their names their titles or their stations but they will warm to the
person who remembers and they will overlook most of his other short comings likewise they are one by any words of appreciation or of interest in what they're doing so it gain how
we get along with it people remember their name's hard you know bell that's hard there's tricks for that ye i know that see you need sirotkin everyone needs to but i'm just saying
it's understood that that's hard and there's tricks out there there because people know that that can be hurt and they also know that its impact a yeah alaman but you ferget a
gude name literally to second of oiled as you unless you make it a point to command yourself to remember it at this tricky yet it icy ob im i knew a guy that was a a really good
leader but you down to a romeo twenty five people and he would go would go over the top and only got done he would say i know all your names now ye to name every thing i want for
that henerietta as he fretensian be henderson some little trick to do it yet and the members is a uncloud your name is echo cool i look at you and i i see big e on your face right
ran now in every line yet there's a it's interesting but man sometimes you can be like amanitum ber the one die i'm goin t make a point to remember is guienne he'll be like any
might is john you'd be like a a josh breyoort it quick something weird man not good gotermobe those names got lock em in i think he be take a certain amount of pride in doing that
i think that helps a lot of on a borondon take pride or job i'm a try that now this is this is interesting little dig here doctor knifin twibill goin back and say that all the
information about getting along with other people he sang these canarian the whole thing to close it out tacotitlan the advice which is needed on this subject since a man
commissioned is considered to have graduated from at least i kinder garden of good manners what counts is simply carrying about it and not not to be ingratiating to other people
but for the sake of one's own dignity and self respect none of the oracles on winning friends and influencing people had set it nose few words and if they had there would have
been no books to sell some as low shotwell shot on a winning friends in her influence in people i went with olinto that that was written out a nowhere day dates with that's ridlon
time about tangoists times amarantha's that's turn of the century folly old school talking about now we're going to meet her leaders and leadership and what type of man are
leaders those who come forward to fill these same places and to command them with equal or greater a forty and competence will not be plaster saint so if you remember in the
beginning at the lygon the thing about how you beauteous and you're going to nointel bout at it women he's given some leeway now to that he seen the oenoe blaster saints laden
with all human virtue spotless in character and fit to be anointed with a superman legend by some future parson weems they will be men with a human quality and a strong belief in
the united states and the goodness of a free society they will have some of the average man's faults and may be a few of his vices but certainly they will possess the qualities of
courage creative intelligence and physical fitness in more than average measure so again there is not as not acquit strict any lad out in the beginning yet cause it's like
rembrandt must training the remember the donzellas paroff yes i the leetell concept is in there were it you got to have a little dirt on you so they can trust you okay so they say
tharlotte clean for young like there's all country heroes that are not agreed well in hennatead ers that that are i was sins more heroes that aren't squeaking gleam yes they're
real partition plenty of leaders that are screaking clean and a greatly der yet i am and that's what argive that up in the book as saloo not to be a plaster saying we had be a
purse in a falsewitness and have vices gun after ye this a little bit but do ye for the record that training day guides words all corrupt so gasaiatanne to a lost much dare exact
all right now we're talking about grant general grant civil war general and beset by human failings he could not look in provincie average though he was in many things there was
nothing average about the strong way in which he took hold applying massive common sense to the complex problems of a field that is why he is worth close regard his virtues as a
military leader were of the simpler sort which plain men may understand and hope to emulate he was direct in manner he never intrigued his speech was homely he was approachable
his mind never deviated from the object though a stubborn man he was always willing to listen to his subordinates and i love this one right here he never adhered to a plan
obstinately but nothing could induce him to forsake the idea behind the plan to armories there's my dear i'm a whole that idea eustatius the plan of going to get us there amyot
worry about that he marathon on to that end and let it drag me into the ground back to the book in the military service services though there are niches for the pedal territories
at all times at least as vital as intellect so adans like over leeked types in arioi you anandena grit and the main rewards go to him who can make other men feel toughened as well
as elevated here some traitor quiet resolution the hardihood to take risks the will to take full responsibility for decision the readiness to share its rewards with subordinates
missus olioli extreme ownership and part of extreme ownership is when you something goes well you don't own that part you give that away an equal readiness to take the blame when
things go adversely boom the nerve to survive storm and disappointment and to face toward each new day with the scoresheet wiped clean neither dwelling on one successes nor
accepting discouragement from one failures like i said this looshais of thirteen year year holsinger really good book by the he i figured he did this one i i used a lot of high
letter on the one and had i felt for a long time i couldn't it's funny we when i read it this time i hadn't read it in so long that it was almost like a room again i pretty much i
forgot most of it and a lot of it you know i subconsciously with part entreat of my game for a long time now i can't tell well i can't tell what i just what i buried but what o
what was the seed that greyer peteolate some ideas near that were set with my thought yea what imagine to that that's not the kind of book words like oh yelley member is all this
you know it's more like old she got it i got a cunning and in jeff yer incident ears the straight up truth when somebody gave me this book i probably read ten pages of it and said
alas pretty cold put it in my locker and then went out and worked out and forgot about it for next fifteen years and only it's not i didn't you know this this this current jocko
will call it where i can overlay and in bring in his ligget when you only you're going to git you or no if if you're a brown belt on purpleblack dodgier somebody can show you move
and you can assimilate it really quickly and i go all all and you is to this well i was a white belt before in this stuff and so when i read it it it kind of made sense but it was
i it was didn't make as much sense as that when i read the stuff now it's like a a totally understand it at a deeper level and so its way more than tactful for me people hoyas me
about this one as well back to the book to speak of the importance of a sense of humour would be unavailing if it were not that what cramps many men isn't that they are by nature
humorless but that they are hesitant to exercise what humor they possess within the military profession it is as unwise to let the muscles go soft and to spare the mind the strain
of original thinking great humor has always been in the military tradition before as for some reason people ask me about humorist it good for of caroor say good proved to tell
joan like yes it is and i ask why i always want ever to something funny in the war books that we read i always try and capture that so the eirale that these guys are out there and
they keep that sense humor going all with time yet and i guess that doesn't mean we necessarily mean telling jails all the time and littlecare let it ye i feel that's funny i'm on
a you know dear yes this aesthete good time making making light of these miserable situations for her said admiral this is going to the next chapter which is called man springs of
fedosie said abro forest peaiman chief of naval operations i concur that we can take average good men and by proper training develop in them the essential initiative consent
confidence and magnetism which are necessary in leadership i believe that these qualities are present in the average man to a degree that he can be made of good leader if his
native qualities are properly developed whether or not becomes a great leader depends upon whether or not he possesses that extra initiative magnetism moral courage and force
which makes the difference between the average man and the above average man said general c b cates commandant of a marine corps leadership is intangible hard to measure and
difficult to describe its qualities would seem to stem from many factors but certainly they must include a measure of inherent ability to control and direct self confidence based
on expert knowledge initiative loyalty pride and sense of responsibility inherent ability obviously cannot be instilled but that which is latent or dormant can be developed other
ingredients can be acquired they are not easily taught or easily learned but leaders can be and can be and are made the average good man in our service is and must be considered a
potential leader so there you that question the same answer that i give the basically all time would people asked me flatters leader bore the may or made there's the answer from
these two guys dearee with me or i i say i agree with them sneerer to me but but look you got certain traits you can take i was say look you can take some of its onoclea a better
leader you can take a good leader and make him an outstanding leader now standing let you can make a map and let her because you can approve these things you can loan about these
things the one person that you can't make any better as the person that's not home they're not going to get me better because they can't be coached contending in his own like
cause he standing in his own light maywill bring that back man and bringing out then back to the book and before i go back to the book this is another thing i get asked about a
lot his people asked me because they know that i work a lot if they do that i get after it right and they are ever ever ask about ah you know how do you how do you do with your
family no family cause i got four children and the wife sure and it goldfishlike that's the name esteame anna so i got a give you know to the family right so people say hey how do
you how do you balance so he reeled back to the dufferton advancement within any worthwhile system requires some sacrifice of leisure and more careful attention to the better
organization of one's working routine but that does not entail heroic self sacrifice or for fitting of any of life's truly enduring rewards i means putting the completion of work
ahead of golf yes so i sold so often you see people that you'll yourii going to work myself to death oh okay are you to play golf to death because that's a family where you're
trying to do he who high but see you got to find balance you got to find dallas especially you know when he talked in a wet strewing and dory rewards that togyo family in the
thing that you achieve outside the work the world abimee abbey have dimnet was a priest pretty sure priests and wrote a book called the art of thinking then he coated here in this
book he said concentration is supposed to be exceptional only because people do not try and in this as so many things starve within an inch of plenty while like that close starve
within an inch o plenty you're almost there i was there almost got plenty beer starved to death right there when in an inch why cause you you fail to concentrate you fail the
focus and that's what happens on well this is this is is also here go vere is of course that commonest of excuses for rejecting the difficult and taking life easy i haven't time
but for the man who keeps his mind on the object there is always time figure it out about us in the services daily we you busy men who somehow managed to find time for whatever is
worth doing while at the adjoining desks are others with abundant leisure who can't find time for anything when something important requires doing is usually the busy man who gets
the call and got time for that he belays time yet i i time and how can you ever have time if you don't take time that sounds cool but i lay menexena has time or but a how can you
have time if you don't take all you say out okay okay the letter given me a word from eadline partners omething like that you some there was a mark and above i think he was like a
part three two old anyway these osago is true though you know like codelike a annam i want to get in like real good shape or some like this i want to get like real strong or
whatever is in a key to work out like this may i don't have like time to oldenheim you then you can't get in chattie saying i don't have to be inclination it's more or less the
same thing i don't have a eye i was with one of my bodies and we were counselling some one and my buddy said you don't care about this in the guysers go i do care and he said well
likin's on time if you cared you would show on time i then case closed the fire owas that i was like a dotlets just stop talking to work on a weregeld true so gasoline probably
know i come from a long line of late as we flew discuss that before so i can analyze their whereat there was a time where i felt like tingitanian be on sait let's like almost like
this like mentorial black almost shot i felt her but then he erotaetheis ti yi this is waterall realized it you are just lazno lazy it wasn't important just like i say in this
slow soley work for example i was late literally more times than i was on time at work on now were soon at niggling enough to wulfere you and i reared you shark it fires yosemites
in the real you you probably would have been a good idea none the less so when i analyze it ill lit we wymlet why don't i get prepared the night before whatever it takes to be on
time isenland just like her it's not important like why would i spend my off work time preparing to go be at work you know i should be resting or that's my off time watching a
little bit more televise or you whatever that not workings in another eftesoones ogre exact right not working why should i spend offward time doing work stuff like that imogen pay
for kind of thing you know is on important abstrusities book starting off with the attitude of trying to new good job all the time and actually shall be brought that up in some
mysen me a direct message in this was a great point that i didn't think about we got asked another question on the poast about haviour getting told to go to a meeting that you're
not going to get paid for i remember that combersation this guy wrote in said he you don't leave go letha's e legal let you on how one you rage so that's a great point that i
don't think about it think of it from us halfopen but that's a good point now you've got people that year breaking the law and so i kind of assumed that these guys were not being
specifically compensated but that they they were may be salaries that gerhart i could be wrong and in ospedale hourly now you no no you got to go off as a hay boss i i want to get
this meeting going but what you're doing to us and what you're doing these guys it i legal he yo may be the the man drew on tenseness are salaried and the workers are our leaden
sir he would gedaliah to meeting as among toller's all good at me i'm here to win yet the guys i can't bring me your less you want to be looking at a and a labour lost suit you in
a game for that boss somoye that's going to cost our company money can make us look that lets its do this another way ye boom but that is a different element to the whole like the
point as far as what you're talking were what you come by like it something like not import in verses idianale doesn't necessarily go for just work that so i i for anything like
if you're late to anything but your views if you like this forecast i'm rolling in late every single time it's it's obviously cause been on time is latimer in and that leads into
this pot acting one way or other what we're about to do isn't imported roof that whiterose because it is important to you day to tonga causation of anand i will sin off my
portance time doing stuff to prepare for you know he onetime to read good and soon siasconset fire him to esitation other echo charles i got weirother right one obedience if good
coin although he follonica ly as the same problem yet anyway i ve told you we come from a long line aenothera of you know the end put an it's a sign of disrespect to by the way
yes it's like say not only do i not think to what were it what we plan to do or agreed to do and almeta's not only doing not think that's important i don't respect how much you
think it's important that elingamite no not at all not at on yon time well and make time deaf yet if you want to have time either ye in that that's what so i like about this guy
be actually making fun of people at say i haven't got time because for the man who keeps his mind on the object there is always time next section says much as conveyed in a
infeority field forces brief on practical concepts of leadership it is stressed therein that the preeminent quality which all great commanders have owned in common is a
positiveness of manner and of viewpoint the power to concentrate on means to a given end to the exclusion of exaggerated fears of the obstacles which lie or the course every word
of that should be underscored and above all one it says about the need for affirmative thinking and concentrating on how things can be done the peiser about this view always hear
about this person that person that says when you go to them and say he can we do this there there always looking for a way to say no a reason why something can happen and no no we
can do that we can make it happen we can preconfided out a way that's what we're looking for next section those oh in this section is actually the same topic of what this pot gast
is the topic of and that is human nature in those who had the chance to study american men under the terrible rigor of japanese and prisonment during world war two gave an
analysis that in certain of the prisoners character and sanity with it held fast against every circumstance in others some of whom had been well educated and came from gentle
homes the brute instinct was as uppermost as in an east african cannibal and when they said brute instinct as the person that dustless and goes to the animal instincts from such
crucibles as these even more than from the remittent stresses of combat in war comes the clearest light on the inner nature of man in so far as it needs to be understood by the
officer who may some day lead a force in the battle human nature one of the things that he says about humantur and here is good will and weakness may be combined in one man bad
will and strength in another high moral leading can lift the first man to excel himself it will not reform the other but there is no other sensible rule than that all men will be
approached with trust and treated his trough trustworthy until proved otherwise beyond reasonable doubt seton out the trusses little bit obstat about or lie actually i i should
take that back member one time on the pongasi said book i don't have a high expectation of people when i meet him he and i i hold that true this day but i don't strayed up not
trust them as a human he at there's a difference there yes and i think there's a difference i think i feel that way there is a hand in it's not an obvious difference but it's like
the difference between i don't have an high expectation of somebody and verses i have the low expectation of persuades somebody so heauties sound the same in some scene italian
have i expectation than what can expect is yanyoo right exactly raisonable distant one rat like i am not going to put any expectations i'm not expecting you to do buncher know i
don't have any expectations neutral yet i i come i come in with a neutral attitude on that one year back to look men do not achieve a great solidarity or preserve it simply by
being together their mutual bonds are forged only by doing together that which they have been convinced is constructive the absence of a common purpose is the chief source of
unhappiness in any collection of individuals lacking it and the common standard of justice which is one of its chief agents men become more and more separate units each fighting
for his own rights this is why you got have that common purpose this war that commanders in tents one for the swinton that everyone understand understand why they're doing what
they're doing in the after understand the strict gold at your thing to meet as a company as a business as a team as a potion and as a person in let like a lot of people that go
into straight up depression we omanaia delegation if they don't see purposelie to die that is true back to the book what ever his rank it is impossible for any man to lead if he
is himself running behind the bespeaks the need of constant study the constant use of one's personal powers and the exercise of the imagination as men advance that which was good
soon ceases to be good simply because something better is possible he got of off he got a continue to evolve got a continue to improve yourself history confirms and a study of the
workings of the human mind supports one proposition which many of the great captains of war have accepted as a truism there are no bad troops there are only bad leaders ye
interesting it's here napoleon settinup set there's no back coronals only bad regiments hackworth said the same thing no bad tea i think he said no bad troops only bad officers in
the book that lay for i wrote no bad teams only badly torso very common and very true stands the test a time you know there is a reason why a poleon thought that dear is a reason
why assalamo said that there's a reason why hackers said that there's a reason why lateribus that in the book causantis true in the minute you if you're to ladeside minute that
you accept that fact is the minute you stepped forward become into better leader eh custis soon as your blame it all the people you're interferest knocking a make out o my team
suck suck right the it's let it onto you call this irony or what but get no bad team abated er so if you're like white to not true well ashamed leader he said the figured catch
twenty two yeah yeah or what footsore gloses good through the aganaktei all right this is awesome her regal back to the book in this the actually this section here has gone to
gopinath sogane from human nature to group nature back to the book among the commonest of experiences in war is to witness troops doing nothing or worse doing the wrong thing
without one commanding voice being raised to give them direction in such circumstance any man who has the nerve and presence to step forward and give them an intelligent order in
a manner indicating that he expects to be obeyed will be accepted as a leader and will be given their support that you hear that and that's all it is who's goin to step up who's
going to have the nerve and the present to step up and give an intelligent order that you believe in and you believe will be fallen and did you inspect we been you'll be obeyed so
again i hear his people say will you on to the senior position therefore i can't do anything wrong actually you can set up and lead actoo for this reason under the conditions of
modern battle the coherence of any military body comes not only of men being articulate all down the line but of building up the dynamic power in each individual it is a
thoroughly sound exercise in any unit to give every man a chance to take charge and give orders in drill or other limited exercises once he has learned what the orders mean by the
same token it is good practice for the junior leader to displace a file that means is one of the guys to displace a file in a training exercise and become commanded for a time to
sharpen his own perspective so it's good for the junior guise to step up into leadership to visions and leave it's good for the leaders to go and be one of the boys in the potion
and i got really lucky as i was a prior a port called a prior and lifted guy a mustang off sir salient my first eight years in the seems as a other guy in the i was one of the
fish so i knew what it was like when a leader didn't tell you know was going on i knew what it was like when you had a good leader on so when i stepped up into those leadership
positions i could i knew at least what not to do and i knew what i would try and do to be a good leader ye like to the curse of knowledge right like you don't christologies when
like you can't see it from some inexperience person's point of view of you know of and so you don't really have that you know because you've been the inexperience can just draw on
those memories you know to a have that perspective that before cunnifee good or worse things here at the end of sixteen man she hopeton patrolling through the night and you just
have no idea where you are you have no idea how far the targets away you have no idea when you're going to stop you have no idea or you've no idea of anything you're just walking
like a like a miserable for boots boots woomeras you're gannion of m it's just a worst some when i was a potenciana at a squad beater everybody i've tried it with everything i had
to make sure ones going on all the time because i never wanted my guys to be thinking what is happening what do we do in it progress comes of making the most of our strength
rather than looking for ways to repair weaknesses this is true in things both large and small the potomao permits himself to be bedeviled by the file who won't or can't keep step
cannot do justice to the ambitions of the ten strongest men beneath him upon whom the life of the formation would depend commercy to nourish and encourage the top rather than to
concentrate effort and exhaust nerves and trying to correct a few least likely prospects is the healthy way of growth within military organization take care you topple put your
potfuls nanoun i was you know going to give some time to the guys that are struggling tryin help them out but less o folk o him they're not going to make a break you solders that
you want to you want to develop you in you've got a good seed that start me grow water that seed don't worry about that thing over there in the corner that's not being anything it
is a good missus classic it is a sign of a good level of discipline in command when orders are given and faithfully carried out but it is a sign of a vastly superior condition
when the men are prepared to demand those orders which they know the situation requires if it is to be helped no competent subordinate sits around waiting for someone else to give
impulse to move men if he senses if his senses talent that things are going to pot either suggests a course of action to his superior or as i thority to execute it on his own or
in the more desperate circumstances of the battlefield gives orders on his own initiative the centralized command everybody's leader everybody steps up and makes things happen not
to the book general dwight d eyes how was thinking on these things when he said during world war two there is among the mass of individuals who carry rifles and war a great amount
of ingenuity and efficiency if men can talk naturally to their officers the product of their resourcefulness becomes available to all so as long as you can as longshores feel
comfortable talking you you're going to have access to all the rites and all their ingenuity back to the book but the art of open communication requires both receiving an ending
and the besetting problem is to get officers to talk naturally to men developed the relationships with a chooses what you got to do another section here at all training all
training at all levels has a dual object to develop us all as leaders of men and as followers of leaders dicotomy gouliot to be follower flicker twittering in a outwear by lear
follower o the er listened that cogitated redreat that is that is there's a dichotomy there back to the book the paralysis which comes of fear can be lifted only through the
resumption of action which willing again give individuals the feeling of organization so this is interested we remember that joe owen when he is in korea in the coldest war in in
colder than hell he's freezing and this shooting starts and he's got his own procedure of how is going to overcome the fear he's goin to do you can take action and something that
i've saddened much time are you afraid of something take action that into it so what this what this is saying is the same thing but not one individual level but on a group level
as we're talking of grouper here and it's the same thing as you do with an individual you do with the group so listen to this again the paralysis which comes of fear can be lifted
only through the resumption of action which will again give the individual's feeling of organization this does not mean ordering a bayonet charge or firing a volley at such and
such a clock it may mean only patting one man on the back talking it up to a couple of others sending someone out to find the flank or turning one's or turning oneself to dig in
while passing the word to others to do likewise this is action in the realest sense of the term out of rear reinvigorating men toward the taking of many small actions develops the
possibility of large and decisive action the unit must first find itself before doing an effective job of finding the enemy out of those acts which are incidental to the
establishing of an order the leader reaffirms his own power of decision so this thibaut iful advice beautiful vice just like you do with yourself your frat is something take
action step into it you got your group and everyone started to scare in overwhelm let's take some actaeon a is all mine whatever that orders going to be at that for i may not
solved the problem butting regains er your steppit as a team and i you can be forward this next section is some titled environment mattie book ed is only to the man who is burned
with unnecessary and exaggerated fear fears and who mistakes for fancied security the privilege of sitting quietly in one place that the uprooting which comes with war is
demoralizing the natural officer sees it as an hour of opportunity and though he may not like anything else about war he at least relishes the strong feeling of personal
contention which always develop developed when there are many openings inviting many men as war as one were war two commander expressed it during war the ball is always kicking
around loose in the middle of the field and any man who has the will may pick it up and run with it that's true by life so many opportunities out there who's going to pick it up
and run with it becomes the question now we get into touching back a little bit on to some disappoint back the book when men are given absolute freedom with no compulsion upon
them but to eat and sleep as with a group of south sea savages there can be no strong uniting bond between them absolute freedom doesn't get you what you want is got a be
accoutered of that at colors is one i suppose that's another politically incorrect thing that we run to the book could tones the south a seat at ages whose there technical
problematice from the south sea gemacht istis ekeino offense intended back to the book in officership there is simply no substitute for personal reconnaissance nor any other
technique that in the long run will have half its value so he stuck not personal reerecting ers not talking about going to recontre on istante of an enemy position he talking
about going down and recoming doing recontented within your own element talking to people when he talking about her this dark about that habit of of personal constance at once
formed the habit of getting down to the roots of organize of organization of singing with one's own eyes what is taking place of measuring it against one to own scale of values of
ordering such changes as are needed and of following through to make certain that the changes are made becomes the main spring of all efficient command action in battle there is
no other way to be sure in training there is no better way to move toward self assurance sir get down there did in the weed sometimes see what's going on in the front lines talked
to your people the section tax about the mission when an order is given one of the responsibilities of the man who receives it in sequence these to be certain that he understands
what is required to examine an organized his resources as promptly as possible to and fully inform his subordinate upon these points to execute the order without waste of time or
means to call for support if events prove that his means are inadequate to philip the spaces in the orders if there are developments which had not been anticipated when the detail
is complete to prepare to go on to something else straightforward repentant general sir frederick morgan who planned the invasion of normandy put the matter this way when setting
out on any enterprise is well it is as well to ask oneself three questions to whom is one responsible for what precisely is one responsible what are the means at disposable at
disposal for discharging this responsibility nothing so warms the heart of a superior as that on giving an order he sees his subordinate salute and say yes sir then about face and
proceed to carry it out to the hilt without faltering or looking back this is the kind of a man that a commander will choose to have with him every time and that he will recommend
for first advancement on the other hand clarification of the object is not only a right but a duty and consoles so if you don't derstand i you you have the duty to ask for
clarification orders are not always clear and no superiors on formed for ground when he is impatient of questions which are to the point or resent for of the man who asks them as
a satis all the time if your subordinate wider we doing this and you get angry you're wrong you should be happy that your suborders asking why but is the but it is natural that he
will be doubtful of the man whose words show either that he hasn't heard or is concerned mainly with the relevancies a cultivation of the habit of careful concentrated listening
and of collected thought in reading into any problem is principle portal to successful officership from the pen from the pen of general eyes an hour comes these words the
commander's success will be measured more by his ability to lead then by his adherence to fixed notions thus in the conduct of operations not less than in the execution of orders
it is necessary that the mind remain plastic and impressionable again the ideal of the military man is this person at can change and is close mind is wrong now there are military
lies like that and its unfortunate they're not good you go have the flexible mind gotali mind obedience is not the product of fear but of understanding and understanding is based
on knowledge so you got to make sure that your troops understand what's going on so they know what's going on said they can elberfeld not out of fear to grasp the spirit of orders
is not less important than to accept them cheerfully and keep faith with the contract but the letter of an instruction does not relieve him who receives it from the obligation to
exercise common sense you told these something you still got to do so that a whole common sense in the carolineans of nineteen forty one a soldier student a road intersection for
three days and nights directing civilian traffic simply because the man who put him there had forgotten all about it though he was praised at the time he was hardly a shining
example of the whole but the troops moving into the next chapter which the name of the chapter is discipline this is you're goin arecunas this one once a man condones remissis his
own belief in discipline begins to wither the officer who tolerates slackness in the dress of his men soon ceases to tend his own appearance and if he is not called to account his
sloppy habits will shortly begin to inflict his superior there is only one correct way to wear the uniform when any deviations in dress are condoned within the services the way is
open to the destruction of all uniformity and unity not what you preach its were you tolerate the condone remissis your open now this might be a little bit extreme what you says
that with your out a uniform or you allow me as you to the way is opened in the destruction of all uniformity in your i'm not sure i untapestried with that and i was always very
pro youniform and making sure the gods were squared wanderers i was probably the one of the most stringent in the eleans in this seldom is not utiful are not were not real good
where youniform of looking good unforeseenness catharine to agree that that open up the way for the destruction of all uniformity is but the less nearest is more about the
uniforms it's more about just is not what you precatory that slippery slope situation entites opening the way that necessarily insuring some fisher of tunis drew olgiati that
finely you give me on the technicality sometimes as fine ocaywita i'm plastic in my minikin i could accept that plastic illsome people say plastic like all that gaze look plastic
meaning like you fake or something like that or this is more like like plasticity for an absolutely not written in nineteen fifty before plastic was everything that woman uses you
sanitary that anything that was made of metal was better it is make everything of metal i wanted to be everything that was made medal right don't they say stuff that temting about
like food and bacon i can think tacentibus fomorian king of thine be correct he is good ye back to look no leader ever fails his men an old they failed him cool leads them in
respect for the discipline the life between these two things disappoint in itself and a personal faith in the military value of discipline wise all the difference between military
maturity and mediocrity a salute from an unwilling man he is as meaningless as the moving of a leaf on a tree it is a sign only that the subject has been caught by a gust of wind
but a salute from the man who takes pride in the gesture because he feels privileged to wear the uniform of united states having found the service good is the epitome of military
virtue until men are severely tried there is no conclusive test of their discipline nor proof that their training at arms is satisfying a legitimate military end military forces
remain relatively undisciplined until physically coffined and mentally conditioned to unusual exertion consider the road march no body of men could possibly enjoy the dust the
heat the blistered foot and the aching back but hard road marching is necessary if a sound foundation is to be built under the discipline of fighting forces particularly those
whose labors are in the field and the gain comes quickly the rise in spirits within any organization which is always to be observed after they rebound from a hard march does not
come essentially from the feeling of relief that the strain est passed but rather from the saddest faction that a goal has been crossed it must be accepted that discipline does
not break down under the strain of placing a testing demand upon the individual it is sloghan activity that destroys discipline then about that one so that the itit not the strain
is not the pressure that you put the break down the disentitling it's the sloth that breaks dispone troops can endure hard going when it serves an understandable end this is what
they will boast about mainly when the fatigue is ended a large part of training is necessarily directed toward conditioning them for unusual hardship and privation they can take
it in stride but no power on earth can reconcile them to what common sense tells them is unnecessary hardship which might have been avoided by greater intelligence in their
superiors so if your telling people do something that they realize there's an easier way to do it that they're going to be angry when they are overloaded they know it when they
are required to form a parade two hours ahead of time because their commander got over anxious or did no how to ride in order again they know it and they are perfectly right if
they go sour because this kind of thing happens a little too often when then the command were the inartistic that discipline is nearest perfect which assures to the individual the
greatest freedom of thought and action while at all times promoting his feeling of responsibility toward the group the great batanians form of discipline is the one that gives the
greatest freedom of thought nation that's what we want for what the disappointment thing his take on like when you go through some hard stuff the satisfaction isn't that it's over
it's the fact that you yetive you know i told you at my whole sleep they all used to be where i didn't get withindoors of done for the day but so now let's take it two hours sleep
and i like him i am an i still do this work out whatever this condition something hard sure it's going to be hard servation forward to it but yet the satisfaction is afterwards
all even god how it's in the a you're goin have to hint brag about her something like that proves true you go and tell your friends ali did this want ours ly got internality you
do kind of have that feeling like you want to brag about it not done i i did some hard stuff you you know we shouldn't be surprised we were going a getting excited when with these
things completely makes sense ye these are the eater deter genestet new and understand human nature in any of things that we look at and we learn we've experienced no so she come
as a surprise i know but with crazy when you are it's like tomlison you know where it'll happen and you almost like you don't even realize it often like every one does that at one
donated so sure gets through hard work day did something unto the circumcised that they hate they might even be complaining above it like all is a point on so such a stretch of
lear but when you get it actually done you break a butt at the very lesrel like you want to brag but this thank kittinger that you know keep that up now there's some countered of
that he regain back to the book if the man is cramped by monomaine or made to feel that he cannot move unless in order is barked he cannot develop these qualities and he will
never come forward as a junior leader so if you put too much discipline on somebody tugendheim erster leadership of capabilities say that all the time in the words of depths so
deeply into the hearts of fighting men if one does not wish bonds broken one should make them elastic and thereby strengthen them by that the guy he will he will to think called
up that'll studies watching he didn't finish reading exegetico fighting ah fighting napole with he was with french funny again thee in the isaian prussians but he not of got a
great cold from him the rote down nothing can be nothing can wisely be prescribed in any army without exact knowledge of the fundamental instrument man and the state of mind his
moral at the instant of combats of the deal defeating that release or of looking at them the mentality of gushing in him at the die than to him at some point now speaking of moral
next section about moral a world war two blot blue jackets had at this way bojador navy guys said it this way morale was when your hands and feet keep working when your head says
it can't be done the handiest beginning is to consider moralated with discipline since in military service they are opposite sides of the same coin when one is present the other
will also be there moral and disciplined moral in discipline they go together this is a familiar story it was repeated by the united states forces of world war two during the
normanhurst and the invasions of the central pacific atolls troops had the learned hard way how to hit how to survive in moving through jungle or across mountains in the desert
when that happened the only disciplinary residue which mattered was obedience to orders the movements they had learned by rowe were of less value than the spiritual bond between
one man and another the most valuable lesson was that of mutual support so this is awesome the moves the battle moves that they that they learned that the trained that were hard
and put them to his hardworking ready to play received when they got overseering hederae do that before their fighting a mountain he never did that before so they had to take
these these drives that they had learned a kind of throw em out the window so all they had left and the most valuable thing of all that trading wasn't the movements themselves it
was this spiritual bond between these men that was more important than the tax on andover with a fact that they did hard training together and they worked together and they knew
each other and he had the spiritual bond back the book in its essential discipline is not measured according to how a man keeps step in a drill yard or weather he salutes at just
the right angle the test is how well he willingly willingly responds to his superiors in all vital matters and finally whether he stands or runs when his life is at stake history
makes this clear there are countless examples of successful military forces which had almost no discipline when measured by the usual yardsticks yet had a high battle morale
productive of the kind of discipline which beats the enemy in battle so that's another little dicotomy nearly salabut the might not be the most disappointed all the parade field
but if you got that bond you got that discipline bond you can still come up with the victory this is important back to the book man is able to recognize a right and reasonable
discipline as such even though it causes him personal inconvenience because his acquired he has acquired a sense of military values but if it is either unduly harsh or
unnecessarily lax he likewise knows it and wears it as a hair shirt to the undoing of his moral to the man like the group can be hurt by being pushed beyond sensible limits his
spirit will suffer even more sorely if no real test is put upon his abilities in more power the greater his intelligence the stronger will be his resentment that is the law of
nature the enlightened mind has always the greatest measure of self discipline but it also has a higher sense of what constitutes justice fairplay and a reasonable requirement in
the performance of duty if the night these things he will come to hold his chief his job and himself in contempt sir heather military reader of your civilian leader and you began
oajaca talking about discipline discipline the though your income in and just throw disappoint on your people and burn no with this have you realm of discipline it's not going to
work out because every one knows that it's unjust unfair unnecessary we don't want that on necessary disponee embrace remuneratory bowed deep inside we braced the hard core
discipline if it makes sense as meaning admiral ben maria has stated a formula understanding terms by his explanation of what made the seabees notable for competence in devotion
to duty during world war two what he said is this we used artisans to do the work for which they had been trained in civilian life they were well led by officers who spoke their
language we made them feel that they were playing an important part in a greeted venture and thus they achieved a high standard of moral the elements underscored by admiral maria
deserve special note satisfaction in a work program mutual confidence between leaders and ranks conviction that all together were striving for something more important in
themselves part of up the cabs the construction betimes in the navy that duke engineering work overseas and i actually had sebethus and reminded it were for awesome awesome case
that did everything for us that kept everything going kept everything running kept everything working built everything that we used awsome gods in every sebert his bed of just a
just a beast they have that attitude like day now there what a man there there their mottoes can't do eleven when you tell himself do something there are hundred percent in that
modern right there there in making out but here we go back to the book talking about moral under training conditions or in combat the mental ills and the resulting moral moral and
physical deterioration which sometimes beset military forces cannot be cured simply by the intensification of disciplinary methods can't just turn it up it is true that the signs
of rope of recovery will sometimes attend the installation of a more rigid or less rigid discipline the you can't just you can't just go up or down the onset is in fact usually
due to the collateral influence of an increased confidence in the command whereby men are made to feel that their own fortunes are on the mend then discipline a moral are together
revitalized almost as if by throwing an electric switch in army history there is no better example of the working of this principle than the work of brighter general par paul be
alone he took over this world war one nineteen nineteen etive a command where slackness and indiscipline were general the men were suffering terrible privation and to me of of
were indifferent to their needs many of them had been battle casualties some had been discharged from hospitals before their wounds were healed the mess was abominable the camp
was short of firewood and other supply in freezing weather men were sleeping on the ground with only a pair of blankets apiece the death pool from influence and new monia and the
aggravation of battle and rose daily the spar and resentment over these conditions began to express itself in semiviolent form every fresh breath of discipline was countered with
harassing punishments until an air of wretched stagnation hung over the whole camp general pershing visited the bay the base the men refused to form for him the men themen were
through the general's coming in the men were not going to form up for him when he tried to address them at a mass meeting they wouldn't hear him out instead of taking any actually
against the men he sent for general malone the new commander arrived without any instructions except to determine what was wrong and corrected with soldierly instinct he
recognized that the indiscipline of the camp was an effect and not a cause but even as he gave orders for leaving the physical distress of the man he demanded that they were
turned to orderly habits he walked around the areas already on his ordered on his orders duck board ere being laid throughout the mud and the whole physical set up was in a
process of reorganization the men grown listless from weeks of mysteries mistreatment paid no heed get on your feet on your general i respect you but i want your respect were his
words they restored the whole situation the first impact of this one man on the camp that was never forgotten by anyone who saw it it is a point to remember a form hold at the
beginning paceful dividend of the timid approach followed by a show of firmness later on within forty eight hours the physical condition of the camp was showing improvement and
sixty thousand men were again doing their duty and bearing themselves in a military manner the lessons from this one incident stand out like beams from a search like battery
leadership one man is able to accomplish a miracle by an act of will accompanied by good works the morale of the force flows from self discipline of the commander and in turn the
discipline of the force is reestablished by the upsurge of its moral power another example here when the reader poetrie which followed world war two threatened a complete collapse
of the moral of the general military establishment the remedy attempted by some unit leaders was to relax discipline and the work requirement all around athor officers met this
crisis by improving the conditions of work setting example which proved to the men that they believed in its importance and paying sedulous attention to the personal problems of
those within the unit they found that they could still get superior performance in the midst of chaos organic strength materializes in the same way on the field of war however
adverse the general situation men will stick to the one man who knows what he wants to do and welcomes them to a full share in the enterprise leadership leadership and leadership
most important thing on the battle field in the words of colonel g f r henderson is the leader who reckons with the human nature of his troops and of the enemy rather than with
their mere physical attributes numbers armament and the like who can hope to follow in napoleon's footsteps got a no your people got enkounter got a no human nature is more
portant in physical form portant and people got number people got more important than a weapons human nature there are few governing principles and before considering their
application in detail wishout first think about the file so now or talk about a god true a soldier he is a man he expects to be treated as an adult not a school boy he has right
may must be made not to him and thereafter respected he has ambition it must be stirred he has a belief in fair play it must be honored he has been need of comradeship it must be
supplied he has imagination it must be stimulated he has a personal sense of dignity it must not be broken down he has pride it can be satisfied and made the bed rock of his
character once he gains assurance that he is playing a useful and respected part in a superior and successful organization to give men working as a group of feeling of great
accomplishment together is the acme of inspired beatership you could basically of your going into a leeriness before every morning just what you want your subordinate what they
are a man be treated in dunniwassels or just so important the way you view your troops and some people have a hard time with that son be bonhard time with that next section is
called no inner job in one of them in one of his little known passages robert louis stevenson that forgot it rode a doctor jackalent hide and treasure island did the perfect
portrait of the man who finally failed at everything because he just never learned how to take hold of this work he goes like this his career was one of unbroken shame he did not
drink he was exactly honest he was never rude to his employers yet he was everywhere discharged bringing no interest to his duties he brought no attention his day was a tissue of
things neglected and things done amiss and from place to place and from town to town he carried the character of one thoroughly incompetent that's how we started his conversation
stanistreet dark boy doing your job now this is important just as a rough approximation any officer's work week should comprise about fifty percent execution and the other half
study if he is to make the best use of his force the woods are loaded with go getters who claim they are men of action and therefore have no need of books at a not studying or
sortilege in studying and these guys that say that there's no need for books they are of the same bone and marrow as the drone who is always counseling halfspeed don't sweat just
get by extra work means short life you're better off if they don't know is you this chant can be heard by any one who cares to listen if the old american incitation of mediocrity
but not always do mister be found in books and at no time is this more true than one wouldn't want is breaking in what is expected of any novice in any field is that he will ask
questions smart ones if possible but if not then questions of all kinds until he learns that there is no such item as revelly oil and that skirmish line doesn't come on spools so
revelly ell revesne up in the morning at the end revoil is something that does actually exist but you'd say to a new tie we need get some revel well for to morrow can you down to
supply and get a form or skirmishin i nurslings when you get on line to engage the enemy and you don't mind in for your gun in the same direction that's called a skirmish line
well he anguenipo skirmish line cachan you run down to the supply department against as roskillie e come out little practical jokes but his point is here polastron who you like to
check on untaking over lead on just you all on a new off from getting commissioned what they do have a lead asked questions is nothing wrong with it there's nothing wrong with it
back to the book wisdom begins at the point of understanding that there is nothing shameful about ignorance it is shameful only when a man would rather remain in that state than
cultivate other men's knowledge boom there is never any reason why he should hesitate for his better to be embarrassed from seeking counsel than to be found short for not having
sought it idly any officer should be able to do the work of any man under him however it is obviously absurd to expect that any officer could no more about radio repair than his
repairman more about mapping than his cartilage carted rivero section more about moving parts than a gunsmith more about radar than a specialist in electronics and more about
cypher than a cryptographer the distinction lies in the difference between the power to do a thing well and that of being able to judge when it is done well a man can say a book
is bad though not knowing how to write one himself provided is a student of literature to has never laid an egg he can pass fair judgment on an omelet so this is not in you you're
not a no everything as a leader you that i know as much about sniper sniping as my slipped close to port you know that knows much about just iyesada as much about the radioman did
no no castaway they do you don't need to know everything but you have to have an understanding of it and you have to have lesbiennes and when something is being done right or
wrong is another good point we can ponder the words of william hazlitt a man who shrinks from a collision with his equals or superiors will soon sink below himself we improved by
trying our strength with others not by showing it off so you can't be afraid to bring stuff up to your superiors he got to be respectful yes you do but he said just being a yes
man don't be that now this next section scaled writing and speaking all their things be qualiter or rating will invariably be given to the officer who is preserved in his studies
of the art of self expression while his colleague who attaches little importance to what may be achieved through working with the language will be marked for mediocrity so
retirement reading its speaking writing and speaking as the british statesmen is raly put it men govern with words within the military establishment command is exercised through
what is set which commands attention and understanding and through what is written which directs explains interprets or informs batlan through the ability of men to express
concrete ideas in clear and unmistakable language battles are one through clear and unmistakeable language that a battles are won back the book all administration is carried
forward along the chain of command by the power of men to make their thoughts articulate and available to others there is no way under the sun that this basic condition can be
altered once appointed granted any offer should be ready to accept its corolary that superior qualification in the use of language both as to the written and the spoken word is
more essential to military leadership than knowledge of the whole technique of weapons handling so when people asked me why i studied english and college this is why studied
english college some men will take refuge in the excuse offered by the great majority unjust a simple fighting file with no gift for writing or speaking that is the mark of an
officer who has no ambition to properly qualify himself and is seeking to justify his own laziness and a reason he saying that is because he thinks that you can become a good
writer back to the book writers are self made but it is a reasonable speculation that history might never have heard of the greater number of these men had they not worked said
jelousy to become proficient with the pen as well as with the sword men who command words to serve their thoughts and feelings are well on a way to commanding men to serve their
purposes all senior commanders respect the junior who has a faculty for thinking an idea through and then expressing a comprehensively in clear unvarnished phases so your young
choung meter out there young toper think about improving your method of fat thing about making your speech more clear any man who has the brain to qualify for commission can make
of himself a competent writer because of natural limitations he may never excel in this art but if he has had average schooling knows out open a dictionary can find his way to the
library and is willing to commit himself prolonged in practice particularly in nonduty hours and will finally free himself from the superstition that writing is a game only for
specialists he can acquire all the skill that is necessary to further his advance within the military profession but where should work begin how about a little practical advice
the only way to learn to write is to right that's it there is no other secret other than hard unremitting practice most writers at the star or mental muscle bound and poorly
coordinated bath thoughts in their heads they can they think they can develop them clearly but when they tried to apply a largely dormant vocabulary to the expression of these
thoughts the result is stiff and self conscience self conscious the only cure for this is constant mental exercise with one's pen or over one's typewriter the discipline through
which one learns to write add substance to thought whereby one's ideas are given body and connection such common faults as worries overstatement faulty sentence structure and weak
use of words are gradually corrected with their passing confidence grows this does not mean however that the task becomes easy so you can get better this time it is kind of
practice kind like gittin better pass i get better popopo you pull up ye now this is interesting speak know a reading and or speakin of writing now we get it a reading a little
bit here this is good it is a good habit to underscore passages and books which is contributed something vital to one's own fought so breakout be high lighters my kinlochewe that
because i averaged i i i think you went winchester on a couple of umberto's right now this is talking come back to writing again as a practical matters better to concentrate on a
few elementary rules of thumb such as are contained in the following list than to bog down attempting to heed everything that the pendance on said about how to become a writer so
here's some advice on writing a unities are good advice on life the more simply a thing is said the more powerfully it influences those who read plain words make strong writing
there is always one best word to convey a thought or a feeling to accept the weaker substitute rather than to search for the right word will deprive any writing of force economy
of words invigorates composition in all writing but in military writing particularly there is no excuse for vague terminology or phrases which do not convey an exact expression of
what was done or what is intended is think about how you communicate with your subordinating about these rules so impact this is a good one it eathier at all times to rein in the
strength of military writing like the soundness of military operations does not gain through overstatement and artificial coloring the bigger the subject the less it needs in
broidery now gannasteton here go from talking writing to talk about speaking a majority of the world's most gifted writers would in all probability be dumb struck if put before
audience though dealing confidently with ideas they lacked the confidence when dealing with people the military officer has need of both talents and as to where the accent should
be placed it is probably more important that is i should speak well than his writing prose should be policed a unit commander may permit a clerk or subordinate due the greater
part of his paper work he could because his own time is taken with other duties or because he is awkward at it but if he permits any other voice to dominate the counsels of the
organization he soon ceases to exercise moral authority over it so you got a becomin in your speaking with let more important than the writings you can have guise do some writing
etalant looks good to me but this guy a ongoe of the bosses i had with the oh so he'd always miss youth words by almost to the point where you how some comedians will do that
arthemise an not to that a lot of time you might a brother guy would for real do it so cause he daunou know what it was is young the kind guy whose they want to try to some smart
basically and dotted idea like so you would use the word like your regardless you take irregardless said sepos to regardless and then there is another one that is so funny because
i so counter productive because when you do and we'd all be holding in our laughter and i worked with this other guy che was a king a relentless joke you know when you're gone so
if you did something and in this case you'd miss words ran when he leaves brother jokes at cominde just so funny but none the less he use em be who you know behollied be whose
fusaichi it is behoof but in layered that's what i thought anyway i doubt that's all a same but anyway behoved then as so he would misuse that word he would she thought it meant
what he thought of a baffling like oualy behoves me is that they do it this way and that but he keep that man you know and am so anyway to the point there is where you kind you
got a adota right so and in this case this was this wasn't like some high level like speeches he was savin or address good the etwas just like normal stuff to grey i thought that
that was kind of critical in the way like we regarded him as an ithiel one of the man like major things weren't like rowe can even take this guy seriously year cause he behooved
me when he aoienothes beard long you said enjoying i guess the point there annora separate point is learned the words to be read or genitories and it goes that with what you
loving tatooer yet a beatoun about a it's better to seek than the orb seek the knowledge and be embarrassed resselah than get a called out when you are no atter whatever anyway
deforested to the book the matter of the ear is a main element in speaking when an officer is ill at ease fidgety and not to appoint the vote of his command for the time being is
no confidence and so long as he remains that way they will not change no matter though his good will shines forth through another act since what you just said some one's jacked up
in the trying to talk to you and talked your your vote is no confidence you eathorne as it is is a good good in that back the book as for how an officer to talk to his men his
manner and tone should be no different than if he were addressing his fellow officers or for that matter a group as the intellectual and political peers as from any walk of life
if he is stuffy he will not succeed if he affects a superior manner that is a mark of his inferiority if he is patronizing and talks to grown men as a teacher might talk to a
class of adolescence the rug figured of lee will be pulled out from under him his audience we put down what put him down as a chump is curiously the case that the junior officer
who can't get the right pitch when he talks to the ranks will also be out of tune when he talks to his superiors this failing is a sign mainly that he needs practice in the school
of human nature by lessening a little more carefully to other men he may find he may himself in time attain maturity another good way to get better it speaking as palestine out
when you speaking sometimes your instructing in one of the one the pieces here is called the ornamentation because you spend some which time when your neider sip toison or
insuring people when he realized her on your instructing people here's the rules that they say to follow keep it simple have but one main object stay on the course remain cheerful
being thusiastic pouted out as if the ideas were as interesting and novel to you as to your audience that is is it a story which will done you know what has to do with instruction
but it's cool storied in any way because it is in an asked in worldworn an american major name now long forgotten was given the task of making a round and talking to all combat
formations and convincing them that the future was bright no boy scout errand see magnatari one reef caleb that it's a nightmare and he is his job as go round and isereel that the
future is bright but whenever he went marast lifted by his words its substance in substance what he said was this none of us cares about making a living with any individual who
wants every break his own way but when the order even the gamble is worth that he good man's time so let's look at the proportion you now have one chance in two you may go
overseas or you may not suppose you do you still have one chance in two you may go to the front or you may not if you don't you'll see a for in country at uncle sam's expense if
you do you'll find out about war which is the toughest chance of them all but up there all the front you still have one chance in two you may get hit or you may not if you breathe
through it you'll be a better man for all the rest of your life and if you did hit you still have one chance in two you may get a small wound and become a hero to your friends and
family orders always the last chance that it may take you out altogether and while that is a little rugged it is at least worth remembering that very few people seem to get out of
this life alive classic classic now talking about reading napoleon wants said that the point that a trouble with books is that one must read so many bad ones to find something
really good true enough but even so their perfectly practical ways to advance rapidly without undue waste motion consider this among one's superiors there are always
discriminating men who have adopted a few good books after reading many many bad ones when they say that attack is worthwhile it deserves reading and careful study to what books
did somebody you respect read they said good book read it now you got careful because because of this the well read man need not have more than a dozen books in his home provided
that they all count with him and he continues to pour over them and ponder the weight of what is said on the other hand the ignorant man is frequently marked by his bookshelf
stocked with titles not a one of which suggests that he has any professional discernment now are cateline now in belding a library book that's kind of crazy am because every time
somebody called every time from be hits me up on social media and says are you choptack i used to like go on the amazon and kind o look rerevise now i just worrit i abase order it
because i have time and the tar to tell from the reviews and it takes much time it's easier to precicion mason of clicking through the jacopo's store web side so earth were giving
back to the to the utopias but the thing is a waterpipe might think this book is great of osbert book but it doesn't quite work you know so i'm probably getting i'd say one out of
every five bucks and ordered to i say yet this one this one game yet what he think there about em the the difference between somebody who has a huge stock of books is he seemed
like a parietaire of different books that doesn't in it its onbinding indicating any kind exeter somedays he is shows that he does have any disturbing his guide us by in her much
a book or might not know anything about of doesn't mean it don't echauffer pon intended you know just causes guy's got a bunch of books doesn't mean that he read em all doesn't
mean that he actually older all great box really i can tell you i know they're not all great books no world to lot of books are not good agent your time reading for if i have you
walked into a guid that was smart that you respect the twelve bucks ran right i will do ride em all down and go by him all ye here origin to be ten for to twelve for twelve year
or at least ten for twelve whereas if i go into your room and you've got five hundred and seventy books in there in a yeah these are all great books there's something wrong with
your discernment you don't know what a good book is yea sir get some decernentium distinto make like i read so much and legitimate this this section or relationships with your men
in i had to break had to say this park and officers not expected to appear all wise to those who served under him so often guys feel that pressure that they think so they should
know everything i what is the garofoli that i don't know this ominous bad bluffing on to waste through a question when ignorant of the answer is foolhardy business i'm sorry but i
don't know is just as appropriate for an officer's lips as from any other and it helps a little more to add but i'll find out rank should be used to serve one subordinate it
should never be flaunted or used to get the upper hand of a subordinate any situation save where he is already discredit himself in an unusually ugly or unseemingly manner when
suggestions from any subordinate adopted the credit should be passed on to him publicly when a subordinates made a mistake but not from any lack of good will it is common sense to
take the rap for him rather than make him suffer doubly for his error and of sir should not issue orders which he cannot enforce he should be as good as his word at all times and
in any circumstance he should promise nothing which he cannot make stick and offer should not work looking over his men shoulders checking on every detail of what they're doing in
calling them to account at every furlong past this maidenly added tude croton dence and destroys initiative so don't like romanae on the other hand contact is necessary at all
times but ticularly when men are doing longterm work or operating in detachment at a remote point they will become discouraged and will lose their sense direction unless their
superior looks in on them periodically asks them whether he could be of any help and so doing gets them to open up the discussion and the problem the navy says the n this is
another good another good one rather the navy says it isn't courtesy to change the set of the sail within thirty minutes after the relief of watch applied to command job this
means that is the mistake for an officer on taking a new post to order sweeping changes affecting the other men in the belief that this will give a reputation for action and
firmness the studying of the situation is the overture of the steadying of it the story is told of general curtis elam of the air force taking over the twenty first bomber command
in and the marianas he faced the worried staff officers of his predecessor and said quietly you're all staying put i assume you know your jobs or you wouldn't be here pretty
simple than peals as come into new when i do when i take over relax the humble lesson observed belle to jump in there and change the set of the sale or echoes gone now amandara
everything no wrong answer this next section your men's more moral and physical welfare when men or mole the more power which binds them together and fits them for high action is
given its main chance for success now listen to these to be temperate in all things to be continent and refaim loose living of any sort are acts of the will they require self the
nail and a foregoing of that which may be more attractive in favor of the thing which should be done granite few individuals who are so thin blooded that they never feel tempted
to digress morally men in me the majority are not like that other some guys that just almost raight narrow there so they're so thin blooded that they just they get no temptations
most men they get temptations what they were now in the name of self discipline at the cost of a considerably and considerable inner stress they endeavored to compensate by gains
in their personal character making that grade isn't easy but no one who is any one as yet said that it isn't worth while in the arm services there an old saying that it all sir
without character is more useless than a ship would no bottom in some in up the strength of will which enables a man to lead a clean life is no different than the strength of
purpose which fits him to follow a hard line of duty there are except in to every rule many a lovable rounder has proved himself to be a first class fighting man but even though
he had an uncomfort unconquerable weakness for drink and women his resolution had to become steeled along some other line or would have been no good when the pay off came to this
is saying that the strength of will but it takes to stay strong in all these situations all these temptations that that will is is real and that
contransmagnificandjewbangtantiality the others all premiare filled like he says many a lovable rounders proved himself to be a first class i ran of course gives the bad as guys
throughout the ages that weren't why even henry the fifth at a wild man reputation going back to shakespeare and so but he sayin that you know these these staying all the straight
narrow in forces you will as what he say back to the book putting aside for the moment the question of the vices and regarding only in gain to moral power which comes of bodily
exercise and physical conditions always talked about vices okay we got it stay clean stake len is what he said but now he sandersen else or something called exercise in physical
conditioning it should be self evident that the process which builds the muscle must also train in alert the mind how could it be otherwise every physical act must have as its
origin a mental impulse conscious or unconscious thus in training a man to master his muscles we also help him to master his brain he comes out of physical training not only
better condition to move but better prepared to think about how and why he is moving which is true mobility so you want to strengthen your will yes stay clean stay one more a path
and then did you physical conditioning on because it's going to make you mentally tougher back to the book in the united states service we are tending to forget because of the
effect of motorization that the higher value of the discipline of the road march in other days wasn't that it hated the muscles but that sort of combat it was the best method of
separating the men from the boys this is true today despite all the new conditions imposed by technological changes a hard road march is the most satisfactory training test of the
moral strength of the individual man at the same time to sensibly overloaded men froda hurts them in two ways at the conomy everything so he can hurt them with the road march
here's the two ways a weakens their faith in the sense of the command thereby impairing morale and it breaks down their muscle and tendencied em your in acrosse going to break him
in your ruin their spirit there is another not infrequent cause of breakdown the leader who makes the mistake of thinking that every man's limit is the same as his own so now oh i
can i can i can do this i can dump in tony miles or twenty collects everyone can do it wrong answer when it off cered does this kind of thing faultlessly he shows himself to be an
incompetent observer of men when he does it to show off he deserves to be given ten days in the electric chair he ever you go get me lecacheur ten days that's a that's like how
many times do you die in ten days electric areolae but don't show off the point yes although his you're going in the electric curfews but isn't that like old classic thing in the
movie where it's usually the like combat like a situation where the geyser complaining you know it all as do others unrealistic the lot of no obstacle course yerlykin the the the
drill sergeant or whoever he he does it you know he's like the older guy while i his proving that look in on asked to you anything that i wouldn't do myself yet that's all the
battestina he's like he i can't do it so you should be able to do it that's true yes what a young recruit should be able to do it all up what's to hoise on reaching standards we
got a sanders ye but if he was saying hey you should be all do this one and time behind your back like i can't contend any wrong yeah yeah yeah you see the difference a year they
make sure cause always give on the technicality go on that over here speaking of athletic accomplishments in the nature of things the officer whose been an afreet can fit himself
into this part of the program with little difficulty and with great credit provided he acts with moderation that it heresies by the same token the alice who is shown sports in
school either because he did have the size of coordination or was more interested in something else will frequently have an understandable hesitation about trying to play the lead
hand in any thing which he thinks will make him look bad string up a benefits of us sport if he has not kept himself in good physical shape his nerves will not be able to stand
the strain of combat to say nothing of his legs it can be said again and again behistum of physical training that an officer can undergo as the physical conditioning of his own
men nothing else can give him more faith in his own ability to stay the course and nothing else is likely to give him a firm of feeling of solidarity with his men study and an
active thirst for wider professional knowledge have their place in an officer's scheme of thing things but there is something about the experience of bodily competition of joining
with and leading men in strenuous physical exercise which you neulinge rates one spirit with the competence i can do this i can lead i can command the body and mind her connected
everybody now it back to the book the really good thing about the gain in moral force deriving from all forms of physical training is that it is an unconscious gain will power
determination mental poise and musicorum all march hand in hand with the general health and well being of the man with results not less decisive under training conditions than all
the field of battle a man who develops correct posture and begins to fill out as body sotelo the part of a fighter will take greater pride in wearing of the uniform in doing so he
will take greater care to conduct himself morally that he will not disgrace it he will gain competence as he acquires a a confident and determined bearing the same presence and
the physical strength which contributes to it will help carry him through the hour of danger strength of will is partly of the mind and partly of the body in combat fatigue down
men as quickly as any other condition for fatigue and evitably carries fear with it tired men are afraid there is no quicker way to lose a battle than to lose it on the road for
lack of polimina hardening in troops such a condition cannot be redeemed by the resolve of a commander who insists on driving troops an extra mile beyond their general level of
physical endurance so so i got guitarre just cause your fire up doesn't mean it's going to work you can push them hard now here's what happens extremes of this sort make men
rebellious and hateful of the command and thus strike at taccain from two directions at once for when men resent the commander they will not fight as willingly for him and when
their bodies are spent their nerves are gone physical conditioning now on top of that we got the physical inditin you also have to keep your people informed in war in the absence
of information man's natural promptings alternate between unreasoning fears that the worst is likely to happen and wishful thought that all danger is remote either impulse is a
barrier to the growth of that condition of a lurcanio which comes to men when they have a realization of their own strength and a reasonably clear concept of the general situation
he got to keep your people in form as or of talking batterymen at the end of a baton next section is about counseling your men nothing more unfortunate can happen to an officer
than to come to be regarded by his subordinate as unapproachable for such a reputation isolates him from the main problems of the command responsibility as well as its chief
rewards how do you become approachable that two formal manner the overrigid attitude the disposition to deal with any human problem by the numbers as if it were one more acted an
organizational routine can have a chilling effect upon men so that that idea that you're going to be by the bulk on everything of nanangoak you approachable that being said back
to the book it is not necessary that an officer wet nurses men in order to serve well in the role of counsel his door should be open but his not play the part either of father
confessor or of a hotel greeter neither great solemnly or a few ness or called for umanly serious attention to the problem and in straight forward advice or decision according to
the nature of the case and provided that from his own knowledge and experience he feels qualified to give it if not it is wiser to defer than to offer a half baked opinion that a
ayed know a look at oroatis before maybe you should go talk to echo he deals with these computers all the time come to me to computer problems back to the book world war two
officers had to abide by this standard dealing with the general malays which rose out of redeployment when a man came forward and said that he couldn't take it any more and the
commander knew that he d always been a highly dutiful individual it became the commander's job to attempt to get the man home for a second man came forward with the same story and
the record showed that he always shirked his work the question was whether he should be given the final chance to shirk it again to favor the first man meant furthering this point
his comrades recognized it as a far deal to turn back the second man was equally constructive to the same end sothoth just classic and we see that justabout every book we read you
niton guy walwar two we saw but of it showgirls it and even solve the korean in some the corean books covered a guy loses it but they are a good guy remedy walked around and to
sleep in back lemniscate there of this guy he did the all he's been a good guy will get him off the fronts got a few is left but then when you get a guy that's that's when and
scared and doesn't man up and do his duty and any want to go home for not giving that got to slack and doesn't deserve it dinner now this is interesting near officers who hold
every subordinate like grim death seeing no better way to advance their personal fortunes causes what we were talking about her is in this happens on the mother happen in every
business i work with where you got people that are being moved round so like oh echo works you got this god billy that works for you hey i need billy to have help me in this
project what do you say no you can have em you my god what you morganore now i got some projects coming up will i need to right now don't irapuato know what is an some people go
into that mold when they hold every one like a grim death there alters who hold every able suborned like grim death seeing no better way to advance their personal fortunes this is
a sign of moral weakness not of strength and it is inevitable fruit and its inevitable fruit is discontent within the organization the sign of superiority in any officer at one
ever level is his confidence that he can make another good man to fill any vacancy the other time went don't like that is with somebody you know if you're going to give me
bellinist ally promotion for billy and like a step up but you don't want to get me to mennerheim him aretinus no no give a guy up five of yellow find a better person in it to the
old make better yes i had that happened to me before when notoroni where are you the guy the guy they got didn't get promoted cure somebody held on to a yeah and it was less about
if i did or didn't get promoted it was that he was just holnon going where then you know to kennegad any chance of that it was queer he actually been told me to the well that was
very straightforward i will mind yet not good now that work out for you for your moral it didn't help but it dolly back to the book some of the ablest commanders in our service
have abided by this rule they never denied the man who had a legitimate reason for transfer and they never shuffled off their lemons and goldbricks under a false label so that
does another thing that happened at businesses he you got billy he billies a bone as it echoing for your help me that's all i you can have billy great eye yes you give me tilesius
at the gold brick and a lie there's a few common sense rules which in followed willainy officered a play as part more effectively in the counts and of men an excess of expression
is a failing so we give away your face looks presinks all as a failing to listen well is the prelude torpander ing carefully and speaking wisely said a lesson to refuse with
kindness is more winning than to acquiesce ungraciously that a good one does and all i elissonte all right yes the like some you got to deal with what your wife your your wife
wants to do something if you be better to say you don't have picked let's not do that to me with to this to this other thing instead it as a pose all right fine we'll go to your
friends house don't want to do that we then act like a deck when you get there ye to note another man's mood and become congenial to it is the surest way to engage his competence
decisions which are wholly of vihari and not of the mind will ultimately do hurt to both places use your logic don't get emotional no man will talk freely if met by silence but
intelligent question encourages frankness above all else when a man loses possession of himself it is the more reason that the other should tighten his reserve legit the igorant
express pity for a man does not serve to restore him and put him above pity when a man is so burned by a personal problem that it shut out all else he must be led to something
else and a last one her imprudent tactics can undo the wisest strategy and that happens at every level it happened in the war happened in business that a great strategy betokis on
the ground are really not doing it tactically well doesn't matter the strategy you're going to fail finely in counseling like all well and military life has a combat purpose other
things being equal the tactical unity of men working together in combat will be ratio their knowledge and sympathetic understanding of each other whatever the cause aloofness on
the part of the officer can only produce a further withdraw on that part of the man aloofness now the last section of this book was really devastating on my eye lighter the
calamaries in combat the command and control of men in combat can be mastered by junior leaders of american forces short of actual actual experience under enemy fire it is
altogether possible for a young officer is first time in battle to be in total possession of his faculties and moving by instinct to do the right thing provided that he is made
the most of his training opportunities exercise in the maneuvering of men is only an elementary introduction to this educational process the basic requirement is a continuing
study first of the nature of men second of the techniques which produce unified action and last of the history of past operations which are covered by an abundant literature
attagona get ready for combat those things right there now there a few simple and fundamental propositions which the arm services subscribe in saying to officer corps what may be
expected of the average man of united states under battle conditions generally speaking they have held true americans in times past from lexington to open now the fighting
establishment builds its discipline training code of conduct and public policy around these ideas believing that what served yesterday will also be the one best way to morrow and
for so long as our traditions and our system of freedoms survive these propositions are when led with courage and intelligence and american will fight as willingly as an as
efficiently as any fighter in world history i concur with that his keenness and endurance in war will be in proportion to the zeal and inspiration of his leadership he is
resourceful and imagine imaginative and the best results will always flow from encouraging him to use his brain along with his spirit under combat conditions he wore served his
greatest loyalty for the officer who is most resourceful in the tactical and ployment of his forces and most careful to avoid unnecessary losses so that the soldiers going to know
if your tone made is a way to go now it and same thing in the business world i've worked with a lot of companies where they do their utmost to let's say to a down turn in the
market negotiation to fire some people and they do their best to mitigate that that develops loyalty that makes them fight harder when the market turns back around now sometimes
that can be a problem because people try and be so loyal that they'd run their business in the ground they fall back to the book except on a hollywood lot there is no such thing
as an american fighter type our best month men come in all colors shapes and sizes they appear from every section of the nation including the territories in battle americans do
not tend to fluctuate between emotional extremes in complete dejection one day in exultation the next according to the changes in the situation they continue on the whole on a
fairly evening keel when it going is toughing when things are breaking their way even when have we shocked by battle losses they tend to bound back quickly though their great
being is incessant their natural outlook it is on the optimistic side and they react unfavorably to the officer who looks a ternally on the dark side next during battle american
officers are not expected either to drive their men or to be for ever in the van as if praying to be shot for the van as like all the front lines the fun of your formation so long
as they are with their men taking the same chances as the men and showing a firm grasp of the situation and of the line of action which should be followed the men will go forward
in any situation of extreme pressure or more exhaustion where men cannot otherwise be rallied and led forward officers are expected to do the actual physical act of leading such a
performing as first scout or point even though this mean take means taking over what would normally be and enlisted man's function the normal next the normal gregarious american
is not at his best when playing a lone handed or tactically isolated part in battle he is not a comical one man torpedo consequently the best taccourt from those dispositions and
methods which link the power of one man to that of another man whom feel strange with their unit having been carelessly received by it and indifferently handled will rarely if
ever fight strongly and courageously but if treated with common decency and respect they will perform like men so that she ocklockonee where they know you haf you're the military
you can some in the checks in take are welcome here a company in somebody checks in take care of him welcome show around a sign amenaide in the game to lie to american troops to
compare a blundering combat rarely serves any valid purpose they have a good sense of combat and an uncanny instinct for faring out the truth when anything goes wrong tactically
they will excuse mistakes but they will not forgive being treated like children basically hership goldarn here when spit and polish a lad on so heavily that they become onerous
and the ranks cannot see any legitimate connection between the requirements and the development of an attitude which will serve a clear fighting purpose it is to be questioned
that the exactions serve any good object one ever so genomai likely in the supines on probably the extreme level of of military bearing and uniformity but i'm definitely not a
believer that you know you got a rebating every single thing pettingdales all day long no m in their saying clearly hear of ben few go so far that direction and people don't make
any sense of it is not going to be good you know me even picton you know hackworth was like mister spittings look at pictures of half worth of the anamanamona rank you now he
looked like a regular sort of a look at e exquisite pray matter of fact he makes one of guys from the that come into the camp that looked like there in parade ground uniforms you
know i saw coislin yesterday said a spot less house is the sign of a wasted life which one i saw it at a ten to like a anadore with a lie because it like i basically takes one
kind of perspective and like makes it into this like thing but of i i like wittiness like we or it means you can your house halation work maybe you're discipline you have you know
you you clean your stuff including your house anamaya care of your house mateer's clean person that's not a wasted life by the way ye think i think that's sergeant eme statement
but i think the under lying messages you know hey live little is basically yet in a way it's kind o the message there is the what you're saying you if like i can literally yea
that could you could be could go too far down that road but he s take it out a message in the messages fairly clear and i i am what agree with it yet like you spent your whole
life making sure everything in your house is clean you know the sails alike that the highly polished samurai sword that's never been used in battle is a lot less valuable to me
than the then the switch blade knife that rusty from blood yebor that's rusty from head you know next one on the other hand because standards of discipline and courtesy are
designed for the express purpose of furthering control under the extraordinary frictions impressions of the battlefield their maintenance under combat conditions is as necessary
as during training smartness and respect are the marks of military alertness no matter how trying the circumstances but courtesy starts at the top in the dealing of any officer
with his subordinate and in the decent regard for their loyalty intelligence and manhood for now you can't be over dispensed to what i have to discipline next though americans
enjoy relatively a bountiful and even luxurious standard of living in their home environment they do not have to be pampered spoon fed over filled with every comfort and
convenience to keep them steadfast and to boded once war comes they are by nature rugged men and in the field they will respond most perfectly when called on to play a rugged part
salt handling will soften even the best men but even the weak man will develop a new vigour and confidence in the face of necessary hardship if moved by a leadership which is
courageously making the best of a bad situation so also soft aniline soften it even the best men in the weak man will come around and for a necessary hardship you know is the foot
that were in their nets to beat them up for no reason they got to see why it is you next extravagance and wastefulness is somewhat rooted in the american character because of our
mode of life when our men enter the military service there's a strong hold over from their civilian habits even under fighting conditions they tend to be wasteful of drinking
water food munitions and other vital supply when such things are made to accessible they tend to throw them away rather than conserve them in the general interest this is a
distinct weakness during convart when conservation of all supplies a touch stone of success the regulating of all supply and the preventing of waste in any form is the prime
obligation of every officer be frugal next under the conditions of battle any extra work exercise maneuver or marching which does not serve a clear and direct operational purpose
is unjustifiable the supreme object is to keep men as physically fresh and mentally alert as possible tired men take fright and our half whipped before the battle opens worn out
officers cannot make clear decisions the conservation of men's powers not the exhaustion thereof is a successful way of operations next when forces are committed to combat it is
vital that not one unnecessary pound be put on any man's back lightness of foot is the key to speed of movement and the increase of firepower in judging of these things every
officer's thought should be on the optimistic side it is better to take the chance that men will manage to get by in a little less than the overload them through over cautious
reckoning of every possible contingency thereby destroying their power to do anything effectively every pound counts these the water was at a keen to they had winter warfare
futons and see be up burning calories on skis and those guys were so an about making their dearest light as possible pretty precise too you've got a back pack or something and
it's got straps you know that you can loosen up or tighten up they would see the whole back pack they would caught off any access strapped would be gone and just get everything at
waisall is kind of a good strategetical in know yeh you how i guess you know what the funny thing is too as i've got this now i've got the pre down here lie you know i if i buy if
i don't have this right on't bring this and i need it almayer of her by it eh no factor ill yes in a cause this kind of those two likelihoods of thought an inlet to ways to think
about it where the person is like i might need it some nobin it now the person is like if i can think of a specific time that i'm in a new this on the strip i'm not going to bring
it to an jus like i you say if i need it my ill by their travel like freeze at night or he has all right yeah yeah army that door next erevato develops from fullness of
information in combat all ranks after no one is being done and why it is being done if confusion is to be kept to a minimum this holds true in all types of operations of whatever
the service however a surplus of information clouds the mind and may sometimes depress the spirit we can take one example commander might be confronted by a complex situation and
is soon should may be a continuing operation in three distinct phases it would be visable at all hands be told the complete detail of fasani might be equally sensible that his
subordinate only his suborder closest to him be made fully informed about face being face see all plans and combattesse a modification as to circumstances dictate this being the
case it is not better it is better not to mota the men by filling their minds with a seemingly conflict of ideas a conflict in ideas more important still if the grand object seems
too vast and formidable even the first step toward it may be appeared doubly difficult fullness of information does not void the other principle that one thing at a time carefully
organized all down the line is the surest way prioritize there is no next there is no excuse for malingering or cowardice during battle is the task of leadership to stop it by
whatever means would seem to be the surest cure always making certain that in doing so it will not make a matter worse next the arm service is recognised that there are occasional
individuals to nervous and spiritual make up may be such that day a rode rapidly in may suffer complete breakdown on her combat adition they still may be wholly loyal and
conscientious men capable of doing duty elsewhere men are not alike in some however willing the spirit the flesh may be too weak to punish the grade or in any way humiliate such
men is not more cruel than ignorant when the good faith of any individual has been repeatedly demonstrated in an earlier service he deserves the benefit of the doubt from his
superior pending study of his case by medical authority but the man has been a bad actor consistently as all ceres of warton in proceeding on the assumption that his combat
failure is just one more grave moral dereliction the failed to take proper action against such a man can only work unusual hardship on the majority trying to do the duty next the
united states abides by the laws of war its armed forces in dealing with intertains with all other peoples are expected to comply with the laws of war in the spirit and to the
letter in waging war we do not tear rise helpless non combatants if it is within our power to avoid doing so wanton killing torture cruelty or the working of unusual and
unnecessary hardship on enemy prisoners or populations is not justified under any circumstance likewise respect for the reign of law as that term is understood by the united
states is expected to follow the flag wherever it goes pillaging looting and other excesses are as a moral as unmoral where americans are operating under military law as they are
living together under civil code none the less some men in the american services will lose and destroy properly unless they are restrained by fear of punishment or loses violence
and disorder it inflames passions and makes it relatively easy for the individual to get away with unlawful actions but it does not lessen the gravity of his offense or make it
less necessary that constituted authority to him down the main safeguard against lawlessness and who antaganism in any armed body is the integrity of its officers when men know
that their commander is absolutely opposed to us such excesses and will take forceful action to repress any breach of discipline they will conform but when an officer winks at any
degradation by his men it is no different than if he had committed the act oh remember that one young bears out there on the battle field or of ser wink at any degradation of his
men was no different than if he had committed the act and if you hold the discipline the cold the discipline they will conform they now where you fall will you stand i should say
i know where you stand they will conform next on the field of sport americans always talk it up to keep nervesty and to generate confidence the need is even greater on the field
of war and the same treatment will have no less effect when men are afraid they go silent silence of itself further intensifies the fear the resumption of speech is the beginning
of thoughtful collected action for self evidently two or more men cannot join strength and work intelligently together until they know one another thoughts consequently all
training is an exercising getting men to open up and become articulate articulate even as it is a process in conditioning them physically to move strongly together once again step
in even talking is action that search dispeller he next inspection is more important the face of the enemy than during training because a foul piece of foliacea mean a lost battle
an overlooked sick man may infect a fortress and a mislaid message to cost a war in virtue of his position every junior leader is an inspector in the obligation of make curtains
force at all times is inspection proof is unremitting from the last one of an redcote out this book is here in battle crisis a majority of americans present present will respond
to any man who has the will and the brains to give them a clear intelligent order they will follow the lowest ranking man present if he obviously knows what he is doing and is
more the master of the situation but they will not obey a chuckle head if he has nothing in his favor but his rank and that's that's it for this book and i think that closing
statement don't be a chuckle as he is don't be a chuck lately this is talked about earlier that day will follow the lowest man the lowest making ranking man present if he knows
what he's doing and has them as morally the master of the situation and can give a clear intelligent order and i think the rest of the ode if you're a chuckle had people are going
to listen to you just because of your rank and talk about that old time you shouldn't use your rank and i think this book actually you know give some pretty some pretty obvious
ways to avoid being a chuckle head yeoman educate yourself work out hard physical physicality is important it sobstuff samstag that we talk about all the time and again either
universal and now we have a lot of litters that are over he dissuasions supplying to american isatis basically warn bidet least westerner in these stood the test of time they
worked to day so falland holding and weed with lead and everything you do it start by leading yourself with these principles because if you can't there's no way that you can lead
others if you can't lead yourself and i'll tell you omawha little over the three hour mark right now so doesn't look like were going to be doing heinai attaced so if any one is
out there still listening at this point he and they want to know how to sport the pot cast echo tellioni there's a few ways yet so let's start with the lottie i feel like him it's
just like kind of repetitive while it is repetitive ye insincere ave already had a people listening for three plus hours at this point being feel free to move quickly i hear ye a
been killed but he is the thing not of his abide did the i did more thinking where what if this is the first time somebody with listening or maybe the second time it won't be as
repetitive okay but if this person that they're going to listen to other ones sure to go back it and they can listen to one of those abstain hour and a half he he going to be like
all going to listen to a little bit more the right now neale if we go long right now he they may not lessen it all yet now some people say will do its full red like that now to
know nothing is monaltrie hours not a noi went along well intersect good information is book though i won't want i'm sorry but not really sorry doesn't get on eyeing but i think
we could proceed quickly that's what i think yes sure i did get and they no banter you know i know you got things you want to talk about that other and with the stuff but untimely
the banter the key here is really the okay look i could i am well go we'll go into it on it supplementation you don't sometime sometimes hay i don't need sopies i've a great diet
or i'm just not into it just in general i have to successfully convey the importance of supplementation or at the very least of value go ahead xalacingo banter with you i
anacondine after it here as far as leadbury can inilaki quick on it supplemented he did not already know creil are etceteras s every day consumption of supplements essential cruel
for you join and this is good because it little delegate one it's not the one where they kill a bunch of crail grind em up in the sissile good serial deal that helps you i could
tell you the story about how it helped me but that is your renovales the other fifty two five as of you are to hear that story he just flung distant you're going for result on it
to elements girl eity crell alpari shringeri or bars even now those rely supplements there like plated every tale yet every day consumption and i got b ah the pre work out it was
a good fremontia non stimulant by the way so i not in generative yet nothing like this and it's um it's like this like athrongeus in there as well as good tacitas you and also on
it could sing fire a groan ingredients i note sounds cool where also they goneativeness if feersome terranean or something is what what's that epitomised coil wandoo are of how it
i say that all the enrico the answered that is lad groan in gross of in the lab or just concoct it you know camilear and the lack wit so i'm just saying that's the differentiator
oh you went with good you an ear on his actually cool i it's ten uncle an a and and i if there's any more question i bestiero sakasaki in you move base alpha ye and if you can
indicate the benefits of anything on groan i'm sure the way would provide down on the wisitor whatever that's where i get it information i'll abrines prove in his well that's the
thing with new tropics eternite your brain lattimore be laid at supplicating they went through the real test to prove that it works proven scientifically fact that it still on his
econachaca get temper sent off if you want ten percent off if you want ten per cent off to go on its oncome people prayed them sport everybody everything whatever whatever the
moraca not sporting anybody in your definitor gossip you don't do that but school full technically it is because it's like you're still getting your supplements you know you're
still getting supplementation were just not getting the credit so just like if like you donate to a cause and you put anonymous in the thing and then you don't need another temper
cent faehig some anyway must let osongo way and realize i'm guilty for making these things longer because i am interjecting yet i should just be quiet and had just be quaker's
your pot case say whatever you like for it in our fox cast come on so why it is one of the ways disport to wrap it up on de ducconius dockage ten per cent off um elpmate good just
trust me there good another good way christmas is almost here man it's like what for three four days something like that like that if you shot an amazon clicked through the
website that's a good way to support quick through the website that's called jocatore dot com or called jackpot castock cam ye toinotte glebe you got a click through curactacus
come dealer on the side is an amazon little banner click on that one before you dear washenshi for christmas or whatever it or buying any one of these books that the doctor about
on the jocal story you got to go on the man ulate him support and then i'll take to the path with the banner and speaking with a pack cast of one hundred as we talked about when
tim was on the pocahontas was on this pocas we're going to do most sachi for paason undred missing big big book already mentioned that we need to get in on the pot up so that will
be on the website so you can buy that book now cause it's a thick book were due for tocasan hundred red you can look through the other thing is that's beneficial about these ways
of supporting the porous no advertisements on the path cast except for this here which i guess could be considered an advertisement in but i don't want to have the and now for a
commercial break yea we would like to present ye don't something that doesn't matter are you tired of the sleeping roundhay cannot yet silent and only that's a good one that's
like um causidicus nothing it's like super easy and it's like your knees in the whole game of doyouknow reinforcements support among quicker website for you shaped you can also
subscribe to the pot gassiot seems obvious but sometimes you don't back to the supper you know you talk about this sometimes amazon so you can pick toughenin right let's say
you're going to buy something that's not expensive like a like a bunch of pens sure or some duck take sure you might take a mansion to go directly to amazon because as no big deal
i i we don't ned to sport the poast on this purchase stress there's two problems with that note one if no one bother doc take without playing through we wouldn't get eighty of the
benefit of having the sight there let all the thing is you had execrators daily discipline in all ringseis you get up with my point is that if you get in the habit of doing it
then you'll be in the habit itherwise if you only do it sometimes than the time you go out and buy a long more then you know or something somebody bonasa a golf clubs a member
that gudakesa dollars satanella clubs he clicked through you know that that definitely supports the bongas yet but it's because he had the disappointeth reinforced reiteration of
duida the time sis donatist do it all in an i recommendation he is true man could that's kind of the key is like to remember to do in here's the in on every one stuck tape counts
yeh yeh and he anastatia like your under no obligation to do that i'm saying most times you like it on a takasago cause you know but at the time of you know hanging my ducey goa
do it or by the duc tapissier all a forgot her you know just to canovai that can situation if you have any in your mind not really the key of to remember to hear it then you
letting with the guilt of a hanoverian go on sir yes so he had doaters scribe to the pacas or and subscribe to the potensi should say you it seems obvious that i tony subscribed
but another already has subscribed as a good way to support and leave it review it if if you're compelled to tervueren do battalions on you too biolog with thee the potassamide
format we'll do some exerts stuffy can share with people that they don't they don't have to commit to three hours and you know hireling case may be till i onthe whole potassic in
his listen to the you know three men at one manet five men ettino know things about whatever poliesiye little excerpts you know um i think those are beneficial i think when people
share that kind with me i think you can learn a lot persuite this you know it to be seorati for we have store jack has the store it's called here you say i have a startled a store
not my store yea but if i say jocose store it's called jocoserious kencote and okaseri onontio yes to tranto that but an interrupted but that's cool she is your poet this some
cool charsoney somers on the shirts of malicolo toillette the layers on your own so good a jacotot come see if he can find the layers on the shirt i'm not saying a biserta up or
hoooooo saying to buy one but if you feel compelled to by one cause you think their cool the layers hates you they resent with you i don't like the word resents it anyway he if
they restrainers er that's a good way to support some patches too you know the the ones that the withered that he a regulation those around there to tea per your and other
people's request three a lot a military alanson that wanted a regulation size yes agincourt in the field asertruth evil in the world and they have there on their two and whatever
upo know you think it's gower going to read you the mugs again to be like athalie a special like one i guess supper high quality one a travelworn then a yeah deronda's gladiale
warfare totateeta good yotanka i was listening to your explanation what psychological war for was unenlisted to it it is unclear to eat you you told the story but it was like you
now we're talking to each other i know ye and you are telleno me the story ran but i know a bunch of botas when i listen to it i said you know what people do or art he that don't
know what this is organtoned what this is a go asked me some questions about one on thinking about in certain situations of weaknesses yet right on situations of weaknesses and he
asked me a couple of mine and i kind of told him like all the cough all i think about past a des and he's kind of got that look in his face when i i know he's thinking of
something so i said always thinking of something and then the next day you know an we gotta do record these so he we came up with some more questions that echoes like all this is
a good one this is a good one came up with the questions and then i wrote down the answers and i read him into a microphone we would hoard it it cause atseatsan then he said he
i'm going to make this into cause people ask for ringing tones the getting to be although wake to his aweather through me at a conclave the iapudes on i tunes and put him for sale
and i said oh well if that's what you think so he the albumens called it shows an obligis they're like two or three minutes long ohthere for there for comether for psychological
warfare against moments of weakness yes and where do the mooween's come when you want to get up in the morning so there's there's actually because i know that the hard one for
people there's three psychological attacks against the weakness of not getting out of bed in the morning to their psychological warfare against one in to eat bad food their
psychological war warfare against procrastination just moments of weakness are covered in the psychological warfare album very well cover and it's for salonian you eat a search
for jack willing or psychological warfare the alittle bit hard to find because the way i turned his laid out because it's in spouting word but that doesn't drop down under music
anyway it's kind of hard to find it but it is on there is for and that is in fact another way to support the process i know cause it is first all because all people want to
support the protest and till they say ah you know how can we support the process and to you we set simele sadovski where you can donate money you woogie you money i don't want you
just to give me money when give you something of you you you just don't give me money i'm not on to take it well well his inapplicable give in money which is awesome we have
preciate but for the gentle for for my general a conscience rain reciprocation in the something back so i ve give you you give us money for the items album you get something back
and you know what you get back dissipline in m p three four mahasena check it out there already there there fanny intorno scream in my thirteen after it in defective got his
alsike everywhere on others one i've been out of bed every time yea i am i over yidin progress not on this project a deviation i got to this project on no weak early because i
didn't want peasant but two to say no to an if you're goin to do the alarmclock being is a detester it with your were you sleeping with your wife or whatever just make sure they
have the heads up because they say here at their going to flip up yet and they won't slip out because i'm going crazy to fit out cause alas under a man in the room tonight a late
of rings of a cake in you got you know you on the ye yes he platonov it you know you over the plan you don't want a freak people out o you having your having your significant
other reaching for their side arms ye yea yea you don't have that put in layer on around the room searching and a second side note good feed back for sure but it's been a look at
step sometimes it's been number one on spoken were category on i dont number one that's in some other good people on that list but it's not it's been a morn for as arima think
since i put a put it on there than anyway well thank you every one as i roisterer at that's pickin it off thank you preciate at dalton but yet those or a gas saw it was to support
a couple of the ways that you can support this one is i get some cocaine he gits parade awaiting this from topographer to get some of that stuff if you haven't got it and you
think i don't like tea you're wrong because you haven't tried this tea cause it tastes it doesn't take i'm telling you doesn't take i don't know what it tastes like you don't
taste i can taste like what it tastes i and there's nothing else to you compared to it just taste good really good and it's got a little bit of caffeine in it you gash drink it
before you go to bed if you need to it you won't won't keep you up is not that kind of caffey i is it if i be other centripetal in it a canaanite's not a lot in there it's gotten
to it's got any oxen in their entitate good and you can have it pre work out post work out pret meal post meal pre bed after bed during bed you can get to have it when i want so
that's a jackie teeth and get that in by the way it's not been in stock i've gone on like like three or four five days it's in stock now we've got a better system we might have
another fate i got some stuff here there might be little little dip in the system but it's in stock in the in the tin the luxurious tim looked or the big box which is a hundred
and it reloaded reload and then you can get a mug an get a mug by the way the mug it'll tell you what to do they'll tell you what to do every single time and will tell you to do
is get after it on a get that long on ther jacopone and then extreme aldershot the book christmasy not get it for every single person you've ever known in your life you might as
well now to a tremolo listened boasting and like what we talk about here the book extreme oneship it's about the same thing it's about come baiters ip also speaking of extreme
ownership again new york city may for an stiff would you in the extreme ownership muster numbers ears your to the last one was as yoursel won in san diego this one is eroto may
force can sit at the marian were going deep on combats which means we're going to be on all leadership because the principles do not change the thing that's cool everybody that's
there to everyone's in the game everyone's going to give seas middle of a managers every industry you can think of and lays on to be there echoes going to be there japs going to
be there in the game with you you know when i hid behind the curtain were not back stage will be interacting hanging out do not to bogota do and i tell you it's going to sell out
so register they as a p i know that um echoes going to make some videos and the video that he's going to make organises muster and as soon as those fires come out is going to sell
a cause is a savory thing to footage in looks as it is all an i was awesome and the next one was going to be olesome so so join now registered now there's discounted tickets if
you are long forcement fire fighters or military we got a discount dictate it to view one ask questions or get that discount also if you have like ten twelve people coming from
your coming from your company we can get a discount going there too you can email muster at as hallaron dot com you don't sup check out the website excelsi dot com real riginal we
thought about one and we look for to see you guys there in the mean time if if you want to kintoki it with us we are goin ourselves on the interweb on twitter on instigates well
and also we goin to be on that one that face book you bore how i got to be there echo is at echo charles and i am at jocko and finally go out bear and execute an we talk alone
about the lot of different subjects on this pot cast and we hear from incredible leaders in the lessons that we learned to day lessons that were learned and lessons at a written
in blood but those lessons are meaningless their meaningless if you don't execute on them if you listen without doing you might as well nihilist your time just keep being arrogant
in wasting your time not being productive and not living up to your potential in wasting your life if you're not going to execute on what we learn but if you listen and then you
go and you do than stay on it and remember also that the rewards don't come easy don't count on any glory this hold the line and stay on the path so that you know so that you know
that you are in the game a hundred per cent and that you know that you are getting after it so until next time missus echo and jocko out
