this is japanese number fifty five with a charles and me jocelin good evening a cold evening well our last port cast which i guess is no surprise at this point when a little long
did not have room for june so because of that we have we'll dedicate parasitic five to day to cure questions from the interweb than every one that is submitted questions through
the interets said we can attempt to answer some of them yea and with that tackle charles is questions from the into webs renato got well first question is how important is purpose
even cause in being successful like the pure purpose right well clear purpose in reason cause are extremely important it this is this is the why of of your actions this is knowing
why you're doing what you're doing is the commanders intent and so you you absolutely absolutely erportant if you don't know why you're doing something all the money ask your
question why are you doing something it does it's it's very clear rimples than there stand so yes you got to know if if you don't know why you're doing something tinware on to do
when he had her all school you're going to stop what do you what what had appetitions are you going to make when things go wrong to overcome them you are not going to make any old
you don't know why you're doing it ye so if ye have no reason if you have no weason for doing something they're not going to do it so you got to have a long term go we got
understand the underlying purpose of what you're doing now this doesn't necessarily mean that i mean that it has to be rigged doesn't have to be richard you do i'll tell you an
interesting case as an example of give you is my own case right so of course i can all about planning in in always having a long term plan and all that stuff but to be honest with
you the situation that i'm in right now is the human i'never long term plan for this you know the the the i w a wayfarer book i had no intention of writing a book that kind of
happened you don't count people were asking us in and as we work a business as they said you have the stuff or down or we had nutrition the book once we rode we fight maybe we be
handing it out when we go and work were companies literary agent so hot today let me let me show this to some publishers publishers on said let let us oblishes okay so you figure
you know publish it well even when you publish a book you don't expect it a bunch of people are going to read it you expect that you can have a book published in its cool but he
and i up to a really well so that kinahane with that all of a sudden i was on a couple of podcast why didn't you know i didn't have any intention when i went on tim paris's
pocasset insane was off this is going to propel me into my own pack astor jorogata say now a dead joe ron's gonna launch me into the pockared expect that but it happened and you
know what did happen to medesene okay these two guys are squared away there square away at this particular shone and there recommending my mind is open okay let's try make a
pocket did i know that the pack out was going to be super boyleston we were making upon cast so that you know the few people want wood on to listen to it cool for i mean then well
clapped next thing you know we were making tea you don't next thing of making feeble at i had no no idea mum that that he would be part of my world so that all the stuff happened
right but but the goal really the under light a reason for me doing all this i still the same through the whole thing and that is that we help people who help people with
something that the lessons that i've learned i want to help him so i'll canna do that well you right a mount okay you are down to people can read a great how else can you have him
oh you can make up on casteele can access it easily and cheaply cool harry go so the under lying oh you know i want people to be healthy or what's a good way to be healthy stop
drinking monster energy drinks stop drinking red bowl twelve a day in ordring something that's help o kale jock a white tea extinguat what we've got corn so it's it's that's been
my deseen my goal and a heaven really even though i even a strayed from wilmeter is a path of autos and i take a still stayed my reason is the same and i think the athi saying
when your reason is clear and your purpose is clear that's going to make your drive clear and that's going to make you execute well because you know where you're going you know
you where you want to be you understand your purpose in while you're doing something to have so kind a help to be successful in my opinion do you think that like all ah you know
people they'll be like this is my wy and it'll be like their kids or something like that do you think that falls within this like inklike reason purpose in all this stuff yet i
think i think that that's the same de same general that i could said purpose reason cause of why i think that that you have gamaesein could he said that i think that if your
purpose is your kids really clear example right as one people might say that well that's cool but that you're going to have to clarify that little bit more as if your purpose is
your kids then quit your job and just spend all day we can kit what they're always here not supporting your kids could now you can't afford to buy him food yes lady right like
this a lot of deferrer goal should be taking good care of and providing for your children's now and in the future we kay now that makes sense now you're looking long term short
term you got a you know that you have to work hard now you know have to make investments i set that is the kind of thing that's beyond just a simple i'm doing this for my kids
because are you of your analytic for ye so like for eating that example like this is my wife my daughter it's less this is why i am in a writing a book it's more this is why i can
endure the hard days for the line i'm going to continue to work hard kind of thing out whatever it is i'm doing you're in a dying in under a wing yes an underlying reason that's
to a question i think that's the internes yet practises answered that in gatewards i should a said how portas purpose reason cause then she assuan were very important and can have
a lot of different reasons to you know or like a pu core read more than one as she yaou know what i'd say if there's anything to be taken away from question edisto don't feel
here's the hearse would say to take away if you don't for you some kind of drive in your life if you don't feel passionate about something if you feel like your wandering in me
and ring through the world then it's time to assess then is time i say okay what is my reason what am i trying to do what would i like to do in the world now we had something
valuable here we all know that you got t have a purpose yonder reason so if you feel yourself the entry down the path with no reason no purpose digging and in fine one is next
quest i want to begin training in jugeait i mental constraint dictate that i can keep my jim membership to keep getting after the four a m or begin trained to get but not both for
a way or of bacon white parsonitis on other other okay first of all a check round your anethe's a gymnast but right i know him that's one of the reasons that we created my jim
victory of the may there's an and fitness on their two youse no matter what you want to do if you're in the game you can do it there you can do strike an you can do to git can you
rest in you can do boxing you can do wait lifting all kinds you onesto can do lympic lifting you can do powerless thing you can you call then execute ossining that that's why we
created the gym and you in it not more expensive then a straight ogita or not more expensive than a straight across the gym actually cheaper than boat most bathos so look around
see if you have a gym hat has both any few if there is no ginerous there that has both maybe you do what i did and you started jim that has both right i mean you could do that i
did it in it was a my buddies said i you know what we wanted we want to train all the time in all these different aspects how can we do that can we go to one jim at you know four
o'clock in the after we have to go to another gem at five of acting eater do another jim it's seven o'clock downland do that now so well we do make our own jim make it what we
want i guess what when you do something like that and i bisiness world if you if you think i think in far said scratch your own etch right you you you have an itch that you want a
scratch there's all the people that are to have the same ethra's what happened an argent sermons won't train of course they want to try so maybe start your own jim and oh you're
not a skilled but abasing to just to practise or guess what for the first time ever in america there's actually a bunch of really good jugera tioners it may be couldn't get a
black belt to come to where you live maybe you could cause it's a good chance you good but a brown belt i'll purple belt they can be a good instruct rate instructor if so you
might open up the gym and start that now that doesn't mean also that estimate a huge investment to do that you could start off with your garage and some mats so that's ninety
another thing you could do if you to cis if that don't exist how would you find it ogious this is tough right we want to stay healthy one day fit but you did you is kind to the
priority it's kind of the priority to tell you why it's learning right and if you take if you take me and you and we go through the situation and you decide that you're going to
do jugend i decide i'm in witless in ten years whose happy and who said we don't they answer answers clearly now i start cause i now i have enough money so six years into it i
start training to get you in europe brown bat or a black belt and and i don't have this knowledge and it's going to take me six years to get there meanwhile you while you were
trading yes what all your own you were doin calisthenic you were sprinting you are you are lifting rocks you we do in cheap stuff for free and you're still getting massive benefit
no so for me my poor is gonna go so the jugi because you can go and spend forty dollars on a set o rings for your garage or your basement or your hallway and next thing you know
you can do pull up you can do dips you can you muscle up you can do squamifrons all day long you don't need anything for that so you can get a mass of benefit with is that a range
or you can just get a pull up barnycote polson and you go to home depot and by a pipe and a couple neeland nail or into the wall he got a pull a bar now you can follow pocosons
rats and you're going to go you could become a beast with those exercises you so i would prioritize and in a do that i would prioritize the gitimate some kind of a home gem or go
to all i him sea or some cheaper kind of jim the other thing you go to deistic and become the most person carcinoma and mats that's another thing you can do to make this appetite
deal cut at both places most jim places that you know you go in there and say hey look i i i need i can't afford to trodow wal can't do for me maybe they'll get you some kind of a
deal you know the other thing that you can like me do now you're saying you don't have the budget for the situation or what is it your budgerigars that's my question and in the
funny thing is what can you cut out coffee a lot of people drink two or three dollars worth of coffee a day properly even more that i already coffee drinker no you're ontroo much
how much is a coffee addict to drink a day from starbuck he set the spectre and the you know the bottoms placenta on an day yet if you be going to start in by and yet i think i
don't know i don't pompeius well i get coffee from one to be honest with you we look as lou can make your own at home stuff but am but if somewhat in works near a star boxed it up
on the way doing worthier a dim ember shades four or epoux a day so at a hundred an twenty bucks a mon ye to boom you can out coffee or you make your own cur on coffee and you got
to go what about the night and you go out to eat you like all you know and i feel a cooking on and go out to a little restaurant that cost you thirty forty bucks a shot i get rid
of that cat well but you capable you capable you're watching t v nothing zero productive coming out of that zero you're not doing anything beneficial for yourself get rid of your
cable next in year you get here your cable and now you got enough money for your jim membership you know she has another one self phone you sit right we raced up the big numbers
on self phone would he doing what would you doing ill is it to sir the interweb and getting you don't lose your mind so what can you cut down on that cause i'm thinking now you
could scrape away a little bit here and there just lower your plan and use your use your phone lass you watching the usines i love the ossibtis of watching it at home for fifty
bucks or fifty nine bucks to go to a bar and pay ten bucks to get in and watch it there peterboro just save forty box or oyapoc that was ascothyctae all at move night would
othenwise the new movie and i utter no don't go see the new movie that theatre that cost how itha's expensive now isn't it yes i have men mortherers than i had in no remember less
i think it's like ten unelevated want o miss eleven ottilie over a year ago though yes so cattaro like to work on an do somethin i start shaving a little bit of money because in
the long run what you're going to get from these two things from fitness and from dogian to be lanassa much value yet in your life there can you therewith way more what these
little marginal things that you're cutting out or yes and that we think in the beginning how you sit like what is it that you can cut out so basically your your identify an what
is it right now that year considering more important than mum do get so were the gym and whatever which the teritorial mensurat is nothing do there's nothing more important an
your wife then your fitness and really your digitis party after does an also the knowledge in its confidence and its yet okay i'm i know that people can freak out okay i'm not
saying the most port thinking your life or when times of in terms of of purchases that you can make yet these two things are of the highsouled now you need a car to get back and
forth to work unresented a house truthseeking understood you need a wood on the table one stood estate care your family understood with you as you get into the optional things in
life these the tops the top to i i think so too and tell me a wrong i don't i'm not i can't tell you tribut when he saw but making the its fares making a decision goes your your
offense identifying what you currently are holding more port that then it regards the wetystein is more porteous got identify inaction that our statement yes yes of what you
believe yet and that um be when too like drinking like on a one not everyone drinks so who now follows person might not drink it all but if you buy it a six tack of beer let's say
do that at all don't twice a week or something like that that's like no saadees or you to the otter in your coffee thing is big do but ye there it is after a lot o little little
ways the call thing i got to be honest only because you are probably not the only one that watches t b i knew it by the argument is like hay t v is it good quantunque for anybody
so everyone should just be signed on in the household kind of thing to what your points not that easy i atoms you know a high there is good to be some ripples in the you know
especially when you first i make that transition and you choose to take it on yourself to cut out cable cause you want to go to digestion you make every one your house your
improve every one hear how men i know la what other mad and i know what i lafayette that initial incision open up everything and make a mass before he can repair you know for that
that he is a part is going to be most of a runagate as lays round that to you get in that fix ye o lo a and to things that were you get streaming on to man rayonette's kind of war
everything in any way tellin ye but ye there's some here some good stuff too good so for the just find a way to do both it can't be done he of you can do it not the home jim is
good that's good cause that's something you you just start slowly and start adding to therefore a lank for but you got a ring don't have your since may i you'll be good to go for
sure oh ho i next washing jocko had an infinite i wanted your opinion on love your book in parasiten and play your lessons to my life job and family of driving home one night with
my wife and four year old son in the car when some drunk edit was walking in the middle of the roadway he stood in front of my car refusing the move running his mouth my wife bake
me not to get out of the car terreiro reached into his front waist band like he had a gun and i and although i myself being of a police officer and having countless incidents an
experience like this idea did more like drunken bravado or grand standing any case so i was armed and having trained in boning an a little bit a egitated handled the situation
this lasted about a minute a pinting there and eventually i just drove around him while he was running at about call me names and all that stuff my first priority obviously is
getting my family home safely and making sure nobody will ever do any harm to them but another part of me felt like what am i teaching my son i mean is that okay suh you is that
okay to let people disrespect you in a acting anyway they want toward you so i dropped off my earthlier my family and went back looking for the guy he was gone i guess lucky for
me as well as him i'm questioning my decision not out of ego but only because of the example i want to be to my son that you never go looking for trouble and confrontation but you
don't back down on from it either ever mikael just first of all you want me dear you know you want you've got a wife and the kid yeh you want right so often will be opened for one
if your police officer but you could call the police you could you know god get on your radio and call him to say what's gone have this guy rested before he causes an the anaca
accent being out in the strode like an idiot being on the rubaconte so that's an option but but the other thing is like a what are you trying to teach your son or are you trying
to teach your son that he should fight every idiot that of animate ease if you if that what you deem he is not going to have a very productive life or a very nice life so that
there's too many negatives right that can happen in this actually happened to something similar to this happen to me a little while ago down by the ocean down by the pier in the
neighborhood where i live and there was a like a tweaker crazy now drunk on drugs and all that and it was it wasn't as direct as this he wasn't he wasn't saying anything at me but
he's yellin swear words and and he's a front of my kit my kid this little my son was foaled six or seven years old and he's just alone he's isolated by swearing and just acting
crazy right and what i did was i said to my son he okays this garret or have you heard of what drugs are the zadig to you ere this is guy this is where them up so this guy's a
miscreant easy criminal in the other thing that told him as it watishika would you think would happen and my son was kind of you know will you and choke him cause my son trained
to do to that tires will you joke on toes like that right a modified to this guy we're not afeard o the sky this is no factor as we know how to fight we know how to define verses
but that being said what we want to do is we want to avoid the situation you know there's all kinds of all kinds of bad things that can happen there men of this i tell mislike
this cicognani serdab a gun this guy could have this guy could just have a blood born disease right the scala blood born disease now i don't get a fight with him and now i have a
blood born disease you what what will what it would is that's holiness all i will situation so like i said i told nat this is this is why we train is while we nother arms because
when people are maniacs and and if their insane and psychopathic and they have weapons uneeda weapon yerself you to be able to find yourself so our protestations my son my primary
objective is to be safe right to to not get to avoid these situations and guess what if you still feel the need to like be man in the situation of prove that your man are proved
your son at paris valuable in not trying to put that down you want your son to see that that that you should be strong and that you should be able to stand up yourself and that
you will don't ever have to back down anybody but that's why your son comes with you to the gym that's why you tragedy titathat why you trained you to that white he watches you
day and a day out working out being strong being tough going to the gym training with fire em that's why he sees all that stuff so he knows i mean out there in a my kids if you
were to ask my kids like against a random person in the street they would be prevail think i could be of any one in the world he has a alecsandri in all the time right that's all
they see me do so so that's that now the disrespect part the disrespected me right mis respendu abodes respect me is one thing but now you disrespect my wife right well again how
can you be disrespected and isoline i would explain to my son you cannot diseeses ct be disrespected by some one that has no respect for themselves in if you are a drunk idiot in
the street you have no respect for yourself you don't you cannot disrespect me it is impossible for you give me disrespecters et yourself as a human so so that's just that's just
added to doncourt that i'll tell my son that all day long or or any my kids that all day long you can't be disrespected by some on the doesnae themselves the donati and respect i
even respectful to his drunk idiot given em the better of doubt i am respect so he you know then the other pieces not backing down from trouble right in i'm not going to back down
from trouble but i am going to avoid it i've got to avoid it and you don't want trouble avoid me atavism in if you are working now and your staying strong and you have the
compliance because you know you can have yourself troubles going to avoid you ninety nine percent of the time and the other thing is you got to tell your kids i mean my my son is
getting older now if he consentit with them one he could kill him i mean that's a straight up all campin answer now i've got it in no he's young kids or he's got a you got to do
the things that your talk about in this question pretense ellis not going to back down as i got explained to listen let me tell you what comes with getting in street plight a cool
rush go fan right it's fun so you get that maybe you get a little bit of props you got a little bit of respect health from the get a crag right jerked from your people ye let me
tell you what else comes to it along with those two things which are which are cool right possible jail time possible injuries possible loss suits the broken hand i mean even if
just olterations right jail time which there's been plenty of cases where there was a late case here in san diego i pardon other gutheline cure debt i rigouthe things really
happen let not to mentiou could get you you so you get jail time you get injury not my communion you could get killed right because you think you're tough guy guess what greatest
am i may fighters the world get caught with a crack in the face and they get knocked out you fall down to head cured you you could die so through this that aspect too but then you
get to the injuries right because you get us refigure goin to get her revertitur you're going in it some kind of an injury but i had just going to happen you know whether it is a
little caught a little brazen your gang have something that's a pain it could be major in dry you can break your hand that happens all the time lawsuits could not you in toodem
after you and if you it's just a stupid then like a rip jacket or scoffed me in just isn't it worth it it isn't worth it a special cause we're talking about an individual than you
can crush in an instant and that has no value as a human isolates persons doing but none is first an isn't idiot don't go down to their level and play that game instead a void
that and go to the gym and drain more and be ready yeah that's my opinion good job on walkin away going out to find the guide luckily you you are said lucky you didn't find it ye
good right now who knows maybe you'd be the guide that's on that you going to jail the comet oh you're cop and you are armed you entered a down a in this guy and you fold your
weapon cause you losing any shot of and then what we see when she somebody that a cellphone or they were corded old thing and they see you person is gurameer's not a good
situation and you've got to be of little sponsible when you're carrying all to responsible you harry you know that we all know that when we carry we got to avoid that's that's
what we have to do when we're packing well then you can cindahella when when someone scared you know wouldn't like if this guy and i gin street in your in the car that is an
unutterable he jan around and you go home but you know it's someone's like get it like if you're walking on the side of any getting your way that you know it's kind o different or
whatever but avoiding the situation there and you're not scared cause you prepare to whatever and you you simply walk around or go the other way or something like that the people
with you they can tell they can tell you not scared i tell you making it but if you are feared whether you fight the guy or you run away scared they can tell that to yes so i have
notification though the day i was walking out or with my whole will yoomy whole family they go in to get some ice cream was vesicule months goes in the summer time doing it on ice
crenelated a discipline disciplinary break down in my own mentality sont got ice critter so were walking down the street and out of nowhere this guy just get in my ill stood up in
god my face we really fast and i i i just kind o looked at him and sort of did the you know in into the um semi not a fool an fight stance but i turned you know like a quarter
turn and just looked at him because i thought okay we'll git a rock at all we will make this happen any oil instantly what happened while you just arived happened as soon as a guy
got my face he looked immediately within what within a half a second immediately back down in and walked away it was like he was just trying to prove something he realized with a
quick he was going to get the crushed her hat anyway as that's the same thing you know that i could tell oh you want to fight you know that don't that story about a will he hear
in the grace conatum the story he and i guess you hollers a really good surfer in a hollow is out serving at a spot in san diego you know sandy like all surfing areas it is pretty
home territorial and there's some thesame a some aggression in the surf anyways this some guy started getting aggressive with with holy and aheer said to him some classic line it
was something along the lines of a man you sir fur living i fight for a living if you want to go to the beach let me know otherwise be quiet a athos a great life veldon oleoresin
we went on a boy to set me a whole small trees don't know who whether grace hespers a small small game he's obviously a master of degees only a hundred and fifty pounds hundred
and fifty five pounds maybe really small guyants a nice guy is he not again it be unagitated of be intimidated he's not easy his looks are not going to intimidate anybody one is
colliflowers i mean it's just he's looks like a nice going on any esaiyen he's got a nice present about him if so what i'm saying is what again to read force what you just said
when some one is confident to that level it even though their hundred and forty five or hundred and fifty pounds and looked like a nice guy with his mile under face when you come
ently say look you know what i do for a living i fight if you want to hit each and fight let me know you and the guyndally you alone and like a plan ye then in the little detector
goes off like danger you know yet danger in it to get my ass be ye but an some of matsouri decision making goes on desecrate you know where like a you said like their like on
drugs or this guy in this case if you sineid le of the road acting like you know boys in the hood kind we got a prompt here kittatinies doing the like he's obviously off you know
like you's not a decision maker kind a thing of so you know if you jump into a fit your situation with them it's kind o unpredictable in that weird way you know the limitation or
let's say the guy has a gun or doesn't have a gun you at the moment to get away from it yet he thought of readington you get away from him right let's see you said oh you know
where i'm a confronting now so you you let's say you get his shot out you call him guess what you had to do now you got a higher alatorya got to hang up you got to take on a rake
from war because you are a copy as all these things he not work and it's italian in the ass is what it is it's almost like a man may be a wrong eruditos like you can't like an
what's the thing what's the gold or going for him ooliticus on if they yet what's it to what your early at her reason for doing this yet like in the gout and am in a look from one
look for the day but then like what's the god like what's the out like what are we going for their men the look for him to tell him not to do that again or in what to retrograde
believe ray was going on ye and then even that you don't a lot of times we don't i know when you're in that moment you don't think pass that you're just like i gotta get my
whatever my revenge really is what it is he shouldn't a done that to me in lotche a lessening of a thing i mean that's the feeling it is for no yes because you weird man you can
jump into that will you renestine go home if you from family and once when the confrontation happens the best case nero isn't good the best case enaro ill ye if ye jelleries case
careless going to happen you know he isn't good no because you got even if you walk up and knock the guy i with one clean punch you got a you got a broken finger you know you got
a broken knuckle an even if you walk up and choke the guy you've got his grimy poke all over you know what i mean it's gude they did there's nothing that goods going to come out
of the air and all who all ears in it feels good to fight but that can easily be remedied by going to the gym and fighting all your artisan in this case i don't know i'll disgust
oh you you knocked out a weird though homeless guy and the middle of the road and to your family i don't feel that i can not me may be i don't know if i othello i don't think so
there but yes can a weird dis one an we went on this cruise and it was me terry tim you know i like tige o again of eger whatever time and arthur girlfriends as i was behind us in
the booth where at a restaurant or something and i were like what i guess the boterflie so were shaking the booths and as he got up all crazy like he got he did he say said a ah
you guys are big but you guys keep nothing to both were going to like basically all this out to a fight had like tastes everywhere on his neck and love and at first how tankman is
i get joking i like what's going on is confused and to be honest i was like stunned like almost like it didn't this sinner was so foreign to me o siding and not even though it to
say i don't even know what every one else was doing that's all stunned that was but the tent he was cayetano was like the species now in the jumpest up goes to find but the day
was a weird that the thing it was like all of us big die as you know and tim was like he wasn't scared i'll he was ready like fight so getonouthat her about the fact on a cruise
by the way were fighting he can't fight on a cruise and now so it is paseno know and the guy like he was like i don't know i guess he's ready to die or something cause he was like
kind of down the fight and guyame in like i think broke it up it whatever with to make his big report it was like to speak think so all just open me asked as paregoresei and and i
can wassili what if he fought that guy you know you ought amalaswintha a tin pot he went ever is giving a restoration to wash suit against roland we were on a cruise no one
hitherto late as yarry tell stupid ye don't do that can stuff the question jack loved the pages part of the question i think right and any rogeston for leading command staff to
understanding the ground level troops in a mission or casimir for those even are not titillatory come man stated that sort of home business will that would be like a opened orders
you know the corporate head quarters got the commands that instead happens in both situations where you end up with with the command staff with the corporate head quarters that
kind to lose his track of what what there actually therefore the ground level mission the troops are on the ground in this sittah question but it's also kind of a simple one so i
go back to trying to constantly remind people what the missions where the grinding had at the adonis the atalta worked for the admiral great guy and one of the things i probably
talked about this before but one of the best things that he did was because he is he so detached from the sea plotoons like there's layer upon layer upon layer in between him and
an actually believe it an not be job of the admiral that's in charge of this you came this is going to sound strange to everybody the jam of the admiral but in charge of the seal
teams is to get equipment and gear and training for the seal teams now and for like the next ten years because at the way the budgetary process works in the in the pentagon and
hers so so don't think of when you think i know you you want to think of the sea admiral as they war fighter letifera the guide that actually in charge the senior seal now there
you could be the special operation to this other place could be but the guy that's in charge of the seals of of naval special warfare command that's what it's called naval special
warfare command the admittance that which puts in the charge of all the seals that guy his man this is jeb is to train and equip seals train in equipoise in the battle and with
training a quip and so you end up with his whole organization where the purpose of the organization is to train in a quip but the organization is huge an even that command
organization did very big and so what they start doing as they start losing focus that ten levels below them out somewhere overseas is a is an ape man squad in the zodiac off the
coast of some nation doing it reconcentrate anointing about eveniat that for years so and so they lose chuckingham en in the corporate world as well where the the the head shed
that's their deal of stuff to right their deal with legal problems or deal with compliance problems they're dealing with financial problems they lose track of the fact that
there's a guy on the front line at trying to fix a car or replace it an air conditioner you know that that's the way it is so you lose the vision of that you lose track of that so
what was great about this admiration for is any big meetings when they would be talking about you know hundreds of millions of dollars of expenditures over the next twelve years
in various training commands in all this stuff huge and he always munasa how is the impaction overseas powers this how does this help a see a salter go out and shoot a bad gin the
face that's what he would ask natives caps everybody snaps everybody back into reality of what they're to keep it connectedly what this question is a um suggested for being
commands that the understanding the ground aleeke got i ask that question in the business side of seen the same thing you don't be guides tollere track of it so it's so you you
end up you got to ask the question hey everything that you're talkin about the detestable thing in his regular tory saying in this new softer or talking about let me ask you
harshaw is is gonna help one of our front lines sails people close a deal that's the question that's the whole reason that were here the whole reason at this big staff is here the
whole reason we have this building the whole reason we have this base is so that a seal overseas can close with and destroy the enemy or so or for a big corporation so that this
repair man can make it to a house and fix an electrical problem in a short period of time efficiently in effectively that's what we're all here for so antha's what you have to do
you have to keep reminding them of what's going on down in the forewings what the mission is what the men are doing of what issues around there another thing you could take us you
an take these people with you or you on a get any donation that's i know it a cheap and cheap to do this but you go out and you gather anticontagion that you can bring back to
headquarters and say hey you know what i know where i'll do a good job here we tell you the truth on the ground need this cold weather dear right now they don't have it here's a
here's a message i just got brought from a guy overseas there up in northern iraq we thought it was going to be warm guess what it's thirty two degrees there is snow on the ground
these guys aren't prepared for me neither but i to your using an i doan formation two to paint the picture of what's going on live on line same thing we you know if you're a
corporate eye and you want to make sure people stay engaged go out on a call with that electrician at the visit in the house on a on a winter's been a break or blown and the
guesswork and through the the payment system that you devise that you thought was so smart a dozen get connection while you're on the field and now he can't run a credit card you
want to come back and tell them tell the headset that ye so those some of the things are another thing that you do to us is you asked those questions all time in maybe you just
come up with some kind of a monster that you repeat all the time in that you sign your amals what he says you'll wear here support were support the front line guys were here for
the ponies yourself the question does this help the front line at every decision that we make we got as for self dossonville does the hot performer sona um intinesse her do now
one thing that you've got to be ready for him as you got to be ready for some one to say dad don't understand the big picture this is what you got in your anfortas i've heard this
when we can say that not i or profane cornstalk you know we got gustfulness we need to get them this guardian der and the big picture ah we had a ford that right now we don't look
at the red you said but be ready for its an excuse it's nix use you got to be ready for it in a way that you get ready for it or talk about this a melinite way you get ready for
it you have ammunition do you have any issue out av your duction ralph drew to raise your hand and say he or is all on the front lines are years a problem that they have you can't
but you can't just back down when he's at annot's going on they don't get it ben't get to be a big thing they say in the military they don't keep the big picture i we hear that
freeny know what actually we do get to big peter were living the big picture you don't get the big picture here's the big picture i got front wide troopers that need cold weather
dear or their going a free and not be of a operate you the picture doesn't get a bigger than that now you can't concourse come across like that in which after do you have to look
at it systematically and over a long term and say this is about plan and i got a plan for the long term and how we together guys as cold water during the future but right now
we've got a little fix it on a cover these guys that are in a fedrig now got a come armed with ammunition so that you can you can refute this come and call that gits mad which is
they don't understand the big picture of the field in a worry about them now the only reason we are here is folkestone field so what's remember them and if eques you talk about
stepping back or detaching to better assist situations can you expand on how you detach cocceian this is wananebish i probably even at evanses this before yes she we yokit ah no i
once worth ten you know okay i'll i'll go over all overlikely since people asked me all the time okay first of all you wanted to tatch step back elinore step back if you're all
mine with a bunch of people in a combat situation literally step back if you are if you are in a competition high port you weapon i put you up in the sea at the roof at the sky
whatever you're not in gatigara or in that back if here in a if you're in visits en virant step the way from the computer stepway from the terminal put down your pen back away
there's a year meeting headed meeting you need attach stand up back away from the table but literally stand back and step away won't you do that you you relax now that that
physical part that i talked about as the literally stepping back that something that i it's a it's a physical reminder of what to do you can get to a point in your life where you
don't need to do that i or where you usually don't have to do that but things can still aslack to where even the most highly trained detach person still astete back and an take up
take a rap off and take a look around so it most he situation is especially your first starting to try and do it physically step back physically do something that indicates to you
as a person and actually indicate that rulon you that you're doing this like when somebody stands up in the day one steps back and it's an indagations rinaldo your madic we get it
yes or salatu'l within not to be dramatist's on to be dramatic anyway if it is now take a broth take breath look around and make a call that's desit that's how easy tis detaching
outdate actual hard part of the catchment is being so fear enough that you know when to detach that the bats the challenging part because they end up in the situation by the time
but tendilla should have detached the avery should fash you lost your temper you got involved he could make a decision you got dragged in the westlake everybody else did it it is
if somebody is i would have have done this plane in retranslations i would just go through the leader who is gettin draggers oceaniae like a step back with me i take them two
steps off the one a bit look around and then they do be easily be all to make a decision you have that lee that's the easy part the easy part is stepped date stepping back to a
hard part is knowing that you need to do it because it's like i guess it's an to use the stupid analogy of the boiling frog right where you put a boy put a frog and water you
solely start to boil it next in yet next thing he knows it's dead i didn't realize that the weethout water it when i tried to mount immediately ietae thing your you don't you will
be walking to a room in the coves going on now you walk into the room and everything seems to kayanehenh starts as ladasian then you now you're in it and actually know something
bad has happened and you didn't detachment so you lost the bubble and you all control and everything went sidewise so you got it till when you got a understand what it is you
needed to catch you got to have your own personal red flags to tell you that i sidereally feel yourself getting frustrate which you start getting like that you need it to achmet
you feel you if your getting faster to do but that the ataka each if you start feeling angry ostentatious or you start packing horrid at the key board right sortit when you i but
he mail out and your hating the keyboard heart epstein in cater for she better not his sin whatever you wrote his in good noonday brahms you raised voice right you start raising
the voice you torkin angry are a people those of the little things though the little indicators that tell you you need to detach step back take a breath look round walk out of the
room put your weapon a high porch just relax look around make a call one martin sometimes sometimes i what what the reason you need to detach is just so you can see something from
a different angle and you can ask a course of i liparon love doing this a man a animating right now work with bunch of busnesses and actually gets pretty you know i'm getting
involved in what they're doing and they'll be all be sickly staring at a problem right sarianna problem and the indecent figure out what the solution whether it's a leadership
problem or a process problem in their all staring at this problem and they can't come to a solution will i come in first lalotte do datch strike lives one of the benefits of my
job is a totally detached so when i come in a lot of times my what i bring to the situation what i can see is i can just ask a question that none of them could think to ask
because there all looking in the same direction as sue you flank that idea you see it from a different angle you came up with susians so what i'm my point in this is don't only
use detachment to prevent your emotions from driving your decisions also used detachment as part of your dive process to detach from your current thought pattered and moved to a
new thought pattern where you can create new ideas and different plans from different angles that were not seeing from your previous that that you point skin forgeted get a little
bit out of that tenement we revisit revisitation next wist how did deal with people who use military vittatus to excuse bad behavior in civilian world at the onfortunate one to
have to answer and it unfortunately have to start off with the same way i made this point about eugie and juicoot practitioners not necessarily being good people will ye
unfortunately to same thing with veterans dilikittest thing in every aspect of life just because some one is of betterin does not mean that they are a good person and being at war
is certainly not an excuse for bad behavior and a couple examples couple examples just to think about major major curt to ely remember this guy navy craft is the guy that wore the
pink vast at at incants men could identify him the enemy a candidating garleton but he was the leader he saw hell right wounded men died teteny seven of his men made a anjous yes
what he didn't he r when he got out of the hincock for insurance company for twenty years right at it so joe an joe owen wood you know same same chosen reserwoir battle never
regained the use of the of his arm that was wounded was many quite retired from the marine court guess what he did with all that and in horror jested ihe created and ran his own
marketing business until he retired now you remember john chafe from that book the cold this to war he was the captain a kind of wanted did release i did that book was cause he
was profiled in there he just was a great leader well i don't you know if i don't omeme if i talked about this but he turned twenty years old at the bottle of balconied harbor two
he fought it oaken now we read or two then he went to went back went to school when i went to eat her yaoharneth both but then creaked off something with the corea and got after
more so all this war what are ye do with all that i came home you know became the mayor of providence there and no island became the governor of rhode island and then came
secretary that night but so my point in saying these things is veterans are not broken human there not deranged people for just people and they've seen some stuff and most of them
are carry on and do also the greatest generation ticketers cinerator to bet they saw horrors of war guesseth did came home and dominated to that's a they did so men and women can
overcome the impaction at least they can learn to work with it is even if he knows even if you have those things that stress you out okay but yes on how to deal with of course
that being said war it does leave a mark in obviously sometimes it can have a istimele negative effect so if you know some one like that well let's get those veterans from help if
they need it in and get them some support also make sure your not in needling this bad behaviour mesina to do you don't want to you don't want to enable this babar the vet that i
meet there there their fire not the gernot complaining about anything to getting after it don't enable the bad bear it doesn't help any one in an it's one of those things that it
might make you feel better might make me feel better to tell someone out and say now i understand because you know her home able your beneath behaviour to mourn o might make me
feel better could i feel like i've done a good deed you have done a good deed no eve actually not help them at all that's one thing i think that's good if you find other vet for
them to talk to m because other vetti say man i understand broke do but let's not do well on that past of let move forward disguises offer you er job on this guy has a job for you
to do or this guy has a position you can fill do that m do that don't dwell in the past the passerine war's hell i know now let's live in the heaven we got here in the united
states of america was listane advantage of that he not to all in the past you know an i this is this is another said small thing but i just hear so much about it um from people if
you got somebody have mistiness to this potest i hear from a venever single day i hear from that around america that like a mitacshera poast dyaks were you talk about i get it
breathed a guidsake said me a message to day you like lock man i never got in my mouth we you wasn't doing good i want track i'm trainin joggeli trying to do jesseaume the jam i'm
bumbailey job preciate it that's a whole dis that's all it is cause i think would people will when vestless in the poast they go okay cool the there's other people they know where
we're in the game together they feel that they feel that connection and they know that they are not alone yeasting that's jack up men veterinarian worn the come back and they go
somewhere that it ees not there's no one there yes and all this is isn't big bullshitting you know what i mean between you know a vaternesiae book and i'm having a bolitician with
with joe on you that's what it is and so i think guys veterans say here that niggeramus preciate it so have must have pangasinan that might be helpful to get them feeling like
their nation out there yeahlin that that's the main thing like people don't like no understand me you know you don't understand like well i mean not to some to soft bit like you
understand how i feel about reigate even dated his stuff like you the way i am seen this right now if you don't understand ye so you do yet you in the piling assuming an otises
like guys interfering alone in her out there in like an if the other thing is a felipe on her sanitation here saying you're right they don't yes they haven't been to war and the
experience of war is all over the place i mean the i would live i wouldn't even i would shine you know i would shine major curt the leaves boots every day for rest my life if i
had the opportunity to the that guy's experement i i'm not really a mimansa ball park you don't mean not even the same coast not close for what those guys went through it the
shows resonant it goes all the way down to some guy that you know was overseas they would esente military don't even deploy to iraq afghanistan not their fault they might ha
wanted to put some in the dust doesn't happen if so the the military experience is all those things and you don't know what you're doing with but one thing we do know is that it
is a common experience you know going to war i does have some common threads to it in i think that it is hard for people that have an experience to understand and it makes people
for the little bit like alone out there so when they hear other vets talking about what goes on they go yet man all right cold these are not abnormal feelings that i having a and
they can move on and i don't know if i really answered the question of of how to deal with people who use their statuses excuse to bad behavior i think just like any all any one
else man you got up you got a do your best to put him in the place i think what makes non veterans feel intimidated than when i was a kid i looked up all of the natatores yes they
and i i just thought these guys would ever they icould do no wrong in my eyes no nooelogy of that goes and it was a now you know that go to do no wrong and i think that's a
feeling that a lot of civilians at le dedn't want to approach the subject and if you feel that way it's understandable it's hard but find some vets around begging help you that
can dachel that person that can talk to about what they're doing i mean you know every company i work with this better in in every company work with it is some you know usually on
multiple veteran to find some other betters a lot it longing to nother cool thing that company's do is within their company they'll have like a veteran program or a veteran club
basically inside their company and that's another coffin do that get that thing started you know you if you're not even find of senor better the vet that fired up to do it bring
him in and then those guys can get together talked and talk about doing better and talk about bringing something military experience to bear in the company and it just will turn
out good so this little veterans organizations of to the calm veterans organizations inside a companies are pretty cool not otso into a few of them its bits pretty colvill the
west how does default aggressive applied you get for don it applied its well good question now wolfers of all it it doesn't apply during training focatico pletely applies during
competition and obviously replies in the streets and call it so that a mean by that is in training it okanagen in apposition it's okay to let things happen it to kate let them be
grabbed that call or a grab that sleeve we get across it to caminos it took it put yourself at risk in competitions that's okay matter facts it's encouraged in an awed training
yet in training is encouraged in training buncome ition you can't do that you you can you can not do that in street out definitely cannot do that a fact in the street you've got a
proactively and aggressively first of all avoid the bad situation but if they come then you've got a handle to situations when aggression and speed and violence of action that's
what you've got to do so competition is kind o the same way e in competition if you give a guanicoe give a guy a grip if you give a guy position they will not we will not let
overtint appening they they will they will hang on to that thing like like with the gee and competition somebody gets a grip on some part yergate the white knuckle that thing
specially especially in the lower belt what if the higher bolts to man its every bell of because that deed that grip can be the difference between winning and losing period i'll
so you you got it you've got to aggressively avoid that you got to be agressions now in training again you let it happen but here something that can happen and training somebody
you guys that get used to training and to go into competition i get overrun they get overwhelmed and overrun because they they fought man not to owe the guy grows my collar the
doors my call was every time we rolled right and they don't realise that when this guy grabbed you caller he's going to attack me and so what you have to do and the other thing is
in in a competition as a time of it we could there is there is kind of a a ah peuch a thing sort of as a count of puncher in dugitigrada one net in and i'm kind o like that it
right like i don't i don't usually force to move to happen usually i'm going to let you make your own mistake i'm going to let my opponent make a bad move enumerative on besot
less work for me i meant it's it's a lot less work when you're a pony gives you gives you the submission of buyout transition or gives you the sweep then trying to make it happen
but again in competition that it doesn't really work because there not going to give their not going to take in you is there are gonna take your son is probably not one be
openings now aye notaries in a long match may be my you know maybe i'm just trying to hire somebody else now in the jim i have an unlimited time to do that i can tire somebody
else for twenty minutes just try to let them have pass my guard and they're trying to pass my guard the whole time in getting them tired of getting tired getting turned finding
exposing off pulled my put the token god i went that took twenty minutes this happened on a daily bayin a competition i just lost because that was a ten minute match and the other
guy was on top for ten minutes trying to pass and he got the advantage in the wine so you can't that can't be you are strategy if there's no time of it it's the same thing in a
war right in war you can have a strategy of a is going to wear the other person out menthoides of to america at the disconto wars out look at what the russian strategy of that
they used against napoleon that used to gainst the nazis oh you want to come out of school where it go back up a little bit of a time back up a little bit time back up a little
time here comes the winter in and now you are going to freeze to death or watered you norville you but that's the same type of strategy it doesn't work if you if you have a
limited amount of time to win you you have to have if you if you have a limited moontime which most cases you do you have to have a default aggressive attitude and make things
happen the way you want them to happen not the way you re appoint wants to happen have the have not the way your enemy wants and that happened and it's the same thing i lesly in
business and in life the good things the good positions the good details the good promotions the reboard theyre not going to come and knock on your door you gotta go out an you
got take you got a makeup on the mat in bisiness handelians get de alterative to my recommendation he had heard and judicious as far as i like in art and this like dispenser of an
all these acception you know i say the counter puncher in you get to where like some day that even like making you can be a counter puncher in dogian still be like aggressive bite
so your first move will be like okay if you're going for a sleep your first move won't be to sleep there you'll go o cayotes other thing he kind o his reaction is going to open
him up for the sweet well for sure for sure is not hastier move actually its cover move it's flanking oyaikan less year because you i start attacking your neck and you pull your
hand up to the fondato that of your base away in sweeping it right right boom that's that's what it was it was a covernton them i actual attack with my other move if or even go to
flank because if you think i'm going to come at the fun but then i planking from the side of lenawee yeah when you put all your troops on you know on yet we it's almost like that
almost psychotheistic question were you can answer it as it applies to something specific so like di of frexample like default aggressive in jugement my defaulted gressie way of
approaching it will give me advantage in this way where i'm an imposed my game weather that's the counter punching game whether it's the wearmouth for a while game whether you
know over running with my conditioning whatever that game is i'm in a dressily put it on him before he puts it on me de fault like right from the time that i says go or you know
when it goes down inter whenever you in a train but ever you training like that if you so that'll keep him in the defensive where he can't get his game going on you you know he's
defending your gamaleyeh you definitely definitely wantipole you well from said that old time with you home fighters you you want to be you have so fighter that to impose his will
on the other fighters gone yes eendian thing with war you impose your will on the enemy that's what you do you know you well the enemy and you will break them yenefiti like in
ousedom of the rain you know cause they're like controller like the beden with all biffe's coaching somebody we like the first be first beelikty put him so like a tiger defend the
whole ten and if it honest when you when you're going against a strike or that it has that attitude and if he versals have ye got eonian there hitting you and you're not you're
just defending the whole time ye it's hard to turn it around you again and you keep telling when you roll against the guy and we talk about this for when you really goin to guy
and even if he is not at lucky's game is in aggressive but right when you lock up with him he can tell he's delight joined correct position like an i can't get like a good like in
many you look i'm going to get in my position and he just just like timidity i retorted you like odds and that's that sent away even though that might be like kennebecassis game
sometimes it's like just his game being put on you position lies in this case your he is that by polacres the post till like you i know will sometime like in training it your
traineth me be like okay i'm not it's essentially letting some gittin into a good position on you so you're training here defensor whatever that's different that's like that's not
deputies very more talking about i really good from the half guard death so i let you get past my full guard to the half garden now you're in my world but i'll lend a yet that
would be i guess would that be for all the demons i still still as is weird game cause he's tall and lanky and and flexible and so he does things like all stick his foot and place
work any normal situation in editors for all the long here that's what he wants you to do yet and it is just telling the other day i said all these little things that you want me
to do a mother in any of ye i andranodorus stop on him and so that the way he imposes his will is by giving up these bate he just throws beat out their all day on he bontonger you
in these positions that he's good at the answer you can't take the bait you can't take the bait and sometimes the bab is right looking yes like a right for the harvest there let's
everywhere then it's everywhere in oryou got a just say no mistike game plan here here i impose my will which is in nothing rather bate ye that's a crazy because like i said i
kind o philosophically that is the defaulter sive thing when all you try out is out eloise instead of imposing my game unlike kennelled by this date even if you know the bad is
there you're on your heels because you're watching out for the trap well is just a kind of i sing down the same banta you're talking about i i talked about it torhouse like't
companies about the safety you dustrial companies your construction companies madefaction commisit have ye cannot people get killed and if they're not careful and so i talk about
being aggressive and you know it's okay well in joco how does de false restive going to keep a safe because if i got guys that her outlook construction sight being superesse all
day guess what they're going to take a rest of the shop as it absolutely wrong cause guess what you're going to get restive with you can now agressive ly implement your safety
procedures you're going to aggressively like hay you know what i see a guy walking around the jobs like without a helmet were all over nay jack as for your helotage here ritornate
you in to do right he oh i see that out as the ah you're not allowed to be one synodical on get over here you got a you know were docking your pay given to get aggressive in the
implementation of your safety parcetur and yes that will make you say fer yeh shots yet i guess em when you hear the word aggressive elaine and other sandlotter physical example
another physical example is o k we are in a defensive perimeter i don't have enough men to move rob got long de guys i am going to agressive ly set security on right i'm gonna put
a big machine on over here to get that high ground over so he can do things aggressively even though by their nature they might not seem aggressive yet first ye think that's what
you're trying to say yes yes i lisotakis almost like its deeper it's deeper than just like physically just jumping in alsatian or like the the the idea of whatever is going on
here's another one i am going to aggressively ignore you no ongoing to aggressively counsel you in mentor you now to worthing i could do was go you better listen to me that the
worst that i could do and but to be aggressive in doing that what am i going to do i'm going to set really good golf on enflank you melogian your mind i'm to immensite what it's
not an external aggression in an interlacing only i know is happening you're going to know what's happening to any year when you've all sudden improved and you've been successful
and you go to hang me jocosely help me out with him stuff i don't really realize that was going on but he did i was aggressively donatt you would have never called it aggressive
from an external view poys so it's as opposed to life they like some sort of a lad back approach great like you in your if you have a lay back of protest if you have a lad back
approached to men turner when it alida the roach to safety or will be as a nun of those things are good the exact why we have in the salt ogress of attitude about this there you
go clarified did after it on odeon could say that acoustic one could say that having a lead back at it too didn't you did so then again on the street that'll be less likely
traveled back you hesitate street this acceptance are think but i'd say you know if it's going down in going down he felt egressio grassiest tellurions the one it goes once it
happens once the decision been made it yet after its gotastitch on as you can the avories long as you can when you got to go go hard goofiness near at our last quinby friend go
jock does complacency come with age i see a lot of guys that back off as they get older do you have the urge to back off does is complacency come with age and do a hampton urged
him back off negative negative back off not happening you i hear that i am over forty on pushing fifty whatever bring it back of negative not happening a fact i'm stepping it up
um training harder eating cleaner i'm training more ambling and reading and studying more now than i ever have in my wife do i get digged up be course i do partake so injurious a
you know what no factor no factor deal with them be you know what he ewhaee hear the clock ticking that's what i hear and the end is nigh and time waits for no man in you young
gonore years old twenty years old twenty four years old listen life goes by and he goes by a quick don't waste those years don't waste them live the now i i know i i know that you
don't think you're going to live to be thirty much less forty but you are and you will in the earlier you get in the game and get on track the better life you're going to have
healthier well fear stronger smarter better better ain't here an old man like me then you haven't got on track yet get on track get on it now every one every one listening to this
here's the deal no complacency no complacency no backing off no slack whatsoever it fight that ticking clock with everything you got so like the end of a hard day you can put your
head down with ease satisfied that you given your past i think that's all i got for to night now echo if any one wants to get in the game as far as this potatoes what's the best
way for them did you that well it's as far as this pocasse and as far as they go monticule it help i call it supplemental additions to your life supplement on it doolah jockey ten
per cent off for real supplements teneatis before but i think we should say again that sometimes when you buy some ozone met your gun as say the amadan because i i don't try
oiseau chalk yes gongorism times i don't know how he is now i've been other the suppliant for a while is as far as the taking potentate is in orders as bad so peer yet or just
well just say the general mix of supplements you know power gatherit thousander recovery eh you know exister sometimes i can just be nonsense in there but on it you know going in
i think we all know that it's like it's the legit one the only logic when that i know of for sure the one that i now guaranteed is legit put it that way that i do anyway oh i
would recommend cruell one hundred per cent rowels real tasor your joints i take three five hundred melegrance in the morning and three in the evening all dank six yes tangled
that the airy a dat car that's fun my daughter listened not to the sun and she thinks it's sicarde being oh it doesn't taste like her noellet now is waterless little thank you
anyway that's a cullotte worry bars at the big deal i think oh they're like a then the opposite of a dona in every way except for taste ye the fesandet by the way yet they take a
altheas different than i don't up but just as good if not better might pinion better are of em all i want i called in amelloides together and you interdenominational said but
anyway i and also shrined a lot of pep east you know how people tell say he a lot of people been asking me when you know like brother be not vinnius making like a lot of people
asking me i'm not saying it one that past that does that but i'm just same sometimes you think by her for real a lot of people have been asking me is true decrial istromenti hear
good things all this stuff chutes truebor i am i tried to shriek in ten foot mircath yes because i'm more in the sported riri he usually shorteesche all but ye can just have it
because you just want your general immunity to be solid that's licka good saw that they none unless shriek sport is real and i made this analogy again i think it's worth saying
again or before sileni think you're a mesasthai regardless if we think it's worth it or not as i soisette like i'ave this one works in layman's terms you know when you drive in a
car and it's it's about to read linnell's gonna go into red you're like a rabineau boletin the green and i get to the yellow even the orange when you get in you to read you can't
you can't pull ahead can't pull ahead if you're in the red so what the shootee take the shot deck boom you're going nor in the green you can hit the yellow little bit limit later
than normal you can hit the orange maybe and you the shrieks just going to keep you in the orange on to keep the needle in the orange may be even in the yellow and you can notice
that her that's all work in a etampes an orestean it not come flashed and jacko there you go bull support yourself so pret your wallets support to punish you be good way also if
you shape mazon which we'll do christmas has probably gone at this point but we still need normal stuff tact what pens pens cables ran from meter whatever anyway when you be fore
halation ah you click to our web site which is jocolpus dot com on the side adelite amazon banner he clicked there tom do your shopping he can support that way i used the analogy
of the little sodium peace that when you throw it in the water and makes his big explosion situation that's kind of the the the comparison as far as the porting this pocasse you
got through the amazon banner is like such a small thing so easy donnacona ing but then to a fort that he brings is like a lot you know the broad telling you whither you preciate
that is salesroom support yet the pacas the small gesture goes a long way the astute when you knit up with a bunch of other people that desolate sand cuts we'll kill some one but
to you life lousiness what were the destitute the small click is echoes looking at me like i said something bad none of good all day good alive of the thousand clicks the life of
a thousand quick yet quick on a thing just yet but yet you gonna get some doc tape might not seem like a big deal but if a wench people we got doc tape and they all clicked
through may be turned into a big deal they then we don't have to put advertisements on dear ye which we don't want to do yet ere we could maybe we will jamboreeing it not replied
i don't know so i don't think it's happening caratapona from speaking a ductiles um room the pin state that teeters sara two blades eh sir andyesterday back to them eremosa good
awestruck to them as an be free to the shopping that's a good way to support good way thank you is for that um also subscribed to the porges on i tones or on gulley or on stitcher
it or on was her tone does the big ones ye other stuff ye what other yet in you might need you with every want it's on autharis obvious but that's who it is support and then the
you to his loft you know but some exorter more ex eric that's a right where ratepayer a little bit side not getico wisdom that if you are inclined to share you can share in kind a
being sure that they're the likelihood of the listening to the whole thing is higher than if you just shorthaulers yes cause if you're like hay of you know here is the peers the
good watah college and you want to share this with your friend can they got a son that's going to college or you shot with drink there going to college they're glisten to that we
more likely than listening to the lares of that episode sir and dame yes cause maybe they're going to call it like that day or something you nattore they could listen to while
they re in college with ever but anyway they are just more consumable white yes yes bite size but say like a minuet jovellanos siecles anyway the point there is you too that's a
cool waitest do support and what not oh anyway the end there is a store jocolate it's called jocatore and bears the shirts and what not on there ah there there politishin so i
don't i'm not like one of those people were there like the cold thirt because at the subjective thing so i wettiner invite people to go to cockatoo look at the desert that's it
that's all that's all look at em if you want to buy one if you notice the layers of the layers are rash aetites deviate layer is no erected in the roiling lays that were one if
they are as the name with you and you are compelled to get a shirt support the pokes represent the layers in your part of the world if you are a cadet at west point if you're a
guy with a truck with a bumper sticker on it no matter who you are you choose to onereuse do all that get it yet a sir oostacker get a patch olyhed heras guard a furini you do
have a rash guard and you're doing jogerfy over running cross fit anything with like a lateat get eresburg to be open arty yep your anyway there is also psychological warfare we
went through really the the dewatering of the perkinean the purpose we call it the the the formation the formation the story behind ravioles time basically it jocoseria of those
days where you kinda got it this is my words in my own words jocoseria of the hills dairecaol into doing the work out or not eating you know holding orioles or whatever and yet to
talk your vanleven orio edient whole thing an ye the morning i of weakness yet when you got to talk yourself into it or out of something in all like men a you have to do this work
out don sellie that but that's essentially you know it is you know a jackal's version you go and i tones you purchase either a track nanine or the album like nine bucks i think
something like that heartening ninety nine ye and tis a wake up one you can put on your arm your alarm of in your fault to wake you clear with your wife or whoever you sleep with
governor the whole plan like a drill a collocation really because i'm telling you if if you hear that even if you forgot that you put it on your phone in new year that boat mixed
lamented the feet back asked ben reeked no people that have had trouble waking up they have some wherefore to yell he be that have trouble when they went snap time people have
trouble that then they can't they get say no to the douyou get it get this get the psychological warfare you i talk going on against the donas the psychological warfare will win
eveningtime yell and if you're havin a hard time if you're an art time figuring out which day is work out the interest dick you know when you you're agincourt that in yearthly
artaxata yes that's a good popgood point we dressed kindest today heathery eye if you're a oropian your work out day to the rest day like if you do in those which i esto do this
will help that for sure all that i call all say that franell with one hundred per cent certain tacita it that it all saw now roblem sweet also jackie t it is available it in stock
it will one hundred per cent increase your dead lift by five hundred per cent ah no jackie pomegrante they will make you dead left a lot more ways um in at at a hundred per cent
proven inopina scientific manners ah no just getting it as good and it will make you better i even drink it from a got after it mag a mughal tell you exactly what to do in the
morning and that is get after it and if you like what we dokoun the poncas will your own amazon after you clicked through the jocolpus will it then you get there you pick up at a
copy of the book called extremes you might like it if you like the pork cask talk about talk about leadership and talk about war to let everything also once again extreme
eldership muster zero zero to may fourth and fifth at the marryattae in new york city come to it you will dig it the first one we had people had no idea what we were going to do
they had no idea we even put up a barely put up an agenda people came anyways we delivered we adhered awesome time the the testimonials are cool to you can know one you took you
can look for it this time or i not so such a mystery he know what you're going to be on of it echoes makin some videos question wallis that you talk mutescant like this when you
will have like a schedule warbooths a little bit more but just people been people just wondered what we were going to be doing there right and you know we day kind o just took it
in faith that we are going to that they knew one thing that we are going to do there and that was get after it and we did and so you know we're going to do to gain in the like i
said i think i said this last time eismann videos in one the ideas come out and kinda show what's going on to go to sell out i cause the theft from the first one is awesome and
it's goin to sell quickly so i get there now and do you take it now said that you can come you can hang out with a bunch of og leader siosteen agers lips ebners present is just
everybody and everybody is in the game course lay in iron to be there will be right in the mix with you acolyte j p s goin to be there getting after a will as de discounted
tickets if you landforce men fire fighters course military if you have questioned about that or if you have like a corporate you got to bring ten people twelve people twenty
people from your company that's fine we can get you a discount as well contact the email muster at askalon front do com or hens go to the website tree moorshed occom look forward
to seeing you would tear and furthermore if you like anginoid with us here on the pot cast and you want to keep hang you around with us a little bit you're in luck cause we are in
a round on the interpolator and on instrumentoon to be inside thatchpate booky bolt on a be there with you my friend so echo is at echoed charles and i am at jackwell ing in
finely thank ye for all the questions and the feed back and the down loads and the support and to the military personal stay on your game and be aggressive to the bats that you
for your service to the police and fire fighters thank it you guise and gulls for keeping us safe almoran and the rest of you fighters grinders troopers leaders keep us keep
grinding let there be no complacency and let their beef no slack let there only be getting after it so until next time this is echo and jack out
