this is jacopo cast number fifty six with a hotels in me jacolliot get evening ah good evening silence screams and broken dreams attics junk is pushers and fiends crowded spaces
and sad faces never look back as the police chases consumed slowly by co of victim of the streets hungry for knowledge but afraid to eat a life of destruction it seems no one
cares a man child alone with burdens to bear trap in a life of crime and hate it seems the ghetto will be my fate if i had just one wish it would surely be that god would send
angels to set me free free from the madness of a city running wild free from the life of a get o child and that is a poem written by a young dandre makola a criminal drug dealer
who when he wrote that pot palm was doing time after being one of the main subjects in a book called the corner which is written by david simon and edward burns which documents
the violent drug trade in baltimore maryland and that sort of more in to an aged fo series that was called the corner as well which paved the way for another series which is
called the wire which is just an outstanding many serious that came out on each bo but the wire is as fictional even though based on kind of the the same situation in baltimore
but the corners real the book the corners reon agin a very clear and a very grim view at the life of drugs and crime in the inner city namely embalmer and i'm going to go back to
the book now we can't stop it not with all the lawyers guns and money in this world not with gilt or morality or righteous indignation not with crime some its or task forces or
committees not with policy decisions made in places that can't be seen from the lost corner of fat and more no lasting victory in the war on drugs can be bought by doubling the
number of beacons or tripling the number of prison beds no peace can come from king pin statues and savolio atlas and warnt less searches and whatever the hotel is about to be
tossed in a neck next year's crime bill down on fifth street they know to day as on every other day bishop will be opened by mid morning and the touts will be on the corners
chirping out product names as if the stuff is street legal the runners will bring a little more of the package down in the fiends will cue up to be served a line of gaunt passive
suppliant stretching down the alley in a round the block the corner is rooted in human desire code and certain and immediate and the hard truth is that all the landforce in the
world can't mess with desire down at the feet aroand every corner like it and baltimore the dealers and fiends have won because they are legion they've won because the state of
maryland in the federal government have imprisoned thousands in arrested tens of thousands and put may be a hundred thousand on parole and probation rolls and still it is in close
to enough by raw demographic the men and women of the corners can claim victory in baltimore alone a city of fewer than seven hundred thousand souls were some of the highest
recorded rates of intervenes drug use in the nation they are fifty perhaps sixty thousand strong three of them available for every prison bed in the entire state of maryland the
slingers are manning more than a hundred open air corner serving up the product as fast as they can get it off the south bound natural lighter and the fines are chasing down that
blast twenty four seven in neighborhoods with where no other wealth exists they have constructed in economic engine so powerful that they readily sacrifice every thing to it and
make no mistake that engine is humming no slacking profit margins now recessions no bad quarterly reports no lay offs now naturalized unemployment rate git it straight they're not
just out certosini shoot drugs in drug market insides across the nation lives without any obvious justification are given definition through a simple self sustaining capitalism
the corner has a place for them every last soul cow runners look outs mules stick up boys stathers and forcers seems born artist police niches all necessary in the world of the
corner each is to be used abused and ultimately devoured with unfailing precision it's about the fiends thousands of them who want that good dope they need it the way other souls
need to breathe air it's about the slingers the young trees working the packages all of them willing to trade a morality that they've never seen or felt for a fleeting moment of
material success there working the package with the hidden knowledge that they will fall that with rare exception the money won't last and the ride will be over in six months or
four or three violent violence is no longer the prerogative of the professional but a function of impulse and emotion the contract killers and the well planned assassinations of
earlier eras are mere myth on these corners now the moment a truth generally comes down to some man child with her feelings waving of three eighty a thirty eight round spring
bullets up and down the block the accidental shooting of by standards is now common place even fifteen year old hoppers have loaded thirty eight sidenote alley the job is little
better than a death wish and in the end the corner best serves the hard cork the hard corn the junkyard dogs with neither the time nor the inclination for pity the corner proves
itself every day it destroys whatever it touches in eventually the corner destroyed beyondre makola even though he received the second chance in his life and he actually got to
play a small roll in that series that came out on h bothaire he got some other jobs in the engine entertainment industry as well but the corner called them back in that guy the
andrews that poem he ended up dead of a heroine overdot thousand twelve at the age of thirty five no there's a reason in bringing all this up and that is because we have a guest
to night a guest that is actually more responsible for this podcast than any one and we'll get to that later but his name is peter a team and he grew up a boxer men a long
distance an durn athlete god is degree and medical engineering and applied mathematics and then got his doctrine as an end from stamford and did his residency in surgery and the
reason that i started off this hole talk about the corner is because he did that resiny at a place called job john hopkins hospital which is about three miles from the actual
corner a fat morose the war on a pictured in the book the place where deandreis macalive and were violence was and in many ways still is just a part of life and peter was at
ground zero in the war zone and saw more darkness and suffering probably than any person should have to and let in a lot from it and we're going to get to that in a bit but first
of all peter a tea welcomed the show that over having me sir glad to have you on finland you drew up we'll get we'll get right into it you grew up tells little bit about just
growing up you grew up in candidatin i know you've covered if it will you he hadn't listened to the temper is interview with you listen to him what is it free of him yet i think i
saw him pistreen listen those and get more details on you know peter is whole background but for those they are just listen right now you drop in canada gaslit le little little
statement about that yet i grew up in toronto a you know immigrant parents so grew up you sort of in the wonderful lower middle class ah not the best suburb of toronto rough like
new york has five borrows four of them are nice nor them is not the gripin the one that's not so nice um and ah meaning it's just a dumnation ike a warson anything amand i have
lived now in the united states for about half my life so i high school and college was in canada and then everything from med school beyond his benner and i am now a duel said
sinapati that turns his work as you can you you obviously yet applied mathematics degree and then you worked in the civilian world a little while with that degree right it so ah
my plan was always to do a phanariote engineering i and so i that's why i did the mechanical engineering and applied math that did the two things for undergrad goddet and then was
sort of just in them almost about radio go and start that phanerothaenai had a just a complete change of heart and decided i want go into medicine and so that so what i did to do
for a year then was yet to take this thing called the m cat which of course i didn't have any of the courses to take it so i had to sort of teach myself the chemistry and biology
that summer took the cat athanasians that's what i do in the summer time is all fellah myself ill chemistry biology i i didn't i didn't do that well and then a man i had foulet's
called the post back here where are you go back in you are in the process of applying to medical school without actually having the courses to get in so if you get in its
conditional and and so that year because i'd already graduated i just hot calculous um so i you know was like a in a junk lecturer at the university and to calculus which i i
always enjoyed in cause i taught for a couple of years before and so into that all your waiting agin into medschool applying and then and getting my courses like i forget when i
had on a biology and psychology biochemistry at to take a few prerequisites to get it because in engineering in math i'd never give taken a single court in fact the day before i
took the empathic this is only going to be funny for geehee by ologies so alliteration a genteel be made he unsteadying for the uncatis summer that that i'm supposed to detest him
the whole time i'm studying i'm like you know i can't believe how sappeth se text books are they keep confusing my osses and my toes like what can't they do spell it the same way
both times like they i didn't realize that it was to separate things right my o sees is when i sell settler operates and litsen replicated diana my house ceases when it creates an
equal copy and i literally not until the day before the uncattled that those are two separate things in that holocaust not was going into this is yet in a long you reason i need
out consoling one of my daughters study for their fire ology of the anybody who took any by alehouse should know that an i hadn't taken any said as the metal yeah you go there
what's that four years another four years ago a and then you get on with that and now sumter residency so you do you get to pick where you're going to go not to a sort of so it's
a funny system called the match system so when you are in your your beginning your forth your medical school but that point you have to figure out what you want to do do you want
to be that surgendo want to be an interest you want to be a pedition radiologist whatever you want to do cause all of those have different programs and then you have to apply to
those programs so let's say you wanted to do orthopedic surgery you would send out triplication to all the orthopedic programs in the country hopefully you get interviews to a
good number of a megotherium and then you would submit to a match system a rank order of the place as you'd want to go and you don't put something on there that you don't want to
take so if you if you interview if you applied to thirty programs you got interviewed at fifteen and you like ten you rank those ten in order similarly the programs after they
interview everybody do the same exercise in they do the rag and then a computer match as you one to one who that actually presque a wedding yes to you the only way you're going to
guarantee you know where you're going is rank one program and hope you get it so ah in my case i for i think i rank five programs um and i ranked um john hopkins first for surgery
not because i wanted to live in baltimore though i may my sitting it is a blessing to do so but you know because at the time i don't know that this is true to day but at the time
of this probably the best general sure returning program in the country and that was a combination of two things one as you had these can of legendary surgeons there that had
pioneered some of the most complicated what a caliphate biliary surgeries surgeons leonore ry of the pancreas and the livers of like that but at the same time as you allude to was
in a war zone and so the other aspect of training to be a good surgeon is having great exposure to penetrating trauma so trauma you always wanted to identitate trating blunt drama
is not often operative so people that could hit by cars and things like that you know and i being more orthopedic but if you are general urgent and you be doable to cut open the
chest to the abdomen and things like that it's penetrating croma it's it's you want knife and gun fight um not that you want i said that's that's the training ground to the
unzoned sort of baltimore would have been you know probably in the top five what you was this two thousand to thousand one yet two thousand okarian when you were home were it was
that thing that slipped arkesilaos little but what was the thing a transition in your mind where you all of a sudden one de mattison well yes for an ever talked about this
publicly im so where i was in engineering school a ah in my second year i started doing some volunteer work um and i the de reason why is too complicated but that sorted venturing
with a some kids that were in an pinaster that had been abused so as it is a home for sexual abuse kids and that got me interested in sort of volunteering in a hospital so i was
volunteering at a hospital that am had you know it was a patrick dug answered ward till you had just sort of yell you drop there and you'd kind o hang out with kids and just play
with them and stuff like that and so between that experience and then i was still doing his volunteer work with these kids who had been sexually buslaef those kids were suicidal
so ill so far myself at the hospital allowed with these kids after they etempted to kill themselves and i think somewhere in my senior year of engineering i kind of had this you
know i i don't know what the word is made i don't think it's an esential crisis as much as may be a nervous break down but just a bunch of things were kind of going on probably
some undiagnosed sohari issues on my part but i realized like me i will love engineering and math intellectually but i busno emotional connection outside of the joy of solving a
problem which by the way is probably plenty enough but i wondered if there was something else that i'd be more interested in that could scratch to itches right it could seratte
intellectual ithout also may be an emotional edge and so i spend the majority of my senior year thinking about was the something else i ought to do em but i've been successful in
in my undergrad so it was sort of a given that you know if you're going to graduate at the top of your class you are going to go off and do the best phedro gram so at the very end
when i sort of declined to do that and i turned down a bunch of scholarships imisee a little odd too that i would go and do medicine but but that's really the reason it was you
know i kind of this tiffany i had one day actually while i was in my hospital was shed his actions really forty we just moved as we talking about earlier and you want to the
thing's moving is great for his cleaning up stuff and actually found my essay that i wrote when i plied to medical school back in the not whatever ninety five or many sixth and ah
he was really she aboard the story has it exactly condatier ed it right which was like this moment i had this sort of insight of this we want to do so um till that's that's kind
of the the the the series of events that led me to have that seemingly orthogonal change in direction an okay so now ye go through that you end up you you get your vicente do our
recent year john john often you show up there what what's that like well i remember when i i interviewed a hopkins for medical school as well amanitas luckenough to get in there
for medical school and at the time i think hopkins was technically the best medical school in the country i think it was harbored and hopkins were the best too and stanford was
you know may be third fourth fifth but i remember and i interview there for medical school at the end of the interview like i had to spend the night there and so they put us up in
the dorms for the medsuns which great idea you could to meet er up or classmates and i remember i said that that friday night said he i'm going to go walk down to the harbor it's
like a mile and a half down the rudder like on the now you can't do that thisbe he said you you you you can't walk outside of the hospital and the may point it out that on every
corner there was like a booth with an armed guard there's a guard in full armour with an automatic weapon and so i remember the time thinking he aharona don't want to go here for
mid schools in a course stanford sort of for god who never been to california and who lived in miserable cold weather as whole life i was like it could have been the hundred
trinketer this school i was till going there yet the i have some actual states that i pulled up so war one in nineteen ninety three there was forty eight murders freehanded
thousand people that is what seven hundred thousand and in the city the next tissot thousand fifteen fifty five and in nineteen ninety three again there was three hundred fifty
three home asides homicides de almost one a day and so you know i have to put this in their just you know for his reciting your colmenar on so when i was in remodification and six
the one one eight you which is the the ready first proud you know five thousand six hundred soldiers wall we were there with them for six months day lost sixty one got so he what
i'm saying is now that doesn't count the enemy gasett it counts the friendly gates that are showing up at our mad setter right so there you know you're talking three or four
hundred will you do said one a day you thought wonota okay so um see you knew how that i was when you got wiederholen was dangerous but but i think when i decided that you know
for this that season of my life you got to sacrifice everything and you have to go to the place he you're going to be the best training and i didn't want to leave california
because you know for years in california for the first time was you know when you know you has no itelmen was like i don't ever want to leave this place but i'll send you i just
couldn't get that level of training on the west coast and it was you know you basuto go to a place like hopkins bergham and weapons in boston may be wash you in saint louis was
can offer very similar environment um so then you know so that i and up ranking at first they ran me first so away we go we got lucky at a match made and have been in that lionorr
of your senior year and then reality sits in which is you got sort of four months until you have to show up and that was kind of like the o ship moment right like the i really
just signed up for this um and a good friend of mine who was two years ahead of me in medical school name is brian donne's now i patrick head and neck at your nose in throat
surgeon at chopin philadelphia he was at hopkins which was at the time the best ernesto program in the country and he actually recommend it i read this book a corner because and
brian's want these guys whose just you know he's just he's like a runnison you know like not only the great surge and he's like a gifted artist lyndaine job is medical
illustration like you can't he leave what this guy can do but he intersected fright and he was he said luck you know you're you're goin to sign up to be in this warison and you're
going to be taking care of people that it's going to be very easy to despise so he said you need to read this book to gamaesein ah because very iguassu know so as at the time i
can remember the state a filelike at the time that i was there we average about sixteen penetrating dramas a day not a put that in perspective in general surrey on call every
second to every fourth night so average about every third i mean every third night a hundred and twenty times a year you will spend the night in the hospital not sleeping waiting
to take care of any tramutationi so every third day and night you know sixteen of these people are getting shot and staff you're going to have a lot of time in the ear in the
promoted aling with that and it's really easy to get jaded really quickly it's fun for the first month and then all of a sudden every time somebody gets shot its preventing you
from sleeping which when we're sitting here all well rested sounds like a very callous thing to say but all the sudden your sort of like damned man i i can't eat because the
trabahar just went off again to the day i still eat shockingly fast and a drives my wife not but she doesn't derstand im i said i think it's just on a victim of you never know
when you are going to have due stop what you're doing in that might be your last meal even i shaved quickly because the worst thing that could happen as you a shaving cream all
over in the trompeter golovin you got to run down half shaved you you one side your beer damnession so it's stupid things like that so as that was brides recomendation so i got
the book immediately devoured it found it to be the most depressing thing i had ever read in red and heavy um made more depressing by the fact that they pulled no punches no names
are changed so every person you read about you were reading about it in a completely unsentenced unfiltered way and i mean you you read it you not there on happy about this book
like you just finish it and you think yes you have more empathy and you understand where where the spokes are going to coming from but it's like i don't there's it all you finish
that bugle at here's the solution we need a six point plane it's going to do excellent psychicked of wide red that one acerca win which is an awful fault and at what that's the
impression of ocaywita win it and i i that the the wave phrases it of being like it doesn't matter how many police and whatever you do you're you're going against human desire all
the the staff that you reiterated and i remember it very well from what i read this book the first time was you couldn't take every junk and put them away if you took every
federal and state prison bed in maryland you'd have three people for it if you just looked at the users never mind the guns the money and everything that comes with it so yet
that's not a solution now there's a second reason that i don't think bryan knew cause i don't think anybody knew that that book really hit home which um was it it it's it's
persons ten gentle to the story but it becomes highly related and at the beginning of a end of my third year a medical school i am going to the gym one day ridin my bike because
always do i get up get to the gym i got off my bike on a lock it up and i was like a back really hurts like really hurt not like oh it's a little stiff like something feels
horrible so i started walking down the steps the generals like not got happen to day like combetition i couldn't do any i couldn't time my shoot so i just went back out of my bike
road rode back to my apartment told my roommate i was like him adam gerald it lay down up stairs the next one and walk up i couldn't get out of bed and to make a very long story
short over the next two weeks i completely deteriorated um you know i was at the point where i could get in and go to the hospital but i had to like have the nurses this back in
the wild west days where you could just sort of get in then you needed at the farm ay you know i'd get nurses or residence to inject toward all into me which is a really strong
inset i could only sleep if i laid in an ell shape over the nurses station am and ijit wasn't getting a better in the one day it pain changed immediately i realized him retrospect
what happened a herniae disk had fragment had broken off so the pain in my back dissipated but now i had this what turned out to be for enamorada sitting on my son nerve root so
now i felt like my left foot was being skinned from the bar as that was constant so that was an unrelenting pain then it could only be sort of brought under control if i could put
my foot into a bag of ice as i could make my foot go numb and then i could take some panmedicon so this and from other week and in the den of the medical school sammy limping the
hospital was wrong and i told them and he dragged me down to the year we got a mare to show all of this and i was in surgery the next morning ah this is a sunday night monday
mornin in the ear it turned into a disaster the guy who opened it on the operate on the wrong side so i woke up the left issue was still present but now i had what's called a foot
drop on the right sat so foot drop is wind the nerve that whole year foot up which we take for granted when we walk but if you kit don't have the ability to what's called dorsy
flags of your foot would not you can't walk you and a dragon you to and you keep tripping this torii mean we could spend three hours on the story to it so idiotic that the
poncelin is i eventually needed many trips back to the operating room this guy refused to believe there is anything wrong when he took another amazing doctor in her alois to
actually intervene on my behalf and three months later i unable to walk a moneylending my mom actually at the flight down from toronto to look after me am and i'm sort of you know
you go through the the check list rights of so there's i've'eard of elizabeth the cobler ross i don't think she's alive any more but she wrote a very famous book on the stages of
dying and it goes through like anger and denial and finally acceptance in the unright and so it you bargaining like incoming that would make sense if you and endure you i i
areotha reared you probably watch it on really small scales tea you know like in combat you might say thingere toga did what with a conception you might see this stretched out
over a year and so i was kind of going through this a myondi were initially it was like oh my god what if i don't finish this rotation undoing right now what's called a surgical
sudden turnham to oh what if i don't graduate on time to what if i can't be a surgeon and then it was what if i don't walk ever again um so somewhere along the way i remember
exactly when probably like a month and a half into this i finally caved in and started taking panmedicon had i i thought that were the story was going home in it some for these
guerilla you and i had been so reluctant to do so initially in so stoic you know just taking my end said and am even using benede which is a horrible pain medication of course but
its sedate you through some of the pain and so i you know i sartain purchased and purchased is um it's typically ten milligrams of oxy coon so oxy coon is the fast acting version
and its stronger than say of vice aviced in his tylenol and hydriote immediate acting but had recotin not as strong as axioms purcas it is stronger than vicatim they both have
tional it's just the opiates stronger and so you know if you take a purpose at which would have five hundred milligrams a tylenol in ten milligrams of oxy coon you know probably
was taking you know it sir take two three four five six of those a day you develop a tolerance and eventually ye eat there's a a longer acting version called oxy content which is
just a time released version of oxy coddom so then you would take that twice a day so at my peak i was probably taken eighty milligrams have oxy content a day plus another hundred
and twenty milligrams of ox to do i just got rid of a pilot all together you can just get straight oxyton and some of a two hundred milligrams a day of oxcoos equivalent and again
if you know if i took that to day i would just die of houston but at the time you you build up this tolerance but it also there was this point where i realized that i wasn't just
taking it for the physical pain right and i think this is the single most important inside i had that when coupled with reading that book six months later was the i think the
single most important realization i ever had with respect to to this problem which was at some point it was i was just so depressed that i couldn't walk and i was so worried that
bertie never build to do anything again that at least the drug gave me a high that took me away from that and so then i got to the point where i was just taking that drug all the
time and i just stopped engaging like wasn't engaged with any one anything um and the nice sort of had this realization that that was happening and i was like i i want to stop so
the time i was dating um the girl she was an annaciois ident she was a few years older than me readjust the coolest coolest person and i said to her she was kind of only one that
knew what was going on because at the time even the doctors who were prescribing this like this just wasn't on people's right or as a problem back then i think to day people would
be like homeboys got two hundred milligrams of oxygated that's probably not good but the time it was just like his like ticktacktwo that was legitimately kilt like if i took two
hundred milligrams with that that would really jack some one of i would think i think if i took two hundred to day i would stop prating ye because that's how oppius kill you they
repress they they inhabit restitude that's what whenever it whenever sonorous on harney jest got breathing ah so ye as they think two hundred would i don't know with have to
identifies a farm and on hiatu hioerdis on on to the grating she she said you can't just stop right you the withdrawal is so painful that you have to take off you have do probably
go on macedon and then you'd have to start some pretty potent anti depresses uhlik mealies or tseste go on a drug like nor trip till ten which is an an oisein of a crazy thing
that was like yea by think i'm just goin to stop cold turkey now unlike alcohol so if you took an alcoholic you know you take some of whose drinking twenty alcohol you know alcove
average is a day and the been doing it forever and you stopped them they will die they will get something called delirium tremens and they will die a horrible cardiac tef they
will break into a rhythmatic die so when we had alcoholic in the hospital less say we had to operate on somebody who happened to be alcoholic we latest put them on in tonal i v i
werever to detach some if we do one metre they didn't die and go into these delirations but but heroine and opiate is not like that it is not physiologically lethal to stop cold
turkey it's just unbearableness like i'm in a doit so against her better judgment i just stopped one day and she could not have been more right yet was the darkest i mean i laugh
about it now was the darkest month of my life a month all at least i mean it was i would just sit on a park bench for the whole afternoon like complete flat affex but it's all
mental is not a physical thing now there's physical stuff going on i mean but but now it's it's yeah you're you know you you sort of like you know copious make you itch like crazy
you get constipated to there's like a reversal of a whole bunch of physical sefat the biggest thing is the craving and the depression um and so the depression of coming off this
thing was brutal um in many ways and i don't tell that story to say well look at house special i am that i detach that's not a point at all that i had two things going for me that
virtually no junky has going forth aright the first is i didn't have a network of people around me that were doing the same thing so i was sort of the only guy doing it so for me
to go and be a round my friends was to be run people who weren't doing this we always used to joke that if you really want to kick a heroine habit you had to get a whole bunch of
new friends like you you don't get to decide your not doing her one and then go back and hang with your friends that are doing here when you they need to watch train spotting to
learn that the second thing a perhaps more born thing is i finally did connect with a doctor who was able to put me on the right path so i i i had ended up going back to the
operating room probably a you half a dozen times or with a course of the year to have they all these problems corrected and then i found something else to fix it on which is
physical therapy so i started to you know even though it didn't seem like exercise it wouldn't seem like exercise that at the time it was the first activity i was able to do and
so you know within six months i could like walk like a reasonable distance again and tsitue in three hours a day physical therapy just doing like the most trivial exercises but
basically the rude cause of my depression was getting better said that's really the only reason i think i was able to kinotah off his stuff here i think for many people a it's not
clear with the rue causes or be it not getting better if it is clear and so that's why i think it's really it's a it's a brutal addiction and it seems like also year you had all
of future frayed a life you are a medical school your gonnaerea i i think my lot of these people that are drug at its well what are they they have no life of a looking forward to
his looking forward to a laland so in febuary of that senior year where i had to submit my rank list i think we match in march and miss pokerly i was still not functional
perfectly like there was no way in february of two thousand one that i could have withstood a cortical residency but i had to make a decision at that point which was will i be
ready on july first and if i won't be i should not submit my rank i should defer a year said outa your medical school whatever and i remember that was the hardest as a itoma and i
just gambled i was like you know what i'm going to be ready and i on to make it happen to matter what and so i submitted matched and then in addition to now reading the corner to
prepare for baltimore and reflecting on my own sort of struggle with a diction which was completely fresh in my mind i also like re having like it my day job and going through
like as an i most people take the last quarter of men school off but i didn't have the ability to do that now because i did do go straight through till graduation day because i'd
missed so much time during my injury um so when i showed up in baltimore a couple of days before july first i mean it still wasn't crystal clear to me that i could go you know two
days without sleeping stand in an oar for eight hours at a time all those sorts of things and now as on a senotes deposition as people always albius le i take a lot of slack and
he on that in sleep a lot and and the sleep taperton should that be what that like when you're going to regency and you're decaying you meet there's days where you're going twenty
four or forty at hours no sleep and have that effect you what did you think of that and you think looking back at it what's your opinion of it now will you know when i decided
that there was going on the surgery i mean i i always am i pretty in secure in general must plottery appreciate that on the outside but always thinking i ruffian i takes your
howard figured out and and so my my whole ammo and life is test the system hard so when i was in medical school still deciding this i figured well every thursday night i'm an
opponent er in my room standing up not allow myself to eat sleep drink p do anything and i stand at my desk for pay hours and practice suturing you know sir tritonic what it would
be like to be an operating room all night not be able to go he not be able to drink that be only the thing and so i had a little bit of confidence you know i figure out that i can
do this like i can pull it on tighter once a week that you know not that i a good thing to do but it was like kind of a confidence that we so then you show up but there's no
preparing for what you're in store for him now it i got a point out this is not the way it is any more so in two thousand i say like four um othello laws came and igzactly they a
whole bunch laws came in that we could spend hours talking about how the turns out the laws heaven even fixed the underlying reprove but never less a hope unhook requirement hours
stuff got fixed right so you couldn't work more than eighty hours in a week or eighty eight depending on if your program hadn't exemption and you couldn't work more than twenty
four hours consecutively and stuff like that but by the time those laws really kicked in i was already gone and and so i don't really know what it's like to day but i would
imagine it um it's less demanding from a sleep departin standpoint but at the time there were no such rules and you are at the sort every second every third rib before night call
but then your post called her you would still work so are mutual friend kirk parsley to purses how we met this is one of his favorite stories about me as he loved this story cause
it's so crazy so this is july of two thousand one so i am one month into being a dock right and among an every third night call rotation at this hospital called bayou which is
about five miles from what we call the mother ship which is hopkins and its out in like east bolt martinof real crappy carton not that there's a real even i hate saying is that in
their out that many good parts of town at least back then in baltimore um and ah so i a sly show up on a monday at five o'clock in the morning so i bite slept in my own bed sunday
night so midmorning i shall bet five to round we do our whole thing and that night i'm supposed to go home so that's my off case called your swing day you show up at five you'll
be home by seven p m that night fall goes well do you work your you know fourteen hours and you sleep in your own bed and then you get to come back the next day and then you're
going to be on a call so the so were rounding an afternoon so and the ah want the the one of the senior residence has hay so and so didn't show up for their shift in the ear that
the year always staffs one surgical resident full time and this guy just didn't show up and she is like and it's a seven p m to seven a m ship can you cover it and you know this
would be like if you asked the most junior guy you know to do something like he he he be kickin his own ass to say yes but he couldn't wait to do that right sounds like hell yes i
will do that so then i go down to the ear and i work all night seven deseen and in the next morning is now my own call day so now i'm seven a m cranking away until that night and
then i'm up all night on call so and then it's now wensday and it's my post called day and i'm there till five or six p m so i basically been up from about four a m monday and
it's now five or six p m when as day and i get in my car to drive home and i have to make it i have to go down this miserable street called eastern avenue to hit the eighty three
to drive up to my place and i'm i'm driving along eastern avenue which is like red light after red light after red light or stop sign or whatever and every time and that a stop
light i fall asleep my foot pots off the catch and i stall alike i am so tired i can't even you know handle like the gradual you know easygo the clutchin the gas just to move up
enough it up i can't do it so finally in one moment of lucid clarity i like you can't get on the freeway you're going to die so is like what's the solution of like you got to get
over and take in that so i pull over my car on the side of eastern avenue right the front of this park called patterson park which at the time i don't think i fully understood
that that was an open air drugged traffic marks i got a etherealest resort the watching to do what a benison stayed in the car and take in that but i was like heaven seen the
sunlight and like days in its the son is still out like i'm going to go nap in the park so i get out of the park i magree scrubs that are covered in you know blood stains cause i
was too dumb to not change i go lay down in the park i take my page or off and i clip it to my neck and i set the alarm through let go off in one hour as it like seven p m it'll
wake me up and i'll feel perfectly rested ill able to drive home so i lay down and middle a patterson park and the next thing i know i wake up it's like one in the morning in in
the morning there is needles everywhere there is i have like a bite on my arm that looked like their from racks cause there like nothing of ever seen before like these bites all
over me and i'm just thinking myself like i i no generation thing that prevent me from dying was how ridiculous the sight was there you know if something so strange like not
enough so as i got to it man so i get back in my car and drove home and when i fell farceur he loves it cause he's like that's the class he example of how complete approbation of
sleep in paris your judgment um so you know there couple stories in residence who are i had to do like those three night back to back to back another time it happened i remember
was in o fifield like be okay a driving a car kind of boring right stop lights but when you're really tired but they almost suntilia as i boom i feel like when that happens i do
like an walk on but it is almost no amount of sleep deprivation at will stop me from functioning again something down that important on to ask on time absolutely that true des
that i make a lie no think i think in adrenalin rush in the moment and it provide any amount of clarity and focus it necessary the problem is very facings are life or death that
way now in your world the re plenty of things but if i wold not missus exercises going to tell was in a pretty my third year i think is my third year am i was the same same sure
the all i ended covering for somebody and then covering for two people and two consecutive nights and then it was my turn and it was like three straight nights of not sleeping and
at the middle of the night and this guy comes in the ear whose you know got a really diseased gall bladder and in retrospect i should have never come out that night but i want a
time the dirty little secret his surgeon's want to operate at night because they can get better of our time electively as opposed to waiting the next day if it's not a merchant so
sure enough were in the mill of the operating room doing a life risk opic gal water removal at two in the morning when we don't really need to be there too in the morning we could
have slept and done at the next day um and sure enough so so in lacedemon the gall bitters a two surgeon procedure so there's the main surgeon which because we're teaching of b in
the main sergeant i machado in the operation and initiate ding whose holding the camera and retracting for me so i'm you know like in doing this and ye that's a stimulating
activity but of course i've done a hundred of em so it's not that stimulating we can't stay awake and i finally somehow manage to follow sleep on this patiently i faced plant in
tooth wait will what will a life his gotteridealen te the surgical but so even something as stimulating as surgery castalio if the guard was bleeding rare i'm right derisive but
in anger dutiful in heligoland i got better no big find ye ye it wasn't stimulating and nough to overcome three days it sleep at did you do do you figure out any trick and you
know for instance i can t i won't when i was going through sultrey my whole career an even to this day i take these i take little power out of fine feeling that tired i elevate my
seat and i sleep for like six to eight minutes and i totally recharges me did you do take power not natalie for your power to have you have you hardly oanaanites you kill the foot
do i want to a power not in my car again same thing i was like it's like eight o'clock at night i got to the pool i had a rule which was after you left the hospital you never went
home because i knew if i went home i wasn't going to leave so i would always go from the hospital to the game or the pool or whatever i was doing and a mister ticlar night i get
there it's eight o'clock at night i am so tired i'm noses like the father you didn't want to go home just because you knew you'd go and homely he i fillemonte less because you en
wait for three days winona was my esoragoto fall well because i you know it's really funny a good friend of mine who gain a couple of years ahead of me gave me interesting advice
whether it was right a wrong i don't know he said look you are going to be tired no matter what in residency don't stop doing all the other things in your life because you'll
still be tired now i don't know what it was the right advice but i took it i tharafter view was i'm gonna continue to work out every day i'm not on call i'm gonna you know do all
the stuff i want to do and unfortunately sleep always took the brunt of it so yes so it would be to the pool and so sane thing i got there but in his particular i i was so tired i
was so nauseous like that couldn't suppress the desire to vomit to a like i'm not going to i can't a pokin the pool to kick me out i won't get the irises not got a worth it so as
like just sit here for like thirty minutes and take a quick nap to sing thing took the page at which normally could wake me clipped it here and it was freezing because it was like
the winter so i left no it wasn't cold but i remember when leave the radio on i like a dumb ass so the car is off so alternators off radios on what you know how the story ends a
wake up at two in the morning batteries dead an in the middle of parking lot i can't young had the com my girl friends get jump or cables to get me out that's a one that girl
friend went on to become my wife be im so short answer now i didn't have a great strategi did have a friend who and i never tried this but he call me he would put coffee grounds
in his eyelids ratherly at her of so much they have in closer eyes an you know it said i mean i would not that but i've told people at all times to you now do do a little bit of
his glencorse if you should be tired that definitely pitch you back out he there's got to be some reality or some scientific reason for that happening that's another thing you can
do but am i you were a saka we know it so you're not free being and your deal with these patients in an house start to detach from this reality that around you sir you're not
getting the oosed already like to come the emotional involvement with people but then at the same time you said it didn't take long before you despise these patients that are
coming in because they are interrupting her sleep and bother and you that's got to be a oazy balance to try and strike as a human being i mean human beings are not meant to be
dealing with sixteen puncture wounds a day that's that's not right so what what happens in your brain what happened in your mind what did you notice about your mentality in this
whole business as time went on well what i noticed so again not everybody becomes jaded but most people do and where were my sensated developed was actually towards you know the
patience of die of bees the patient who had complications from being over wegeli when those people would show up with you know the absess their pot in the middle the night that
needed to be debree those people i would get again pretty pista amazingly the that what we go these these ramapos like again always maintained a soft spot on my heart for them and
interestingly you know it's it's it's e it once they die in seshat happens is let let's say guy comes in has been shot um you know generally people who were dead in the field
don't make it in so so but but sometimes there's this grayson were you know some one comes in whose basic ly dead but because they had a little bit of a pull on the way in the
door like we're going to do everything we can but i thanatos patients die like the room has to be turned over really quickly which means some one's got a come in take a body put
it in a body bag gather everything because usually these are criminal destination to the police are there the housekeeping sagastao in and moale blood off the floor because
depending on where the gun shot wound was like genteeman for example tuns of blood um because he had a confined space um and in that moment it's really easy to just immediately
walk out the door but i find myself you know i i sometimes like flip through their wallets right and ye know in very loud see something like you see a picture of a little kid so
you you see this guy whose huge who's just been killed he's probably twenty five and you'd see like the six year old girl in his wallet and you eat you start a sort of wonder what
the narrative is right like was that his daughter probably did he know her probably did she know him may be not like you just don't know and all of a sudden at that that is obsess
a sort of humanizes these these guys and and again i think because of my own understanding of what they were dealing with cause of those sixteen penetrating chromes fifteen had to
be drugging when one way or another um and so everybody who were taken care of for the most part was some part of the cycle that's being described in the corner now casionally it
wouldn't be i mean that one of these amplest out that was i would say sir like the top five saddest things i ever saw in residence was july first two thousand two i just happened
remember that day and this girl on her sixteenth birthday came in and she was just she was just hit by a stray bullet in her neighbourhood was for sixteen fourthday stray bullet
from you know unrelated gang violence hitherin the head and yet she is an example of some one who came in basically dead but in situations like that like yielding relate to his
udendo something that so beyond heroic you want to do anything and everything to try to save her and of course we couldn't so you those examples were kind of rare but the majority
of the times it's you know executions for people who so money um that's those those i'd be hard to see right because you could these are you know this is like this a deadly gay go
on even the even the girl of a sixteen year old girl she's part of cyclopean that's a strabones in a nate she's in a lousy neighborhood you can almost guarantee that you know is
to see live in in where she's living to get hit by a stray bullet like you know yes she wasn't living in you know rollina in when once you did you would you seen family would then
you family ever come in yes there's too tight a things going on right so so the the biggest problem we would have would be real gang on gang stuff because if he came sort of a
feet forward loriot of one guy came in and he was killed you immediately knew the floodgates were going to open because there's going to be retaliation that night i ton't remember
that the police were pretty good about trying to make sure that like when someone came in and who was killed like a view wornted ate family you were not allowed there um and they
also tried to crea little bit of a delay in letting out information out again maybe that wasn't the the the the most considerate thing to do but their view was trying to let the
violence dissipate um the other family steps hard or in the hardest family or action i read was with it was with a action drama and it wasn't involving drugs at all right this was
a this was ah am a boy he was fifteen years old he and his brother his older brother whose probably eighteen had picked him up after school they were driving home and they were
they had the right away and a guy ran a red light and the bone them on the passenger side and this the fifteen year old boy both of them came in a separate dramas but the older
boy came in as an adult drama so he went to the adelaide i happened to be on patrick surgery like i was the senior resident petrissage that one i ran the pater drama which is
where the fifteen year old came in and he turned out the older the driving sun miss finding on his body but this cake came in basically dead on arrival though it wasn't clear why
but his pupils were blown um you know a little bit of a palleted you know probert minutes of everything imaginable before accepting the reality that he cheered his aorta so if at
the high enough force can elsie the aorta in a dicacitas bleed to death inside the wall of the aorta and that's why he died and there was another dabler body just sort of scatters
after that but you know his mom is in a waiting room wondering where her boys are who you know could have been an offender bendorf all she knows so though those were i mean
unquestionably the most difficult discussions ever because traumas that a one area where there's complete surprise like in naitroit when somebody dies from cancer it's even tragic
when somebody dies during an elective surgical operation which happens unfortunately confundite but at least there you have some heads up that something dangerous is going on but
this kid like you know said good bye was mamadee went to school and never came back and now she hears o is in a car accident she's in the hospital never imagining that he could be
dead and then you have to be the guy to go in and say you know i really started tell you this patusan is dead you know there's all really interesting article written in the new
york times on this exact topic um by a hothouse story so my mentor in medical school to this day one of the closest meant was of ever had to the gavotte rosen perk so tearoses the
chief of surgery at the national cancer institute and he's kind one of the luminaries in amenotaph so i did my post okwatho at the unindicated time there in medical school and
actually he just called me estate blue weaving a great catch up for thirty minutes his daughter his three dars his youngest daughter's name rosenberg whose ah a resident at n a
contenir gency room dock at pen which is also in a warson in philly and she rode a great piece on this i would ribecourt wink to in the notes or something um trobble thelast three
months about the difficulty of having to communicate to families when tragedies like this happened which of course you stohl see a lot of as well and phillyria so you do
everything you can to save this dislike and then you walk in you face the mother you drop the most devastating possible imaginable news on her head of actor i mean right i mean
don't you then have to it isn't don't even matoor again now ye that that night in particular that was you that was that was am i i remember the day pretty well i was april of two
thousand three um when that boy died and am but the time you by the time we had declared time of death and i had gone to talk to his mamma as probably like ten o'clock at night
you know horsemen an hour with her and of course it's disruptive because you're in her your pages going off i got the ear calling me about this kit in a pet the ice you calm about
this and you know um and she is you know i mean like i ad i i i sure hope i never have to know what she went through because i can't can't really imagine right i mean she's
hysterical i don't love that you just like a movie desend justice to that like you don't see that level of hysteria normally um and i that will that was certainly like one of
connoetre or four that really upset me the mother to me i i had a real hard time get a thing i got lucky that night i think that at night in that obe in a pretty calm night i
remember i got to probably spend some time just a lone in the call room that evening you know and and for me that was to the thistedal thing here as we tend to project what's
going on in our own life and to any situation i mean i i think i realized that prettier and so i think in the case of that particular tamai saw in that boy my brother my younger
brother and so i so i was dealing with two things in that moment one was a mime for my own and not not not the immediate issue which is the boy died one is i'm imagining now like
this could bide in my brother in high school like this this could have been us and how how your life changes after that i guy thought his brother's life is never going to be the
same um the second was this was all ready after i had decided to leave medicinale um which was in june of two thousand six amisia was like ahpilus thousand six i have decided in
march of that year that i was just going to finish that year and then leave so so the other thing that was sort of that i was struggling with which probably makes us a little
heavier than it needed to be was as painful as this is it's a privilege to be this person it's a privilege to be the guy who gets to try to save a life and even when you fail that
interaction you're going to have with that family which i think is something mailleroncourt in that peace it's so important it seems trivial to us because you have that
interaction over an over an overagainst to that family it so important that will be with him for ever and i think i felt that i felt that that was a privilege i think i realized
like i'll never do this again i'll never again have that privilege to even if i failed to do try to onoway somebody to actually then be able to in comfort that family and an
anatomy weird and it's a very morose sort of thought to have but all of those things i think in that particular example um you know made for a really difficult a set of you know
days and weeks had fall i went to his funeral first patient i ever went to a funeral of a first tramite certinly went to the funeral ipation you got to know through you know the
people were dying of cancer and stuff that you know traumatic like euston think to go to someone sooner all that you'd never known as like it i'd never known it boy right am i
stayed in touch with his mom for a few years and not surprise on either life just completely fell apart you know visit is it make it the that much war sistat you got this dejecto
the the kind the coal kid right who dies this random accident and then at the same time every night your you've got people that are killing each other and your detour seeing a
result of that and you can't do anything about it how does it it is that also play into your your fought about hay i'm here trying to save these people's lives and there how there
killing each other for over nothing over the street corner over this over that did you go down that road mentally not there i'll tell you the one time i felt really ethically
maybe ethically too strong a word but just to be blind i mean the one time i was really pissed off that i was trying to save somebody's life was a guy that came in who killed his
wife killed his daughter and then put the gun in his under his chin and pulled the trigger and missed so he basically blew off the side of his face and was still alive his brain
was completely intact as guy was going to survive after twenty three you know face operations and you know i'm taking care of this guy in the eye he you and i'm kind o pissed off
about it actually right and and maybe i shouldn't be right whom i to judge this guy but i like you know you killed your wife you killed your kid and you wanted to die why the hell
of my putting anything into you now course that is a slippery slope because in medicine were never supposed to play that role right where never we never play god people yet some
doctors want to act like their playing god be we never play god were just here to do a job and on that day i membered thing i i want to do this job i don't want it i don't want to
take care of this gay why i want to get a die actually have how do they have they addressed that with your own a medical school that whole idea by god or covered on to ours at
just the so under a line that the underline seam of everything you do that by the time you get down your it's there onsartain i i don't know her yet the other sick cat at your
classes in medical school that teach you that i am sure there are i the fact that i can't tell you one thing about an epic glass i took tells you it said whatever ethics you have
are going to be independent of whatever class your taking and who knows you know to day you have these pendulum swing from one end to the other for all i know you know at the
curriculum could be ethics to day i i don't know but but the short answer as i think you know it's it's sort of internal and and the reality it is you know if you are in a good
program in the one thing else say i mean as much as hopkins was a brutal place to exist the come rotary there was on the leave able i mean you know the nickname for the residence
was the hall steadines ryehigh again susan do justice to real marines but that was sort of the comradery right it was like you would do anything for your red you don't that's why
you'd always volunteered it say a three nights to help somebody else out and so you know i hadn't really great friends that are infected this day like to my closest friends people
that are in touch with almost every day we were guys i went through that experience with and you could talk about those things with each other right in an you know you it was it
is okay to say like i really wish this motherfucker would die um cause he taking up a bed he's costing the state a million box and i hate him manimal to talk about that i think
makes it a little bit easier ride for it absolutely emanates that what happens in the military the guise to go through tostication tough battles and they abide become closer going
through it and part of the thing of bringing close together or talking about what's going on as it's happening in after happens what did you so a lot of times in it this this pot
cast i say that this pot cast the are we talk about war and we talk about leadership and we talk about history but i find that the actual room of what the pot cast become about
this is really about human nature and what people would human beings are like was their all give you both sides this question did you learn anything about people about human
nature there that was surprisingly positive and before you answered that one did you learn anything about human nature while you were there that was surprisingly negative so as
all give you one thing that i learned that i don't know that i would call positive or negative but it was an observation that in retrospect seems obvious but it never would have i
never would have thought of it before and to this day it still serves me well to understand it so the object the first is a person's ration is that um when you look at a
significant illness like a a a a completely disruptive insult on a cancer you you you pancreatic cancer which is your going to die and you're going to die soon um there are two
types of families that come into that situation so families that show up already fractured get blown apart fractures that fret family that show up already tight become the
tightest of any family the same would be true when you see you know a kid that comes in you know a burned victim right is kid that get burned badly on the fourth of july and the
kids go spend the next two months in the hospital um you know a spy couple that comes in with tension already in their marriage they get splintered wide open if they came in and
everything was fine but going to be there for each other there on a like so to that was an observation i just saw over and over and over again and i sought in probably even more
um vivid color when i was at the niece the two years i was there um you know is mostly doing research but you still had clinical responsibilities and see your basically seeing
patience were coming to receive experimental therapy for cancer to these or patients were all you know otherwise i madie within six months and most of them must all go on to die
obviously the assumsit of them we can help but your seeing that over and over again so that was the first observation then the second was that there were just a couple of
residence who am i couldn't believe how amazing they could be of who hathaway could never sort of do the wrong thing such a the the er two resident in particular one really he was
he he he is name is chrysogone is now a ah he's a transplant her to the university of michigan amazing guy and so chris was two years ahead of me and i mean he was like that guy
that i would have done anything for and i remember when i was leaving thinking to myself you know i'm really glad i'm leaving because if i stayed i know i could never be as good
as chris played that like how can some one be this good and i don't mean like he can so this good and cut it i don't mean even medically document but as a giantly as if human
being he is on a level i can't get and you know i don't know anybody else who can get there either but the fact that i can't get there is a little upsetting to me um and i'm glad
i don't have to spend the rest of my life chasing him which of course chris would never think of it that way cause that's the nature of being that guy as you he's just completely
humble mais on assuming guy who just happens to be a god you know it's a goin back to the first point that you mentioned an it's something that i've heard people talk about as
well my boy talk about is you know the the whole idea of postomani stress and all that in and what war does to people and one thing that i happen to agree with his pretty
somewhere what you're saying that is going into the war right if the person is got a good stable mind set and a good attitude and is a positive person and tegeret of it with all
those good pose things amplified there going to be more positive they're going to be stronger there on to be mentally tougher it's the people that go into it that are already
somehow fractured those fracture should they get worse through the trauma of combat again on this is a broad generalization and there's definitely great guise that sea things or
do things that they that it errors and it takes a while to get through it but there is also some gugugu don't back i was messed up when we showed up and now he's worse in it and
it's that pressure that opens up those fractures or even wider it's interesting that you got to you saw that with family structures as well and i could completely see how that
appetite happens right that happens in it unintimate that happen i mean you get the financial drama in a family if they're not tight it'll that'll make him blow up you know where
as if they're tight you don't go in though some financial problems they'll get tighter doll buckle down don't save money together they'll skip the movies i'll start you know
though enjoy cook in roman nedles together so that charlatan kin expose those fractures as this important to try him coat the most solid foundation you can with your family and
with your own mind so that when these traumas it you don't get fractious do the seals screen for that they try to but am you'll like the story so we had to take a psychological
screamin the night he so it wasn't likely resurfaced otaheitean i'm going in at wells going through blue camp they gave us a psychological screening for for our attempt to go to
to see train and so they asked a bunch of questions in it was complete descendance cousins and so it would it was really obvious what wouldn't what would flag you and for an and
so i made every answer a cause we altinum in the produced so every answer that i gave her all about food so for instance they they say complete dissentanea hate when my mother
write sir increase to see says i hate when my mother shuns me in front of my sister's now in a note on enough to her all i answered for like you i hate when my mother over cooked
the stake and doesn't put in a paper on the nones or every answer i gave was about food but but it was really easy my points i was really an if you were not a complete even if you
were as you intact if you were a psychopath you had very easily say answer all the questions correctly and get through in their company guys that made it through seal training
that you know this asterabad criminals there's a there's been a a couple really heinous crimes committed by guys that were seal and just us they made it through they got screamed
so yea they that a screening but i wouldn't say it's the most effect of five gotten better now you know in some of those guys that committed horrible crimes you know kind of
inspired the seal teams to step up that screen processes much as possible to make sure that were not let the guys through that or better deranged some way that are going to do
something horrible like that um you can hear etal about these but is there any other thing that that you are about yourself in that situation and and you i didn't really know too
much about the ah were you in afterwards at the nahif you want to go into that a little bit but what did you have but yourself through this whole process obviously you learn
something because it some point you sided you know what i don't want to i don't want to do this ye i mean that those are those are some of the most interesting years of my life
and i am pretty glad that i didn't have my first kid till i was thirty five which on the one hand you you sort of think well cat i'm so old you know like i am not going to be i'm
not going to be like the fifty year old grandfather right um but on the other hand has a really good thing because a man think about what was going on in my mind to late twenties
you know the the sort of really difficult decisions i had to make a leaving medicine after being in it for ten years was a really difficult decision especially to go and do
something that had nothing to do with medicine i mean when i left i joined the consulting firm begins he in company and i did credit risk modelling like i didn't have a thing the
fact that i was a doctor was like a light of billy it is no like it was like starting all over again in life um so to get to that point yet you i had to go through a whole bunch
of stuff so i think i minotte opener to begin an i didn't want thing i learned was so this fellow that i loaded to earlier steve rosenberg who as i can to this day probably the
one of the most important men towards in my life outside of family members am just an amazing human being writ so just contain another level and i remember even asking him after
being in his lab for two years because i ree had a couple of people in the lab who i just didn't think were that good it really bugged me there existence bothered and i i finally
after being a law for two years work up the courage to ask him like how he cause he's like this guy who's going to win a nobel prize like he's changing the game and yet we have
couple people that i can of thought were bottomed features it was like you never get upset at them like ever i never seen you get upset at he's neale how any decent you know peter
i just look at everybody and i figure out at least one thing that they can do well and i just figure out a way to impower them to do that one thing even if they can't do the ten
things that i would expect you to do i remember thinking i understand in theory what your saying i can't do that i can't tolerate mediocrity so that was a huge thing that i
learned em and it never really hit home again until i was running a non profit because there wasn't a lie mediocrity at hopkins right and you sort of had your pick of the best
read and there everybody there was the best it was they did you had amazing nurses amazing residence or remaining respiratory therapist and placed an rybody there was like the
best of their field right and then i go to mekinese same thing you kin got the best of the best all over again but you know fast forward five years an now running a non profit
will all of a sudden you don't get the best of the best any more ye your drawing from like the third pool and i remember coming back to that which is you know what your probably
not cut out to do this you you have two choices don't be a leader just be your own dude or be a leader but only with a players but this notion of like you have the capacity to men
toward the sea players and may be turnament to abe plus player like i don't have those cans and him do it and annoy that lie i will destroy the sea player at and i don't mean to
but i will bury them in the ground and and become a horrible human to them so i also realize like i can be a really bad person um if i don't be don't respect the work but some
one's willing to do so do did you or do you ever have to find a counter to that cause i have your in the military and you and i work in together out like a bear it you gotta get
you got to get you got him act like rosewater roamed you have an act like him began the military you're not getting a player to mean you got to break eyes of inoson padget some
great guys that are stude got them okay guys that are in the middle you got to lose your down with the bottom guess what you need every sing one of them go on the angara they all
got to give you what you everything may can and the more you create conflict with them in the more you are talking down to him the less there gonnaerea as a sea level player a
delible playing on yet they're going down there you're not to make it any better so that's a did you ever try and correct that or do you just go through and say you know what
you've realized that that like a weak it i wonder and i want to be clear there are two attributes that you can be a sea player in and i can cope with one but i can't cope with the
other and i accept it fully i can cope with some one who has a sea plus intellect so so if eating by the intellect as the sea pie you a computer whom i don't need everybody to
have the fast aseep i accept the fact that like we all have different sort of innate capacities to to to sort of process and do and you know we all move at different speed i can
cope with very ability there where i cannot cope with very ability when he came just chosen i don't want to is i can't cope with very ability on intent work attic integrity like
when you aren't you can't be an a player there actually don't want you in my life any more and i think i'm old enough now that i'm just a fit you know i'm not going to feel with
it any more life is too short but i'm not going to deal with sea players who who fail on those metrical here how smart you are but if you can't show up and work your ass off it
you can't be honest if you can't care if you can't want to get better i actually don't want you in my life so you're right i probably that think i i'm promott out to be a leader
because i can't take those people who are failing on those metrics and work with them will you just need to be a leader of a very high performing he not of a regular frateretto
never had problems right so when i was a resident you know residence is very higher article you know you've got the mentule the sub ithin urn the second year resident the senior
resident the chief resident a fellow the attending i mean it's it's it's as clear as day whose in charge any moment in time and as i'm going up through those ranks protest pardon
never really had difficulty we now with the teams unanalytical i'd be luxery being at hockey and moon a ribotte's the best hebetude though the best the resin of the best machine
same thing in your dealing with the best to the best but yet running and non profit it was like totally different world to me and so i think the difference is a great leader could
have succeeded in any environment you know they could have done be could a figured out like okay the reason this purse on like acts like a lazy sacred shit is actually because of
this and you can like figure out a way till like touch them and help them out of that and i was just like them at the so that was so that's that's going back to an i hand you out
a first time you dealt with people you not the first time i sort of seen in a long term working environment like a couple o people who weren't tapageuse and against may be part of
its cause you regover ment at that point and you get some staff people there may be who you know and my parenting was just because derosier besuch eumen guy and he could get the
best out of everybody that he might have to adagiato tolerance for that night a second thing i learned was i would never be a world class scientist so we now go to naaey only
going for one reason i mean i'm sure there's some people that go there just to check the box and say i was at the anita wasn't why i went i went because the rosenberg was my hero
when i was in medical school i read his book captano cell and i was like that book just of that book along with another book by going richard fine men called shirley your joking
mister finement became kindat of the most important books you know i read during you know my twenties um and actually wouldn't date somebody i wouldn't date a girl until she
rather i'm in no cowering into a after after the pock as you and i do in a full flinchings that it aherne help faresoul what's this i went to and i ibecause i was like look this
you n'aurais my god and my radiant to be like that right i want to be the best surgeon scientist that ever lived and when i got there i realized but surgery in science couldn't be
more different surgery is the ultimate immediate gratification like surgery you get to fix the problem in hours science is a lifetime of work a lifetime of failure before
successes in fact one of the most remarkable stories from rosenberg's book which of course i read while in medical school but it wasn't until a decade later when i'm living at
that i really understood why he was great and why i couldn't be great was for when he arrived at an in nineteen seventy four until he really had his first success was about ten
years so for ten years everything he was trying was failing and every patient died every single person that showed up died until this one woman in nineteen eighty four when
finally they figured out how to do something called interlockin two and they finally sort of cracked the first piece of what is turned into a very long code that thirty years
later were just starting to make really amazing traction on now think about that first second forty three years ago he started that job for ten straight ears he just lost like the
going got patetica every day for ten years and lose every day so what i realized was actually i don't have that intestinal fortitude i cannot fail that frequently and still be at
my best the next day and i ganimed many nights a times off with some like i am to i suck and i guess i suck but like i realised like i could be good meaning i could go after
easier problems to solve where you can like you know get grand and you know just playtime and that's frankly what most people do in this pace but if you want a like change the
game if you want to change mankind if you want to do something seminal you have to be willing to fail for ever and i realised like i don't find that obstinate i'm addicted to the
wind it's not like oh i have to be told a good boy good boy good boy but i need some wind i need to know that i have some control over my faith whereas in surgery you had some
control over your fate you know there is a difference between the in good surgeon being a bad surgeon and it notithe is not an tuming a good scientist at a great time i put in
science you are far less in control of what's going on then in serenity must a had to sunion term is an hypothesis that he absolutely all he theonoe that he laid it out he said
there are four things that have to be true if we are going to ever figure out a way to get the aunecester to fight cancer these four things happen be true and if they're not true
the immune the human man system will never be able to fightinger then it took ten years just to figure out the first proof of concept in a human so yes they had a couple of
successes in mice where they had demonstrated okay like at least in micocoules but in cancer biology you know you don't get terribly excited about doing stuff in my for very long
now as a really famous italian a hecate by how dis who wants famously said if you can't hear canter in a mouse you need a new profession aetat that pretty loving and for it you
you got to be able to do it and people so old at it was while you were there that you decide you aren't didn't want to go into medicine any more than i was and i do yet
complicated right said then eternity still i was still in the only residence so what i told that i went back to hopkins to finish my surgical training but then i decided you know
what i think i might actually go into cardiac surgery which i've always been interested in so i was a medical school i was really torn between cancer surgery and caricuri and um
you know to go into cantering the real focus is goin to be on research but you want to i know you have to be involved in science as in surgery were as i thought him carnier you
know it's just pretty much the coolest surgery like a themosticles demanding surgery by far am i shouldn't say by farm i think the other things that are partly on particilarly but
i was like i also came back into mine said of you know what i'm just going to become like a great technician right i just and i loved uprightmen the heart is in one sense the
simplest organ in the body like a really simple to understand what doing in like the brain of the liver where it's just like ten layers of complexity had a no what's going on with
the heart and when it comes to operating on it you know it's all a mechanical problem like you know all this boldest work of this pipe doesn't work on this in his merum but that
was sort of my concession of well you know what you don't have to be the best surgeon sinsis woman you just be the best surgeon um because there you're more in control martha's
now just function of how hard and you want to work umanitarians triperie on my ally answered then how to that path then drifted you don't want to do any this any more you know i
think over the next couple of years i mean just a couple of things changed in one was in no i wasn't getting frustrated with these patients that were talking about earlier wasn't
the tramontane were gettin me there something else that was getting home that was much more frustrating which was the entire system it seemed like everything he did was this last
ditch effort to put incredible resources into a person's life at the very end and we didn't really move the needle that much and right so it just seemed like a broken system on
the other end of the spectrum there something else that did strike me as broken which actually contrasts or contradicts a little bit of what i said earlier i did feel that there
was a subtle difference in the quality of residence is a ethersey prisoned whose like the best resident that ever lived you know i think i was a good resident i think there were
some of the really resident and put the war others that just you know they were good but they weren't great in the thing about residency that really bugged me and i think
partisans it was watching my brother who was a lawyer so he came out a loss school when i came out of medical school like were the same time and so i sort residency when he starts
this law practice or he joined like this law firm tiremen seeing that it was a totally different world like their promotions seemed more merit bases like they went up the ranks
they got bonuses like all these things happen that were functions my brother was like you know he was like breaking every record at his water right like nobody could work as hard
nobody could fill as many hours in nobody could like crush it like he could and he was being rewarded for it that in their painting it he laughed he's now a public defender hera
his prosecutor so you know takes a huge paeto go and become a prosecutor cause that what he really wanted to do but the point is he could have risen all the way up that track and
i remember thinking of residence in like we all get paid the same we all take the same number of years to get through it seems crazy to me like there's no other system where the
shouts like i can couldn't think of another system where you just had this come plea total lack of meritocracy um it was really hard to get fired from residency like i saw some
real knotheads do some real stupid things i never actually saw anybody get fired which is an say you couldn't treud um but i felt white i was working a lot harder than was
necessary because i just wanted to be better and i thought i still crazy this is going to take this many years to get through so so that and i all theresa whole bunch of things
about the systems structurally that i thought were completely broken and then on the other side i just felt like health care was completely broken as a system it we of this i did
it i don't remember the exact state but you're going to spend like you know fifty sixty per cent of your entire help cure dollars in like the last year or two of your life ensome
thing asinini and ah so the time my wife said to me you know you are clearly upset about this system a i i think you have two choices you should either fix the system or leave it
but i think that what you're doing now which is staying in the system and not changing it will probably not be sustainable and so i think the top is decision i have here made was
it that point because i'm thirty procthor two thirty three i've been vested ten years into this and i'm thinking i want to do over on a complete de over which you know everybody
knows that the sun cost fallacy is called the sun costalis for a reason but it's still a dam compelling reason to keep doing something so so that was like as it was a super
difficult time and you know in part you sort of feel like you're letting your men towards down to a lot of people had invested a lot in me right hopkins had taken me right your is
like one of the six chosen one only take six categorical a year so now you're going to leave that program and there were in no a couple of attending i'd become really close to who
really believed in me and really said like your gunnar going to do something really special and then to say i act i'm in a leaf an magnifico ain't more i'm just going to go in you
so then you rostrate mekenses so i so what i wanted to do an he go back and get an mbaras ah i really want no the other thing i missed a lot in medicine was ah i missed
quantitative stuff like i i missed math in a mist being an engineer and a few times i tried to bring that into medicine i got spanked riso the you know swan story i i think i
talked about this may be on a pot cast before i don't think so though this is a hope my first re second year i'm in the ice you take care of the patient and his patience honor
very very toxic drug called gentonio this is a drug that has to be dosed very carefully so if you give too much of it you can destroy their hearing permanently in destroyer
kidneys permanently if you don't give enough of it the bacteria that you're trying to kill will kill them so your year your you've a very narrow range in which to give the dose so
there is no standard dose it's not like oh just take eight hundred sentinels in the everters now is take it first gas based on the patient's body way so this many milagros
precilla give it to them in teneatur a level and then once the level comes the low a certain point give it again i remember thinking this even makes sense like surely we know
enough about the connecticut of this drug that we could build a mathematical model to predict when to give it so i looked up you know a couple of papers a couple of books one
night on call sereno i find like there's a very predictable alpha and bade decay sile for this drug so i literally in excel i build a model that uses a very simple differential
equations and it needs a few inputs and it will predeceased curve of this and i like aren't let's try it out so take one of my patients going to be gentle my son i do everything
the standard way by plug my numbers into the model to see wood my model had predicted this better and better the answer was unquestionably so now i sertenete confident the idea so
that like the next night i miracul going to start doing the patient based on the model which never puts the patient in jeopardy because you're always come a check the level before
you does but you're goin to do so at the exact right moment and so my model predicted like at four thirty one a m this patient will mater which means that's when you need to dose
them so sure nough at like four in the morning i get the pass and nurse the draw the patient blood to confirm their just about to nat were going to read to seminario so next
morning on round you know and uninterned as a big team i'm presenting the you know this patient is one my patience and i start explaining that of his of the patient receive their
dosage to my it for thirty in the morning in the attention fourthirty my we never do genetor thirty in the morning we do it at seven a m always i like ye ye pat the patient had
their nater at four thirty siocair you know it so we got into the huge fight and like you know i amotape that wantoned by the finally he weesies i mean that behishtan words
rightist me off that like it just struck me as so antinoeus but made my model was it perfect i i'll we never know but the fact that nobody even cared to say is there a better way
to do this that drove me to that ship crazy and nesera of many stories like that that happened through residence where i was like it's almost like we will want to live in the
nineteen fifties here and so so you have that sort of pain of problem solving is not valued at least didn't seem valued to me was valued in the lab but i had decided now not going
to be in the lab so here a line wore problem salinas not valued and i don't actually i'm not quantiny more what i don't do mate any more and i'm really loved math umsi started so
tutoring kids in mass i i i made like a little bit of free time so i could like to or high school kids in calculus just like at my calculating in missing it but it wasn't the same
so so that i was like you know maybe i'll go back again an embasie looked into that didn't feel like i was already drowning in death at that point in time you know you've got
medical dead as sortain and you know residence you're making thingonthetop magmatic four thousand bucks a year or so it's your niven putting it dentine hundred thousand dollar
debt or of thinges so then i remember one night i was in i was on call and i was really pissed to be on call this night this and i oucanasta than all i ergotise i'm sure this
happened to you your whole life but my best friend from high school tells me in february he's getting married that august and on the best man he lives in trap so he's like this
the day of my way out for it to a like august fifth it a saturday want you be vestman completely honoured so i tell my program director in february can i not be on call that day
or the day before i just need to i need to be able to fly out of althorpe and come back on a sunday and he's like a at a napole i remind him three times no pronobis enough cashel
comes out among all satrapial the day of the guys wedding he got a kidding me so it's two o'clock on that morning i am down in the er lookin at it a chest seaton on a guide who
i'm worried as it was called the dissecting a orde and am the radiologist you know i i i introduced myself and she's very nice and she for walks me through the sea teskahe
disarticulates little bitch hes i i usemono to night what's up onias like i am compassed off an then wish i wasn't here bobowa and she's like a i can i can relate i used to be in
a surgical residence he myself now like a really she goes yet i did my entrance up in surrebutters to seattle and i just hated it so much that i left in exlain this company called
me kinsey you know work there for two years the pendeant come back to madison so i but i wanted to do it in the sort of a kinder gentler way so's ye back your doing radio ologies
like oh well what's this mekinese i never heard of it and so she told me all about it and i was like uthaton interesting how do i apply you know and that was sort of the beginning
of it so she introduced me to some folks and you know that i had to like study all over again because day the way the interview with these consulting firms is very specific and
it's not you you can be this mart as due in the world if you show up and you have in thought through how to solve a case exile what are called these case interviews your girandola
so you have to actually put in some legwork and and study so all got a bunch of books on case interviews in a beat sit in the drama a waiting for bodies to come in and be like
reading my cases you know case at her view things before so that that's a statesers ition an inyak you walk or what you walk away from medicine now go into sedongchen specific
consulting so i look intruded to do that because machineman sure this is true of like band and besiege which are kind o th other two really big um man apenas sting firms ah they
were crew about a third of their consultants who out of sort of what we call non typical or eight typical rather hum background so people who aphis or dads or mis but who didn't
go to business school and in so they send you off to do business school that summer they do this in colmina bea which was i mean it was like being a kidney store again cause i got
to go spend a whole summer in school again learning finance like learning all would these things that you know for some people might seem in oderit when you are like just dying to
get back into numbers as i my god like you i remember the first time we learned what was called the efficient frontier which is basically the differential equation that described
you know investment philosophy i was like like i can't believe i'm doing this again i can't believe it so sad that it we show for orientation i'm in san francisco at this time as
illinoisan ye back to california so i was like you know san francisco place so during the first a during during orientation weak i was approached by one of the staff was there and
they said he you know that your background looks like you've done a lot of mathematics i said yet he said well you know we know your physician in your probably here to work on a
otel the medical teams are going to try grab you to have you work on some biotech thing or whatever but um we have this um banking issue that is is very important desmoulins and
it requires you know an ability to do sticatoly would would you be up for doing that in it was like course and so then you know that was basically the beginning and i never really
stopped doing that stuff so so that i inducting most called credit rickmore ing which then which started out outrun the thing called the bolt a cord which was that type of ah this
was a regulation that came out in the mid to thousands that required banks to hold a certain around gone of madmen against unexpected losing have a long history of knowing how to
hold capital for expected losses but they don't really know what to do for unexpected losses had in peticular the problem that was damning was something called asevalado elations
so um if you're a bank you you could have twenty seven lines of business you do first mortgage sacondaga otto student credit card like you name it and the problem is nobody really
understood how those assets correlated to if your loss rate is act in this what's the probability that it implacata in that so where that where the rememhered is if i can't make
my house payment in probably not making my carpomitra tranta's what nobody got to realize everything were down ohayo that turned into as we were in the midst of that boat because
the banks you to lever himself so much that they could be well in in in the market crashed they weren't ready for they could handle it you know it's such an immense like literally
one of my favorite topics actually which i am sure your listeners don't i get bored to tears on it but the first all the best movie of all the movies that have like tried to
explain what's going on the big short by far does the best job because it actually explains the the sequence of events that when that the took this from being just an isolated
problem to a systemic probe must be both miss the subtlety of how this thing ceased to be contained as you know cause technically a housing crisis shouldn't have effected the
global economy so it was these instruments called cedes that effectively allowed this problem to become enormous but at the time the bigger issue was you know just a great example
of humorous that exists everywhere side which is one we don't like looking at data the contradict or point of view and were all guilty but i'm guilty of this i find myself doing
it and i actually am now quite amused him so attuned to an now that i'm quite amused like a enfin through twitter i'll see a story that is completely against how i feel and i
don't want to read it and then like the next one of the like exactly hifeli wanda read it and i'm like this iquitos did man you've got a stop hold back go assume you are wrong and
keep going and try to figure out if i but so so at the at the banking level i mean and we you know the the canary in the coalmine here while there were many but in two thousand
early two thousand six to thousa men two thousand six we had when you were trying to disease value correlations one of the biggest problems we had is we couldn't we only had ten
years of data the banks only had this data recorded for ten years we didn't have losses to model i remember saying to like you know the controller at this bank in like a man like
it going to be really hard to build you a model of losses when the unhabitual losses and he was a lillyard's mortgage i can't lose money rak'sotha was and we can laugh at that now
but at the time that was like not an unreasonable point of view i like vipan lose money on a first mortgage think about it you have the twenty per cent down you want to buy a home
for a hundred grand fetterchain twenty you'd better be the document you have a job you'd better do this you better do that you hear that so you know the banks only on the hook for
eighty on a home miss benegas appraised for a hundred and you've shown documentation so you are at least going to pay that thing down to seventy such the worst case said ariosto
by ten per cent houses worth ninety you lose your job guess who still gets paid the barbantis get their seventy sure if you're in the business a great in a second war gage you
take a little bit more risk but there is no reason you should be losing money on first mortgages and so you fast forward a year well especially because don't worry about the value
the house because that's going to call a cetegos there were near the girl oh while that's where i remember even when i was in baltimore one of my buddies because you know the
residents were always looking for a way to make a buckhead right when you're making thirty four c a year or you got it you come up with the only saving grace as you can't spend
money by you your clothes as before you're in scrubs all the time you're kind of eating for free of all the time cause you i eat off the patience trays whatever that in fine i
like god a nurse his stars you erred all this craft so i didn't actually spend much money um pens was like the only thing i wasted money on like i collect mamontov her residence i
would still buy these beautiful tints so am so yet i remember one of my buddying like dude with assabinus in baltimore because like there's so cheap and you can get them with no
money down so you could buy a house for two hundred thousand bucks put like five thousand dollars down if that house goes up petoen you just made twenty five catmint pay on your
five what going home wayand no one does the man of what if it goes down to one ninety you just lost everytings luckily i didn't get in on those sweet heart deal although you know
you time the right the lucky did make a lot of money on those deals before the shoe fell so when when this wine when things started to become clear so in early in early o seven it
became clear sub prime mortgages were going to be a problem by august of o seven a a very famous then famous analysts meredith whitney i believe is her name i think he's an open
heimer called something that the time seemed crazy she said city group is going to cut its dividend next month so for city grow you know he one of the large banks in the country
can not pay a dividend for tuthree seemed impossible but she done the ass he's like yet is no way they're got they're getting crushed on these mortgage back securities and ever on
his like shouldn't've talked about sure enough huricanes along city cut its dividend chuck prince the sea o but city gets fired and at that point it's like god day and napatan
everybody was still thinking this is just a sub prime problem is an inwite and yet a mile deep but it's an anti well in the background we are working on another problem which is
prime mortgages that which everybody thinks is totally fine that which has a historical default ratio of less than half a per cent on and were seeing in the data the data that was
right in front of his bank the whole time oh there's a there's a son amy coming your default rights going to hit four five per cent which emitation like a lot that's ten times
your default rate it's goin to be actually higher than that as we learned a indur loss given a default is going up much higher so loss is tactually the dot product of probability
of default and lost given to fault kay you guys are my only two customers probability you default is fifty per cent probably you to fall ten per cent if you default you will lose
a hundred thousand so it's pen for centimes a hundred thousand i expect to lose ten thousand on you if you default its two thousand so fifty per cent times two thousand a thousand
of my total expected losses eleven thousand so visis yet i you do this eighty eight million times for every account you have and the model to predict probability to falloon of
altar in normous models that each have fifty variables in them i see the pet as the algid dozen but what people didn't realize is the lost given to false were sky rocketing it was
like in fact i get at the level of just being kind of a mass idiot like that to me was so amazing to watch right it was like holy shit who watched these el gds go they're just
like blowing up a chicagoan then you knew once the pet triggered meaning was the probability of defaulted out it was it was it between the coming on linear catastrophe and it
turned out so november fifteen thursday to ember fifteen two thousand seven was kind of the day like that was the matrix moment so i had a team great example i was able to be a
leader for once because i do amazing team at a team in san francisco of four people i detain in india of four guise we were round the clock sixteen hours a day every day and i
except sundays we took off and we would pass the model back and forth the each other mazini thet was like wisits pure blessed to be working that hard on this problem and on that
day we basically came up with four independent models that all predicted how bad this thing was going to be and we presented it to the leadership of this bank and its really funny
i was a manager so i so it makeniss like analysissies manager junior partner partner director for a meeting of that stature meaning your talking to the entirely dishpute bank to
the senior partner would only be the one to protect i be in the corner or in the power pointing a question if piped up because there's going to be technical question but the
senior partner would do all the talking but on that day we go into the meeting in the inorganic is peter you should presentashens i'm like the third most junior guy in the room
here and he said ye two reasons one you're the only one who actually understand how all of these models were and in this is the funniest thing you said he goes to gossip all of
your experience with cancer pace you are good to me very good at answering hard questions olthat things happening while as a coquet so i stepped in and i did my best to be
empathetic and non judge men tall and like just as evidence fact based as i could and this is what this as in this with it when you look at the run right model in the pedicas this
in the alida's this and the vintage model says this and you know her and so finally like their present the bank says how much money are we going to lose like she was kind of like
you know like all good leaders she's just like just a tommetto answer first so i said i do think i might feet like pretty quickly about a way to put it in terms so i said you're
going to lose more money in the next eighteen months than you made in the last ten years and i tejocotes to that question how much money arowes would have been all that
inattention me on twenties have the best answer like all his conrectorate pichenette with youse ollie the bank tahagoos money really all loretto serenely a start with your
eveillera iliad by two was teeaitches to you don't ethenwald otiosis absimilem to fathom a years later because i had by dispoint left mekinese in close touch with that team and i
reached back out to a that senior partner who um actorines with he untraveled haman remember all those models yeaning close and he goes all a non demoteles under estimated by a
heranika seemed a weak cattying to to the adlon because they kept giving as his answers and we were like yeah if you're as no way in any this bad noiberlin oh look make his
sosomenes in look though the simony know in the end it was like no it was actually dated brutal serving i remember i saw you tell a story one time it's on it's on you to somewhere
but you're talking about patient you are working on you kanoldt this earlier you know either pre die manticor die of vedic and your sitting there going you've got to be getting me
because the day before you try to save some one life that was you know a young kid and that was sort of it with that the first time that he started thinking about new trition as a
tenon and earlier talked about he we do all the stuff at the end of life it's all as preventatives soon from actually dying but if we would have invested some of that money a
front capible at it eat we've been better off his absorber from a more not at all i mean i never made that connection at that time right so at that time it was just what you
describe it was just the vicoletti of i'm so angry at you how can you not take care of yourself how can you be sitting here so fat so diabetic you know over and over again you
come in here to dade these all cors de breeded have these things amputated and you know how the stories going to go like just get it together so so this was maud say those words
mean at's how i'm feeling around and so that that's just part of like the the the colones that developed towards that subset of patient it wasn't until probably two thousand nine
ah some you know out of medicine now but i was become an overweight and i was pre diabetic wasn't diabetes pedivere an i was you know that i was sort of come full sorori that i
was like watermaid everything right i mean i'm swimming four hours a day i'm following that god damfool pyramid to the core and i don't need saturated fat i like you know i i care
blowed like a band sheet like why am i why is all this stuff happening to me and so so then when i you know went through my whole discovery process of figuring matali was only
then that i really thought back and reflected upon you know the horrible way i had treated not just that patient particular but but obviously many other patients like her i
remember her case pacifically because it was probably like the absolute a low point of my existence in so it may unfortunately it took me sort of failing on my own because at
least is then i could say this isn't a will power problem is not like you don't care is not like you're not trying your doing what you're told to do and your failing miserably so
either you're an outlier or may be the advices in correct so you're eatin what you're being told to eat your car bloating and your still getting fat enone's i'm your swim on
estolfo the pack as you're doing old to long swims dozens of my sort of swimming which by the way in tilting being basic feel draining the longest you swim is five and a half
nauticals with his cuff sigillato statute miles which is an innate with swim fins answer your other in the end you're up here in the open ocean swimming twelve fifteen eighteen
miles at a time and your training for that working hard and our cotanto eating right because you're not eating saturated fat and yet you're getting fat you're going to the doctor
you get blood test and they say oh yeah by the way you're predition you just say yourself what is going on ye an entripled i was actually more pissed just from the vanity
standpoint at being fat anei wish i get anger and not if i you have a paesano isidora if we could it mean i i mean i wish i could stay like oh it didn't bother me to be fat it did
bother me to be fat in really bought it me to be fat right it bothered me it bother me a lot actually and so much so that i should want to get a gasteria and so i i were you ah
it's like so right now moon seventy five i was like probably two o five for two ten on thin and once again after this poast you and i regnicolaris unrealities i went to a finely
got my doctor to get me a ritual to this guy named ken fujioki whose like a verdomned variation here in san diego so i finally go to sea buoso i'm sitting in a waiting room and a
i sathink i told the story on the time for jest i don't remember telling anything tell it but is he in the in the book it's a italianissimi a no i but the spirit of assuming
nobody was in too are readable multiple that so i'm in the waiting room in profanely waiting to see and the nurse comes out and before you go back to the to the clinic room like
you have to get weight that's just part of the protocol right so like the call my name so i walk up and i get on the scale and the nurse comes out and wave me an it's like you
know whatever to ten and she's like to gradual lay sin to like what those your post surgery right some like no i'm here to be evaluated for surgery she like look at me looks out
of the waiting room where everybody's four hundred pounds and like dozen say a word but the look in her eyes is facially like what the hell of you on with you an you got her you
say you foumbina reasonable idea i polyandrously what a check you reason belies with me an you chickadeedee is not reason why he ate you get done you don't do that surgery
obviously but while he a guid no patience for me but what could you annual the sudden said you selfsealing in the you remembered your a n p class i know said the anatolians
remember clearest day so a september seventh two thousand nine i did a sneak is sorted in like one of these long swims a year you know you do a bunch of short ones a bunch of
turning picotin man of that from a maid of vent this year was i went back to catalina island and i wanted to swim from now la attachable i had previously gone from catalina to la
and um this to swim i added torn labor so about six hours in you know just became unbearable pain um and you don't usually have a head current in the catalina channel so the same
pavereau know this in montrant there the current usually running from point conception on out or i to ustali tle bit of a cross current ran very rare to get anything back a forth
and if anything it's generally a little bit towards the island and when i had swam four years earlier from catalina to lay it took a ten and a half hours but that was only
eighteen months after i learned how to swim i was a much better swimmer in two thousand nine and i was going in the theoretically faster direction to a great example is
expectations can kill you so i mifei miss to be like a nine hour swim back and dreath only thing i'm thinking about which is the worst thing you think about a marathon some in you
should never ever ever think about how long is this going to take cause you just you you sell yourself for is ritely real question has could a great night hours you know i should
be liberationists to make a long foreshore imeeose this is a total disaster senario that the others he esquisita distance you appreciate who stupidity um you never want to look
anywhere when you're swimming except down um it's very demoralizing when you're in the middle i if you're the middle of the channel you don't see land from the water level you
just use of so that's to so the fore you get in a water you tell the crew and every acre chief for a lot of great somers i mean it's the the big crew asked the swimmer what do you
want what information do you want so were starting to so many midnight at point a center i said okay i want to know when there are exactly ten miles to go and exactly four miles
to go where that it was the toll distance of the swim while as a crow flies its twenty one a and if so you don't have a current or in twenty one mile swim now he do of occurring
you're goin to let more than that so to say a guy i want to know when there's ten to go and forward to go why ten to go you're just a little over half way i'd like to just know
that at four a go it's put your head down in some for two hours don't do anything you are there so start the summoning susan september so i forget what time the sun was rising
back then but i knew that i would have ten to go before the sun came up so one other as i knew that once the light was of whom i was going to be inside the tent stretch and a one
of the most amazing things about somanatha middle o shaloot to experience this during training is in the pacific the billionaires odosanta online and so on a clear night which i
was always lucky to have every time i swear out i've done a lot of the channel swim every time i been out there bows been blessed with these clear nights it's so dark because one
you get out of las light under the water so your hand is coming down you are seeing the billions laracor hands when you breathe you were seeing the stars you can't tell the
difference is a so daroca see that if it's in stars and by limitante it's like being in this amazing chamber and so that's the tattered you get for swimming at night which is
otherwise incredibly lonely and then the first thing you notice is the violescent gets harder and hardy deceive which means all the sun's goin to be of an an hour a sun comes up
and now the sun like up there i haven't heard anything and i'm like those guys they forgot to tell me i've got ten to go that's okay probably down to six to go now at swimming in
some of him sowle's in the meien positions as for be like eight thirty in the morning and they're like ten to go i don't like shallow and as at that point i had no clue what the
current was like cause a swimmer can't feel curandiers go only feel relative losty not absolute pilosity so you know that coupled with the torn labrum coupled with like a ending
over fourteen hours of swimming and the very long story because you're cokeson was sessile i remember getting on the boat proime ber will my quite your relator radiant taihei
finally good i i will be a alsover here by omonro so this is a day you know so printingcase hour yes acted the boat and they've got like two burgers and to coax waiting for me and
i mean like i couldn't even as things quicker like the biggest juiciest burgers you ever seen like the coke like the taste it so gerit because you your mouth is so salt lake if
she really wants him sweet and my wife but you know it my wife hates when i tell this story because she denies the chief sat at but she completely set it on she i'm just sitting
there like rain remember this i am signorina burger fat eagle a u s a howl after on my waist and hailing a computist ing burgers drink in my coat and she just looks at me an she
goes an again just in the sweetest way possible she said you you should probably work on being a little less not then in an wowetaraka hind as if it was to just help somebody you
can again a little fat while as fortune hour somatogenic so that was the last time i had a coat a differ baccatum and all i did frankly the time was just say like onestory
experiment love like look at that time i still thought it was just cowries in cowries out it i was really just simple arithmetic and my view was all right i can't do anything more
on the calories outside but only a hundred six eight hours in a week i'm not willing to exercise more than twenty eight of them so calories out i don't get to change that any more
and frankly i didn't really want to change the calories inside cause i hated being hungry every time i tried to eat lest i would just be so hungreth do it myself so like in my
trying new experiment what if it's the type of calary that might matter sugar strikes me as not great for you even though i can't tell you why i'm in a stop having sugar said i
was my first experiment a temper avoine and that led to everything that's come in the time that which obviously ultimate led to be coming back to medicine as well ye and that's
where you're at now and and and by the way m listen to him tim potashes it people listen to to get all that nutritional information the the rest of the story i think it's sense
mittins a tim am a dilapitated crisp cress er um earlier this year talked about one jeminy a little bit i said one a dear have maybe lineage more to prison on that there's an eye
h m c video i did probably like three or four years ago that was like an hour long and if he pretty detailed in it yet i chateauvert that one the yetser good those are good an
again if you had to kind of call people that are going to go less potational them dat video what would you tell him you know what would you tell him to eat over all you know i i
generally don't like talking about nor trition because adonai will answer the questions but i underlies it wide don't like it i don't like talking about this stuff am nepetian is
canvassed science that masquerades as a religion for many people and so i find it difficult to have a discussion about by a chemistry when it so cloaked in emotion religion and
dogma not a santosian have a strong point of view i certainly do it's also an evolving point of view i feel different to day than i felt for five years ago a tillietudlemites ago
and also my life is one big experiment right so you know we were joking for him in here and i've got a gloomy or buried within me at the moment i've got like all these heart
ratlerite things like everything i'm doing actually itsichaiche didn't experiment for i came here to day the same thing and i want to see how much it raised my blood sugar sofa
twenty two e so i ate this product that i've been doing some research on it's called no c and o lino foods and i was introduced to this product i one of my patients who said
happener when you a kick the tires on this alibi it um it's it uses a sugar substitute called aloes and a taste of amazing and apparently like it doesn't raise your bloodier at
all and i was like yeah i'm familiar with aloes a for for those who might not know allows is a sugar tit occurs in nature in very small quantities that looks exactly like the
sugar coldfoot which is fruitage the sweet componitur with one small exception but that one small exception carries with it a very important things one it's not quite a sweetest
for to it about seventy per cent a sweet but by giving up a little bit a teenage a whole bunch of stuff and richer and first of all it's not metabolized by the liver on which is
the real problem for cost to you barely absorb it so ninety nine per cent of it or more or less is excreted by the kidneys and three actually seems to lower blood glucose so this
company no foods is putting this like making stuff out of this but stuff that is like cariline bread and waffles and muffins and stuff so and with malice outmates patients house
and he's foreheaded things which is really a my way of saying he's left the bag open and i'm in hailing them i hadn't he's like a you got o you gotta like tell me if this duflot
so to make lothersdale me into the guide the found of the company and he has sent me a bunch of the stuff to just play with because he knows what i do and so that's one of been
doing so tea i normally don't eat breakfast clo worked out this morning and i before i came here i had a big piece of their toads covered an alman by her and then two of their
huge walls covered with almoner and bananas like a made a big sandwich out of that so the almenar knocking have a huge white semi responds into it's got so much fatepoe if but the
bananas should sky rocket my blood sugar shuein the two pricking waffles aside on my head and the piece a toad so interestingly so that was it nine o'clock but i ate those not
been up since three thirty but i didn't eat anything i worked out from seven to eight so admittedly there's a bit of a glicine so at nine o'clock when i ingested my blood glucose
was sixty five and at its peak which was eleven eighteen a m it was up to ninety and it's now down to eighty three at warree wallful of dun tea i think they would have sent me to
like one forty three huge pieces of bread flashawful banana so anyway i've been doing his experiments all week which is just a great excuse to eat this stuff and i'm cimarosa one
away so okay with all that sad with my advice for what people should eat in an ideal world everybody would have this thing in bedded in the like i do this thing is called a
decoctifies at a continuous glooston er um de typically only used by people the type one diabetes am were now strany people with type to diabetes wear them but am i was really
completely lucky one day sitting on airplane next to a dude who happened to be in the watch as i'm in the watches we got talkin of my watches i find out he's the sea o of the
company that makes this thing the rest is history right i lukoper with the stuff and so because the answer is this right if you were a computer program i would say jocko eat
whatever you want to eat such that your average blood glucose remains below eighty five milligrams prodesset and your standard deviation below ten milligrams prodest so translate
that into english okay so e in whatever way you are genetics and epigenetic permit you to such that your glue coast levels stay low and the very ability stays low and those two
things will insure that your insolent elsa love so what i'm trying to do is optimize for something called insolent a you see or area under the curve and we can't measure that test
clinically one could measure that is put you in a hospital put a central line in your neck and tuneable your blood every thirty minutes over the course of a day where you somehow
act normally and every day so that i have a time aces why access the israelis by time the why excess would be informle and we generate a curve and we calculate the area under that
curve and we want that number to be low with possible so we can't do that outside of the research setting so then the next best thing is keep your average glue coats as well as
possible and a very ability so you could have an average lucos of a hundred with low variability in the action produce that much insolent or you could have glucose of a hundred
with high variability sam average lucos higher very abilities goin to have higher insolent alftings equal so just through empirical testing in myself over the past year and a half
i realized that an average blood glucose and this thing tells me every time i hit click like it is me my last fourteen days i just realize like for my average to be below eighty
five and my standardising be below ten is like super dial in so what you can eat to achieve that varies tremendously by individual um you know there are some people who just
disposed of glucose arabys that blood test were going to do in unextin to be our best to test had measuring that um and so so glucoses odal is is mostly a function of the
insolence and cativissimo cle is where we dispose of the majority of glucose am but it's more little complicated to that right sleep impact that it so sleep deprivation makes us
more insolent resistant though he be experimentally demonstrated even with two weeks of sleep depravations so there's a it's a small but very well controlled experiment that was
done at a resacca price six years ago they took a a very small number subjoineth subjects and for two weeks let them only sleep for hours and night and they did um a very invasive
test all the licinian fun clamp at the beginning and at the end of the experiment and there insensitivity there glucoses osa deteriorated by fifty per cent from a and with no
changing what they were eating so am throughly veriori so that's theoretically the answer on a practical level i would say the answer is this right if it comes in a package your
probably better off not eating it right eh if you are ancestors couldn't have eaten this even two hundred years ago it's probably not wortheton so if you just follow that advice
think about how many things you eliminate from your diet right if you just took package woods away read from your diet at any notice i'm agnostic you want to be a vegan doctor
self out you want to be the paloma of the century go for it i don't get machiocolaions n't care less for i but if you can largely at her those principles your kind of goonabad you
want you you're going to get seventy per cent for the way there you want to get aid ninety hundred percent a way there i will then there is no simple answer now that point you got
a dialing to go full and merging into how do you sweat to your biochemistry how much protein was the timing of the meals when do we fast i mean all of the stuff that ah is is my
world and may be soon to be your world that that m that's the that's the stuff for which you cannot provide you know systemic advised but at that the social love all or at the
just he must face a level yahing about that advice i you don't you only sugar any more you won't eat refine carbohydrates any more you're not going to eat you know process
crayfords any more will you gonna eat the regenerate yo're gonna vegetable as you gnat me you're goin to eat gray you know what kind of grains are you gonna eat well you know your
your gain or you're not going to really eat these sort of refined crappy grains of people that you're going to eat you now you're so you're starches i'm sorry no grave you
starters are probably going to be the fore potatoes and rice so again i i you know i an i just i sort of i think the resonant about the triton any more as i don't find it to be a
intellectually honest discussion any more i find it to be just a discussion of dog rights of our olo car camp your loarca if you're in the you know whatever the vegan candor in
the vigoncia there's that ye can't even have a discussion about this stuff and at a least not with most people the sosonees the pocut cults i know pratolino said raeitas the whole
book really so uncosting fond to read serigo i walk the check that out i call no kanoon with us in such work since were a little over two hours hidetada i said that you're
probably the most responsible individual for this podcast and because you originally froger to send me up to you pocasset tempters with satted upon cast with your roan which was
just all awesome than both those guys told me i should do my own poncaser anyone that's listened his poast say thanks to peter for that i subathoo think her right bedatanka the
man ethen mean kirk is one to tell you but kerone of those guys were like he doesn't have to justify an ask right so when he introduced me to you he didn't have to explain he was
just like i want to be jackadandy friend like that's good enough and so in a to me like that's the measure of enlighting od and can i feel that i with all my friends like if tim
introduces me to some is like timanthes me to like a dozen people he doesn't amazing relationship of come out at aright and so you know it you know really it was just very easy
for me to sorata circe's word that like it you of drake's great eyed than that satanika you are going to be great guianensis ly like i could tell him like hay you got him a coco
and and you know to get a quotaveech all day long eout you know he knows that i'm i'm not going to send him somebody that's not it you know get ye really interesting and going to
benefit his listeners not just you know whatever agenda that person might have ye ye no as also the net that really did i mean a way tim the way tim advised the way he was going
to release the pot cast a norrstrom he does nailed it was traitorious the way he understands that stuff and how how helpful it was to you know gettink out there and getting it old
and and all that gettle people on board and then you know that turneth potassic you know he need definitely has promoted the boast and fantastic way along with joe so that both
been awesome but again started with kirk connecting me of you and then you connecting me at ten so i appreciate that and am speaking of this potest my almost silent partner over
here that go charles he somebody wants to support the piast how would you recommend the glad and do that you'll split at question oh oh how d you hear your back originally you
know i don't think we ever really have a diagnosed as there was certainly nothing on that day that i did that day i ride my bike to the to the gym i i you know i think about the
sins of my youth um you know i was really in some marshal arts in addition to boxing and i used to spend a tootie am i was really obsessed with spinning back icannot in off that
could have done it or not i but i used to practise seventy five spending back ecks with each leg every single day for probably about six years seven years um it's possible even
though in theories being back to kept on correctly should really not put any torin the lower back it's much more in your hips and technically the flexibilities in the thracian the
lumber spine but you know god knows me he is wasn't doing this things correctly umi did squat in deadly for really happy growing off i did power lifting and sort of a side port
but that neetly never heard myself doing that miradero for a year and so i always always wonder if that was the most destructive thing i did because um in an eight man boat it's
eight or a emetic right on a new skull your symmetric when you sleep you are not and now i was liking i was a sweeper and so i almost wonder if like that's the most destructive
thing i have red yet and then you'd figure of your america like that your every day life is the semestrial cause he valette bit of over development of it i don't know my habenti
guess i never really know but i take it really sure as he said in fact you no jockeyed this am two weeks ago i created a video in new york with a front of my name jesse swartzman
and ah he's like i call him the siponto movement skylike just like the kinesthetic man and i i wanted to put a video together of how do you train to train how do you prepare your
body the train so basely three sections i am what a what what's the sort of dynamic while this this sortie preparation the static preceedent amic pram it took a state navigates
hours to shoot this video it'll do be edited down into probably three ten minute videos and as soon as her donataire up on you tom and my blog so i'll make sure you've got a cop
awsome it's it's it's i mean jesses just a you know he walks me through the easiest but i get the sense like if i had done that stuff all the way of my life oportere and luckily
knock on wood to this day i mean i never thought i'd be able to squatted left to get after going through that year of my life but amazingly i totally fine and hose the horned is
that popped off the yesias on eleison really big heriton but then a four five centime or fragment broke off and floated down the canal and i was sitting on the nerve root and then
i developed a few other problems after so i developed this thing called he faced arthropod the which resulted in the feeling of having my testicles torn out heronies i not even
joking that's just setoun beer he elliman that somerled recommend me now i oh well that being said yes we can talk aproche endaboth on it of stockregel intery and i'll show him a
autophone the warrior bars it right these these are diantha then he is like all yet like what else is there there's some good so on he has good stuff look brought up this set that
new pre work out one which is good by the way ever report on that so they all come out and then ah the crill comes all you have this is good for this she were talking about it is
the speak table like all the sub it's not allowed it they forcing but were bare chill and the free work up and a three six ambergate is does this in the studis and then of a
constet back to him like a word those guys with all our self elements talking about supplements duckhouse laments right which i've never done and great goes yes we weren't such
nice guys this would be it reduce conversation so the kind of the higher in ether is him saying that he's the one having the duchy conversation but he is the nice guy you get it i
guess so anyway for there actually the second point there is on it is good supplement so if he do talk about a while you're taking on your not at the having a duchy conversation
and this is why i hear joe roatan other day about like how hard ediswan you are a stand of comedian and you tell it okenites flat of the we just got on the oenothera that isn't
aerometer rioters line you know how he may oinamoral man that was that had joking elements but this is true in this part of the bigger point that it making hope so too don't know
i take on the litter and everything i say even though you prematurely way the reason that it's not a duc chicon versation here is the point it is because on its elliman the crill
that stuff is actually good quality it's not like a onmeanin all this stuff it actually helps your performance anyway so in the event of you wanting on it stuff and supporting the
potest while at the same stone supporting yourself got a onest alcove flashed jocote er sent off to seconder amazon clicked through christmas is over but we still need stop dotty
whatever knife such a far oh if you want us support this podcast is custom much sight cockades up come click through the art the amazon banner link before you dear shopping can
support that way for good wittepoort only yea here into camastra so in when you put a little piece of sodium in the water right mix this big commotion so that's what kind o what
the anson click through does it seems like this is a little thing but applied properly in makes a big impact in the pot cow support was in a but you get there verify that doctor i
will have to go in yeomanlike through chicanery tell jack typically doesn't really understand because he doesn't know what sliding does no but in the case umor boat actually let
all have this whole face been a lie or a hoot on shore now and unpreserved actually fairly sure it pretty sure goes a long rennickite anyway be cantered to the pot gaston i too
which seems obvious good typically that the pages was into subscribed to but sometimes you don't sell subscribe if you have not already annuals what potest copley stitcher also in
the game he and i to sea yet kind of unfair that it don't think about that is much you don't you have an i followed kind o forget all this other deer here to help but a hand good
thing your your here on the spot cast oh you do course who working on putting more video on there aside from the whole pot gas so some of those videos and i have gotten like
messages saying like bills shorter clithar helpful they are no o rather lysistrata people latinship that have been submitting to you on twitter yet which exerts yeah are in high
demand out there in the world yea ye ve been following now and in fact i have them all like it's a it's a process but ye were working on that so supreme you too we are working or
that we are to a lecolle tie you to see guys now in our work in a welcome in iis go wallachia you seen a populis one i look at blearily um and anne in the event of wearing like
what like a t shirt or something or hooty jocolate store it's called jocatore de you are also door acted on canetella or watch you at the oganga so you mentioned see now get a
chance subject requirit i like by the way remember you were talking about your into watches ye an i was goin to shyenne your saying but it is your free ciotat is re dexiteron
corporated ah this one back could intentator watch letter actually one of the first pictures of pushed it on twitter with up before the enemy and it was like you know jock was
always like you if worthily which one of that the casa the case ahollerin nineteen eighty or eighty five that watch when i was a kid i like and i would have slid so yet for that
only the coolies had the calculator on a leally if you had a watch you just the regular cassio and the cakitas the calculi had the first iron man did you ye was black with like a
little red trim on it i asked for it for christmas my parents got it from me but i knew where they had presents and so every day after school i would go into their room and i
would take it out of the box and i would i had set the time i would wear it i would just hang out there and then before i go to bed i'd like sneak back put it in a fentolin on
christ is like i'd been wearing a watch for a month or a those your walsall i think he got a gombanion your your yes yes were got on actually i i got a quart of you the againthat
your own brand of watching now we'll see how all that turn out yet i the militia am sir provo this cancelleth pacotto though joltered no watches but if he had a reyes yet it yet
but there are some cushioning i think they're cool displenished o all these things jowls had good written him backwards various layers to the shirts not just like a picture at it
so if you like any of that stuff i'm not even saying go by this stuff from not saying that just go to the jocatore outcome seiyo like it if you like it you want on tiny by one and
that's the porcupines caelestem ich bin doin dere you go patches on there's well rash guards are your note didn't mention it you should have mentioned cousin parent ly it's been
pretty cool out there in a world lateish ical warfare yes faentine at this time but i menonites time and in my redlike and i use it so in a geopsychical water you use it i use it
every day when needed i think you can't use it every day we know you can actually can't i am not conceited can't use it every day but the reason the whole reason that i'll sic
agarwala you say you know who you are oonter not roederer day on far but it there is you know from season to season select you know person you are coming up against moment a weak
yell we have a little messidge you over to homes yet would it catlike coaching on little bit because you sight o pathic come ye asked sievers he cause he's kind of even from i
played one of them or i set in your old daughter the other day he's not that eat some candy or something entierement leaped that one you know the the sack time won't you
supercoolies yes sugar coated lies she was she's pretty pressed but would press me as later in the evening she was kind asaying it ye old and that's wot of to say where you
explain it's like colts jocteleg a to do this oh yes i'll do it or not do it whatever but you explain some some some good stuff like to to remember now but then it sugar coated
lies and that's kind of catchy too so sticks in your mind is so you can buy that an i do yes somewhere else to right dolly you want it and also every one had asked for an alarm
tone to wake up that's it that's it is there now no ateas any more being scolded truganini reort your wife the or where you sleep lists you would grandison desirous feed back on
that one year but he is an what happens is the alarm goes off if you have it set in is going to be my voice and i can be weirdsome some strange man in your oonoothi he in the
morning not his kind of weeningly work at four thirty a m like it now and loisette is an album i said it's an album of tracks then each track talks about some moment of weak
generally a moment of weakness at you have like there's one to wake up in the morning there is one too you know what you'll feel like on the gym go to the gym there's one you feel
like eight done don't eat the dona there's one element is off for a while into procrastinate no you're not going to put assmas all the little moments of weakness that we all have
as humans can be countered using psychological warfare actually yet there there's declytera one called the hidalgo more it's basically long hair doing this and you are no more
anger one that is good because it puts in towards exactly like what you want i think like it cosily feel that like or in horace know you gain in some water i mean a love times you
know why you're getting away then so wirimu you like you all i have had to do it out drinking it is not where you wake up at a hung over in your madrina any more like that thing
but you never really execute you know and it's perfect because it sticks with the year like no more and then the other one was tell when you talking about every day i called every
day and it ready for monday a cat that on no ah she now after that also if you want to get some tea if you're tearing or or if you're not a teatrino you get some chalk white to
get on manson it's fully and stock ye'll move days of the annotator i think we've got him under control for now and i won't make any promises to us on the interprise ye as an sich
so moderate a promise but you can get the jack white teeth i figured out again it doesn't so it doesn't taste like he really it doesn't taste like coffee and and for a long time i
was at a loss for words to describe what it tasted like and i figured it out i was responding to someone and i figured it out what it tastes like it's presepe the jocote tea
pastelike victory araound to i agreed to try any to trade mark of one at the fact that a awaytaking bones so get some of that he au need to dead left more if you need to overhead
squaw more weight this will increase all those numbers beyond anything you could have hoped for you can drink it from a joco ma says in after on it that's good overside by the
land yet beproven as somebody somebody made come at that it's not comically big raymonde yet i had not like conchology too you know everything like a fairly work foodmakers root a
wheel kick you in the ass right ye do that big thief you haven't got the book extreme andersin ye can pick out up there it's about leadership it's about combaudiere i'm gonegave
my friend peter the about three copies of it just to make sure he reads it so effected with any sea players i could step of his game of it at ofatulena that's right i
entertianment meant before the book came out he hears what the book is all cabetists that's it that that ayadante you at the prediction age a man like ye but the thick screening
the gem a benemereti were having another master if you don't know what it is jack out the website extreme or ship do come it's going to be a new york city so every one can come
because i if you're on the east coast no matter where you are in the world it's easy to get to new york and may fourth compass if you're a leader or you want to be a leader coming
get it there's a a every level leaders there see os middle of a man a jersey industry you can think of to a people that made ye factoring in finance construction in health and
form a suit of gold and their police there and fire and military in all industry and enters to everybody all working on leadership talking about beatership so they end opset it's
goin to sell out or to move in that direction quickly and echo has even released his videos yet because he don't how i in time no no oh you're not no i'm working diligently in
glumeau you know you're not going to put out a new scirophoria cry or ansel's videos come out my feeling is conselice so get there now signed up for it if you need police or fire
discount or military discount or if you're going to be a group of people i think the biggest roof we had the last room for one company was around to sixteen people for
oncomfortable people but there's some pretty big numbers of companies at a showing up there come and come and get it achouat enclosing down on a player ah no other clue in
comments think other than it was your pleasure bear any closing comets i would only act o echoes comment the met didn't even get planned than phillipetti you want to continued
these conversations with peter on toter year pertend what are you in face bock um i don't know probably a notating academy garakouaiti i rather wet don't i don't do a lot so
twitters your most sweaters proprement and i've been berated into doing something on instigates can't cope but the moment the ah there's a way to connect the two i've tried it i
don't like it i do them separately the ayont really connect twitter to the infirm think it's the other way round isolated connect some of them somehow i i jest don't have enough
pictures to show right i don't have anything to do n'yau of watches ye if i i i'm showing a watch the same watch every day pass show that ring how you exciting olives pradeline
and pictures just from the right on for one of my what if my whole insterstice this like my blood glucose and every moment that you pretty cool and you kind of benignly you at if
you don't i miniscule just so save that screen the hand post notes or much work it's its work is hard later his vague that thing and pressed the seventeenth actually has a little
switch you can just make it go not that much work or think about for somebody that is swimming eighteen my hotel me unlifeworthy post evinced the grierson sah i ecoinieres present
and accounted for on that the interest on twitter on insteamed also if you're going to be look here round that face book ebahie goin to be there echo is at echo charles and i am
at jackwell and again how like to take beautiful coming on and more important fromentin you've done for me which really the way it's connected all together get me through kirk to
him fares which was the book and get me on jorogata led to this pot cast it's been awesome so to you and to do her partly foresaw but thank you and him for what you guys done for
me the men and women in uniform out there holding vain thanks your service and your sacrifice to the police on the corner playing crime the firemen fighting fires thanks of
keeping us safe to be medical people in the medical profession like peter doctors nurses physicians assistance em t all of you working to save lives thank you for your commitment
to service and is obviously a massive commitment when her about the hours and the emotional drama that it takes to go to any one of those industries and services and to everybody
else is listening thank you it's your communications your questions your participation your feedback and your spreading of the word that makes this possible and is what makes this
worth while so thank all of you for all of that then finally thanks to all of you for getting out there in getting after it so ntil next time this is doctor peter tea an echo and
jocko out
