this is jalloast number fifty seven with altars and me jocelyn if the outcome of the battle this favorable one should not be satisfied with merely driving the enemy back this is a
mistake made by an experience leaders who do not know how to take advantage of an opportunity and who liked to hear the saying be victorious but do not press your victory to or by
not seizing the opportunity of these people only cause themselves more trouble and placed the ultimate results in doubt there can be no rest until the enemy is completely
destroyed if they seek refuge behind fortifications apply pressure by direct force or by preventing them from getting more supplies for men and horses until they are annihilated
or else agree to a treaty to our advantage one should not slack in after driving them back just a short distance nor after so much hard work and the dangers of war should one
jeopardize the success of the whole campaign because of lack of persistence giving a good evening now it seemed direction there on how to pursue your enemy until they are
completely destroyed and that direction comes from a book called stricken a book that's no lie credited to a guy by the name of flavius marius tiberius augustus or as he is more
commonly called maurice emperor and he was emperor eastern room with is what we now call busentinus that wasn't even created until the sixteenth century but maurice was at roman
emperor he started his journey as a sole jer a general who campaign successfully against the persians he avers the lombard all over persia in the balkans and basically around the
mediterranean sea and his military experience served them well then this is the book that he is credited with an in it he details of variety of the mind set of the famous roman
legion and what had evolved to especially as they had adopted the strength of their enemies and transition to use horses along with the use of lances and spears and bow arrow in
swords and gain all these things that besiege her much as we do to day what we call combined arms residing we attack from the sea and from the air we land forces and we drop bombs
and we use our tiermes everything the lock he get people in the combined arms dilemma a favourite ideas and the something has that combined arms delemma when you're getting
attacked with all these from aestivation o very hard to contend with an obviously the they were able to do this as they adapted different their enemies they adopted what they used
but then they used them together and so this book mariboo strategy can captures a lot of osida i know it's no surprise but a light eades remained pertinent to day aunt i know it's
no surprise but not only on the battle field but also in business and in life and famous historian charles old man said about the bus in ten armies encourage they were equal to
their enemies in discipline organization and armament far superior and we don't conteenuing in this buck a little bit here cause there's some good information to know about and he
regionem the introduction of the book they inherited the long tradition of roman tactics and strategy with its emphasis on constant adaptation to the changing of war it was
largely this remarkable ability to adapt to new situations and new peoples which guaranteed the busento military success god be adaptable the bus engines moreover like the romans
took warfare very seriously for the business war was an art to be practised by professionals they possessed books on all aspects of warfare which were collected copied over and
over again and read the fact that alters in the bisontin army had to be able to read aright by itself set it apart from other medieval armies so obviously we do a lot of reading
over her in this tradition right this is what set them apart one of the things that set them apart was the fact that they read and the collected books on this subject bisnette
generals carefully studied the habits and tactics of their enemies whereas western knights found themselves at a loss when facing unknown foes the western european considered
himself a good warrior if he could ride in wheel his weapons well and if he showed no fear aransas go you can ride and you can should you can wheel you wept as well and you shan't
know fear but isn't it was not superior strength or courage which won battles but after god's favor thorough planning and intelligence nothing could be left to chance maurice
twice reminds his readers that the busento general should never have to admit i did not expect that now let's get so that's that's just from the interaction cannot get into the
book and now we'll go to the actual book and macgneol thing who actually put these words on the paper again is credited to maurice but did some one else possibly write it he
blessed that he calsomine write it to the tagether i don't know but he's a guy that credit is having the brains behind it starting off here the training in dulling of the
individual soldier he should be trained to shoot rapidly on foot either in the roman or the persian manner speed is in portent in shaking the arrow loose in discharging it with
force this is essential and should be practised while mounted in fact even when the arrow was well aimed firing slowly as useless he should practise shooting rapidly on foot from
a certain distant adister or some other target as a shooting at a spear bonitoes uld shoot also rapidly mounted on his horse at a run to the front the rear right and left he
supraseli onto the horse on horse back at a run he should fire one or two words wrap arrow's rapidly and put the string to strong bow in its case evites wide enough or in the half
case designed for this purpose and he should grab the spear which he has been carrying on his back with the strong bow in its case he should hold the spirit his hand and quickly
replaced on his back and grape is a good idea for soldiers to practice all this while mounted on the marks of their own country for such exercises do not interfere with marching
and do not wear out the horses the reason i had to put the tin here this custis is very much what we do in the letenant your shooting your shooting off hand which men use should
with your weak and we are loading magazines with only one hand to go with them but the weapon between your legs he got pull the bag you're doing all this stuff you shooting while
you're running your sheet well down your son your behind a vehicle you shooting from inside of the clear shining from outside of eagle you're you're doing all these things all
these different ways all the time because the the better you get in all these strange situations to better than perform any strenuous and you can apply this to any you know
abusing of talk about this before we are dealing with business you want to train your people to a handle these weird situations you know be a bad customer you know pretend to be
the be a bad an you got leaders that your training be a parable employ beat that person put them to the test how they going to handle one po that flies off the hand of how the
apulian employed that dozen five or handle get all terrible but just go is cold you oh what are you going to do now how you're goin to have a less person genever you guys doing at
the muster he has on now you did that role playing thing real quick and is like real quick too and a one i caught me fast guard yet in all you got ropeless do this eye in it
prevented the little yet but men has such a good point though because you go through once situation right in the guy like is like a betime for you r whatever y a r or in want and
then you like okay and you get taken get to put yourself through a potential situation and then at the end of it you said okay look we just went through that and we did it and you
know how you there was problem to me me not but now you're familiar with it kind o like the lights are on now you're not going life into a dark room not knowing me annie you're
doing exactly what marie said to do here which is the most important thing is intelligence yendat what he saying right the more you prepare for at that particular situation that
light lay on it to that little roll play on if he acted like he was a company commanded that didn't have time for it yet and i took it to the next level and said i don't have time
for you because i got dis and combat right i got you think contact he would disown an you got to contact us wherever ones going folks in that no i'm in their plain this young
selover gone she's me captain had like tackytown were going to do in our area of operation night leases hey abiding totonac leave me on a a and i was kind of taking about i said
scirou know what can you just tell me where you are up all sirs and abgott him yea and that was that i overcame the cause well so you goin to do if but eight me a second and think
on my feet if that of rapped again i would not to take my fetisheer and you went through like if you were to do that in a real situation and you stole even though it is ironweed
round you lookin bad you know are not giving any confidence you you're saying hey i want to come in our area of operations and execute a mission to night and i can't even put a
sentence together elongates so that's why we rehearse that's why we were worse case very often why you'd practiced shooting all the horse off the horse in putting your bow way
pulling it back out for on your spear gift that's what you do it's crazy hell even going through on a man in that my will when i work with companies i'll do repayal tell them
watch what happens in three times three iterations they get that much better live delgovitia stumbling and not being able to a handle a bad employe to where the third time they
got it that's all takes to you then is a sane it we put guys through in indiscernible were hard training tenaros and they would be a wit they no kill all this is training i'd dale
good guys ride they all began he with pale your dad you get next time i tergether an the sake you may i look at a world you do step back woods you do different all man i didn't
see that i got you know i got drawn to the situation in my ship okay so it's dotin they're going to be fifty per cent better than next time the neck the time after that we can't
even catch him an us they got it on crazy preparation all right go back to the book another thing that brice says in actual combat nobody can properly supervise the entire battle
since the line is spread out so far and some can desert from their band ons and bandon there's two meanings of the word bands one is a flag like this is our flag but then it's
also a group of about three hundred troops so what you saying that people can that can desert back to the book unnoticed and gave all others an excuse to retreat if they do
retreat there's no way of turning back or of checking the flight for nobody is able to get them back since as we said the whole army is routed three said this is this is why we
need a little bit decentralized command right could he send you no one can now is going to know ye can't contract old out how many people can you you troplong on for maybe five
these got going in a bottle with thousands they can't keep track o mu so one of the things that they do in this sort of oh it's to cover and move senario so the way they set up
they set up two lines sedizione line they set up two lines back to the book and there should be two lines one of them a support the troops in the front line will fight more
eagerly knowing that their rear is protected by the second line and that their flanks of by the flank guards so even if you do know your covered then you're going to fight harder
to you have to worry about what it is one on that one new coverleted the first line is not as likely to run away when he knows there are many other soldiers are stationed to his
rear that is in his second in the second line and will see anyone deserting his post she there's a little psychological they made a matter rondeau are right behind me they're
going to know in combat this convexedly important supposing that the first line retreats were portioned back then the second line is there a support and as a place are refuge she
got back anchorage loved next one a small army should not prepare to face an organized and more numerous foe in open battle except in case of necessity bomon go alike don't go and
fight agitating badrona with more people don't fight against them back to look at the necessity does arise do not mass all your troop in front and even if the enemy number is
superior direct your operations against his rear or his flank for didinge rous and uncertain in all conditions and against any people to engage purely frontal combat even if the
enemy stations is a smaller number of troops up front for this is we talk about this over over there don't attack the front don't attack the the harden position next squad should
be made up of old and young men in proportion otherwise the older man a form by themselves may be weak and the younger in experience men may turn out disorganized so this is a
thesis obviously important but sometimes people have a tendency to want to build the super temerite of day all these guys all the best guys you want to make your team as even as
possible this is a class example don't just take all the old senior guys who have all the experience but they might not be in the best physical condition menaces toon too you take
a a forty three year old seal other some stunt there don't give me robbut you compare him to a kid that's to one four that the hun fire ned that as in a yet you tell that kid to
go climb a ladder jump up the building he's goin to do it it's there they're beasts so you want to have both those elements in your team and is the same thing in a bigger
organization our business organization spread out the knowledge and spread out the enthusiasm is that that have to do with like um i think like a senior guy he might have a bunch
of knowledge verses you know a younger guy heel have a lot athleticism and physical pep obility or in delessert it could be enthusiast reticule like sonaret hungry young gamacho
man had home betake care of this i got it off looses is that also because let's say a young guy who has in fodias and if you if you mix it up with instead of all enthusiastic
people you have older guise they can teach a knowledge or to the guy and there yes we're going to make our team stronger ole next one various tactics and drills constant drill is
of the greatest value to the soldier each formation josie tified in a special way so let the soldiers who are trained in these manoeuvres may recognize the differences and not be
puzzled by them a kanahau you do what we call in the saltings to do the rogron immediate action drove so in the contact as on some goes wrong how you're going to move your troops
on the botian the more you do that the better you're a get at it then the better you get out at the better in afore a combat period under story is that like a fire drill at home
yet in irenita a fire alamaiko you drove to getter when you say hey i maracca you know when you that a lot just glover makes us do that all the time is okay let the guy basically
put you in a cringlehope you going trying danger or an locked danger weber so then you're going to drill a yeoland that way when you're owing live it's an instinct in it the same
thing with withein which your military unit so you make that simple call in flank you know panchito left whatever the pelethites that call that you're going to make and we knows
what to do no airoides instant organization in focus and direction to everybody everytime ditherer calls and the seal team certain maneuvers that everybody knows if you make one
of those calls like every one knows every single person in the entire seal community knows exactly what the same thing in the marine court delay there are certain standard
operating procedure that you learn in marine corbo camp if you say it to to a hundred different marines i that have been assembled for the first i'm ever noivous one of these
commands there all get get on at neap ye and that's good is also a all right going back to the book strategy the points which the general must consider before the day of battle a
ship cannot cross the sea without a helmsman nor can one to feed an enemy without strategy and tactics with these and the aid of god it is possible to overcome not only an enemy
force of equal strikes but even one great recupero in numbers for it is not true as some inexperienced people believe that wars are decided by courage and number of troops but
along with god's favour by tactics and generalship and are concerned should be with these rather than wasting our time moling large numbers of men the leader must take advantage
of favorable times and places in fighting against the enemy first he must guard against hostile attacks which can injure our man and then he must attempt for watch the same
against the enemy above all he must look for enemy ambushes sending out frequent far ranging patrols in all directions in the area around the battlefield he must have void
disordered and uncoordinated pursuits now this is things started this whole thing off you get the advantage at the permaneat go finish him keep pursuing them until all the enemies
completely destroyed but he said the rider he must avoid disordered and uncoordinated pursuits now that my first upon mentira dirleton's we got a ambush where a nerveless got
ambushed and the urge is stopped the vehicles let's go git these gudin we didn't do that all these particularities we are going we had a prize some kind of priority target we are
going after so gonfer a bad guy somewhere we make it through the ambush a volonte stop we're going to go get these guys like in the eagle tangled would basically be able think oh
stop stop me was windless not a good call we made it though the ambush wine were good we have a mission to accomplish let's report this up the chainman meanin get them the
aircraft overhead or some like that but we're not going to just go into this disorganized pursue move an enemy that actually has the upper hand because we made up to the festivals
they have prepared for us i can guarantee they want you to stop em so you needn't think before you just get overly aggressive back to the book we would not allow the general to
take part personally in rage or other reteat these should be intrusted to other competent officers forest one of the suborder officers blunders are fails the situation may be
quickly straightened out but if the leader of the whole army fails this fall can open the way to complete disorder the general is wise who before entering into war carefully
studies the enemy and can guard against his strong points and take advantage of his weaknesses obvious stuff that we talk about every single day back to the book warfare is like
hunting wild animals are taken by scouting by nets by lying in wait by stalking by circling around and by other stratagems rather than by sheer force in waging war we should
proceed in the same way whether the enemy be many or few to try to simply overpower the enemy in the open hand to hand and face to face even though you might appear to win isn't
enterprise which is very risky and can result in serious harm apart from extreme emergency it is ridiculous to try and gain a victory which is so costly and only brings empty
glory we're talking about flanking were talking about staking always making sure the decardas in your favour i that's well talking about her man it's it again it applies in life
if i do placated a little battle like that my you were all i was i was actually indecencies like kind of laughing because you were done comin at me come enemies i was i was
canaghwagas i was linking about this boaster thinking hey going had the head with me face to face i and i'm gonna finetht eastaway works and adeney de barely a backbone the actual
day of the battle the general should not take on too many tasks i might exert off too much become worn out and overlook some grey essential matters now that to me is no one got it
at tach ye and number two you don't want to be in the weeds if you're trying to get everything you donoseff you're goin t overlook some realisent matters he should not look
downcast or worry but hard rye jauntily along the lines and circulars he should not himself join in the actual fighting this is not the rule the gentle but of the soldier after
making all the proper rangements he should station himself in a suitable spot from which he can observe which troops are exerting themselves and which might be slackening when
needed he should be ready to send assistance to a unit in trouble by making use of his reserves that is the flank and rear guards so you got to stay dictatorial the general here
is the gem was the seal right this is the the president of a company not getting so far in the weeds that you just don't see what's happening and you can't if you're the lad
fighting who's going to be watching to see that that are as slackening who is going to be able direct the rear guard to help out who's in ascendence ment the answers nobody so not
doing your job here is another one even though the general besides against a pitched battle he should still make preparations for one god to be ready to me asked me actually on
torture ye a couple days ago are you worried about another nine eleven in america and i said i'm not worried i'm prepared and that's what this is sam even you i noyoudont want to
do pitchebat bestiam not going to beat the etats that's too much of a frontlet i'm on i can do that you better be ready for one that might be the only choice you might get a tack
with you do behinds be ready back to the book he should make it appear that he plans on one and conveyed the impression to all the truth that he will definitely attack the enemy
this will cause trouble for the enemy when it comes to their knowledge to you you got a par be prepared no slack nother one here missus about infantry drill movements all gone
back to training here the harold commands silence observe orders do not worry keep your position follow the standard do not leave the standard and pursue the enemy the troops then
advanced at a steady pace and in silence without any one even whispering they should become accustomed to these movements so that as a spoken command annot or some other signal
they march or whole reduce or divide the depth of the files marched at le in close order for a good distance over various kind of terrain close or tidings and depth and with march
in gage in mock battle sometimes using staff and sometimes naked sword so this is this is a really important ethics this is reminds me very much of something that we used to do so
he saying you're in to do drill right and you're not allowed to talk you have to be completely silent and this is something we absolutists where you're not allowed to talk and we
would actually sometimes take radios away so hey you came with turn off heveryone turn off your editor just have to figure this out ave you run like that all the time eventually
everybody who earns how i it be it makes every one more proactively does you know not on her command you know the bosses gelliot radiance flank left you you that's not coming
cause i so you have to learn to look around after london's going to happen and i manoever body better what they're doing and i'll tell you you know i talked up as before weiningen
my task and in my tone we didn't talk on the radio we didn't we would barely talk on the radio if if i came on the radio and said something it was a very adeodata or you'll lay
for dame jocelin building forty eight i i do it they go in one at etherage and he go to witsennan else and that was because if we're entraining we were duties droves were we in
talk you're not loved to talk you're lowed make a head and not your love to give somebody a visual signal but you're not loved to come to the red you you're not love do and that
makes you so good in what it does is it makes sure verbal your non verbal communication still on points and who was conihassett school so as canyonward things that they do to you
i don't give you a couple of examples one of them as you're not looloo in your food when you're eating book said say you you have to stare straight ahead and is desisive a big
deal cause you think yourself all just looking my food and if you look at your food everybody can see the jonstones and holystone food not so heat you have to do as you have to
just look straight ahead you looking straight at across the table and and you're just guessing where your food is pretty much a stabbing your fork into the tray of food that you
haven't funny and it's you know some lard eat and then over time you start to be able to you as your peril vision a little bit more so that you can see it without looking at it
and that's an the other one i think i've talked about this you have to scream everything that you say i i there's so there's all these little things that they make you do go
balistarii and all time reginald at stonefor but when it was pretty cool when when my june structor gunnery sergeant brine cors awesome guy when when we got done you know he was
explaining why we did all the stuff in the one about not looking at your food comes from im it does come from improving your perihelion because the way the acerca it school was
originally set up was for pilots potential navy pilots so guess what you got to be able to see your instruments down below you will your looking round and scanning for enemy
aircraft and so this what does it i lows you do improve well this is the same thing in when you build that muscle memory of ammon a talk and i need a look around it need to be
prementi and make sure that i am not going to hear you think so as a junior guy i'm not going to hear you think i have to look around i have to make it a ision i have to absorb
and in figure out what's happening that is unbelievably good so anybody that works in an environment you know police officers obviously military duty silent drills doom youdoma
you that much better it was than i i was relating the mats at or jim the other day and andy was there the gain beheadable up o the way ye will you relate at and you know he's just
a word just working and we didn't say a word to each other for five hours where there were just taking up stuff in the estufa you know he's an easy know an iron worker by trade
and so you just guidances me to solmes see him do as of two is none for able communication just onorable communication work on it it's also all right so this exception is is where
you e kind of war i was head and with all this this is the thesmai right general instructions and maxims and when we do books that are maxims that makes my job billy easy be i'm
not trying to pull stuff out it's there they are to hold out for you then we didn't napoleon's maxims a nothing a plot read the maxim sonontowa there's other pilot read the maxims
and that's what this rolls into right here different an inane things a talk about the engedi i talk about this in a ananti so these maxims these are familiar so why would we go
through again why do we need to hear em again i'll tell you the reason why were you near again because just like tegitur genitives things from a slightly different angle every
single time just like in combat you're going to enter you're going to enter a million rooms as in a salter on an assaulter going to enter a million different rooms and has a basic
structure all them but no two rooms are like the ingrams are exactly like and the more that you enter and the more different angles you see the better you get at handling them
just like in judicious go ginst different body types the better you get at your harmlosen you do all mark from the bottom from the top from the side you get better at those arose
the business world the more yells the you see and you onderstand how they unfold the better gannons ruction in history the more walls you build at all a little bit different
little things come out little the different so the more you see them the more you hear them from slightly different angles the more indebted oudinot's why i love when i see these
maxims so here general instructions for the commander in carrying out very critical operations the general ought not set himself apart as though such labor was beneath him but he
should begin the work and toil along with his troops as much as possible such behaviour will lead the soldier to be more submissive to his officers even if only out of shame and
he will accomplish more so three to noyon know earlier said he general don't don't get in the weeds but if there's work to do drowark sure then you're doing the work a next then
sernatingen among the soldiers moderation is called for do not judge and punish all indiscriminately why dispread resentment might draw them all together and discipline would
become even worse it is wiser to punish just a few of the ring leaders so we really cantal about the harshness of the roman legion arousal talaat little bit till that back a
little bit if the offense is a common among the soldiers so when you this is no this is also a little bit of lace babin ah it's not what you preached worthy alerte if you're
tolerating it then you can't just a sudden drop the hamoase you're going to look inconsistent if you're not going to already don't araut if you do it a common offense do all this
sudden fly off to handle in ancistor next the general's way of life should be plain and simple like that of his sorters he should display a fatherly affection toward them he
should give orders in a mild manner and he should always make sure to give advice into the cuss essential matters with them in person so i wear this repast we hear this everybody
but patent said that exactly but you need to do the you need to live like your soldiers we are that all to dauner said everybody says don't don't go up in the the don't go
piverecourt don't do it boss man till he could pass so gets the huge corner everyone have cubicles but i as the huge bear gold plate in stuff dear do we the message chair in the
area don't disturb me yea i am the alfinete come running the twelve minute messager sashes concern ought to be with their safety their food and were their regular pay without
these is impossible to maintain discipline in an army by being just in punishing offenders he should it steal fear at the very first sign of a disciplinary problem he should take
action to end it and not delayed dealing with it until it grows becomes more serious the general successful when his men regard him as unshakable and just isadas seed that
civilians are left on horroo when he got the problem when you see the problem yet the problem solved don't wait not going to go away is not going to get nothing to get better on
one next he should be temperate in his way of life and vigilant pretty straightforward is a maxim next it is essential to be cautious and take your time a making plans and once
you have come to a decision to carried out right away without any hesitation timidity after all is not caution but the invention of wickedness when you're going to go go go won't
you make a decision go that a default cressida's a defodisse thing yet i held by mind is not unduly elated by success or over me depressed when things are not going well i wot of
he speak from himself that's one of them in you be then a loud maintain no get emotional not a lady to be won not to prove to us no maintain next it is safe for and more
advantageous to overcome the enemy by planning in generalship than my cheerful in the one case results are achieved without loss to oneself while the other some price asked to be
paid next it is very important to spread rumors among the enemy that you are planning to do one thing and in go do something else your plans about major operations should not be
known to many but just a few and those very close to you next alarming roomers or traps of treachery whether on the part of the enemy or noron ought not being neglected or action
deferred but step should be taken a deal with them and put a shop stops of them before they become reality we start here in rumors simatalu one thing i see in companies companies
ispra business is half meant happens in alters you but business is have this problem where they they let roomers grew the let messaging get formed by the uninformed that's not
what you want to do if you are in charge of a business and something bad is going to happen explained it to every one don't let the people explain it themselves because the idea
that they're going to optime worse case in her own possible though the take to magic so pro active communications so people know what is happening don't let them define their own
messaging and their own rumors stopped them like giving them the information next the enemy should be deceived by false reports of our plans brought to them by deserters from us
sir you got people that you think my leave you cool give it em bad in delacour age should be roused in arches by fabricating report of a victory over the enemy one by our men some
place out now it is a controversial in my mind right so the saying is he you should make up some stories about how well son those doing in another area the you got to think about
what you're doing here and of course this day and age that's hard to do we have just open communications we have taxed in we have foes we have all the stuff an so it's you bet
hard pressed to verify that fall on things i thought about when i read that were i disagree with this is in micmac arts for instance oh i loses around in egiron on the guy goes
out and does do a good job he is losing the round comes back to his corner what is his corner down you're doing great as the big going and at the wrong worst thing you can do
worse thing you can do is laid like a will keep you he teatotal right yeah you need to say you look your losing an any time it's close you got a desunt the other guy want anything
around the even remotely close he got a son the other guy got that round yer so don't do this don't take great round keep it going no there's not a single amiate that have ever
worked with that when you tell them great round your winning steps in not i've never sirseree it never seen it never heard in an you watch the house is got those corner comes now
oh yes and i have the internet thing where i can pick who i'm going to listen to in a congregating you can hear what the corners as antithetical you check it out go and look at a
fighter who's corner tells him they're doing a great job and tell me twineall where guy's here as he's doing a great job in the he stepped it up or even harder it doesn't happen
everybody goes into grotait innate if they're losing deserters more that gave to study so be careful without one marie scottites agree with you or not one back to the news about
reverses suffered by us should be kept secret and report stating just the opposite to be circulated about occasioning but controlled the control nesting but were talking the
lining and it is dana'ides work he gave does not go to work for you you can't take don't worry about those like member bagdad bob when we went into bagdad and either american
tanks a morn a room as rolling in crushing isa we've got the americans all the run they were running down your front door you so said this is not this is gonta work write what you
need to do is if reverses happened you need come out you need on him you need explain what happened and you need to get ahead of him an don't let the room of milton it is
something worse than it is and you might be alemania it no i about it not going to get you in your next defied troops should not be allowed to fall into despair but they should be
dealt with by stirring up hope by various other means common sense next during combat one has to overlook offenses committed by the soldiers but afterward get rid of men guilty of
sedition which is a some one that's going to rebel against you again this is very this is a questionable right if you during combat if you start overlooking offences guessed up
with my little minelayer letting you enougn stopped them it is grimur sorry when you have a situation like that happening he de stop it he could put an end to it now that being
said are you goin a hound on every little thing that happens no right maybe you're going to give a little bit of slack with something that's pretty meaningless right may be given
little a lack at the same time you can't just you got t give you guys some room that's what i'm saying you got to give gustomer you got a hold the line absolutely m you got hold o
line but you can't shriek out because you got bigger than you should definitely have bigger things to worry about then this little item right let's just hey get that tied up yeah
let's move on let's not focus on him nocini you because you made a mistake next our own dead should be buried secretly at night but the enemies should be left out there as a means
of making them lose courage good psychological warfare next when a delegation comes from the enemy inquire about the leaders the group and on their arrival treat them very
friendly so their own people will come to suspect them there's a lot of the a lotte craft he little psychological war for that they do when that's one of em i act like you know
this enemy meekful may the enemy look at a mahouse ahaaaa be and so is to act orientation friends even get suspicious of you yet trying to do call some divide flashes as of
cowerin a part of our soldiers should be kept quiet and not publicly condemned since this may make them even worse again re talking but a communication thing and you're not going
to elder not going to be able to keep that stuff under wraps people are going to know you so get ahead of it next a way of arousing discord and suspicion among the enemy is to
refrain from burning or plundering the estates of certain prominent men on their side and of them alone so going like as at going to the village burn every one's house except
echoes and you like the prominent guy and they go hegoat's up how can be merous all all reanimation really a danae really were going to come back a word go you yea like the like
the cop or either do that where don't apprehend some guy in the cartel aanaware the dread gang the and then they'll be like okay by like all they wait eat arrested nothing
happened to you the monorail monocacy that's exactly it next one way of getting a besieged city to submit is by sending letters tied to arrows promising freedom in a munity this
can also be done by releasing prisoners cool next great caution must be observed in pursuing the enemy over ground suited for ambushes a good general turn back at the right time
soon come back later re tack more fact ively wi im not stopping my petrol to go back in attack unable we just got through to their ground may have it to waiting for us to imprompt
to sodalities and they have it he been waiting there every ardevoraeor will tell you you want to have the upper hand you want to pick the battle you'll be pictareen into a scrap
with the right there next do not be deceived by humane act of the enemy or by their pretending to retreat next cowardly all curs are recognized by their hesitation and paler
during combat they should be assigned to exhilarators notice that he is using them right causans a cowardy so that worked for a new go in runlets you know that's okay because i
need bodies need people oh when a populous city is taken is important to leave the gates open so that the inhabitants may escape and not be driven to utter desperation the same
hold on an enemy's fortified camp is taken so we want to give people an out mum said the dansit the death in this is very common with the ego huh you don't you don't i don't trap
you and prove you wrong in the room or triton the win big meeting out of go ago here is the four reasons why you're completely wrong in their indisputable ease i give you aloud as
i say i clothbound these things i think this might be a better way to do it and by the way to this also happened and this i the thing so maybe we can adjust your planait bit do
here now if you have any sense whatsoever you see all four of those recent and you know yeenoo that jacketed call up and i said no problem i and we're good will but if i come in
there i sat making you live like a jackass an you're totally wrong year system doesn't work you're going to dig in on that now we got issues now your fightin is a death yet i'm
going backwards next even in friendly territory a fortified camp should be set up a general should never have to say i did not expect it do even in friendly territory be ready for
a safe retreat built a fire in one place and go off quietly to another the enemy had to the fire the sepation next letters altto be sent out to deserve hers from our side who have
joined the enemy in such a way that the letters will fall into the enemy's hands these letters should remind the deserters of the prearranged time for their treachery so that the
enemy will become suspicious of them the aletosee had to craftman little move a lacayo deserted us and he will meet you at this night she can give us the information you told us
you're going to give us the meteyard next when it comes to dangerous or surprise operations cowards could be waited out if all the men who are sick or whose horses are too weak or
ordered to fall out the cowards will in clean to be six and so they can be separated from the others they can esinger fortress or some other duty involving little danger and a
thin good tactician in about that back in the day had guyenne feeling good fought over here because we you know you're not a hundred per cent so we don't want to bring you this
operation when cowards go way aloetic and well under the weather like you go gatherer is that concise in a way they are not hundred per cent either right botherhowl is it good
helouan you're giving them in cold year custer not going to might not say anything but then at the moment a true they're not there to back you up ye ye yes he i owe a if you're
not feeling good go rear this line he oncover there coward but i'm so in eglise next we should not furnish arms to those who promise to fight on our side because their real
intentions are not clear so something america as a nation should get very familiar we should not furnish arms to those who promise to fight a aside because the real intendance are
not clear we give away arms in a ridiculous manner ridiculous manner we should because a real intentions are not go next after a victory we must not become careless but be on our
guard all the more against surprise attacks by the vanquished this because you want does me and this is you jeff erect yes through who some hags taught me like years ago i'm
talking blue bell indigetes do get is a seal he he got out of selingman the one of the original guys i trained with with master just bailey back in the day so anyways we were
rowing one day and we were talking and he said if you tap somebody you got a cold harbor because they are to go hark to you know and i am in some one that you battle with fred in
some one that you battle with and all of a sudden you get them there up bergame cause they're gone go hard or ye same thing in here get a saw ye you got a watch yourself ye'll
like it if your pruning that the mile you don't like in track or running the mile he pull all way out ahead orelie all i'm in on this last lap whatever you know i'm dying and it
yeresefs it up cause that guy the even beating what vanquished whatever he now you come in is coming next and voices from the enemy must not be treated disrespectfully even when
our forces are much stronger next an army no matter how strong besieging a city must never leave this one camp unguarded nor should think that fortifications are sufficient to
assure its safety but she keeps sending out patrols don't ever let your guard down saying this over over again next suspected the factor should be told the opposite of what we
intend to do that we may use them to deceive the enemy and treachery must be guarded against even during periods of truce or temporary peace next by no means should we believe
reports that come from deserters or defectors alone but their reports should be checked against aments made by prisoners taken and raised and in this way the truth may be
discerned so you got a check with all the different sources and this is something that being telligence community does extremely well which is they take all these different little
chunks of information and they assemble at catherine to picture you know iversen those pictures were just like a bunch of dothan you look at it up close but the atabak it
something real yet that's why these intelligence these intelligence communities take all those old datists like a meaningless dot and just a meaningless little dock but they're
going to put it on that broad picture an it's gonna fell in one little piece of information they need you put all that stuff together and also they know who you are he may know
where to attack yet that kind of makes sense there where it's like the some deserter or somebody who basically done not credibility bregati felibrees not necessarily lying but he
could be so you he becomes real circumstantial you know on the like her your saying he put all the dots together in her to reason this dot it's not fitting it's not in a picture
but then you know okay he's wish you ashigara so o i see he's lying right now during a man by about that piecee did my another piece you know what i mean he next in no way should
a sworn agreement made with the enemy be broken though you you need a old old holder even with the enemy is yer next after god we should place our hopes of safety and our weapons
nonofficial alone don't discount on the defence next order should be given to the soldiers that they should be ready to march out on a holiday in the rain day or night for this
reason they should not be told the time or day beforehand at sir they may always be prepared this is this reminded me of when my last upon the tract and you winding down and i
told my guy as sad i am machinate you guys were more to stop operations of course on stop cause i didn't want any man going out thinking it a operation as the plate safe ye
agesander done would at all you know but just keep going eh colorade that is he going and then one day we got doing he let it to but keep in mentality of e you know don't think
about this is good to be the last oration you don't want to prove the jolly ones in and it's not to enlarge next risk should be taken without necessity or real hope of gain sorr
risks should not be taken without necessity or real hope of gain to do so is the same as fishing with gold as bat next inhabitants of the area who seek refuge should not be
received in discrimina often enough they been sent by the enemy deceitfully the plateans their host as is something we manito a lot in the body where people are acting normal a
name new or rules of engagement and so they knew like me for he never gone there we are going to see them and so they would do things they prove in the tail close they could get
and see where we were so just because these people are coming with their hands up doesn't mean there innocent you know they might not be guilty but the more not being the sale
next we should also be on our guard against deserves to approach and besieged city often enough they are sent by the enemy to set fire to that while the defenders are busy putting
him out the enemy may attack them just be cautious troops defeated in open battle should not be pampered or even if it seems like a good idea take refuge in a fortified camp or
some other strong place but while their fearest still fresh they should attack again by not indulging them may they may with greater assurance renewed the fighting i don't take
her you can't just say oh we beat you so colonne camp and relax so no not ateing next if the general thinks she's ready to meet the enemy in battle he should get set to carry all
the fighting in the enemy's country instead of his own men waging war afore in land become more aggressive they were also feel that the war in which they are engaged is not only
being found on behalf of their country but also their own personal safety this is not necessarily the case if the war is fought nor own land in which the existence of fortresses
eliminate the risk command since in case of flight they may easily take refuge in them but a little bit different than what we might deal with to day because to day we deploy or
some country and fight that i home let sir your saying and ere you know what this is disbetici i don't have to defend us in de main of america gotten vied how hard the americans
would fight to you no one could ever pulled off ye who would be too hard because i won't see american say oh you're to kichaka my glory i wouldn't have anything that man any not
out it not happen to it as going take some one's party has the marianas you and tell you think you're going to take the lamb from us not one in happen so little bit different but
the mentality of being aggressive and an eighth of what the wood i think what the mentality stockerau is knowing that you can retreat now that you can back your fortress so that
means you know in this day and age or artitht era they knew they couldn't they have any all they could do is fight they had to win with the great comparison is in the in the old
school navy you had no choice you have no choice on a naval vessel you've no choice but to fight do you know choice because if your ship is sacred i know how in the ongauns you
can run away you can hide you can retreat you can fall back with the hereaboot a ship that's being attacked you don't he going ocean you die so that's one of the kind of or things
that old old navy you cannot retreat you can not give up you can't you sorter for under you can't surrender it's if you surrender you die if you don't fight with everything you've
got you die so you have no choice but to fight until you're dead that's kind of the the the man tawld me the old school navy now run to you can't came treat cape fall back you
there sir that little section was called the the gentle instructions for the commander and now we get into the strait of maxims first one the man who spends more sleepless nights
with his army and who works harder in drilling his troops runs the fewest risks in fighting the foe self evident monsieur le in colder and hell and go bear they're like patrolling
to combat and he's got the guy's doing drills he had after it next never lead soldiers in the combat before they before having made sufficient trial of their courage so why we
train hard next it is well to hear the enemy by deceit by raids or by hunger and never be enticed into a pitch battle which is demonstration more of luck than of bravery three
sanafitch battles like a blue lot blocked now with with a pitch pitch men face to face all right right here of me next only those battle plans are successful which the enemy does
not suspect before we put them into action next to deception is often helpful in warfare and in my soldier who deserts us part from some plot is of the greatest advantage for the
enemies hurt by deserters more than if the same man or killed in action next he does not carefully compare his own forces with those the enemy will come to a disastrous end here's
a good one for you courage and discipline or able to accomplish more than a large number of warriors often enough the lave the land has been helpful in making the weaker force
come out on top train billali tary train learn how to read terrain learn how to use to rain but not a figure out the high ground burn out where the dead spaces are learned where
the ravines are the putout bed better firing position next nature produces but a few brave men whereas care and training make efficient soldiers soldiers who are kept working
improved encourage rosevean soldiers who are kept working improved in courage while too much leisure makes them weak and lazy next things which are unexpected or sudden frightened
the enemy but they pay little attention to things to which they are accustomed me used to that after gaining a victory a gentle thus the enemy with a scattered and disorganized
army gives way as victory to his full and here's a simple one but cause of war must be just next it does not help to assemble the whole army in council or to keep sending for men
when they are off beauty these things only caused discord in the army i applot one of their cities the business a lot where all the one call not for all weekend onistah me a
leading another meeting one to talk to every one okay on their off a burnout be careful with it next the soldiers must always be doing something even if no enemy is bothering us
abitchual idleness spells trouble for an army so those two or kincora victory they don't be calling me old im but give busy we got to figure how he separateth business world how
do you separate work from life and as the boss you got to make that distinction yeh yeh can seem like that makes into eminencie like exercise or something that you got to have the
recovery period you have not but i can adjust cruise in skipping days all this time you know so i like that what he ate you call it an me in the deal dicotyledones nicely told
next for what should be done seek the advice of many for what you actually do you take counsel with only a few trustworthy people then off by yourself alone decide on the best and
most helpful plan to follow and stick to it hey everyone on his going on give me or idea as yet kara bluewater repays this i impute we got we think and then i guess what the
commanders gotta make it as italy you can wait all those different implicite planters got make an assisian yea and when you make a dineroom now won't think it's interesting and i
don't mean to go on too much of a tangone but i'll make a decision and execute with aggression but my mind is not closed an i go say organed ax and we start executing acinetes not
looking good i'll say stop executing ex i was wrong here's organ so just epicure being decisive doesn't mean that your being a stupid just because you're being decisive doesn't
mean you're not you're you're losing your plasticity a we don't lose our places even we make a hard decision even when i say this is what we're going to do my mind is still open
and again a lot of times i'll triandria as a leader i will try and break big decisions into smaller incremental decisions that allow me to change course during the execution then
you for for an atoll that a said that something like this before but if we got a bad guy target and we think the bad guys goin to be there the first thing that tell to do tell the
guy to start planning oh so they're going to tar planting then i might put them okay guys workin we're going to go and put you guys in the staging area lay excutere executing but
we are not excited it all you do is going to stationary eh then i might even put a reconcilement out to watch the target were actually getting put in not executing i can still say
okay stop ever come back one we don't think he's there we don't think it a good missonaries a trap whatever so i gave i committed i made it decision work on at the target but i
made that decision at crimenal i didn't you say wordin on havanna happens to so a lot of time as a leader i look at a late big decision okay as to big decision and i'm going to be
decisive on it but i'm going to make incremental progress towards that decision that way i can be adaptable as i moved toward that execution is the very important lesson to learn
very important lesson lear i never just jump off the cliff realise your creating a point of no return right on a sir i er something ye there's a there's a last point of covered
concealment is an actual turn that we lose use a last point of convertites there's a target and once you've crossed this line now you actually do have to go anodon the open they
can see you i do i so that's the point but that point should come so far down the road that you can execute the target you can execute the target you can execute the target but
you still have an actually executed until you've gone past that last point of cover consalement you there once you go past a last point a commincement you're not i how do ye but
that should be very late in the game and the same thing in the business while now we want to we want to open up into this new market okay let's do reconnoitre you executing a but
you might do recantation want some we thought it was going to be a stop okay let's get i'll building was a iugo a lease or by going there by a building as we are and on that thing
yet we don't know the terrain well enough far when a lease a building get it up were doing well you the eight year least none now where do you a two year easter just goin to
slowly execute incrementally because we might arenoso looked so think about how you can break these major decisions down into smaller incremental decisions that give you the
adaptability next even any spy is captured will serving our forces that it may well be may be well to release him on hormis all our forces are strong and engrave the enemy will
absolutely did be dismayed by such reports on the other hand if our forces are weak the space should be treated roughly forced to develope go divulge enemy secrets and finally
either be put to death or set off elsewhere under guard obviously we don't put our prisoners to death any more but you know what's interesting about this and in the business world
and i work with all comes different companies and the reason i keep talking about this spy stuff and the captured in this because every industry every industry out there they are
constantly competing for people i and whether it's busaco companies whether it's financial companies there always trying to recolect other and do try get this guy leaving a triple
this person over every different a lot of times i work becomes they don't realize that all of the companies are like this i hear aleotti now a thing is we get we we people are
trying to recoup operative yes it happens in every industry every industries got people trying to recruit their people and that's why i'm talking about this stuff because if you
think about it if you know some one's going to go to another company let's give them some bad intelligence or they leave you now let's say that i were thinking we're worried we're
not going to go to that market let em know that and oregon a iewell see afflicted yes so that's what i am saying this lean you know you get to this point where you know as a as a
standing human being let be straight up with people but i'm assuming now that some one has may be done you wrong all they there trying to take clients their trying to take
business away from your business no getting into a little bit of a well said hostilities of bronchos the psychological warfare game within the gars a game when the gate is as a
game in them the game and again you after maintain your integrity as a as a human and a hat that is definitely for me the the the absolute primary think right to maintain your
integrity there are maintaining your integral you who may be looking to it some in misinformation on the way up the door sorry were in like desolation i'll i'll kind o draw back
on that a little bit i tell you why what one of the best things about winsomeness a company one of the best things you can do is treaties a leave er really catharine could when
they show for that new company that made all his promises to him that are not true and and they're looking back and going man you know jackals is honest with me he told me wanted
me to stay he told me that you know working a groan he told me he never opportunity but for it you thor he believes me yet so i'm going to atala read track my statement about
using these kind of you know putting your integrity at rest better to maintain your integrity and and it might not be better instantly but in the long run you're going to be
better off even with like a spy situation so i'm in kenions idere than i feared to draw me analogy of a spy like wiseman in your cup come ray and is really a spy cause he's
attempts somewhere else a onowenever and you find out or you get you know like information whatever that that leads you to believe in that kind of spot and bright and then you
start a sentiently lying to him about projects or out on a whatever goals he probably dear me i'd probably deterrence kind i i be like i listen i don't think you hear for the best
reasons if any fact i i think you came from this organization and am going to let you go if you ever want to come back here in earnest yea a you know what i think you got a lot of
central anti think i alone think that the fact that they did this to it shows that they don't really respect you yea and but if you want to come to a place where you will be
respected and where we work with integrity this is a place for you let me know if that ever happens but for now because the way this is jack an aw i i can't i can't have her but
you don't try to do i'm trying to protect my team i'm trying to detect what we do in here and you'll work doing where do some positive and your bit while you're bringing right now
it shows you the weakness of the people that even working with on the other side it shows you that the week they're trying to do these things to snot going to affect us by the way
we are going to win why are in a win because we are staying on the path see now you will positive that you're going to wait all day long and salathiel and i you know it's what
that's why people don't derstand many tegit sofort and the many you start given up even under these adverse conditions when you give up your integrity in a long one you're going
to hear yourself now i kinda got drawn into it right even less of for my weasis and all this now be sartain ayers i don't totototo now love do that with ye aside that's the eccles
way more advanced then kind would alias you so what if like you expose them you know if you exposed the company or the person like all he every one on intonation well i think it
be i i would do in an appropriate way ye you know i i wouldn't be trying to set em up and make em up of his a listen as we found out that bill he's actually he that's still
getting paid by ex company over there and bill we we were to have let you go free it you coming over but you know we hear are teamwise together you are not part of the team
obviously so we can't have her if you ever decide that the weak team you came from is not for you and you want to get on board with a winning team let me know ye the event to
kinda let him know that like her i still like you and i mean kind of thing now the opposite of burning the bridge he said your amanita is nothing better a lot of times complete
work with somebody will leave and to be under those weird circumstances right delegate a good offer you know it again all companies do this they say or give you a signing bones a
signing on us to come over okay and the signing bonettos that's a way to get somebody over and they the dowery will give you this and would be on off so we give you this we'll
give you a to help persano know they will give me this title right oh yeah i armadillos things but all those are re truders they're not telling the truth about stuff some times me
worst the best recruiters tellerchen straight up and right the best wegeler you doing this the at they really got that your company your at echo they're really good with that
you're right here's where the weaker here's a we beat him your decision the eight it's honest and it saterfaction right so i went up to show up you you're not thinking would owe
you said that this was the best at that x not in said loiterest at why axelborg on on it right that's what you want to do it's just i want a talk about his integrity that's what i
talabot and you got a mangani death thing to do you know easy to win in those scenarios is that one of those take the high road or the takes a high day a high ground or that go on
the high grounds going to take you and sly all right back to the book if the soldiers show signs of cowardice various skills should be used to restore their courage next take your
time in planning but when you have made decision be fast and putting it into action einar opportunity is fleeting and cannot be put off at all opertunity is fleeting i'll do a
saganaw as our no business is talking about wife your opportunities in my far fleeting what are you doing with them what a doing if you opportunity have it from you and no more
you capsizing on or are you going after them cause their fleeting there not going to be there they might be there or they might be in a week where are they in a month where there
there gone in opportunities are fleeting to get after them next let the army settat you are not unduly elated over successes nor utterly cast down by sailors we already covered
that next it is not the general whose words are frightening but the one who gets things done whose feared by the enemy that the big one there be the person that makes things
happen he be the person that makes things happen that's what you feel in the military my guide i was in the mood he will put our seal to ask you in it or where else running
training they had guise my boys my people and they may think happened if i set some to choose happen and we can have the was no i did barely didn't get me any direction but when
he thus they take got it done dan that's the kind of person you want to be not the person comes back you don't weeklies wooer to make some progress here what i really run into a
brick won with so in self no ye my guys didn't have brickwall and if they hit him they hid with sledge hammer soon and busted through him he so jed would j charles echo charles
brother yet so he be like the tigridias happened more than once as linda than he would do this but i may be pinny on heaps day hey i know you're going to the store go by me some
lying while you're there and he's like he it's this kind whatever kind one so like all right i'll do that for you you know favor kind no prom i go in the wind section i whatever
and he's like hey it's this then another and all those we there's white rared rank bore no cavernae and then is the brand so basically it's a wall the whole thing is all winds it
the kind resort sugar or oil the this all wine different at any like otisco and looking at the thing brows here for tomatoes that it almost failed one hours looking for it so he
can i come to like this decision you got to make you know i could easily just grand my to me those gone and be like brad you know what you say you sent me on the treasure for you
want i could say that and be justifiable really so now have a babe not yet not for it as you say hold the line he asked for wine i said i would get in i'm going to get one and a
consenting about it when i did find it give it to him and i know where it is now lois right cause justifiably i could have said braddon next time for show next him were there show
me where it is you know but obod have that kind of time whatever you know you've got the mission go yet do ah why why we were the guy say they say don't talk about it be about her
at don't talk about it boy all right next plan what you have to do at night and carry out your decision during the day one cannot plan and act at the same time for you met at
night make you list walk up to get done next the general coosomely harsh with his subordinates and the one who is too indulgent or both unfit for command fear leads the great
hatred and giving in too much result in being despised it is best to take the middle course means balance there bounteous the gormely aship only over harsh don't be too noriac
that he says giving too much results and be despised in of an itinerating iii have heard that like e in the steam latitat expression now i letitia he that i a where you get a guy
of course you get a guy you get a patonee that's where over the bearing and in no one likes it and it's not a good unit but you get the guy that just gives everything he is not
like deer leisure backadona sur promethea be able as body i doesn't make anything happen does not he goodnaturedly not yet no for sure next after green upon a treaty or truce of
the enemy to command or should make sure that his camp is guarded more strongly and more closely i beg you maurice the way he rightens they must a gotten re attacked on motility
is his case he is narrating if any chooses to break the agreement they only gained a reputation for faithlessness and disfavour of god while we shall remain in safety and be true
or word a general should not have to say i did not expect it next formall forces we select a place with a narrow front whose wit corresponds to the size of army the superior
numbers of the enemy argue wasn such a place in there is no room for them this is classic battle of battle for oboli paeoplae that's really narrow soles persians can attack you at
the same time is a good idea to maneuvers let the sun wind and dust are behind our men and in the face of the enemy by so obscuring his vision and making his breathing difficult
we should quickly be victorious think about those environmental next we should put we should line up our troops for battle before the enemy gets ready this perusing a position to
do what we wish and barely allows the enemy time to arm to be had the early get up early be first be first if we are all set for the charge that we can attack the enemy in safety
with our men full of confidence and the enemy very worried next if the enemy is put be flight our soldiers must be restrained from plundering otherwise they are scattered doing
while they are scattered doing this the enemy might re form and attack them once again i like marie's paranoia next the general he is at fault if most of the army is destroyed in
the single battle we lodiacus am ownership not bondaine day on it next an army which shouts out its war cries good and loud can strike terror into the enemy teetered by the elite
hateall black enothera yea they're doing that ages oceans have your sin as i there's a devote hawk like the memorial services yet that is that is very the moving and yet isn't
give much more monomyaria it up even the football teams and white do that to some some of em they'll do that before the game is as kind i think in a way there you can use to it
lusignan have the effect to what if like you never seen it before you not expect him they do that you're like prodigieuse de red there now you know a cool next our commander all
to adapt his stratagems true the disposition of the enemy general if the latter is inclined to rashness he might be enticed to premature an requestin if he is on the timid side he
may be struck down by continual surprise rage our making a daftlike o lion you got a bad temper oh i'm going to ambering it out in the ordour your passive co an get a dress of one
the general should be impartial in dealing with the one man with allied and with allied forces he should be a just judge for both when he give his presence to the allies he should
make a regular increase in the gratuities for his own soldier so he simaetha other armies and he seemed treat them fairly treat them just as you know he's to this upon his wine
when we had acquisitions in the visits fonso on company takes over another company and a good leader is goin othet people fairly a baby's going to be taking care of the guys hat
easily in five so you gotta be careful that in war time the general should do more than his share of the work and take less than his share of the game this won't answer reputation
and secure for him the good will of all do more of an your share of work can take less of the share of the gain aware of the uncertainties of board the general ought to be ready
even after victory to listen to the proposal leonem for peace on advantageous terms so gaguin opined the best general is not the man of noble family but the man who can take pride
in his own deeds next the general must correctly managed not only matters of immediate concern but must also take toctor the future common sense but how often do we see people not
being that not thinking about the future any man concerned with what's happening right now who next to best leader is one who does not willingly engage in a hazardous and highly
uncertain battle and refrain from emulating those who carry out operations recklessly and are admired for their brilliant success but one who while keeping the enemy on the move
remained secure and always in circumstances of his own choosing we dictate the situation we dictate the situation a greedy general can be the ruin of his own people and an object
of contempt to the enemy a general cool loves luxury can destroy the whole army next the commander is the one who can instill courage at the right time i can hold back the
headlong flight of frightened soldiers next a general who desires peace must be prepared for war for the barbarians become very nervous when they face an adversary all set to
fight that is why my that is why my foreign policy is one word strength because the barbarians get in vous when they know you're ready to fight mistakes made in ordinary affairs
can generally be remedied in a short while but errors made in war caused lasting harm sis why as i combat is like life but amplified in the nuns of find next those whose
performance is consistently poor should not be entrusted even with just ordinary responsibilities next the general the sharper general taste into account not only probable dangers
but also those which may be totally unexpected next make peace a time of training for war and battle an exhibition of bravery sir during peace prepare next the general should not
go to sleep before reflecting on what he should have done that he might have neglected and on what he has to do the next day get ready for the next day the night before period
then you do that yes you can think that's good to do not good bed without reflecting on it i i think i alyattes like that's something that that most people probably wouldn't do
distantlie i mean you know ye now absolutely visit about life ye after put that cavato their little life think this a good in you even shoot good a bed it's time to go to bed
whatever he got work to but you know you typically you don't run to so take long to say you know what is what i got on today is what i got done to day and you know what soomething
takabout when it's when you're prapping to get stuff done when you know you got a long day sick about how good it feels when you accomplish a lot one day you that's how you want
to go to bed at night you know going yes i nailed this i nailed this i know of this oh i messed up this pemberton it to morrow fix it yet that's the part doesn't take long less
echoes going to do it and what when you do while your edenites for the ideational it like it next it is well for the general to exercise self control at all times but especially
during war next the general should not be hasty in placing confidence in people who promised to do something if he does almost every one will think he's light headed so you got a
least be a one you take care i trust you can look out but it jack a little bit i next long and careful deliberation promises great safety in war where as hasty and impetuous
generals usually commit serious blunders next the general insensable of how things ought to be done for his subordinate training himself in the highest ideals doing what is right
and refraining from those things his soldiers should refrain from set the example the general should make sure of the good disposition of his troops by an oath next if the general
knows the inclinations and tendencies of each officer and soldier he will know better what duties should be assigned to each one no your people next the general wants to keep his
plans concealed from the enemy should never take the rank and file his own troops in his confidence so just be careful be careful you're telling in dis that does that contradict
you know having a what a transparent inspire in your leadership to know it doesn't you did you don't have to divulge every single idea that you have to your entire chain of
command especially because you're a change those ideas things are going to adapt insentient so this isn't contradictory to say you know what i'm not going to tell every single
person especially if you've got a security situation the right i mean we're talking about a national security now there's things that are need to know only that's a legitimate
thing ye acutest need to know it natappe in the business we do because you do have people leaving you do have spies you do have all these people coming and going from business and
so this is legitimate is a lack of transparency this is put ye information control yes i go home i tell my wife and elocuting with her neighbor you know her and then i came that
was interesting for leygues the husband i do not elthontos putting together all those old doc minitatur next win both sides are equally well armed the better tactician will win
next the general who possesses some skill in public speaking is able as in the past to rouse the wee hardeeville and restore courage to a defeated army were come those skills is a
remedie ingiborg the night ten fifty guide book for military officers four condor speaking as guilt how you do it practice it is good to occupy any hill was in the area before the
enemy has a chance to do so to take the high ground this is also we intreated again and again and again take a yground next as in the past misleading moves taken by the general
can be very advantageous for example if he makes it look as though he's going to set up camp the enemy might be lord and doing the same thing then while there are scattered about
getting things ready he may sell drop his troops in the tack we may quietly withdraw his army if the terrain is unfavorable simple next in his movements the general shut act like
a good wrestler he should faint in one direction to try and to see his adversary and then make good use of the opportunities he finds and in this way he will overpower the enemy
santiago y the way ready could have slept otherness he could a said pancracio sure next in battles and in every action against the enemy the wise general even the most courageous
will keep in mind the possibility of failure and defeat then will plan for them as actually occurring a your confident that's great plan vorgot happen of ofella what's the worst
catenarian if things go wrong were you going to do the spirit of the commander is naturally communicated to the troops and there is ancient saying that his better to have an army
of deer commanded by a lion than army of lions commanded by a deerberry dolent one next if you imitate the enemy and do what he is doing for his own benefit you only harm yourself
conversely if you do something which is to our advantage and trying to imitate you the enemy will injure himself fortunianus world were the companions something so i all will do
it to the mate that never good but if you doing that major behind so trying step up come some original plan makes off in appen next a wise commander will not engage the enemy in a
pitched battle less truly excepting opportunity or advantage present and vantage present itself were in that oven over again next whatever trained to general chooses he should
make his troops familiar with it they will then be able to avoid rosson because of their knowledge of the area will fight the enemy with confidence no your train next when the
general leads his men out to battle he should present a cheerful offer appearance avoiding any gloomy look soldiers usually estimate their prospects by the appearance of the
general so fearless position that's what they're saying of your leadership position the people are watching you and if you look like sullen and down trodden guess what they're
gonna take her the about to get wakenet after a victory to general should not allow the men to break ranks right away for it happened often enough that the enemy on noticing that
our men have let down their guard and rejoicing and a broken ranks have regained her courage come back to fight and turned our victory in the feet don't let your guard down one
think were here not loud and clear from here next when the enemy surrounded his well believe a gap in our lines to give them an opportunity to flee in case lauded that flight is
better than remaining and taking their chances in battle next in army is judged by the spirit of its general next it is better to avoid a tricky opponent than one who never lets
up misenian it's better to avoid a tricky opponent than one who never lets up the latter makes no secret of what he is doing whereas it is difficult to find what the other is up
to so conversely which one do you want to be of course we want to have the termination we never want won't want them make sure they know that we're never going to let up but you
really want to be the one that keeps him guessing her howderdo heel with next the commander should be severe and thorough in investigating charges against his men but merciful in
punishing them this will gain him in their good will in their good will next the general should be calm and emergencies prudent in counsel courteous to resists he will be most
successful in battle if he charges against the enemy not like a wild beast but in a concated manner next the general should be ignorant of none of the situations likely to occur
in war who can attempt to accomplish what he does not understand asatagon who can attempt to accomplish what he does not understand who is able to furnish assistance in situation
whose dangers he does not understand she oceanedge next the general must make plans if beat the enemy not only by arms but also through their food and drink making the water unfit
to drink and pleasing the green and that's again were not as the tacking on a worn front or talking on all the fronts when not to attack with swords and bows arrows and lances
were poisoning the water of a poison drain were talking at every possible angle and a raptat that's marise's stricti on and by the way after a menesthes as somebody somebody on to
it or said he jack out his buck i got it opened up and said yes ancient war bring it maxims during it assemble in or wanted to close this out kind of with something roman related
and of course i thought about julius we think a rome think of julius caesar fincelius caesar you think about that guinane shakespeare sir wrote a play called julius caesar and
obviously not i do the whole thing right now but there is a part of it the inn you were were talking of leadership right and really in intercedat maurice and see actors of an
empire that as they were wiser if it's possible to think that maybe they were better than us right like they were superior human beings and it's also possible to think that they
were better than us not by what they did and how they led to a possible say all you know mariscae up with this stuff bath as is that's not why he was the ruler is is locked to
fate but in the play julius caesar by shakespeare cassius reminds us as he speaks the brutes that that isn't so the mole not luck phelan to caesar in these great lines he
explained so that that the seer stands above the world like a giant to cesar i giantlike a colossus the word he uses while we of down here we little men we just wander about
wander about under his massive legs under his giant presence were just where is moving aimlessly towards a tour that tore dishonorable death but this is what i like about it then
cassius explains that it isn't fate that is put caesario that powerful position but that men men control their own destinies and that men are masters of their fate and that the
fault in men the thing that holds us back from greatness a doesn't wyandance it doesn't lie in the way that the stars are a line no the fault lies within us not in stars it is our
fault that we become slaves instead of kings and this is missus how shakespeare put it why man he doth bestride the narrow world like a colossus and we petty men walk under his
huge legs and peep about to find ourselves dishonorable graves men at some time are masters of their fates the fault dear brutus is not in our stars but in ourselves that we are
underlings so cassius there is making an early case for ownership for extreme ownership were as obviously something that i believe in the that is that you can't blame fate you
can't blame the stars be fall lies within us and you got on it you got to own that fault you got to fix it you got dictate your own future beset dictate your future got a make
that decision to be better to be a king like caesar to be a general to be led the most most important to be a free human being as retaliates talkin about underlings their slaves
be a slave be slave to any other man and don't be a slave to wit this and don't be a slave to sloth and don't be a slave to your ego don't but you slave be free free your mind and
the thing is you can't free your mind until you realise by casasano is in ourselves and a path weight overcome your fault is not complaining or blaming or making it excuses or a
calking others no the pathway to freedom actually comes from attacking ourselves attacking ourselves with would discipline and with hard work an with physical training in mental
training and stareing and studying and learning the nat that is how we overcome those faults that's how we leave behind the underlings this slave that how we get away from the
darkness of subjugation and that is how we become free in i think that no o'god forte night looks like we pretty long to ride into cutari now ye so echo yes if we are not going to
do you and ah i question it me give people will on it to support this potest sir do you know that he ways that they can do that i do is a matter of fact when we go in i tell you
bout it so people have been asking me and i not the aethalium people bill they'll say that they'll be like hey people lopepe been asking me about this but it's like two people
kwante fell out of people snot that case to a lot of people probably like twenty people which is the lot of people after leagues tion about anyveres so anyway that they're like
hay wool what what supplements or are these honingham on antagonise misspents of the cree oil is that the good stuff is the true tech is at the good stuff he's a cool um ye e
there there good stuff or whatever but so i kind o think o thinking about this one is actually working out and if sake to myself it's not like the supplements you take aren't good
i like getonouthat you know is going to be like all the other stuff like jemundar yes exactly you know the work out diet rats like all this stuff and if you have like you know
whatever goal the supplements are gunlike they're going to help you get there faster they are going to create less road blocks lagoon injuries all this retto keep you put you and
or keep you in better health like all this stuff right but the way i kind o any could have been taken her on that it sounded like there were like a have looking for like the
answer kind of thing not all of em but that's kind of out of a manius collectively that's what it felt like to so i think that's important the point i honestis supponetur not the
answer yea your squat rack is the year your pullet bars they are and you got to do that stuff like over and over her like you know how kay nominate me but one of my friends would
be look year like your genetic die whatever you know they'll be like edentates really good and i'm not saying i done are not good i'm not considente aren't were are not i'm not
seen that but i got into like work you know when i was fourteen years old did stop by the way neleidae and all the other stuff so when you hit let's say look say he you had not
started working out when you're fourteen let's say you were like oh you know i i know what await room is kind o thing i might a shape i'm thirty five or whatever however will in
say i want to get in good shape it's like that's all compeletly different situation you know yes there you could possibly try and blame the fault end your genetics but it's not
the fault is yours exacters bayonet all is yours yet stillingwert out now you could say may atinas navion ment o a cool yet doesn't matter any more right what matters is how you
infection to do exact the rent so which brings us to the same a kind of this profoundly be fundamental concept of it's not like it's not these external things you've knocking the
fact that if you wanted legitimate you gotta go get in shape and not until these fundamental things stockade this up men not going to be you are genetic the supplements generated
stuff that's part of the gang for sure but that's not what's goin to get you so that being said i recommend some supplements but in the hopes of us everybody being on a good work
up broken yes these will help you if you were on a good work out rode by away these will definitely help you yes and a lot of people speaking of again a lot of people i don't mean
to yes i mean more than to indite a fit out all the plantation i said i i've been takin cool yes my niece feel better now all i shall just be better that altascar works yet
impersonally however many people told me that it worked for them that has no bearing on my understanding that it works because it works for me and ottalie protein massive gainer
to give big mois do that you can i guess and that's cool and i'm not going to recommend necessarily that but like crillo it apple like that we keep you in the game way mora in my
opinion than he will like a creating situation i think that i mean in arduousness and europe in iterato don't know echoed does have a doctorate ambrosian yes well you you notice i
won't make any scientific ingrates or maybe a winnowed out the best claim you can make is that you use it and you feel that that's ye to know that is bresence i guess yes it's
anecdote yet an giottos for me too yet may you go to anyone they were starting to paint that picture with his out member houlachan being in and i do want to add that this that
does mean something when i say it works for me because i was for a long time time anti septuple ments were secret you're just taking that to make yourself feel better about
working out or whatever and there selling it to you cause they're telling me the same thing out for long time into any supplements and still had gains and all innundoes fight
severities like a supplement a you know what will talk about supplementarily totally wasting your time cause you can just eat good and eating up of the right thing and then do
everything that orleannois you can do that yet but here's a thing i don't know if you can get that with crill unless you're eating a bunch of creline that out don't know you know
you can you stick how can you replace that with diet i don't know who can men so i'm slowly in this what it was it was like the correct time supplements sir that's what it is so
cruel picker your joints don't other ones are you sakermint and bone anterooms do i'm so tacit you want a little bo i efficient oxygen you set you know keep you in that those hard
work out sooner better a comfortable get you the like in the car the arpinians in the black and heroes into we know the halloween but i told you to tell us hematite it the wood
the sloane can't pull ahead if you're in the red withereth keeps you in it like the gallo maybe the ranch anyway the other day threat i do we we show have to train and it was the
kind of a the pipetta partners you know the guys that the big dog the other big dogs and before i win before i went i work out as noyeau i took not only i take shrimper i also
took the pre work out drink what is it called earth grown as north both on the pre work out he and i took both and weed ten round you know ten rounds that's montansier withering
around because i was so trinity fighters so but a hand on our of yanov now or of training i was good ogosho await niania yea but it but i walked out there going from truage
lointaines hard core yet when you're going it no cause it's as you eround with three heard gods and you go get some one that's not that great you can get any merlancourt
difficulty are going against every guy is trenorirolcio the capillis young it can ronsardised the feeling there is for i've been in the same boat the annaciois ten round but in a
hameline's six hands brassie minute round in my hartebeeste on might consider he at with heavy heaters have ealthier yes so basically what the show tackwell do is put in the
lamenter what i'll do is he in of the field it then you go six to rashcal you do scientific terms for us for liabeelity this six ten or the one hour of rolling you gonna be like
this just physically in a licango that fell good whatever but it were done i'm good thegns he my stuff uncordiality when i shall have to day to row dowered anything that extreme
but when i should have hired you worked out hard strength and met con then i went surfing know genooine did in head me thing but just rollin no hadsome eyes take up back i had to
bacon but three pieces of bacon aviation were to out and serving sonado bacon the shop dan i had heterogenie way of the sumidagawa out stuff ye and i've felt ready to rock and
roll yeah i fell on intacta instead of me saying ossaroo wanton you answer that i jeaper and even stated that he was ready to rush as it were actually wasn't red to actually did
rockiness which yet you were you you didn't talk about it you bet about it ye coeval afterwards after the hard rolls with the shriek you'll feel like sure yet that was good that
was hard i could go nother one like i could keep going the fieffee not necessarily that you want to keep going but you could you feel like you could eyewater to rothwell or paces
yes yes litiere buniony way yet true tecto on shooter still haven't didn't done stretching none i think that's the next limewater bars and okay so i will tap of that pre work out
one and i on etoo it one time for rolling and i was like okay cool but i didn't take it all week for a living were in outcomer very good very effective okay and here the heroes
the the the reliefers lt the proof straight up or his so you know how like a faded he do any kind of like pressing an are you all my analytical uperionos some days you're like a
field like flat i can still do but i feel flat now then some days opposite where you like to i got a little pot in my thing not necessarily stronger or doing more maybe you are
but i just got a little pop in it in my my movement or whatever that's how you felt and it was noticeable and i was like a kay and her thing would mind i did do more more weight
than i normally do more rephan it only to but i was like okay though the first alsi go kay you know that easily could have been other circumstances totally could teresa's you feel
the pomp feel the pot ego more rest you know yesterday was you know easy out of the whatever ill beset circumstance you never know so bominate i lift to it again saint pop sankey
said okay and that's different typically you don't get too pops in a in a week and slingway next to me like go in again i'm like a winkee this going who's the tell tale so here's
what happened till i warm up erything as a warm up my work up that i warm up and i my son and he needs some something without going to print it i warm up ratto read to go first
set he needs something for half an hour okay you know i go so i do fer were up again and i you know and i got on the gouliot care for your son i samonons is kind of phisiologic
ally mentally at tetiou of went out of the game for a little bit out of the work out so i come back i get a reengagement ally and i'm top to be honest i like mentshen the day that
might postmark till some aceronereis so i might all right aligatha i chose i'm working up to the hat it now whatever oh maybe it warm with the note vescentes ordered it you first
sure the adnotatione that it isn't as it so whatever i need undo there i choose the weight that i had already show you know server when i was like a amenities than i expected it
was a waning day that's good three in a row he way that was it so that he like some strong why man it's to me that's for like okay even if he you say indifferent santoro course
nessino but that's like to me that's says okay this is something you're going to be taken now at me it's not like i tried it man no difference i said i tan what the man had to
isolate ten rounds de me ye you're on your you're inanity turret again seaton know and actually we had some now shows to day add edvigia a no i wasn't one of those so near you
were there i was there but an she had some algarade there but went get the full spectroscoping hitters that were there to trust so i even need to take it the avidious to the test
now but if you so now i'm a kind in a way of my ultimate okay so if people wanted to get these some potash could they get of high on it otoyo want temperate off you go to
undocumented joao want to temperature yourself support the pot cast if you're in the mood to and you know go head your business another cool way and was on click so sartin for the
duc tape owns that all that deep the dust as like a pilot ducat too which is not ameliorate way no inclinded it she said anything my capons year more there's smiles but entracing
on the parasites as a smiley face a youknow than you i forms you type of word and it it suggests oogling good guess what's right there my dear it is a siderate but now the smile
face curly black too has that some reason ye i shairmens i don't really understand it for we but somebody sent me a little picture of an a motheaten good i asked my eressus kind
of the same concept but generally speaking it's a smiley face smile face went on the duck tape layers samanon that's a good duck toinette but emilita you know sirs she's claverley
soppin's amazon if you shaped or anything else not necessarily ducibus oh like books you oukilion or whatever and entertain the atsito but it if you didn't already know um click
through good epitacio cast our complectitur the amazon banner or to on the side and then do your shopping in support by casalle you said small click like it takes like two seconds
ran quick on it go doushet second supports enoie a big amount will boelte than just you yeah colicky just why ought to warn personality which would be helpful but when a bunch of
geodetic thou then theriacler trial advisory action tease small action huge reaction and i made the reference to when you threw a small piece of sodium metal in a in a in water
and the big temperato something pleaded i remember that crickled up on you to look up so put iliumina er looked at up so you get guisthorpe a big fish tank with water they thought
the sodium and liverstone posted among turturine somebody had a somewhile a small brick or sonontowanas yano yet and i ahasrer heathwell leifels na get that exactly restolen
yeelish amaan you think he i'm shopping on anomaly some batteries that little click through the ducklows do come tom that's that's so anathoth we were looking at an those isis
it's crazy he now lets a good way to support in a big way oh and an ill yes so you too that's a good one right subscribed to the you to channel a subscription one is well but that
one seems kind of obvious must be party subscribed by if you have in where we were ogowe went over an entire book to her obvious things if people don't want always no noise of yet
we need to reiterate sure as to we all mantern board yet reinforced with our friends yes yes they usually before bertodano tritely that nogal above her frideswide subscribed the
asubri her patkasa's no common edson subscraction like with jousting about you just some succeed but if you like and you do one of forfeited you are talking and all that you asado
you know that too terrors a paper you too luckily you don't talk a lot meisonnier oaten you disoit upastiente mostly in leander's are you could have a long young strolling
resonate jestless ing tackle the like it ailing through me yet you have to skip this tenacious about the sea something now the one guy mamam a something here he is iyeyasu too
with more videsne we put out the little de sharable earnages brodeuses my brother the other days i can't istine guyou know he listened to a lot of lictors and omitting talking
about this in my and that's good he's a gay alabout he goes into his little ideas that he saw of the old was a hay and that to me and i usually won't say i be like cool maybe i
look into a kind of thing and i'm like dozens with onedias sendet me send it to the hour thirty seven in a long while like row i will yet i am i scolded officiation do that to me
we got into like a little all you're going to have every one i listened scolding you the apennina more enlivens we have jolande minute you will learn about hot ohotno learn
necessarily but yesler if you want a life gotelint cockades on what how you should approach college after loetari after high school whatever of go ahead listen to that three four
minutes boom you're good to go you're ready go to college frat function if you say hey listen to this todcaster somewhere two hours long no son want be blown on the extreme
tienshan for that and but his but you do alter ones besides just college exactly right we do montowese on mackintoshes on i got twenty pack of nicknames have on that easel and you
know you can share and consumed in a potful i do suggestions as well request if you will he pontiere like he joshaway actually make that comte it's not a hundred per cent turnover
she beloike that i know and liable at its hiram and say yes or no kind of ye i don't think yes or no like yes i'm going to do that one miest noted you know no yet poinarded i know
but when they see him pull there it is all you should act in tell him i know my beard maybe cause you're lochallen maybe or maybe he just do me yes he heeting he sent for yes all
you know there's no downside right i don't downside to do in a oldening about the ither down side to say make it a bunch of them does not unless you make one at a lame brat less
you take out a lame one were in talking out something stupid remaking the stakes ye or giving bad edvice to the world here don't do those those who aid go down side for sure a
good one yes but no doubt side i gadou go far on you subscribed bone you you have like cousinenry i subscribed yet and when you all to something you don't tell me i just get a
leave all it says jack apoostate to video and his co w ow oh yes i choas been hard at work for four minutes to make a hideaway do you am i taken heavy tedium of mansor all day
poiloo though a rialto bring from satiating ear yes if it tetelestai your mood subscribed he to be if you like that stuff we just go a and then of course jonas a store is called
jocatore you are ellis jocatore dot com anyway shirts you like these sloanishness inward for like discipline is freedom from i don't nor the gets very good factory no one could be
used but i don't know that it necessarily i'm not waving it around and an up and down yet although if you ask me a question on twitter like a asked me the other day how can i wake
up early how can i work out of redawned the right foods i'sooth you desappointement arles easy yes yes well the point here is that there's some shirts their cool i think they're
cool but if you think they're cleaner podcast you get a sure a hoody like some good stuff there tingating an some more stuff em and look at him if you if you like some stuff i get
some of that support hotaswol to get a new shirt panache you order something unowhat comes in you know menguella ammenon stuff but little microphone adapter for my other stuff it
comes the earlier stuff i eusuff within canasedago anyway so he he you know sir come in you can warn get at im sure this litigated docketed as good backward to onhook in the
mirror telling you good like you know that old thing yeah that's a good one whatever else the coffee mugs o i am working with his gay crises really helping you narrow down a
better travel drawplate travel and be good real good traverses on their look at it not i'm not saying by i'm seen gold there if you like something in an beauties he's going away
to sports parties and actually some may be some ask you about a what that means and he said oh it's i listened to a outcast ye which happens a lot according to my experience and
the trine of others that emil me they meet may spread the word people will be like what does that mean who's that kind under shirt if you like in her thitherin one that you
wouldn't really think up so let's say i'm learnin the jocko good sir as her face on it i i at my friend's house sparkheaver and were like a italica picture and you have the thing
and it's you know the square that i now the face is in it's finding your fate so ashine like all wet they're like hot finding your the face on your shirt echo and then later on
their like whose on your shirt bumpstead the work not like one of those hens of things i like the idea of spreading a word causes cool is a you yell agoo of messages people saying
hey thanks you know i lost forty pounds he thanks i'm back in school he thinks i got a promotion i not doing any that you guys are doing it but you are somehow influenced on the
fact that you're getting your your getting your discipline together your working hard and your getting your life is getting better so when you spread the work you're opens
somebody else to which is go ye hunters only those the ways you know all the ways there's so psychological warfare in her tenseness no more boy now every day motet different ones
right no more and every day yes i believe so kellett every day one because i and how like when you're like her i'm on a mannini knew a turn on all over and leaf but ever the
expression i do like an earstrain and you go hard typically tilly's heart you're like i'm carbon you know you don't cut a little bit there gone in after like a little while
usually like forfive days or i a how maybe not gone you know so you listen to every day at every day really it not only does it like make you like fired up to keep going but it
puts it in perspective you know it's like you on this the cretheus michael jordan or something like just a lines doing resoluteness ful you know he didn't pull go back till old
him five days later you know now and that's unreal obvious and yeller wout that's what why why that's effective to psychological refrain now it is in a bum spoken word album said
belle bonnetons of like little for lack of a better term leogair alcan listen it it tells you you see after it under certain circumstances yet now is actually specifically made a
deal with common every day weaknesses that we all yes yes a little rises you can just press lay track seven o track for a oheteroa for alarmclock to wake up he is yet this album i
said it is your lamton i'm waking you up in the morning you tell your wife he tell you signifieth oderwise there gentinetta ge man to n'tooal in the digest it all optimates got
open for it psychosciences the sake i should bethink i should run i am on music to the ear you yea but yeah currently i tonseca warfare is ungulate gicalanco a anoothe pocasse or
nonetheless yet and he did the distribution channel uniting ledanois man pursuram getting the game yet but that's a good one and incidentally supports the podcast a true virtue
which is appreciated all right so also you get jack away tea that's ports epoptas and its supports you you ill anything stock we got a bunch of it and it will do things to you if
you want to crush the souls of your enemies drink so jocolate it'll be little base to do that it you'll i'll opacite so it that we had got after a mugstatt stockington of your
oman he teneatur of near run you know so i got more being order there being made with justice might mar all that sorry de checking ull be back and stock they say get after it will
gear there on him was on you can also get a book calliste over ship written by me and my brother lay babin it's about leadership and it's about combat so if you like the pot cast
your dig that book you know i'll so have another book that's going to be coming out nay let's not available for preordered yet but it will be and i will announce or when it comes
out i may everyone's going to be pretty secon it because i am and also the picture monsiuer may for in fish at the marriage new york city this is it is it be gathering yell it
about leadership it about strategy at about tactician after it doglet's we'll see there and until we see there gif you want to see us well we can actually bath sound all up the
tetere are on two we are on instigate and you goose could find us on tastable bore on cooing with you my friend she echo is at echo charles and i him had jocolate for the support
and you know we talk a little bit about these amazon cleanest produces in the getting to tea in the monitions and all that stuff disoun that support is actually literally what
feels about cast that's what the parcas runs off of so thanks for all that truly we appreciate it thanks the military the military person eletot there a smashing or enemies in
thanks a lanormand and fire fighters for protecting us here at home and the rest of you ned are out there listening that a working through your wives that are building in creating
and grinding and finding fault finding faults not another but in yourselves and thank you for crushing those faults by getting out there with discipline and getting after it so
until next time this is echo and jocko hot
