this is jacopo cast number fifty eight with a charles and me jackwell good you ning age good ening now couple shows ago when doctor peter t was on he mentioned an article and i
hesitate to call it an article because it exactly much more than just an article is an elegant piece that was published in the new york times written by his friend and the
daughter of one of his men towards a woman named naomi rosenberg doctor mayrose burg who is a doctor temple university in peter said that this article truly captured the emotions
in the struggle and be methodology for delivering the worst news to apparent that their child had died then i have course read the article and i found it the crobble and i wanted
to share it with you in case you didn't have a chance to read it yourself yet so here it is from the opinion section of the new york times on september third two thousand sixteen
by doctor naomi rosenberg how to tell a mother her child is dead first you get your coat i don't care if you don't remember where you left it you find it if there was a lot of
blood you ask someone to go quickly to the basement to get you a new set of scrubs you put on your coat and you go into the bathroom you look into the mirror and you say it you
use the mother's name and you use her child's name you may not adjust this part in any way i will show you if it were my mother you would say missus rosenberg i have terrible
terrible news name died to day you say it out loud until you can say it clearly and loudly how loudly loud enough if it takes you fewer than five tries you are rushing it and you
will not do it right you take your time after the bathroom you do nothing before you go to her you don't make a phone call you do not talk to the medical student you do not put in
order you never make her weight she is his mother when you get inside the room you will know who the mother is yes i am very sure shake her hand and tell her who you are if there
is time you shake every one's hand yes you will know if there is time you never stand if there are no seats left the couches have arms on them you will have a decision to make
about whether you will ask her what she already knows if you were the one to call her and tell her that her son had been shot than you already have done part of it but you have
not done it yet you are about to do it now you never make her weight she is his mother now you explode the world yes you ask do you say something like missus booker i have
terrible terrible news ernest died to day then you wait you will not stand up you may leave yourself in the heaviness of your breath or the racing of your pulse or the sight of
your shoelaces on your shoe but you will not stand up you are here for her she is his mother if the mother has another son with her and he is punched a wall or broken the chair do
not be worried the one that punched the wall a broke the chair will be better than the one who looks down and refuses to cry the one who punched the wall or broke the chair will
be much easier than the sister who looks up and closes her eyes as they fell security is already outside the room and when they hear the first loud noise they will not to come in
no you will not have to tell them they know about the family room in the emergency department in summer in north sheephead it is all right they will be kind if the chair cannot be
sad in again that is all right we have money from new chairs have re summer if he does not break your chair you stay in your chair if he does you find a new place to sit you are
here for the mother and you have more to do if she asks you you will tell her what you know you do not lie but do not say he was murdered or he was killed yes i know that he was
but that is not what you say you say that he died that is the part that you saw and that you know when she asks if he felt any pain you must be very careful if he did not you
assure her quickly if he did you do not lie but his pain is over now do not ever say he was lucky that he did not feel pain he was not lucky she is not lucky don't make that face
the depth of the stupidity of the things you will say sometimes is unimaginable before you leave you break her heart one more time no i'm sorry but you cannot see him there are
strict rules when a person dies this way and the police have to take him first we cannot let you in i'm so sorry you do not ever say the body it is not a body it is her son you
want to tell her that you know that he was hers but she knows that and she does not need for you to tell her instead tell her you will give her time and come back in case she has
questions more questions or questions for the first time if she has no questions you do not give her the answers to the questions she has not asked when you leave the room do not
yell at the medical student who has a question when you get home do not yell at your husband if he left his socks on the floor again to day it is all right and that concludes the
article in a concludes the instructions from doctor rosenberg and i know where all not doctors and even in my old job even when men were killed my men were killed i did not ever
have to deliver this news myself when my men were killed i was still overseas still still fighting and the military as a process a procedure to no to five the next of kin when a
service members killed and not well documented but i never had to do this but even though the were not doctors and i guess most of us are blessed in the fact that we don't have to
go liver this news but i still think there is much to be learned first of all to get some sense of what doctors and nurses and medical personnel go through in a day by basis and
the methodology that use really you can to back that off a little bit and think about how you can use it in situations to deliver other bad news rehearse what you're going to say
say save in the mirror be direct simply and clearly state the facts so there's no ambiguity and so there's no question about what it is that you said and then wait you don't need
to say any more you are ready set it don't distract from the words don't take away from the statement by adding to it you said it leave it alone you don't need to fill the silence
with words or are good but sometimes silence is better than that includes the part that doctor rosenberg pointed out about the way that we can to answer questions that one even
ask no the other thing that she obviously has had to contend with is the emotions from other people don't let them surprise you expected some one wants to get angry that's okay
there's some one breaks down that oi no that it is coming don't let it surprise you don't let it catch you off guard and she talks about bodyliness well right she says don't make
that face so we have to be aware of our body language arboiling uag is a language and it communicates to people so make sure that the message you are communicating with your body
language is the right message and in lastly she talks about the tachment and the fact that even though you've gone through this horrific emotional situation leave it in the room
don't take out the anger and the frustration and the emotions that you do feel don't take him out on the interorbital student or your spouse or your children because whatever your
pretending to be mad about doesn't matter ran what does matter is life so livid and live at well and reading then thinking about what doctor rose in burgos it made me think of a
letter that i had read some time ago that this sort of a precipice of this instead of being a a child that's lost this is about a paratoras now in parents grow old and we reach
old age part of life is death but there are events in the world that bringeret and i remembered a letter that i had read which was written by john rollin maginus who held the rank
of trooper in the two seven cavalry command oregon tehutlan army and he wrote this letter about ten months into the brutal campaign and new guinea where the allies met the
determined japanese imperial troops who as we all know fought ruthlessly and faltered the death the not only were the allies fighting against the japanese soldiers they also
fought against the diseases of the jungle with nearly a hundred per cent of the men suffering malaria typhus it was a a nightmare a bloody fever stricken miserable nightmare but
in that nightmare facing death in that darkness john burns found the good he found the light and here is what he had to say in a letter written to his little daughter for her
second birthday wednesday ockott nty first nineteen forty two my dear little girl last night was a beautiful moonlit night every star that studded the sty sky was sparkling like a
jewel the air was crisp but faintly perfumed with all the fragrances only a lovely spring night can devise to day it is raining hard the wind is fierce and cold yes it is
miserable something you want to pass by quickly so that the night will again be beautiful life too and is like the weather some days are so lovely the happenings of those days so
enchanting you can never forget them some are so unhappy you wish they never happened but alas they must for your life your mother's mine everyone's is so mixed up with joy and
sadness that you never have one or the other for long one replaces the other we the speed that is amazing thus unjust happened two years ago your mother knew and i knew that you
were going to be born those days were anxious ones to anne as the days went by your mother used to smile at me with those lovely brown eyes eyes that shone with courage and
resolve if she had anxiety in her mind she never showed it but it must have been there in my heart and mind torments raised that no one will ever know but through all the doubts
all the worries and all the long anxious hours and then came bringing with it you from that hour there was early in the morning the lives of two people were filled with
inexplicable happiness when i called the sea your mother that day i shall never forget the beauty the happiness that shone up at me from her precious little face neither will i
forget the pride and the joy that surged right through me when the nurse brought you along and i held you in my arms soon we took you home the months sped by and gradually took a
hole in our hearts you laughed so much at seethings we did the claim your attention you showed off to so many people your eyes so big and questioning never failed to win
admiration your curly hair was indeed a special joy and as each month bed by you grew first you sat up then stood up then crawled then walked as each stage passed funnell
incidents occurred perhaps no one ever noticed them or remembered them but your mother nigh did every night he came home from work there were stories of your conduct through the
day to be told some days you are good and others you were naughty like for instance the day when a little mischievous spirit seized you and strips of wall paper came from the wall
or the thoughts came crowding into my mind memories of days gone by when we laughed that you scolded you and some serious times when we were over you the first year of your life
passed quickly quickly perhaps but you grow so quickly every day was an adventure not only for yourself but for us you had a party for your first birthday and although you sat up
like jackie you probably will never remember it but that day you got goga for a present poor goga as each week passed he got dirtier and more war worn and the dirtier he got the
more you loved him then at christmas teddy came along dear hold teddy so plump and with a frizzy coat in a few months he was still plump but his hair was not so prize then you go
to sleep then you never go to sleep unless teddy and gogo were talking with you you'll never know how angela how like a chair of yule when after your bath you were popped into bed
with your little playmates indeed god is good how many times have your mother and i crept in to see you sleeping and how many times have i wiped away tears gentle little tears of
happiness from her eyes when we came out all those days were so beautiful like the night i sat and watched yesterday evening but soon came the rain our lovely country so free and
proud was fighting for its life those indeed were dark days i had to leave your mother and you and become a soldier thousands of other daddies went to because we had to fight so
that all the mothers and little boys and girls could live happily that was many months ago i do not know how long it will be before we will be home again but rain my little
darling does not last forever through the blackest clouds a little piece of blue appears the wind blows and soon the clouds go so to piece come then then we can all be happy again
because i must soldier now anne i cannot attend your birthday this year you are going to have a party and i won't be there balthar is on i'll be thinking of you and your mother
thinking of the day you came along and of the days that have gone by since you are lovely now like your mother some day when you grow up some man is going to be lost in your
loveliness like i was when i fell in love with your mother but no matter we cannot have you for ever while we do we'll teach you all the lovely things in life and there are so
many beautiful things in life there are two bad things and these also we will tell you about so that you'll know how to pass them by maybe you will be years before you will be
able to read this letter but when you can you'll know at least how much we love you and how much you mean to us i am looking forward to seeing you soon and to seem those big brown
eyes of yours laughed back at me until then my little girl good bye here god bless you on your birthday from our adoring that and that a soldier trooper father john burns died in
new guinea on the ninth of february nineteen forty three of remarks after the letter was written and when i say that war that war brings out the worst in people but that it also
brings out the best in people this is exactly one of talking about what what force moved the hand of john burns of course it was absolutely the love of his daughter but he was the
expression only revealed in so purify pam because of the evil that he faced the peril that he faced the horror that he faced i think war brings out the worst in people but also
brings out the best in people and i'm sorry for that i don't want it to be that way so i would ask you and i ask myself can we can refre or minds can we access that purity can we
access that purity without the horror without the imminent fear of death without evil can we access and can we recognize that purity without war i do not know the answer i hope i
hope that by looking at a horror by looking at the hatred and the savagery any utter lack of humanity that war unless i hope that that allows us to take one step closer once that
closer to the purity and the beauty and the love love that john burns was able to find and expressed to his young daughter as he marched forward into the wretched jungle toward
evil to war toward death let us hope let us remember let us learn let us learn from out the darkness so that our mind can see with the greatest of contrast the light and good so
that senecan pro alame the pure agathon and the pure love that befits the domine the divine and beautiful and real living angels like anne that surround us every day because they
are here the angels are here with us can of the rough way open things up i know and that's one letter from one time period in the world and i have no idea i can't even comprehend
how many millions of those letters were written period say if you're not facing death then you're not facing or still right that matter leochares hum fe i i veloutine a a i can of
a gave echoed up the this was gone kind o harsh um i remember i read that i don't know when i read that letter for the first time and but i remembered just reading it thinking
while and so i i did an the other thing is a go with his young dagger and you see you see easy told me that before about like a wen a trousers taken place and he's all o k o
soldiers are getting killed than he is doesn't get that emotional about it but any time i start talking about kids get in her echo was as our time with it so ah you know he's got
a beautiful young daughter and a son too i wouldn't we call a son will you call me handsome he's too small bandsman's go and beautiful she's a boy he's very analogy will call me
and some i think is very untergasse dad like i said i give accoutered up i said it was going to be harsh and obviously it was a it was pretty oh ye think he can't help but i mean
all of this stuff like you dis please yourself in the situation in all deeyell you about the time of the thing if five the new one meriterait a new and it is just happens to be
woyages in hawaii and all this stuff is good ship i think it's a good show but it's not like heavier deep it senorita like to find after in show was not like a mad watch kind of
well maybe tis none nonetheless it so you know it's you oficina they got safe the crime so one of whom i was pretty recently deuterium there's a pram in the one of the five o
gusson is at the problem terras take over the problem to do something right so now that little conundrum is task you nits guy's son is in the prom but they got a supposal cram too
you know but the sun is in there so it adds its little things and then i am for those things are and like on movie die heart where the when the terrorism saying got sprung out of
the sun was in like the bathroom or something so he asked to kittleword along with it another guy was there not from five of the chaperone in the bathos so they had to go behind
the scenes so was like anyway at the end of it is sanconiathon it now and then dear he like come with you can't tell he catocala is it bad deleterious have not laugh it shall last
epistetai millais i know i know that this is harsh there is harsh it's brutal it feeling in you know come just so fecund a pre recording conversation that that we had is what i
was saying to you is a man a real i like a lot of times on the po as a kind of time to prepare for it so i i can answer the question speak as i can think about on in all this and
i said i'm in a hashhouse an on an the answer to right an sure we'll get a lot of head back on this as far as you know does this in ten you know war senario made you express
yourself more fully and basically asked echo before before we started acording you know you're having that conversation and i said if you were going to come here if i was going to
kill you right now what would you say to your daughter will you if i gave you a phone said he can talk to one more time what would you so have you said that to her to day have you
said at two on this week and out on no i don't know if we do that i don't think we do i don't think we only to coleman you're not going to go through life like that then my say
now to do every day but how you open to that purity that you get when your life is at risk and you're in the jungles of new guinea and people are dying all around you and you know
what your daughter's birthday coming up and you want to write her a letter and you know it might be the last in shiver seize for you there so five believe that there so poor that
that moves through you and then move your hand move your mind move your heart which if you think about it why like there's a lot of subjects to to have books about her to have
movies about why there's so many war movies or what's that all about there is one moves you know there's four of us upon are movies an there's no there's no other is there another
subject that there is a as many movies about than war right there is not is there not a no there's the lot sure i mean i guess you could say in general in a broad category could
be like romance but even romance movies the sonorous me those are marginal a vast italian think you'd know anything about the quantity of romance movies and you way to really do
no guessing but sweeter the the sales is a lot of warm osiers a lot of cops and ride out outguess writer that's the same that kind of the name in the yet you got it and you no go
my coffin robber moves about giving up tickets yes for parting current egarer movies about cops ten robbers killing each other and being that guys and all that at risk in the
fiesolian all that and even okay here's another big jan of moses mobster movies frightened mobster melot of mobster moves what is not it's not it's always about the life and death
senario that's what it's about so i believe there is something to that i don't know what it is but there's something that opens up your mind and again i think that's why important
to look at these things and feel these things as much as you can feel them so that you can have some more access in your brain to get to that part of our mind in your heart tuebe
what's in there that isn't going to come out unless it's put under that kind of pressure yeah either that or mabilie never known that what time would my wife was pregnant with her
first uses kid and a you know the hormones get all crazy sharpies ure on the end some were watching something on t v back in the day and an eighteen the commercial came on ye in
busy know so he the dad was not home mirouet ing like that and old i hear like sniffling and i look over the thirty second commercial did you know fourteen seconds into it she is
ballamona never know mantuano what's it like arm again in an if your resentin bill now a of just just a i i i haven't seen any cheese stupefyings bonodori but i bruslart those
aren't the emotional a muse that in looking for you low at the end bruce willis seemed deal but this though he's talking to her through a camera and that he you know it's the same
deal as this letter though he sang not that long and ended know not his deep of course but still seems senario cause he he he has to death made the bomb but the remote dead nater
broke her so he asked do it manually and boolp to save the world meanwhile you gotta tell his daughter anyway some doomed you don't testher thing it is that i find interesting
about this thought ride about this thought of accessing this place this kind of emotional place that people get into and i think some times one happens is guise get in there and
they can't get back out or or it distils almost a description of combat rome or when somebody comes back all their soul motonobu there in that sponnington oh yet have they can't
sit back and check manangete control of it again and so i think that might be another thing fit for people that are visualizing this in visualizing what i'm saying you want to get
to that place geloan to be able to get back out of it you know you don't want to get wrapped around and live in this super higher emotional world and it's it's nitination with a
purity is a purity of thought and concretelined love any in if you did stock in there all of a sudden you can't function normally is an so you got to it's good to dip into its
good to see it it's good to feel it but then you got a be able to get back out of it and if it stuck in the yuntery's come home from table combat to pliments they're just in this
and it comes and goes and they they dislike its damaged or sintiment is just an open actions an open wound you know yeah and so you got to learn to kind of get that under control
as well because that's what i think that's why i think problems come in if you spend all your time in that in that area you're not your your off balance it you got a got somehow
balance it so omething just cause were were here right matacani this like what what you're going through an now like calaboose star what i was aenitet you were aswatha were i
remember like when when allegorisation he was the gampton and and i talked about him when we ritenersi only ten pairs came on or podcast feat and i talked about griz was his
nickname he was killed in a murder suicide and horrible but that was the first time like we be we do with my teammates and we be all wet super emotional and sad and then when we
be laughing thirty seconds later on and then crying again another thirty seconds later and then laughing a minute later in and we be laughing at each other for crying you and then
i and then crying because we are laughing at this it's a it's normal i i believe it's normal because i saw that with every you know every death that oebares in this iemon know guy
it's it's not like you have to be sad now and yet to be sad for fourteen days or nine days there's no no as i like that you know how long you have to be sad for until you feel
just just like john burnet talk about it i think that the sadness and the happiness come so quickly you and that's what happens when you get you and you go through rough patches
for one bad things happen those those emotions will come in its end i just want people know its normal its normal that to be crying one minute and then laughing thirty seconds
later on and that's normal in it's okay because i've seen it with every death of experience and i i mean i know that this soul teams is kind of um you don't wear a little
different but i i saw it with the families i saw it with you know people that weren't in this el teams with us i saw the same reactions so if torments even you ten minutes ago you
were like crying and now you heard me laughing you started laughing you started like you literally starlight and then as soon as you kind of got a laughter out and then all of a
sudden she went right back you are a vascilating back between the two and an that's that's like a sad it's normal it's okay it's what happens when you start getting kittenhood
about stuff yet thankfully a miser jewish more thinking about it you know like thinking about something bad that creari but it will be lingamism terrible did happen you in
feldmeyer every one should be just expecting that you know and it's probably the way that we deal with it emotionally you know men want to my daughter had a like not like you she
was cheese too i think almost to you got a staff mercata inflection in her life not olaso it's like and so you were there in the hospital for like a week maybe two and is there
was the tindal men where it's like could she shed call with it you know it doesn't really hurt him ought'st this thing and then you like man it just this weird roller coaster a
you say crazy and parted the game i e so ot maascot some ten ay from the into webster question the more wells omething a little bit more pasmore like ariosti there kinnesasis
actually very positive and like the question not so as rockeries from the interweb i am not shakespeare so i cannot come up with a face look message that we express how powerful
of an imp impact you an echo have had in my life my father died when i was ten and i spent the next twelve years wasting my physical and mental gifts you've taught me many of the
lessons said i like to believe my father would have taught me if he were alive here is a brief list of my chief mistover the past two years they you deserve at least partial
credit to owego lost ninety pounds net weight three hundred from the nepos down to two tent vessel of just the very vengeance ye people waned ninety pounds by the way yes
hollyhurst ye dead lift max went from two twenty five to four fifty five the get bench what from one eighty five destree fifteen mum extra yes ah started training to its boom on
the air and boxing with brandevin though ah this nowhere to train where i currently live except for the ogeron at la fits you can make it happen in the yoke room and anaitis let's
get it on of the yore and at eetioneia like an um like a lying heart i think petitioning you'll be fought anyway that the whole not tanganees end two years working at an awful job
where i led from the middle and improved the output of the entire facility while adding to my own skill set to the point where i was able to get a job i get a job i love that's
awesome that that's awesome to be bragging about the fact that you had a fall for job that you just got after it and to what happened guess what he was altered the job that you
wanted if you love a started at the new job a laugh wednesday so that just happened to live yet and see start taking class for the next job i want on a courser must be some kind
of an internet thing um a athlette dead a sincere fication program tasnim curly twenty six on a fully intend to get after the until the day i die a passed dear lessons on to my
younger brother who has lost fifty pounds and flavescent bell i got him every day an when he lacked a motivation to do what needs to be done your words ring the loud it might hear
discipline equal freedom thank you so much agayacatl uestion is ah ye may not have his nine greeted this preamble of a kind of what he's been your ear but as i fought about how to
answer this question i it's good to know what the background isn't what excesses he addition a few that in there he is a ananias's on new year's out i troopers getting after it
hampden numbers too that's the tittattoo thing about like you know so you can say i'm getting after it nowadays good good but it now i'm goin lifting for an ye icelike in boaster
it sees how let it hears how the mighty may be all one o i'm a joke you may not have this issue how do you avoid feeling discouraged when you realize how much of your life you
waste it when you are not getting utter it do you ever worry that you wont achieve your full potential me because you waste time well first of all i i said first and far more
congratulations second that's just let yet and you made that much progress your obviously on the path and getting after in what you who complished is awesome some people never
make that transition so stay on i keep crushing it now as far as discouragement goes from not having got on the paterero i feel that way would i feel that way negative don't know
a okay you were little late getting in the game but i'll tell you what twenty six years old without war talking about twenty sixty yet at twenty six years old year young and ereon
and i but i'll tell you what even if even if you were forty or fifty or sixty or seventy dozen matter your ingane now and that's that's what counts and all those councils ed years
of they they weren't wasted right their not wasted because you learn and and specifically wanted you are about learned about what it's like to be elisap learned about what it's
like to be over weight or ereabout what it's like to be weak and the knowledge that you learned about those things he is fuel to make sure that it never happens again cause you
know you know what is out there and you know how bad it can get and in this is the other reason why it's beneficial that you you have a past that wasn't perfect is not all you can
teach other people how to do it very clearly you gain spire of her people to do a little what you do he would you do your brother you don't right in another good example that self
back in the day before anybody knew it gjetost the day oh i am the worst person to introduce judicael because when they see me cause i'm two hundred and twenty five pounds and am
you know a big guy and they think of course this fact can shoke of cord you know they beknown expect anything else is what a joke on though i go yet you are really strong yes so
the best people to introduce judicaret people as like jeff glover or i who a hundred and fifty pounds a scene go and he comes up trochedeero eye twenty seven times in a row they
say oh maybe the stuff works well the same thing here people look at me they go jock the on jocular or not not just be look at you you are the one that did it you wouldn't you a
much better trentisoe gone through in my life so i say you went brace what you learned from the week day let them let them make you even stronger and you use your own personal
transformation that you made in life you that to help other people transformed and get on the path as well that's one of the so good an too in there the lad to be said too for
that like to face your stocking is a what i think you do it is always brother last fifty pounds right in the end that's like the late less like a lottie i i feel like when people
will do good stuff for themselves they make these big changes of her people who see there's kind of the tupuas one to but is too kind of people wore some will be like an just he
and they'll be just jealous and they won't you know whatever but the legible like in your life all around your going to be a heywood you know even if like even if it's not love me
even if it's like you're making like millions of dollars enough there i like what you doing you know you just sort of change your quickly you know you make me is it what do you do
on if you would get on that stuff whatever you're doing and the work out sing not a big one so if the like a last time i girls but lose all this weight and now they're not super
trade there you know as the tractive as they always wanted to be kind of thing all other layout on like us would you do as you do and they want to do it too it's like halolike as
like you came prove odour walking beansie yeah exactly good she sealyham man as also holister next jack how you handle an employee or how do you handle employ moral after
terminating a popular supervisor for cause acaso i mean it's kind of a rough one but it's not it's not something that doesn't happen it does that no time because a lot of times
people that are popular did you well but sometimes gave her poperies their popular teletype co corners the popular cause they slack what am the what is it for cause just dig
mooning that they work efficient in their job is it is un you failed look basically you not up to part a cache in so people sometimes popular p popular supervisors alick a sad
sometimes there the paper aside great and a good raiders but a lot of times are popular because they let people get away with murder lay ye then so was a wit when you figure that
how death the persons not doing their job and not a computer an you got a fire i mean you've tried to counsel all that stuff but i got a fire him so why how you togethuh that well
for one thing the number one thing you undulant why tea thither people to the troops you've got to explain it why this person is being removed and just yeeldest like we just kind
o learn from em the opening peace about being direct and not avoiding the the conversation had the conversation be straightforward and now now this is a keeps don't be disparaging
of the person that's getting fire right that guy was a pease dirt bag all you need you be as these people are you on it some of them have relationship with him and so you don't
want to just immediately create animosity but you do have to be straight forward you do have sauce have standards here he was out of bounds on these things right here and we just
can't do that this company we we got old wine you know there's ethical reasons there is a legal reason to what you know whatever the case may be so that's that the other thing is
you've got a inspires some conversation got inspires him question said there so the the can cause your traitor close the gap of a latinship right you fired somebody and now as a
gap a relationship cap because that person that you fired is the relationship between the vicar activation ship between us his subordinate and you some o was a gap in the
relationship so you got a fill that gap so you've got to start getting the conversations go on talking them a getting them you're just lidlike i said closing a gap in the
latinship the other thing is you got explained what the fallow on plan is very clearly and you got a interduce whoever taken their place you got introduced them i mean immediately
they got to be ready rock and all they got to be read in that you have to count them on my cavour you don't and puttin you here be liars run this job side yes i need you to build
these relationships with these yumour now taken over lisetta it on the boss yes for your taking over the relationship that he had now here's what you got to do to do it you got to
go and i got me honour got all those standard leadership stuff but you got to get them focused in the right are you also got up just one ake sure at the coming in i take upance a
nature that day understand what the political train is a witch dies were boys with the guide you fire and which guys didn't like to any isy got explained all it to so the
understand what's going on and the last thing i'll sail this is you will find that i often times somebody that that you've think his mission critical their actually not mistigris
they're not as miscalling as they think they are and you're not as misinchinca as you think they are and others let wind someone is doing a bad job for some one is not a good
leader the other people even though he might be buddy buddy with him they know it and they know they should be removed and when you do it a lot of times the respect love goes up
so that means the other people that are in that position will or or he the support its of anthem are ready to step up to there there ready this cocatoo you forever to fire this
guy i mean we were doing what we got to do it he is popular and everything is nice but we we see where it's coming from so have confidence when you do it you know be be be
thoughtful but when you make the decision you know threatning to do do it yet that other leader ready to rock and roll explain everything very clearly explained why you're doing
it and build an fill that gap in relationships that now it's going to exist when you think mishini cal wilbois at me meaning again without this guy right the macinoise yeho wasn't
here for the poast we would be able to do it yes i like i know actually we would no i i i am morganore you fresh record on this machine over here and some one would say yes but
how and then i taffetan i'd say well do not make you to bide as cause or benioleed do much to that he may be you could help with that one i'll have no eltondale just means a guy
that in this happens we see the technology companies we got some guy that's really in the code yearned else and so if i leave no one's goin undrainable offer all you to batabano
understand what you built it but ye any even have herewith construction when a bill if your billing something more complex like all was an elongated really understands the details
in and it can be hard as everyone thinks of west her musilage knows how to do and a wise and so people freak out about it i must seem like that's more of a comfort to think of
paralysation it's a definite conversion to you know what i actually i can say i don't think i've ever i'm trying to think i don't think i've seen it yet where the mission critical
guy got fired and things fell upon the idiotism trying to think of a sentient pick up seen it i don't think i've seen it ye no i am n'en it there you someone will happen one day a
fit next quest bless doro i thirty working for a new company about four months ago although although new to this particular field my previous experience and skill set directly
applied to the work i do now i'm fine to work with an experienced clubwomen or who has had me to busy work or task that a well beneath my capabilities leaving me feeling under
utilized for the more when i see the polity of work on this person executes on confident i could operer him and yet he treats me like an idiot for a new cutanee he ah he also melt
the clock disappearing for long stretches at a time and spending a lot of time on his fallen to further complicate matters he is well connected to our upper management what is the
best course of action if my gold is to get noticed as someone who can perform the quality work that are clients demand orca fairly normal situation right this happens in every
industry in a what's the best course of action if my gotobed noticed as some one who can perform the quality of work that our clients to man that course of action performed the
quality or with a climate that's the best course of action that's it or cared over deliver ye after it that's the number one thing you can do it now the yucatan opportunity of
your your men tore disappears for long stretches good let him go take a long lunch boss i got it to you want to find it these men as well mentally he if he's goin to say all these
breaks then he's goin to have you do them the more meaning forward so bettine you you can do better work than him good that's going to be fine that's going to show through
eventually he's well connected up the china command beautiful yuul cause if you can now build a relationship with him you're going to be wellconducted too and that's going to be
the haristocrat the hares meischer to do and it's erectly or to do because your attitude right now is negative right your addietro negative it's a little ego kickin in i can do
better than him she is i'm under is he is his hiatus things are as making you things beneath my capabilities those were all disois fine we are osgood to go got a lot of positive
to it they watch driving you to want to do better so you took at but you're going have to work come that in this scenario in order to build a relationship with the guanabara
inship with gus that i hate it you know i mean because guess what tis that make me to face now you know what it's my job aloofe sional i am a professional i i guarantee you you
come and work with me you will see i am a professional and yet i will build relationships so so not in yet but so that means my job and my professionalism is more important than
my ego and my and my army create cality of other people right on out looking down on him go on so because why i want to do is built of good relationship so when we filed back to
latinship with him now he's if he wellconducted with the folks up top the i go what's up with billy all billy's got to go marthe's doing a great job now what if you like i aint
the other to it are careful of what you don't want to do it is created antagonistic wishin that includes threatening him with yer work attic threatening him with your performance
level threatening him with your skills so you almost have to throttle back just a little bit enough that he's not threatened now the other thing you could do instead of trotting
back his which you do you give them the credit but curhegem a credit in your good and now he is like a pump i he's not looking at you be come you build the relationship that's we
want to do one of those latin jip and we want to put your goin check you the little menial tasks lianas much as you can and and let me tell you all this this temporary you will
rise obeyed it right you will rise the top if you screw it up you will never rise if you great nativities ration hip with him you will not promote you will not if you do it right
you will end up above him in the chaney command it will take time it will take swallowing of pride but it will happen it might take five years it might take seven years they might
take nine months i don't know but that's what you have to do to make it happen but have fun doing it if you're gonna go crazy every day if it's a tuso bad i make a game out of it
i mean i'm going to make a total game out of it were my gal is to build this relationship with his omakamau were not won with it i'll not goin to be angry when i come home from
work in cakee i undo she his hand nor in a imagine know what he plucked talk to my wife was at her guess what he actually bought me lunch to day and we were laughing about thus
football game i don't even like football he's a d i'm going to i'm going to build that and i'm going to win you know and in the long run your guarantee to win if you can play that
game so unkind every one thinks it's going to be like a edes not be cause i was in the military uses not me to stay under tortuous you smash him and report him up the chance oh
that good luck with that you have this guarantees agonisingly lesson up new guy ye cause you're actually proving not only your actually proving when you do this your actually
prove that you're not a good leader and that your eye invader ego a jack your proving that you can pretant work with some people we agin so jolthead jacket work with anybody i do
is will go his own you'd work in with you know he is tsow's that meal you men your confined for rest o your life it only work with your team ye where is it hey jocasta go ye work
with anybody all he work with bill whose egomania work with my causality master guess what doesn't matter put jocko he's going to get down to a cool satiate want people to have
about us year then when even that is like it's it's a art you know not corderie you kind of balancing cause you on a bet like disingenuous or or like or poor face to the point
where they know like others cistinea you do you like that at ballina you know and you know how you do that you don't be fit right or you're not in jest trying to i'm not she this
is the thing i'm not trying to build a relationship with echo so that i can get promoted re that will be obviam trying to build the relationship with you because it's going to
make our team better is going to make us do a better job in it's going to benefit every one at the company and have the team that's why i'm trying to do it so much in to do so to
head right or a kind of snake will in you're just as that as the other guy you're just one of those guns of tranter no well you're doing as you do in from benefitin i wasn't for
me relationships with people so i a kept from odd how was forming relationship would people sthat we could do better jobs i could get dear for the poltoon if so i could get
support from some you know a supply guyau i'm not i'm not doing it disingenuously i any wan to be bosworths he knows what we got in he knows we need a nothing dies disingenuous
about that i'll talk about football maybe that's a distance janetoun lay out if you say you like hoping you don't mean aviation seems like the superficial but ninnie clear so in a
football and we work in together i'm going to actually try and figure out like i want anoynt even tell me about it now what so likely explain that to me he got three hundred pound
guys that can run forty out forty yards in like seconda's impressive let me learn about that let's get into the game you know nothing wrong without it this ingenuous a three
hundred pound i running a forty in five cino or less is officially impressive for five point or less three hundred pound if you're one eighty five even to mottoes two hundred
pounds for three four four or four for any less would you do hathipota seven a little less impressive it i mean for collision emensely back in reckonings guys are flying territon
it wasn't in and i go he lay next quest next question at this question is from an army that those in remote in two thousand for he now he noted that to me e which is good to hear
ye somethin she your hand as you no respect just started you get pomp i'm a very emma very step action drill oriented guy a live the field artillery officer basic as that he will
training in and struck her was talking to me about a flow and creativity and improvisation that is needed i am so many comes with time any ideas on helping to get that way or a
sorry any ideas on helping to get away from this step action drill mine set or just let it come on you just let it come yet it that's that's great and i know you've seen people
like this in the sisal the time it's people that have the personality that is like an engineer personality of you what do i do step one step to step three set for what it tell me
the steps bosquet all this conceptual stuff townhithe step to do and actually have was dijeshins describing a guide that we train with and he in a way he described this scenario
is talking about the specific guide who kind of fits this mold and this was this guy was comitatus and bonbon of our students and in egglestone really good he's got i know he
trained super hardiston and umgona very stubborn jugatinus i got a kick out for this is true frethesind a thing where you know you just want to know the steps and you just want to
apply him and by the way if you want to teach about options tell me what the options are then you know an option on one a one b one o they want to have that mind set for
everything so that stops you right we we want to get beyond that we want to get to its just like a person playing of musical instrument you can teach them all the notes but they
need to figure out how plausive out how to create music at the difference i was said this went um if you go to a big tar center which is a guitar store in america and you put up a
sign that says you know i need some one that can play the following twenty seven obus note for note you'll get ye'll get a hundred von calls if you put a website this said that
cause you're going to reward an aboord never but of all those people not all of them can create a musical song that is a riginal and good and all that so there is the difference
right there is the difference between like a normal juitler lose by the book and ending person that creates the time little guys that are creating new moves all the time in so
that's what we want to be come and it's not just to be a top of a guy it's also to be that it's also how you improve it how you get better you got a figure how to match the hat
put the notes of digesteth er so and on top of that eats this theme sing with combat it's the same thing with doing in assault same thing with an immediate action drill to same
thing with moving down a hallway if all you know and all you can do in your brain is follow the the steps and follow the standard operating peters as much as i talk about
stationery precedes being necessary and mandatory if all you know how to do is follow him you will fall short that you will come and do situation where they're not going to work
and now you're going to you're going to one you're going to stop you not going to wait to do that happens to you to all the time you know so we need to free our mind that's what
we needed to know he need to free your mind and how did you that well for small distances freedom so we want to have the disposed mean we do need to drill a moves it means we do
need to learn the moves it means we do need to repeat them over over against that we get good out of we do need to do that but then we've got to set the mind free and how do you
do that i mean go outside your comparson for one and a water guy's everyone does this where you say you know what they have getting everyone in this one move on going to stop on
it i'm in a do another move knockout any one fell two months you know i'm not going to clearer echo then in me ye then ogives so go out are you competent work on some be more
consume move that you don't do you throw out your best submission and don't use it so now you're going to be a go in through all these different different be goggolo you got into
creative same thing with hitting hiding a year move from different positions that he asked postwar like you for instance you just talk about the guetem a fan of a guilty but i do
geisen weird places i mean i have people about to my deity wind i'm in were it a weird positions at no use like me no one ever been tapped out villaginous got out to how did you
do that i how did you go i was you know across the side and i was yeou're but i had this going on so try your movesome different positions random positions do try things that
shouldn't work do right try a move that's a top move triform in the moat the move in the bottom trionto trifles i tried for cross a drive from butterfly guard to try as different
moves and you will start to create more the other thing that will free your mind is we you stop boring about tapping people out and getting deaf out and where are about progress
worry about creativity try and be more creative and if all you worried about is not to happen now your progress is going to be slow and if all you were to us tapping the other guy
out your progress is going to be slow if all you warned about his losing your progress is going to be slow so that's it mandilay one more thing i would say there's a kind of a
dichotomy here it in the one one side you want to be able to turn your brain politely often just do whatever happens and at the same time you want to force your mind to make
yourself do particular moves right leg so go and one of those you if you're going to think think about new moves or turned your brain completely off and let things happen as they
come in and let ryumin the will turning a brain it off and letting the monkind o it's as like your letting the who happen on its uniting that it comes with time more and more you
know like when you first start that to throwing happen much yes yes and also he likes an example of that is if you were teaching her class and you said he jackace here and you
know i'm going to do this sweet on you and you do the sweep and like i would defend it immediately and i go a sorry man and i have to sit here not defend the mood that you could
show the sweep riders and i anticipate instinct for me to stop that move or to complete instinct for me to grab your hand or it you know so that the way that's the way works you
want that ye do you want to be an instant you will you most to be instantial and if you have to think about him in real situations if the other person is good and you have to
think about what you're going to do you you're cause they are not thinking there they're getting that quarter second takes a quarter second too to process and by willieson pistols
they takes a quarter second feaste target according second to get to your host to the course i can get the gun on get the shot out of three quarters of a second so ef you all you
had to do was just drawn to you docorated gone or if you have gone to your head a course second gone so actually greg than other did that the other day and i thought about that
was why that's why this is resamond like he grabbed my hand well quick and i was like he did that sort of like i used to go from my house for disoun go as fast as you possibly can
to your holster once you get to our house to you got a lot down and but you can go so fast your whole tresriles to make up so of hack you know we asked that could my whole
stonington you get the shoutnight to get from i foist great chapbook that fast turn a grand my rahat like that old lytton that beareth again do little speed morton so yet free
your mind that to point your antinouses yes that way in learning a think it's it's actually pretty prevalent serenita because you don't know even though the move you don't know
why it works you know that it works cause it your teachers teaching it to you but even though like why it works so there are a show me tell me to step to do a walk through it you
learn another move and this move you learn you know he refines your technique you go roll you find out o pain that doesn't work when i do it this way or you in a wide doesn't work
siamani the kind a learner that i want i actually afishing i want to know is how does this work yet i want to know that before i know even the steps if and i want it and i teach
that way i'm teaching like here's the concept of order tritoma appen fear were trying to get their way over here so here's our going to get the way over the finians we get their
way over there that's easy to say he anoenoe your hips here to go on her back and whatever the case may be but for me to con the concept of what you tryin to make happen is what i
like to think about and it's one i like to teach and that's the same thing with combat you know an there's move that you're going to do on the battle field but conceptually would
eat turnament you know carlos it cover me is the most simple one you can capermore an infinite number of ways but if you don't cover move you're going to die and as long as you
have one of those millions of different ways of covering a moving and a yolk some guys would get really particular in my when i was born out on a training guys that are you can't
do that and and i would say well what what did they do that you didn't like well you know he he should have gone he should have moved first whether the other guy cover will ye
well why should the other had gone first well that's the way we taught okay well that it makes sense can you give me a reason not really are they covering a moving yes all right i
think they're good eye you are right they probably are hum is so ye he has it some it it goes along too very much it seems like anyway what you're saying about telling people why
they're doing what they're doing yes foodheated you git your right because if you do say grabbed their arm and pull it into europe you know neck so you can a sweep them but what
you really want to tell him is like lesson there going to put their hand out here for base arrivals what you want to do as you want to be ready to move it or move it and you only
have to get into yolante take their base away for a quarter second you i say that a lot i said a lot like people indigitate try and move the train they try and affect the other
person's body furnished in period time fiten second me for twelve eoster the hand it to them so they can sweep on in a hold it there for five seconds i'm in a hold it for a
quarter second cause that's all he takes for a sweet abital take surnamed to append it's all tastes were giving the happens that one quarter second in inquirers con as all your
trying to do and won't you want you are waiting horsecourser course i cannot you on m yep beingand do feel like that it's the thessians its probabilities a spectrum with
learington say some guys tausend to learn that way yes and then forgets tend to learn the other way at erling to spitoon i think it led beginning i know was for me and most people
that have seen in the beginning you just you tend to learn that way show me the apoudt know that everything you have now no gonlieu know alan even me i eohippi i'm probably pretty
far in extreme spectrum of let me understand the concept yes and plus or in vance though i think not o i was not in a well as if to getting follies like o ye how is this working
you want in line wasn't like show me how to do that was thinking how did that happened how why am i happening right now yow can i not move you know i answer i was thinking i i
wasn't think i show me the movement i was thinking what is going on pyeert high level rise you can tell by the witteth or the way that they hyeah by the way that they teach her
train you in tell it there's a high lot a guy on both sides he is high little guys that are like to like to for instance guys that grow old time room those the guys that one
mechanical nothing wrong with it they went world champions the championship so with that and in these guys that don't drill but they were all like crazy and enter games will
reflect that get a lover and chaff glover teamless ter same thing costobell's those guys doin a lot of drilling enoerey never do it but if you compare them to ah let's say
imserrha do menever calvin came in that delayest bone trill and at least from what i've seen you from a sea you know veesitin in his working a move and you like okay that's all
some tisdoin tonies i ant asked if you did so yea and i think at the inn when you become that good even if that's your primarily method of learning or training or whatever i think
when you gain ultimately like the understanding of okasise this is important to do this or important to do this whatever of even if you are a clinometer you the creativity part is
it's almost like its uncontainable it'll all wavelike go valor they do drew a lot you know what i'm maybe it was that who made the davit was literally called drill to wind her
like on one somebody that's really good made an adroit at right so that's the kind attiniata arebetter right gilling join jotan what the fitness thing is to walk to to respond to
what you just said is fact discipline freedom give you drill and drew an join you make those moves so natural the new free and him from all over the place if so you are right the
end that is going to be the same but there's going to be people on all and of that learning spectrum an training spectrum at one to be all over the place yet in some people want
like i don't like to drop an don't enjoy it maybe i did it some point don't remember but i would rather rolleville it's the again it when in the beginning it seems like what kind
of learner you are is going to show itself way more often just as far as even for ever ends and how you pick things up the analogies with the fact that there is a lot to be up
when you begin mosuto's much to learn to you like all you absolutely half the trill in noonoon listen me going to a joe's real no you had adjoin you start off you halogaland a
body again exceed if so yes i am talbot a more advanced says in it i think altus like o you said though i think that in time once you certain letting the move and in a given the
fact that you are rolling now you know some people they learn the move on the loyasa yet when you tell you learn whatever this guard passed to the arm bar combo right and you know
the steps and grabenrauber be guides your dear training partner your partner for the driller whatever it is you know he let redolent you become my ten out of ten in the drill you
get so good at that gurl you're ten out of ten when you go to a bideford lanes exactly right as you don't know all the all these dynamic very well coming at you so that's when you
gave me on the standing yes that's one more questions going to pop up at that need to be answered you answer and boone's your learning it there so the dealing yet for the butte
incapacity to beginning to enouie i i you talking about your all your hands arms legs his head everything arminell what even more critical than those things because all those
things are visit wisible you you can see them the things that are harbour to teach and understand as the weight mister beaton and the balance distribution those the things that
you cat you cannot see it is also one more which is the tension mister bethinks when i am pulling on your aunt when i grabbed your rest where i'm holding your rest i could be
putting tention in three hundred and sixty degrees right invination be moving it i could be putting tention now no one could tell which way i'm putting pushing or pulling or
lifting or or dragging no one could tell the yoursen but the tension you can't see the balance you can't see and the and the the week distribution you can't see and in those
things and that's why it's very hard to teach him yehallel the only way and again back to the tingitane with time is when you roll live with someone tending in the all these
different subtle difference in ariosto stuff you learned dean was teaching it or macbeth day you know i come basic or mark which i've probably sat there in the class of his and
been his ben his dumyat usan times and the somebody after question in then he was doused donorum and i realized something that he was doing that i never noticed before and it's
it's he's pulling the arm towards his head basically like pulling it telling it towards his elia and i mean in a pretty extreme way and i realized how incredibly effective it was
in eiwa holding it he's a hollington so like goes little things like that i've i've been as dumay you know just because he alsbald didn't remember he didn't think about doing that
step wut the way the question got asked in and even when he's on lockerian of times he you know i didn't notice it you know i just thought man he's got a tie on walk right but
it's like okay that was the detail and i never you could watch him do that move to me a thousand ties or anyone else a thousand times then you wouldn't be able to know that detail
unless he there he told it to you or you felt leouenathe's that hasting as graduate ditte's all kinds a little little as backs like that balance wekotanti on that you just can't
you can't see visual you can feel em you can feel em but even if i say hey echo it actually you can't feel all the cause you can't feel where i'm putting my weight if i'm putting
my weight into the mat on a from heavy over here you gave me that you don't know where i have is no no i feel heavy but where's my way on a bed of it my way is on you you can feel
um emanated the jet stettiner we have just a jugadores next question dug when it comes to leading up the chain what he do when you're gold aren't seeming to aline example making
money verses having him in embattailed here the goals half to a line they have to light it and furthermore they will aline he that is tascela pretty high up the change to make
this happen or you might have to dig pretty hard to make a happen but this is a great example right example is making money verses making an embarkin i'm going to tell you that
those two actually alike how do they alive well let me explain if you're company makes more money they will have a bigger impact right they will have a bigger impact so malet let
me let me break it down a little at mosioatunya big impact on a client right and so wicostu spend so much time and so much money with that client with that customer you're going
to realize that the company if your if you invest that much to acquaint retrousee unless that much time in that much money you're compactness now how much in fact to you have i
otanethi titienses zero i now sometimes the opposite happens and this is probably what you what the question is related to forinstance if we as a company we start cuttin corners
on quality we start cutting corners on customer service or on whatever the case may be we might make more money in the short turn all like to save money that i have not even what
we supposed to have ten people answering phone on a fire six of them were in at four left that means every one's waiting on the phone but now we don't have a good customer service
now with cartright a yelp review i was a hole for fourteen hours in his company right this aranian happens this is example so so now up the chain of command so before it was low
we thirty people in the call sentree the phone and that way everybody gets an answer within thirty seconds when they call in it with us macallan okay where out of business in a
month because we can't afford thirty people so now we have no impact the other end of the spectrum as we have three people in macalain them from calls de everyone after weight now
now no one everyone hates our company we also have no impact new so the the the the goals have to be a lined at some case and but there's a thing is it is a valancing it between
expenditures for the cost of producer the cost of reviderci you've got to keep that as low as possible so that so that money is made but you can't go so low that quality one
customer service and follow on business and customer relations you can't go so low that it gets destroyed in so you as a as a worker need to realize that your tire of er trying to
balance that and they're saying pay you can't dedicate this much time or you can't take it temetiu need you sedition with each client you need to get three more clients well i
can't give him the impact that i want to can't give him the focus okay can you handle one more claim ye i could probably do that okay where finding the balance that on an either
good rest rob business right restaurant business is a really easy simple one understand because the quality of the food that we get and the quality of the the the shafts that we
have the the more cost to buy the food that good food and the higher quality chaff and cook and help we have the better the food's going to be well off that stuff conmore money so
you've got a find that if you you could have a restaurant where the thibetan in the world it's eighty four dollars and you're not going to have a light at that place you but you
manyouema as your having to bet bernheimer gasha tisn't you're not going to be a business stand of the your imbaces going to be eronte side of the spectrum soumonneau cutover
deration corinth's yes what you're going out of business too so the gold are alineations profit equals growth growth equals impact now you know arter efficacies were someone says
he were screwing over come absolutely the which happened fargo right well fargo had a had a a play of that type of heavier and it was rampant throughout the whole company guess
where there at now there hearing the hurting they made a much money in the short term but guess what now they're not trusted so they got to do some recuperation but that's a class
oneale fulsome one from wells fargo might ask this question for you know a year ago before the story broke in said hey jonait in do some positive here and tottecan were michael's
arnienian and he would have been right and he should have raised his hand because what he could ascend was hay bossie keep this up were going to lose the trust and confidence of
the public and were going to be herding and the old have been correct so you got to find that balance pitches remember that even on the gold might not see me wine to they are a
line in the end omened to be did not say they always are what they're not alight the end yerrinbool going out of business men cause you just caught a sash of mayhem you you
destroy your customers or either through high prices or by low service one of us do things going to have to be owindia my to battening in that comes the balantyne dexia is you
next book a boutwell the we cat is out of the bag resenters because then the book is available on hums on right now the its called the way of the warrior kid and yes it is a kids
book but i am telling you i'm telling you is got lotis is this book is gone there's going to be a lot more people than just kids that learn from this book myself included so um an
ye know superintended it in the bank for a while but one of the things that happens we talk about the jocolate on the spot as he was he ran some atherstone great question if you
ran a your academy for kids what would you teach in a kind what went through what that would be like and what was cool was when that potassae out schoenefeld reached out to me in
said god to do this the sole also and were we actually are working behind the scene slowly to get something moving in that direction but i realized you know forming a school the
way i want to make it forming a gangewer i wanted to be it's a it's a big effort on financial effort but how do we help kids in the meantime right how we aeisomenon well i
realized beoni could do his right a book for finish this book that i had the idea for so that's about the hammered it out and this is the story it's it's about a kid kid name is
mark and when the story opens up he's just kind of finishing his his last couple of days a school it is ever roughnesses aviero time because he is well first of all he can't do
any poopit may not so like a big deal but gasha in his school behave little sis pests yeadon of thine they are sepian sold all the last days holdergate feel dead hawaii year so
they have few day so he's just one of their vents they do i still up to babes on everyone knew how he's hiding in the back and trying to hide isn't want to do the forfeits where
he could call out so everybody knows i can form they knew before some of them as confirmed he can't eat that can get to any but class feel trip guess where they go they go to a
upon think a lake and they go swimmin ree fun if you know how to swim marked e now how in so easy and now they know that too not only that with top of that doesn't know his time
table de what six times six don't know so of apamia he's getting bullies getting bullied by big canny williamson rigby who who who calls himself calomel the king of the jungle as
the jungle jeanesary she arigato horrible wise they school get picked on all that stuff and when he comes home he is reminded by his mam that his uncle uncle jake who is in the
sualtem's cure his giotto the seal teams he's going to be on a college after the summer so the summer he stained with mark and that's what happens so uncle jake you he cut a hear
is all these issues that his avon's problems and you can imagine what uncle jake said uncle jake said good you got problems those the problem can a promise we can solve right
there we can take care kitpooseagunow worked out oh you don't know your time table port you do study let me teach you out of study so ye bout flash card and let me see you do get
in a game academically oh don't now to swim dashare going to learn how to swim ohio you and you're getting picked on ode stop that real easy little something called you jesus
that's what happened the uncle jake shows mark how to be said a winikin to be a warrior kit both and each is out to be stronger than margaret and better and it also he he learns
about humility he learns about respect he learned about horace and determination and you know i i i wish that i had this book when i was a kid because are you scobell on tetebout
and that's what that's what i opinor a moment indignant fact on some people's lives and how hope that i hope that it lowsonford to get closer together and you know as i was you
know normally take a a a a a question for kindliche and you know i i i usually trying pick a question it's going to be myongo be backful right and honestly man when i was
preparing for this potassia doing the first couple letters that i read i was just at a point where i been think i'd be able to step it up any further and so i just wanted to think
about that you know you think about john bernois daughter and makes me hope that this can bring people together bring parents coster kids and help their kids moved down the right
path my because no matter what you think about life and the after life any mortality and whether you believe in that or not the one thing i do know it is the one thing that you do
leave behind is your kids so let's give em the best we can and get them prepared for life and get them prepared for the sunny days and the sparkling skies filled with stars and
left also get them ready for the challenges and the bolished rness so that they can survive and thrive and pass that strength of character on down the line and i think that's
doivent so ace charles i know it's been a little bit of a rough night for you to not bolengi maybe maybe we go on to night when you give your beautiful daughter a little extra
agnola a kiss on the forehead of your son and before you do that maybe you could tell her you want holtham be able to support this podcast silesia i for i go to deepen that let me
get egoisme thing what is going to be relevant to ye how work doctor cause a lot of people in the world just when and work out manage worked out to day but is a part is headlining
part am i drank some last night whytetee when he was your yeh i'll timidly but it winelofts where was a somaro a celebration of it was it ellistonian lilacina get into it now and
then a all shoot lemme tote me more into it anyway with just one of those deals in none the less were eminating on much sleep and drinking but i'm like night committed to work you
out to day you held a line of hills a line yet fully so i were going back to bed pre work out m total performance having its coat you know on it anyway the pre work of self from
my eye now we're going to wear going to see how this works under dress if you will a sanseeas too it camash the work up boom saint pat that papa sulking about last time was there
people mentioned the pop tewescope s real de anyway bump so amoral tonet story is or utowana can drink and as long as they have some of this so be good to go without a
eaheinoniauwe more i think and am kept in advenam he will if if i were to say that i would have to do utmost though i have to drink more time of sonachan a yes so we like the new
in improved echo ye a lot better rate oh but yet put a performance is a gull straight of go in the rotation brit is grow a letoile chill kolapoore once alphorn when needed
shreekin needed what other ones did imis oh ah where are you bartine's my go to that's my edie every day kick consumption not every carries anyway some by oddity you don't know
already i know i said before i say again for on it the best supplements not like power ganeienthon sand supplements like the forelopers that you know but you got to do the work
out you got to do get your rest you gotta eat good the supplements to supplement i think people were look that you know what let's make a a bar of good protiaon a good stake far
on we ascolto so that way o ye ever the eat good that i eating the yell yea mamma know yepifan now if you want ter if you like these things if you don you don't already have
supplements um but in and you want to get some supplements to keep you the extra you know the boost the pop in this case eh go on it dotcom ye want temper sent off throw little
flash jack in there again to herself on to art everything support the pot gaspare yourself and your gamester way yes another way they do it is tory do it meaning another way to
support the potation small but big and mason clicked through but that is it for you do hemianopsie whatever it is your but where there's a book that you were in this potashes or
anything before you go mathnaim god did jalousin on them as on batter then you go to your shelling so kind of support to a sick this three way of support than lena smiting him
back yet a good un um subscribe of course to a tune state jer gulpy writer of you an i doan ye that's a good rebates on support they youantee's obviously he subscriptions already
but in the event of your not satrape to its atravesaria that way whatever to do you an you googly goo nature there's another a i've been here made me but i can't remember what it
is some spot of fit is it that's something up that's a pocasset enough yet subscribe if it's on there a and a and you too corrupt out more videos on a more consistent basis i
think a put one up to the essenites very recently m and n e one o subscribe to the you too gentle watch the bees get up dates when a on the videos come out that's a good way to
supper too and an of course joculator called jocasta kin get cool stuff i think it's cool and i'm not saying colitur nothing seen go look on there we made an effort collectively
to put some castoff up there but keeping my nearin that my opinion that there cool if you think they're cool dan you get a shirt that what i'm saying and in the port that lay the
shirts is rash guards for juges or any god of his recidit love people you infer for cycling in cross that what not a argood for that a lad they look like ingelger patches the
alone came back in so that papaches back um some paper stickers and whiteshore income out some whistle more stuff i think i sport that i use for kinaesae if you want to support
that way and joculators this idea i feel like that's another three waste of port closed circuit deal let god get in that if you want if you like it and then of course
psychological warfare cat if you don't know it ihoiho paris it's in the albumin get and each track is when you feel we miss of like waking up like you in onoto days i'm i speak
from experience because i know a little bit about this the day where your kind o hung over a this is on timagami hung over may your titan get that much sleep may be a maybe a mind
as on something out and you like i know i told myself into work out to day but to day i'm not feeling i'm a ring to day into a rest day when you're thinking that like those
moments a weakness you listen to one of these tracks to these trecate er it's jocteleg you why you should not get to this is it i see your waging psychological warfare on your
minds yes louise missus bett are tradere himself in your mind and i can say with one hundred percent certainty that if your having a day of we or moya weakness and you listen to
this trap weather be your but to eat if you don't when you're hungry when you miss like a launch or lidang um hungry and you see like in you know in what are ye donuts or or yes
or whatever will your real hungry cats cathead her anyway if you having a moment weakness like that whether it be food stuff waking up early skipper out whatever losing to all see
with one unrepentant you won't you won't ask you flack well and there's also a awesome a ujong granted some one's daughter and she saying i shotinastasonta suderoe it is i i
firolidae again fail i retreated it is all some that was that was classic and and you can get it on high times what you can also get it on amazon dot came as i am as on music is a
long on him as on toit's on their okay ed you don't know oleoresin he wouldn't see very ashes big competent distributor that were were on waddesden i did choose all these things
and i i forgot that i went through that process already cause also focus on life i to know whatever in espied the fact is i end up going through the process and it did get
distributed through their but i since i don't use a man i use to eveley but i could just seems like davison i just did think about it what's good but i was on as it puts when you
if you look at jockied adolay extreme ownership it'll say way of the warrior kid and it'll say psychological warfare all right there for amazon from this very awesome tone do they
understand your desire because there's no way you boisot one low is right there you i have this is also a kitin the colt not to the grand slam order em all and ye also yes so
speaking that you give a jack away tea you've had it by now and you know the dealey know that you are you know that you are clean and jerk is just out of control and your finetta
to the roof a also for international orders by the way he to do this to is going to put some work on the resource and coming as denise you international go through e bay there is
oficial listing of jacopo cast you'll see that it's sold by pearl reasuring and day also like it says the shipping is a hundred dollars is not the shipping there is like very
asipping so they just got a cot that price but then i think they figured out letters tentas me about that i am but am yer what trying to get it to people overseas i'm not saying
good enothereae if also if you if you like when we talk about or for leadership on this podcast you can put pick up the book extreme osip right myself and my brother lay back
babinot and that's wot we talk about beershop in war and like i said earlier goahead gets him copies of the way in the warrior get dear the digtere oldershot muster is happening
may fourth and fifth at the marryat marquis new york city it's a comfort for people that want to get after it that's what it is leadership all the battle field in business and in
my fidessa battlefield of all for silks we have notary people that will be there we have police officers that will be there so their own battlefield right business obviously we
have business people a fire fighters there are very battle with fire but in its water it majority of its business people that want to get after it and it's also people that want
to get after it and lead in life it's gun a sell out we have a iffen quality no coniton astrateia executed later is better than a giengwatah videat soon and until then until the
master if you do want a cruise with us we can be found deep deep inside the into went on wetter on integram and it you anthat days marimolena one to agosh and i am at jackwell
inca and finally think seisin this pocassett you for supporting it with everything that you do to support it but more important that a getting in the game with us losing weight or
gaining weight or learning judiciously better guys like army that james kenny you don't what sixty four years old no factor surgery no factor torn muscles no factor three hour or
something communeth jim the train youatt no factor intrinsic will and discipline big factor cause james sixty four years old to go isobel congratulation james and all upon you
were out there doing the same thing military members out on the battle field police officers and the be fire fighters on the scene near doing the same thing smashing offices and
the rest of you in the war force working grinding through the day and the night to get your work done and still getting after the work outs and the family events and the judita's
thank you for what you are doing and for realizing that if you have the will and the discipline the opposite cools you face or no factor in they cannot stop you from getting after
it some one till next time this is echo and jack alton
