this is jacopo cast number fifty nine with a charles and me joaille get evening ace did evening there streams are the worst were more than hundred meters away on the other side of
the river but i can hear marines dying there are merveile hate a land mine the caught fire with fifteen men aboard they scream as they burn alive the radio chatter is desperate
almost a sterical nobody can get to them there will be no salvation only a torturous death in the frames from our position across the river we hear every agonizing moment then
conceive their funul pirate rising over the river bank i can do nothing it is the most helpless in raging feeling of ever experienced i have no way to get across the water to
those burning men you take forever for the last screams to fade away and that is an exer from a book called heart for the fight and it's written by guiding brinstan and if you
don't know who brinstan is you can do glim he's a son a father a husband he was the wc light heavy weight champion of the world he's a u v c veteran eleven flights and us but some
winds and some losses against some of the best fighters in the world is also a veteran of the united states marine corps with two toes to iraq as a platoon commander and as a
company axel and i am honored to night to actually have brian with us here as a guest mister brian stand welcome on the shelf i got tahatai have not been introduced like that
before a thin exerted book and i colonel seven laid eyes on i uneven now how many years i after get the ear we released it some powerful writing by a my ghost writer john burning
in edisto to memory tollefson's that we kind of buried deep down and think about you from time to time but ah certainly when ye when ye at times we may be i take things for
granted life it's good to go back to that moment you know and realize that whatever i may be whining about what i think is difficult that the time is at of what easier than it
once was and i need be grateful get off my button go finish ye i think that a lot of people he or you get you see the explosions take place if i guenon the wars that we were
involved in were the owl the main weapon of the enemy was the it and even when we made thicker have your armor vehicles or like tracts when they get it with naive it it might
withstand some of the impact this fire start in it it's a nightmare and this is a nightmare you describe right there and you know i want to get into that one to get into the
combat the that you experienced it but before i do that first of all like the people that listen to this show not every one even watches you have see not everyone knows about you
so just kind o give a little bit of a background on grown up let's take it back to scriminate absolutely ah so moved around a lot i was actually so born in japan and i ran that
time went when my mom had come back to the states but father left and so grouper east pennyland we moved around quite a bit ah but got into sports in the early age and i had a
phenomenal mom and and i think not having a dad really affected my sister a lot more than it affected me um but even from an early age i i knew at the military was going to be an
option from the days of being a young kid watch and silly movies like iron eagle nethersole thing they were not all iron eagle sillerton's a your class in cavite but but for me
there are there is always something to it that that rang as special to me and you know what i found it growing up without a dad you tend to want to impress every male in front you
have in your life so every time i went out for a team i want to be the harsh work or on the team might run through a wall for my coach and in it continued all the way through high
school and then all of a sudden plan high school football i started get recruited by some good school and not mad people in my family had gone to college certainly i had expected
to go to college but i never expected to get with crude to go place somewhere so that was a different experience me i didn't know we've handle it the best um but when the naval
academy came knocking you know i i knew that he wanted to go west point started recruiting the early as a junior i took my films my tapes to the naval again me there is a
something about that place and and i wanted to go there so i decided before i make a decision let me visit west point let me visit the naval academy in a ford a time paid all
visit both and make my decision when i went to west point one of the football coaches with supposed to meet me there never showed at one of the players took me around campus show
me some stuff do we still beautiful being greater than any yes great anteloper cities in america it it's not nice so you know my uncle my aunt and my mom the thought of me going
the nameless big deal on her my track coach and high school telling me bryan listen this is a big deal a great opportunity there's a lot of things in your life that can change my
by going here sabby i'm get recreates ivy leagues cools to and not the same and i don't think you are going to stay in a onestamente ossory track coach a bright eye so two days
later i go to the naval camminando my tape not the ante start her cruiting meat but those coaches were so nice to my mom and by doing that i was emania never of my mom they were
so verseful to her the water was there with so pretty of a don't nomini men and i had made that decision early that that's where i want to go and in focus on un that you had did
some summer school to take some classes to boost my epeos in high school just to make sure they netwire first on one great the neal cademy and so that that in intirely quick nut
shell football was a vehicle um along at my academics were good but you know having a a three five pain a twelve ten and your estate as it normally going to get you in the naval
academy it football was was the vehicle that got me there and i could remember promenide lifting weights in the weight room with my rented talks in the locker i was there all by
myself i had the security coat i was i you know when the only guy who worked all summer long was the only white guy where i worked in this tomato plant and i would work tell pay
for the high coenoecium my mom took me out of public schooling put me in this good high school because i got suspended a couple of times in middle school and it was one of the
harder decisions one of the best decision said that she made and pushed me towards cause the teachers at that school when they saw me having this opportunity they helped at let
help bring it the neglegently football but you know really get himself on a great trajectory and ah there there's not a day a regret at the redefined i couldn't stand me at the
nibley why anybody hated it but the friends i made a yapper unities in the pathway to the marine corps which i still to this day i don't know of all ever be as good at any job
cause i was a berenice i just i don't know that and we would you got there you are to day the type of football that they were playing in really match your your quarter back in
unit i was and so in the book you're saying the euryale din really match what they wanted to do no it it was a rodaine me you know i went there thinkin an a bein ex rodosto and we
all did and it all is nesert see all these other kids from over the country while they're good to heighten ever really run the option before and they've got guys in the prep
school terry on a year in the system and did that system in high school that can run the option said next thing you know i'm gettin moved to wider seven get moved to safety than
i'm getting moved the line back er an i have to figure at how to play these positions and it was one of the best lessons i ever learned as a young man where i had to make a
decision i'm in a contributeth i'm not going to be start i'm nockett some the best contribution to i can make as a leader are to help mentally prepare the younger dies to play to
my senior year o competing for the starting outside line back orficial and we had this young kid named bob mc clare who was an animal i mean an animal when you was uncontrollable
could not understand the defensively still wild man if so i alone knocked or anything he can but he was in anita's in engineering major really great i put on more on in football
is all right so as senior i'm an help this kid out and were in two itascan pete for the starting job in a helpin this kid out a third string and he's getting frustrated and then
all of a sudden he starts to get it and he starting to dress on and solletary i could see the kid taken not only my job at the job in a guy has a head on ewest you know the bottom
line was is i had to find a way to contribute value to the team abbesses pecial teams contributor but leadership was going to be the biggest thing i contribute it and and that
made me a very valuable member of the team that season and it taught me great lessons moving for both in the marine corps and especially now at my job if you aren't finding away
to add value to our organization to your team every day and you're wasting time you're wasting money and somebody's going to take that spot somebody will come along and take that
about i don't care how successfully you get you can't take life for granted every day you got to add value i learn that lesson early in my football coach my line back or cost like
me the most i was as favor i and he would admit that to me in a personal meeting but the one day he told me bryan i get paid i feed my family to put the best players on the field
foregoing help is wingate i really wish that was you right now but i not we and those are hard conversation to listen to but if you're going to be a leader you got a be able to
receive that information and find a way to get better yet you speak of that sir you you actually be fired the coach that you had your first three years a new coach came in and i'm
going to go to the book here it's your senior year two days are butorides detested by every player who has stepped foot on the on the football field that summer a new coach called
johnson used to a days to make a statement he made us protestor practising before dawn every day at zero for forty five we reported to the field and johnson's new coaching staff
beat us half to death with repeated forth quarters we ran we hit none of this no contact drilling johnson spared no one by mid morning guides were peking where they stood i lost
his or her no wonder why you posesion eleven he shouted more than once as we gasped in his offered cojoined no mercy when he evaluated the team he concluded that we lacked
disappoint and motivation he made our two weeks in august a combo designed to test our toughness and our commitment to the team and one point a wide receiver went down with a
fantom injury after the team doctor examined the wide out and found nothing wrong with him coach johnson demoted him on the spot to coach conicae in frog that he mannsell remember
your best then at the nilkantha what was called instant messenger and you get leave in a way message you know on your instant messenger and we did her fourth quarter drill i
remember our our starting defense p b miller he left he is away message he said to day i met death geschicke my you know what it was brutal and a stream that at is repeatedly no
wonder you went on eleven we were in naval academy football team in the previous coach had let discipline just run a rient onafiel in practice in the weight room in film you could
be hurt all weeks till start in a game that things that are essential for a military academy team to win and you you've got to be in better shape in other team and you've got to
commit less mental error because physically you're never really going a match up rod and we were making that air and and from all that chaos on the the real amazing things i
learned from those coaches o that staff is basely still there to day coachella was the office to portinaio when johnson laughed he is now the head coach but they taught me and at
as leaders to expect excellent every single drill every film session every weight session every conditioning there is a standard you either meet the standard or you don't meet the
standard and if you don't meet the standard there are consequences there's remediate there's ways that you have to fix it because this is the only thing that to go to north of war
going to move for you they get better you get worse every day getting worse as on acceptable and when when you take that mentality as an officer to what you're doing in the field
to train a hundred and sixty marines to go to combat all of a sudden aisarat more serious than win and lose football games but that that that holds true in business it holds true
in anything veris ascended and if you if you accept below that standard just once that sets a precedent that could lead to what happened before he got there i and and i've i've
gone back to the naval carpet i've talked in a team i actually talked of the junior class every single year and one of the things i always tell those coaches up gentlemen you guys
are putting out a better product as officers because you're here your job is to put forth a grateful baltet i've promised you and the staff the able candid officers as to they are
making better leaders because of what they're doing on the football field before they got there that wasn't happening well happening on the football field is making making it
worse officers and so i i still hold true he now coaches unpleasing coached the george techno he brought me down to speak to the team a couple of years ago and we had some great
conversations but a man he still he still that same guy still thinks he can beat me up that i cogitandi i'm not asking you in for your team mates you always say you can what me
you have to realise now there's not a chance but he is a not boy on telling us don't think i could hate you you rollo you know he might rosseanus this point to bring get his arm
up at ease still throws it like he can beat me as game a game he's gained the heart there the pope got on so you actually you actually talk about this in the book so he regall
that effort pain and misery made me a more disciplined human being it prepared me for the trials ahead as a marine infantry officer in fact many the lessons i learned helped me
better prepare my polton and later my company for combat in iraq in football and in a rifle company there is no substitute for discipline hard work and commitment if any of these
elements are lacking the team is going to lose the company will get shot to pieces and combat and men will die i learn there is no margin for error in both and the only way to be
perfect is to demand perfection and never brook excuses there you go as life i mean you know at that point especially then that is that is your world that is your life the
military so unique and that other jobs you can leave it five pinsioner you go home from work he i am no longer an accountant now i'm jimmy now i'm sar now i'm i'm home ever right
but in the military if you're bad if your job you're a bad person as kind of how you look at it unenforced irony if you're in a cover your not good your if this isn't everything
you eat sleep and breathe your weak hand man that's just that's just the kind of environment we have any and i always tell the stir when people look at me like i'm crazy i tell
miss story adimari in james brown no filiation with with the famous person and an jameson he was tough tough kid and he was in a machine gun post a watch an over a man avenue
approach and his job was to make sure the state clear at the best opechee a clear of ideas make sure nobody plants note there and everything was bull prefered him except for the
one slit where the two forty gulf went through and it was at a hundred and twenty five degrees and in people as asking where the rain so stream what you make statements like that
discipline commitment the everything everything has to be perfect i tell him the story i got hot james leaned against the rightful to get a little breeze through that slip in that
moment i shot head by a sniper and died to was amazing shot when we went up there and looked here i mean in a rack they had some very very good snipers we know right but not one
split moment i lost that marie and everything we do everything you do to perfection that's why you demand perfection everything you do because you are so afraid that they are not
going to come home alive and i had to tell my raises once i knew were lacking in some other standards is in iraq i made them stand uniform inspections imagine their attitude as i
made them stand three in formance to day and they were so mad but in leadership you can't do something like that without telling the why they're going to buy if they're just going
a hat you now that i told my solicitant stamping were not strapping down her animantum beselli when not cleaning our weapons raate mission it we should be not where are you to
form fully it back to camp bishoping you're so cool prevent bunch of fire fights if we don't do the little things right it's going to affect the big things and altamalia en is we
are going to die we are got a loose or the people were here to protect or going to die therefore i'm gonna do these uniform and sections in till all of these things are fixed
permanently and i am totally fine with you having me right now if that means i will deliver you home alive with the mission accomplished i'd rather you be alive and hate me then
you guys love me because you think i'm super cool but then have you guys die because a my poor leadership and my inability to keep you as discipline and keep you to the standard
of perfection and in that is something it's hard for people have in been in that circumstance it's hard from understand it really is but even in my current job running enomotae my
staff every single veteran they speak every conversation with her satin time you talk that veneer doing another practice interview or job is to help them find the american dream
to leave the military by their own choosing and now find not a job but a great career where they can thrive and if we take any conversation than for granted they may no longer
want to take our advice they may go out of the lone they may not choose the right thing and we failed them people give us money not to fail then your paid with other people's
money that they gave us help these vescians period if we are not doing that than you don't work sure any more i don't work hereinto period will find somebody else to do it cause
that's our job and so you've got to set that standard but if you don't tell the lie behind it he'll never understand that it does it mean that we have this this culture not like
my platon had this culture where we were all so hard corn there was no compassion there was no person either is no smiles as you get a test to look you can have an environment of
discipline hard work and commitment but still have a lot of love compassion in good times the fun the last load up you know it's great fun when you go and you train and your often
you no matter a lot of fun in ilmarine the an a hell of a lot of fun and you are of my discipline and commitment and hard work that's why they're on the top and they have a lot of
fun smile the end of every season everybody hates on nemine racinet's you got this section in the book that talks about ungranary now be liederheft factory right so there are to
the book all the academic classes a world will never teach any one to be a leader the cademy recognized that long ago and while we had to take courses on the subject we learned by
doing the academy is structured to provide the deseurout es in a wide variety of places and levels from the very first day you start as pleasand this is in positing what you just
said and disappointed something that i talk about all the hand an you are great as you know as i talk to you on the way over here to it i do all these i read these leadership or
not levibus that no book is about leadership there about combat right but come bates about readership so all these books all over every single one of them whether it's on ancient
roman military leader or a marine in vietnam or on army soldier an old war to they all there is one common thing that difficult discipline dismally there back to the book
discipline forms the corner stone of any military team and of course punishment serves as one of the means to maintain discipline during my junior year i learned not to be afraid
to meet out punishment at the same time doing so requires a balance of appropriateness and understanding that the wide you just talked about right there and this gin goes to
something that i talk about a lot which is which is the dicotomy of lorship which is in leashes there's opposing forces that are pon you in two different directions and both to
them a right they're both right it's right to be hard on your guides and maintain tricastini to love you guys and take care of him he have to balance those too and that's what
you're talking about right there that's where you were talking bout wen you when you talk about the head to understand why their being punishment punished back to the book bad
officers try to be bodies with their marines there's a fine line between getting to know your no didn't know the men under your command and bonding with them as friends it is all
too easy to make that mistake at the same time here's the balance at the same time if a young second lieutenant doesn't make an effort to know his men his aloofness becomes a drag
and will hinder his ability to command in several ways first he won understand the strength of weaknesses of the squaws morper ant he won't have the respect or the connection
needed to motivate and lead in the worst of circumstances men will follow other men into the worst possible circumstances if they respect and believe in their leadership like all
other aspects of command it is a delicate balance sir yer you're just everything you just said you say in the book and that's why you're talking about the leadership factory but
is interesting this is stuff that i'm i'm sure they tushed it in the classes but that's the stuff that you learn you learn it from senor and listened you are it from other
officers you learn it yourself you are for people in you go man ischiaticus not talking to us to stop that we learn ourselves to amontons this section of it concluded the proper
balancer depended on the officers ability to listen and accept in put while still making it clear that he was the ultimate decision maker that was the key a second tenant couldn't
be afraid to engage in frank and productive dialogue with his key leaders a platoon becomes the reflection of its commander he sets the example and this is from what you just said
it is your forteau his menomonie their own this leads to disciplinary issues and becomes a very slippery slope the only way a second lieutenant can have the more authority to set
a high standard is to set a high standard for conditioning and appearance is to steve example himself without conditioning opportune connotative its potential in the field of
grassiness suffers appearance breathed pride and reinforces discipline and a spreet a corp those that peleterie factory what you're talking about and clear those things you
brought from the football field or from the academy you pateret directly into your folks and combat they helped in and you know the marine core has a really neque circumstance
with a ofthe basic score every single officer goes there and that huge to isis huge standard then we go a step further where when we go to infantivorous that course was thirteen
weeks long one of the very hardest if not the hardest in the marine corps mentally physically everything you know anything that's come and everything's a surprise but i felt that
my instructors during our course were phenomenal and they were getting all the real time intelligence from the battle field all the training was realistic bought in terms of how
you relate to your marines from your junior and listed to your your middle rank to your senor and left it how you relate to the senior and listen from the battalion who work
directly for the battalion staff how you manage those relationships to maximize the effectives of our putnamites the eating get exactly what they need they they did such a good
job of that then you take it one up for her when i reported thurprithed rates it be remiss if i didn't give credit to guienne who is a leutenant colnerinn now i believe but he
taught me he was a true student of leadership and military history he would tell me all the time his craft is his hot there's nothing else he cared it's what he was he loved being
a marine loben an officer and he taunt me a lot about decentralized leadership hottonia age how to empower our junior leader said they start to think like you and you could
achieve temple on the battle field and in you can immediately see examples of marines i i call it in an i see it all the time the business won't i call it jailership where i am a
great leader if my people love me and and there the same leaders that will tell the people are a guise to day we've got to save thirty minutes longer because head quarter said so
look i disagree with it at the getico s but we ave to do it to let us sit here together now none of their people are actually going to work motivates me no discipline given
standard that they're trying to achieve because of that horrible leadership that not her angry at headquarters absolute there there their bad mad at the chanaan exactly needed
gave leadership and inconstantly trying to talk to people about that a game leadership of first thing of it is you think you have to be loved to be ineffective later if you are
effectively over the long term you will be loved but there's goin be intermined part where they can't stand you they don't understand things all the time of the regonnoitre kiss a
catheter emotional but over long term they're goin to stand that what you did was best the other the second major partage leadership is thinking hey i'm in charge therefore i come
up with all the great ideas and i'm going to make every single decision without your impotent i'm in a really try hard to make sure you knows i i am in charge that's ridiculous it
is not your job be come up with all the great ideas of the best ideas i received or from nineteen year olds the twenty one year old who had already been direct once had a great
siegert idea well i want to hear all about it it's it's our job as leaders to decide which are the best ideas to invest energy time in resources in an that's not just i get all
this befalleth i talk to different groups and companies well military leadership is different in corporately ershi why god what am i saying he that does doesn't apply well as it's
too extreme it is not your taking us to literal when with with with our warrior mentality here you know the the you do not need to be an insecure best leaders or not in secure
their secure they know that there there and all get a make the final decision but it empowers your people and you could achieve tembo when your decentralized enough that they feel
good about coming up with ideas sending them up to you to get back up for it and get resources behind it but also knowing it they can make the appropriate decisions at their level
because they know it your final intent iffesheim i want achieved you get a there you're the expert at the titiri i didn't tell my machine gunners had to work their keenest and had
a sight in their machine gun right i just told him when i wanted to hit there better than that a man taking the time to spend it with my marines in their different functions and
aspects and talk to them about how their there the expert and compliment them like that it made them feel great it does wonders for a leader to go to their level sea with day to
every day and in setter work there expect you to be an expert in all etat they know that right your job is different you responsibilities are different you you need to have
greater perspective but when you go to their level in respect what dey do and show them respect for what they do and how they do it man the powerful thing that that cantata make a
group of people so much better collectively than they ever would have been individually and when it happens right when it finally when you finally get there and can achieve that
it is it is awesome it's the most rewarding experience you could ever have an hard for people to understand his most people that well the most warding care you get from abusing
people now it's so much different than that so much different there's so much more to it than that ye ye it's interesting to that by the way or what your saying right now is
basically the entire book that my body lay fattiste after in her called these unterminated everything your saying so but it an that's why you know you've come up in a completely
different you know in the very coronation the navy and yet you know you and i have both i can tell right now basically completely a line we orsinis isn't it interesting to that
some guise don't get it any don't get it and you could explain it to mayotte man hey you don't need to make every decision and in fact will you get out in the firefly you won't be
able to make every decision you're goin have to let your leaders lead in your let that have let and the end they would listen to you and you could see a going right though the
head it's wild you wonder what psychotically you're going on in there said tomaso want to refound and a lot of times it's hay they got a bad review from this officer said this is
their way of saying you know a ah you know go fly kinotah their way of rebelling and i noticed that with some officers um and in some of the united i had edair lieutenant during
my second appointment and and he had this problem you know he kept feeling he had to be best friend with his marine he spent way too much time in the talk about a lot of personal
stuff they be out of a train nobody would listen to him he was almost straight mute in her when i had the fire and in her as a thing is a atellin look you're really good person
and you are most likely going to be very successful in whatever you choose to do so please please remember that it's hard to hear that now this is a very unique job and we are in
a very danger snare were already in iraq and we were a dangerous area the time and things were about to go south and i had to remove this kid now before things got worse and in it
was hard for understandin be o the name human being a great person but just not meant to lead a specially and in those circumstances but it's it's some people and i think it
obviously they have so many years drawing up in a household where it was so different from what there being taught that i think sometimes is the root for them to push back against
this type of leadership now you know i've been taught differently for years and years it's kind of hot did you just block it all out for the you know year and a half you've been
in school before you got here we've kiss with all this combat present to mention the hundreds of years of history yes i've come back experienced saying look this is the best wait
do it as insane no bumboatmen the military as a business it is a business it's run like a business and that the leadership there it about maximizing the potential of all the human
beings that you have on your team and how do you do that yes it involved tactics and in what we do is different but the the the personal the small unit down the largeliest is all
the same how dominant all the same and and you go around and you talk to different executives who are having trouble all you know this you know is the melanias and what they do
and what they do in this do and we were talking about the right here people the experts always one to blame some kind of process i think you're professing our formation flowed
wrong in the way that you have your work flow set up in the office space that's causing this issue in communication now in no year saying that because you are afraid to have the
heart conversations with the leaders were failing of which by your one of the leaders yesteryear failing as a business and you got these issues yet preordination of the problems
and you might need help square that away and that's okay that's okay well you know another thing i notice in business world as all aloof people in the business well they have no
leadership training so they've figured it out bevenolence ful and they've gotten by with good people and then they get to assert point where all of a sudden he gone away as
iconoclast more and you know if you go for six people that you know pretty well that you trust that all of a sudden you got a staff of a hundred people if you don't start learning
how to lead you're goin to have significant proves an it's goin to blow up and that happens from a hundred people to three hundred people in from three hundred people to the
thousand people it will happen every time and you got to train those leaders throughout the chain of command that all have the same understanding of the fundamental principles of
combat leadership with his leash the altoona interposes my old job in the eighteenth flinty bring enough for a great example dan quin is the current head coach at the atlanteans
he was a deep as cornered seattle ires head coach in atlanta and three his head very good friend of jazer whose obviously very involved i mix martial arts into talaloo broadcast
and i worked with them in an closer them and so jay introduced me to dan dan was looking to make the team cuffer and and here's a guy who was achieved the highest level of
leadership and coaching just like you talk but he was a great quartiano he's a head coach and he had the humility to see ow expert from army he went to different ports talked of
their head coaches he went to the military he went all over with you militias and get in vice and gleam experience in other people time and leadership to include i couldn't
believe it but here i am having breakfast the man here in his office or am in there and and you know there little cafeteria there were just talking leadership and he's talking but
some is individual guise and he actually listening to my opinion wanted to hear what i went through my opinion on this gurtha guy as he brought me in to do some marsh large drills
to make the team tougher but i gained so much respect for that here's a man has achieved the highest level he knows his in charge he's not undepraving his guy's noesis and when
they don't meet the standard there there's a consequence but at the same time he shows them the same kind of humility as he seeks out advice to get better every day because he
wants then he who you jones i know you think you're the best water severial but there's ways you can get better and you need to be humble enough to find them and guess what
whoopers and every drill the dues that mehetabel i've watched them work as hard as any human being a sin the football field always looking to get better marian the same and look
at the position of teams and now but he is continually done that he turned to navy seals laugh summer brought seals in to work with his team to work with him on leadership on
accountability and all this combat but leadership lutestring it into that lost a room and created this co he evenit that has had a tremendous turn round from the twenty fifteen
season to now twenty sixteen to the now well caniche again for you reciting my book we can ride we have re after northcote riga and you know my point is the number on the number
one characteristic that ras to have a humility if you don't have that all those things that you just talk about you won't do any of them you won't ever get better you won't listen
anybody else you won't take any vice you can't attentats a horrible thing um leny leny let me git us back on track sir to your life a little bit here ah why as you pick the ringer
a calli couldn't swim at that i and all i see an you know i thought for a while that i wanted to be a team guy playing football and in trying to be a seal to kate extremely
compensate you know seisho wetted the teams and mean physical specimen scalloped their incredible train for forty years then go and and dulleerin screeners ah it in for me not
having spent four years in the pool was costly communicate time for me to do this screen er to go to many buds it was basic and many hell week for four stratas cabs tough we broke
the ice in the chesapeake all that you know i trained for for two weeks right i still had a shoulder problem and hamstring prompt in the season i mean we should not get a while
was not going to compete with these guys for um but altala would attracted me was the warner racket started lot of my buddies were or in the march of that i played with that were
you know graduated before men i talked to some folks it were in special operations and seals and they talked about it and it's a smaller team to a little bit different whereas in
the marine corps the leadership you know very young age you're going to have forty some marines you'll go on to be a company commander at this love you're goin t get a legitimate
opportunity to command large scale units in and that was really appealing to me for alamanni thought that that was probably the best opportunity for me because if i was going to
try to then be a team guison to have to go in the navy is a service warroch then after two years hitherto years aerodrome get to but and there's no airting a seal as it strornary
competitive or in the physical requirements as officers to to get there a really really high and so for me that the marine corps had an amazing appeal and when he went on about
them require you went to alcantarino wasn't i i i did as nointels summer to a run o may runnin and i'll tell it i'll lotteringo the people at the naval camanas there hated the
marines re so many of em went there with a chip on their shoulder to this the naval academy there's no marine course stuff in its weener opportunity were really going to be jerked
and we had this greatly tenant colonel when i was a senior and we had all been selected are to told his look as this is not the real marine court there not representing its well
we've got a bad cropper right now that i tatarin to prove a point when you get to the basic school you're going to find that it's massively different and i loved it i love
everything about it i loved the diversity of my marines me we talk about race of races a big deal racism and our country is a big topic i mean there's consent battles on all the
the hollywood new sights going on about about race didn't exist resonance from all over the world are greymarten erigena matter of winithar everybody he this is so into the so we
we didn't care we had a missionary day we trained together we bled together and in it was phenomenal none of that stuff existed because we won together we suffered together and we
look beyond all of it it just hasn't matter in the military and it so frustrating to see it it matters so much here in the regular world here where where people have all kinds of
preconceived things and in some people out there acting like their fighting on for the for the better of of raclan in our country in their making it worse because they've got
their own personal agenda as they do it it's just really frustrating jewell i definitely in the in the military like you said everyone's wearing the same uniform in the i'm sure
in the fifties and sixties and even into the seventies it was a big deal at a stampedo the sit does it don matter there's its it's no factor one way or the other it's no faster
that it's pretty awesome ah ye win to the basso you are you got the stallite basic school for a little bit of time and yondennase legal stuff and will your stall that the basic
school your friend dark going on to payment am and all the sudden you got your class mates your friends your brothers are getting killed and you know i that feel on to be on side
lines um i think it's really hard to explain to people in and you do a good job in the book that all hilt a couple of times but ah i i heard this coat one time only on the town
out there as best i can but four for women like they have un intrinsic by a wadical desire to have children not all women but a lot of women let say in a lot of men having
intrinsic desire to go warm it on the why that is i don't i had it since i can remember having human emotions i wanted to go to war you know i mean when you're a kid the first
thing you do when you pick up a stick is you shape it into a gun and start pointing it at your friends and try to kill them right so here you were all the side lines sitting back
and and your friends are starting to kill how what it that duty or psychology it was it was dark it was psychologically that is the most challenging time perdone you've got some
one challenging your character in your honour trying to say that that you were something that you warnin i wouldn't allow it there were there easier ways to speed at the process
and i refused no way i know it happened and and during that delay with a very very dark period and it was difficult but you have to you have to slow life down sometimes gained
perspective and realized he look this is going to take some time eventually i am going to get there but what what really a turned into when the opportunity finally came progress
using my time wisely the war wasn't going to go away to morrow he is something you get this feeling your mind i command my friend rother dying their leading i need to be with them
right now realizing well it's not gone gone to morrow so don't be so anxious don't waste the time you have now to get better what can i do if knocking a let this stupid instance
hold me back from improving from when i eventually do go on to lead marines and so i found a way to contribute value i found a way to get better it didn't happen right away you
know there was a couple of weeks where where it was dark where i was angry but i snapped out of it because there's times and life where life in your psychology they want it i you
wanted be the victim right you want to feel like you've been wrong in the probe isis a lot of times when you go into that mode and you start playing the victim you never crawl out
you get stuck in that world to the victim you get stuck in this world that you think is all bad lock and everything's always going against you and you stop driving you know your
own life you got a crawlin that when when when you're when your mind is telling you to play the victim and to feel bad for yourself nothing positive come from that some nothing
did something specific snap you out of that mine said said you're her mom tell you something or yeast reata about that my lines right that's ere yet your mind sheeted me my my my
mom is the sweetest woman in the world to be teepectipac time in my life where she was extremely hard on me but when have mama stay and a wearer right times are you a hemerocalis
such a push over em but there are times where he you're going to fight this understand me you're going to fight this you're right that's it and and you move forward and and you oh
just like we all owe the the frenzies there are many different ways that we could remember them that we can memorialize them some people choose the wrong way in my opinion
substance alcohol depression enow that they choose more of a victim mind that way of of remembering them others choose hey there no longer here i can't bring them back what would
they want me to be doing what would make them proud i take their life for granted if i use them as an excuse to be idle and fail right but i am a moralised and if i remember them
speak their name and talk about them as i move on and i succeed and and i still think about that i think about roianer i played football with who died now kim irac i think all
brethren who has chilled any state football tail gator before he could even lead his platoon to battle and those incidental again while you're on a side line and the other thing
you start doing right now at that time period is what is that saying when he when the student is ready in a structure will you ended up at the marine corps the martial art center
for excellence start training a dead i ran in to to a colonel named joikun who is just this phenomenal guy all about character i mean in his sixties can out run all of us i mean
the pitiless of point desolation and he brought me and i started work in there and i i got further introduced into marshall arts and i loved it i found a this's what i should be
doing in my free time i should be in heavy bag as he betrayed i should watch and tape i need to be with a not reading military history and warning about my enemy i'm doing this
stuff this this is a type of stuff that get to keep my mind sharp and then i got intrigued i wonder okay a little leavenings and comment in a lot of these books that they were
making us read on killing in somebody's books that that might be your little of on the psychologist the psychology of battle of dry sending just brutal giaour gone yourself before
to get shot i actually negative i'm not going to be romilly's i wondered how right well what can get me ready for that antihysteric i this master guttersheet was a really good
kick box or worked at this marsh are contracting master masons will you train me for a fight can you get me in like one of these these martial arts fights on town yes sir a angit
you one you ginshop up yes of course i get a show up i don't know sir i got a lot o you officers that don't so he was like an visinara n the every morning and five in the morning
were trained at night six weeks is findin know much right i've got got a black belt in the recamara arts program i that's an arm bar from the guard and arboreous must we and how
to escape the mouth and i don't i've never shrived before mary i don't know a batter flygare as i have no clue at half guard is all right i've got a jab filoselle a lady for your
first eaten a lot don't use it no that was a black that was glad alegousin your stain this torrent so i did as you is my first answer fight we weigh in and the guyder the mede's
got the same hair cuts chuckle down he's pretty ripe and and so you'd wagenheim days to fight so we all love now is time to eat and then you you come back and so i come back and
i'm i'm warm up and easain up yet not only a little sheet that they hung off a bar in between us and our fight competition and this guy may not show up for this is the perfect
scenario for me he isn't show he was scared i go out with all my marinetti's in the crowd romantist people at the skitten murther to watch me and as it makes it warren so ah he
shows a man he's warm en opistathonos like look at through the shielings to you not in feylike on his tarphet starts and in this dudheens me with the worst spinning back fish
you've ever seen i mean slow motion off balance my head so big anything at tertiani blankets is to spin back this instantly getting bare seedcorn at me of gresivandan now is that
decision point okay i i can mentally break down kind of cover up and get out of here if this is a little uncomfortable for me and if that point i kind of snap and i got mad and so
i go to try and take him down which i have no radspoota full on rappeler m my waist and he is hammerer's got your he antistite i met a few the life going on the migone no and i
can hear you cornerman yelling tom it's his wife ramony my diatessaron the first one mantelot to a fact cuckleberries wife fairness in carriage happen i've find a way out of the
choke i kick him in a legislator and like that night crackman the forehead i split his head opened the doctor comes in as a no a month that is in the fight over and and i had
there was a bunch of vietnam vet in the crowd and there hammer and soon i get out these dews these guides he's crossed he fell as throw their arms ride still in beer all over me
there their feed me to go there put the bear at my throat from their cup with the genitive to scuse it for the titillater that moment on i was hooked you know it is is this is
what i should be doing i had six weeks of fight on my mind if i can get used to that how how will i deal with the anxiety of of unprepared for battle he were on petrol you know we
a contact what's armed action or were going to a major operation come been six days i have be able to think clearly on the battle field direct lead played chess and so i thought
man that this fighting thing could be a key it could be a help and it it certainly did not end up being that but it ended a boon my sanctuary threal it it was it was kind of what
centered me i brought piped to racers time you know i had one or one of my sergeants to pregare would train him between missions i would train my guise to that difference troosers
and the and the marine gorrubt tie fats i brought manatonline in room sterilised budget is much mightier i almost aversion you know and you also get a lot of resting drills with
with travels manias one of your one your bodies and so he helped you out and there's a there's an interesting part in in the book where you talk about you and travis or going to
brat whom you just talk about your going to his funeral this is the gyusha at some little scuffle way on state telateuties the chest git you guys are going to his funeral and the
rest and coach tells you guys to right your own you as estorels for yourselves interesting drill sassi's an interesting drill joe sherith is the head coach at the navel cademy
wrestling team right now and it was wild you know so bred harm was in rain in fanshawe's in thuriae second rains which would be my eventual detain went an encysted or there some
guys there drinking and driving and at anasthetic in so day him an his body from chicago civilian ran out from the car and stopped them and they got in artiest ousedom be driving
the guys get up he started a scuffle breathes buddy bone came back a couple hours later shot them both point blank ashore buddy in the face and bretencourt he shot the chest
neddie and so he was interesting because as we were right in the houlagou know me and travice were so close and he was a watatic rustler in one of the toughest human beings to
eiver known in an what we used to do each other was ridiculous training may of his long as it was standing i would i would just destroy him as soon as he had sickened one attack
me on the ground i was a gettin up any more he was destroying me but it would just go back and forth for hours and instead of playing viega drink a beer going on hitani's what
mean traversed do on a friday in canary night and it was really tough when you really start to think what do you want to be said when it's all over for you how do you want to be
remember and and i remember travis he really struggled with this struggle i mean was imesse loud talking about that a real son the plan it was weird and imparted with because we
were to struggle at the fact that you know a friend is dead royou know for such a weird circumstance yet we could understand it with an idea sniper somethin this and you know
several years later it was while but ah you know joe share when he would give trapesing he brought that story a travestie killed in falesa and i remember driving up the traps of
sunrain ah ye travis's one lose guides at you just you just never he can't die he's decius too bad he's too though he in smart too good so ever driving pins hunknown had my my
wife there with me in an shoes at try to make plans there twin sister he were going to be in town we would north carolina let's get together this week end but her twin sister's
husband didn't want to get together there was a part of me that didn't tramite a many get there and were all going to unhang out to night and i remember when i walked into that
wake and i actually saw him i mean it it hit me like a ton of bricks it was brutal i i i loved love that guise so much and we carried a benedad but ah you know it's just it so
crazy how connected it was because ronins died and all kind my rack and three days later betharan died at that antistitum we would go to a bread harmon's funeral righter on
eulogies which gosherd who had ten and a giving travenion has he has actually eulogy and i would carry travesties grave i went to a kimaran and actually replaced runnison and
turned over with the replacement potenciana who took over for and when he passed while i was in infantries gappatin killed in elusion and i got this a little at our but when when
j p died i found out rape before i had my last amateur fight i was in infanteers and i'm getting ready to fight in two hours for for a type travis man with my quarter men and were
in the hotel room and he got a call and they looked like he'd seen a ghost like travel trong he has nothing to do taylor the fight and we had you know we'd gotten batlike no i do
sometimes off what they all happen in a travis told me do japanophiles said travis to tell him by jap's death i turned over would jap company my second or remisit all of his old
marines all this on petunia's such a small world that we lived in breathed then you know and insanity little paton commander no book i had pictures of all them and before every
mission i would flip through and you just think hodoi make them proud before every fight i would look at their pictures and look at the picture memories how do i make a proud how
i make him prone still thick about it to this day and in i and a lot of my speeches on this you they no longer have the chance to live who am i to take this life for granted
because they would give anything that one more day their family who give anything have one more day and i try to remind myself of that all the time and you don't have to serve in
the military to think like that people looking to will that extreme well who will you off the your life what would make them proud i how do you truly memorialize then it certainly
not the failure it's not to being idle and life live a life of substance not just existence and that you know as you do that you remember them that makes them proud that that
makes it that makes it worth it you know it it's very similar said that final scene and saving private riot or is like did i earn it you know and for those was soon served and
were in those crates circumstances are for those people the people that were in tragedy for they were in caracas they lost people they think the same way they think a lot the way
they do that we do when when we look at life and taking things for granted in achieving every day adding value it is darkness in the world regardless of a past regardless aware
you are you um you know speaking of your combat tours i want i want to kind a dive into those little bit and let's take you take over your propeetiate commander now back to the
book here during her first tuneing my introductory speech lasted less than two minutes were going to be aggressive i told my new command were going to train her as is off and
would be edward going to work hard or in any one else in the medallion that was it short to the point all business what more they found out quickly i wasn't kidding so you you
guys work hard you get prepared you nepoed to ilka would you just talked about that's where you ended up going and i'm jumping ahead a little bit people going to have to read this
one book themselves but you're you're a basically now setting up poision all the bridge you enabling force from his bridge prevent any me from consolidating the orante area
whether is another operation going on and i'm going to the book mortars began to fall on our position as we fought back i made sure that are vehicles moved from one spot to
another so the mortar cruise would not zerina from a way that ran perpendicular rout ambrose era insurgents began lobbing rocket propelled bernadotte the rocket ersite all round
us then another heavy machine gun let loose this one sided on the north bank as well we were caught in a hundred eighty degree cross fire from my window i could see corporal
delator and brave one they were taking the broth of the fire and delator briefly dipped out of the turn as bullets bounced off the hum vis armoured skin then i saw his hand pop up
above the blast shield holding a video camera he takes a rare kind of cool to do something like that in combat and infantry petuntur ask it to achieve a fire sterior ty over the
enemy to do this requires pouring it on the insurgents until they are forced to either disengage or go to ground on their even driven off either driven off opened and place you've
gained command o the fight and can dictate what happens next even with the tank i fell to met you at entangling with you an end you a hoot the book have the same deep love for
tanks that i have had for torarete but i i love thanks even with the tanks in this case we didn't have the fire poundage control this battle there were too many insurgents
shooting at us from too many different places we needed some help i reach for the radio's had set began calling airstrips within minutes he recollects thundered in an seen to the
deliver deadly accurate hell fire messes in a targets we identified so was this situation here without me your first big combat scenario it was it was in a thing that made it so
difficult was there was another platoon a sign for that mission right in and they got standon the gaudolino my right on a the mad and in so we didn't get the opportunity areeke we
we intatte opportunity look at overhead imagery of this terrain we had nothing i had fifteen minutes have there not there in fifteen minutes urago so in that fifteen minutes i'm
brief on my guide were getting ready work now were meeting this distant cruiser boys ida we never even met them i mettenberg my as it never worked with them before you so there is
a lot of confusion that took place just in the interrotta as we got the settled and started identified target in his you know in that scenario the acoustics and in the movement
the monopole we are the most precise military in the history of this planet so we not only have to identify where is the gun fire coming from what caliber do i believe their
firing back or at us with cause that dictate what calderillo to return fire with depending on where the shooting at me from are the indigestion or to the river or the shooting at
me for a building where their civilians around are the shooter a watch were now i i can drop hellfire on that ianito watana's a lot go and through your head when you've got four
vehicles two tanks and aircraft or try to control as a twenty four year old kid and everybody's waiting on you to say what's comin next just like in every vehicle there's another
kid in there directing everything near doing and in the thatthat is all part of the hat that was our first our first time when delator i don't put in the book when i said to him
over the radio i mean i might verbally almost chilled him through her idiotikon a shamil son of a bit how oft the story on the popes but this i do somersaulted again right now
cause mikhian serounded up ginkie and in remote metalina ah i went to go to his hole station we was in the guys like ages mike's video and is lakono i think of otacilius mike was
a heavy weapons gone and for tireman forty eight and so i go back and do his ill word camper the many and go back and to socotoro suffolke mighty leiser let her video and he
violating that sirenwood is lit airean he stilled the video and there's a mass of fire fight going on in the moon obliti of of remote and he's got the camera of and you can keep
duckworth matheney thing and he gets on a showin me in and it won't point me in the video he he turns the camera itself negletto lois is this grass it might be and this we get
done and of course i'm all or or and i do say my brow would you do an out there you know erindring you need to be on your pig gone kitten grounds down and kill in bag guys he's
like sir but i'm sorry i wish i was winchester be had no more a anotherand at a lion i your giray five all you want if you go in chester but i littered out was like you
primordiales out that i was so mad so mad a another thing let me just give you this prompt and you're going to hear this too an when you when you get off this poassible on to hit
you upon social media you're going to hear from young so yearn from soldiers and moraines tatoroes in questions cause they listened to this and they get knowledge for it is there
anything that you didn't expect that you wish somebody would a told you goin into that first fire fight for some one that's in basic training right now or or activate score right
now then thing that you benefice you give him yes you know a few things you know one don't go in there guns of blazing ran away because it in that circumstance the sound is
actually one of your better indicated or wore the gun fire coming from cause anethe is blazing you're not going to see a muzzle flash it's just as an exist right the other thing
is when you when you are keeping your vehicles mobile that doesn't allow you to look in on a tiny system with a heavy machine gun see you've got to be smart in the increment that
you move in in the formations you move in and make sure that your your machine gunners have drilled that sweirer do tiny drill till my guise hands bled and not just that the
privorec gone everybody in that truck of one goes down the other comes up so that it when we moved on taking quickly get back on that same target because basely with that became a
game of his use suppressed apposition were the two forty golfer immediacies gun until i can talk the tanks on and then the tanks they don't miss it's off commiserative game or and
we dug in position just a one of a lower and watched the ship flying look guemenee em but that that was one of the prompt on when we went in and we start a receiving some gun fire
everybody start shooting fire where we guidotti with but then all sorest of mother positions we can't really tell because of the acoustics until somebody actually hits waited
organ hit for back here too and then some the interment my my drivers would move in they moved so much that it was no longer a small adjustment on the tiny fat machine gunner now
they've got to get out of the turret exposing themselves to work that thing in and because a clatter damage you can't just work it in send some round outrage books i hit the
building ten feet away you ooted to do that you've got to get that sucker into where you see it on the sight and then you could search entrons down while that guy gets to shoot at
you because you're so concerned with collateral damage and so drill drill drill because a mortar dropping on the top of a of a hum by is not a good thing and they are more
accurate than you realize that these the enemy out there has been launching mortars in indirect fire for decades where you get a little bit of amoong four hundred on you know how
out elsemuot the palms from marine's at inaugurated to do what every day for real dependeat bedott be good tegeloo one time and and human life does it mean anything to them but it
means everything does so they get lucky on time and there's there's the the way goes not to wake combat is maso you get done with that and and tank its an i d you need to find out
what's going on and basically there's a there's a burning aromer going on a sudden let you exposing drowned out all other battle sounds the ground rolled and shook as if the fall
windesan clasped beneath us a head of male stroma sand dirt smoke and flames boiled skyward before i could even ask sergeantes voice came over the radio more him one of the tanks
my column break to a stop the explosion more into a dry a into a small dirty brown mushroom cloud over satterangees and on no way more did that that had to been in massive ed
lumiera over to me i have no camstearie for matoaca trying to find out what's going on the tanks and fire and here we go back to the book i took a deep breath and ran for the
burning abram i took only a few steps before i saw robertson frantically waving back at me we are sorry waving me back just then a line of bullets stitched across the sand about
ten feet ahead of me i executed my best football shuttle run and dasarupa three laid down suppressing fire which a loud me to get across the open space on my second attempts
an'somer ove and oetanata in the books of the dock about all time isis the fundamental the fontenette that's the that's what it is covered move than you guys a doing a right here
when i reached roberts and he shouted when stood two wounded in there we had to get the men out quickly a climbed on to the tank middlefold a short tattine later the incoming fire
was heavy and more than once we had to duck behind the turret so didn't your kit your game on brinstan i can hear that the funny thing about it was i was trying to maintain a low
profile when i got in the tank there's stier's little riot things you can hide behind and the driver said the person deepest in that day and and we couldn't get him out he was the
last one and an e's a bigger guy and i'm a trying to lift to a strong dunlee weight tells ieracidea a strong bigger guy than i am right now couldn't get him out and i couldn't i
couldn't erstand why he's looking at me blood old mesais taking so long and in an isn't say it that clear mean eases odd it i didn't know at the time he was paralyzed for the
chest and so i realize you ontowega is if i cut my leg underneath me and that's going to create a target and so you think some of you think him silly things in combat and i just
thought look so many get shop by these guys with the last thing i want them to see before the hetman that's my rear end so and i hopped up i i face that right towards the slip i
honestly think i think it would save me yet you'll talk to to people that haunt and the terblans bock in their sights huge wreck and it's such an easy shot at their so excited
that they pulled the shot and they miss well when i've got a cellar helmet on i will ruin space ballamacree he he how are you so head sitiwation gavarine if some one trying to
snare me or they're trying to shoot you with a mean machine gun and they see the oncoming this due they missed and i squilla we literally you know we we almost collapse off the
take and in land on topino guying god of down em but the only thing i could think of me obiter fowelenes don't think i got shot and did you get it he didn't get it and we were
able to get him all but that was that was a thin happened to sometimes you just get lucky and i think i presented such a big target whoever is behind that trigger just straight in
leigonyer to a ayoways enemy seize it down to vehicle in is like a bullet magnet the fact that you survived that is ridiculous and yet i must do tosimi and lock and everything
else because when when the enemy sees a target like that man they just poor fire on to it because they know there's treating tolcarne situation for us and they almost always have
a cameron it to the thanerer the tatatatatat didn't i couldn't find it but they study film like an flensed film and sometimes you find their footage where they didn't even attack
you there just watching what you're responsible to see what they're going to do next to one underestimate the evil in the detail that they go through may be ometepe decided to
delete that video because the use on to get so much trouble and the latin thereagainst this guy look i had at hand to notice so you call in actually calling a helicopter stakin it
under fire don't take any hit some high maisly have been eve not been able to find who was flying that he i i never was able to find out and i mean i wish i could that that guy
who landed because a whole squad was taken out a few clicks to our east end there was no meat of aperns and this guy may we laid down the butterfly trigger so that he could land
but man he showed some guts he would in fired had they got hit and had at helgunda but he didn't care he knew they were a marine there that needed to get out and edit now or else
he was done and and he landed godale off right never saw again i antidote that's that's a real godamar as a renault and in it a hue of all fair at hewing um that took some stones
and i wish i wish i could find that person who will hither his pot gasp i shall i hope so now you get that back to base hiatus run and you guys get back ye great we survived and
then you get red to ask you got to go bring a ma weapons or sorry am a water fuel back up there and this was an interesting i i got this i can abought en up earlier but back to
the book just before he rolled out my alveston arrived back at all can after a very dull day covering the jump off point for the assault force task which crossing the afraid they
didn't counter no opposition and my bravo section marines quickly busted out the stories of our busy day much to the jealousy of the rest of the platoon so i trying explain
earlier so these guys you know de guys were in a crazy fire fight almost get killed he got guys get wounded they come back to the other other squad the he had no action and what
are they to elusinian quoo forth aggressive agrarian one of nothing more to get into the fight they lobito go out on this run but i etithei idea sergeant pitmen knew the terranan
we needed that experience to shepherd the two trucks to the bridge i told my alphesiboeus in the days to come but i knew as we left the wire they remained on the base frustrated
and anxious that just tells you what the marine corps is an all about hated me that now i'm sure headman okay so you do that another hell on and again a bonarense book people can
buy this book um and reedbut when you get back again another just crazy on it when you get back as what you got to go back to the bridge again good times sir he go back to back
were going back to the bridge to night i started alfanos couple of fights they were fresh and eager ready go in the fray right now bravoed all the bragging rites and that was
driving francis's men not when i broke the news i like the sport when i broke the news i saw no fear in any one's eyes just anticipation and excitement be careful what you wish
for i thought so again mrinalini go and you go out again and this one again go sideways yours up all your nine mole and as this one got ugly quick and you know we expected it to
but there are there are things work and against it a little bit and that we had to go up to the tank that they that had the catastrophic kill days earlier we had the go up there
an recoverin leave them the battle throw and so i had never even i'd never know what a mikerobes hacos i learned that nermada wellies with no guns it is basis it's a mechanic
people they go fix the other tack or they toloso we are going to meet a tank section of two regular even tanks pose this mihianchora vehicle in the middle of the desert here is
hers your gradillo an a kick my order there i have never even met these marines before a by the way here's your duction to my alphas action by the way to where on a hedge straight
north and try and catch him do i surprise and and get right up to the bridge but i told him look this area has been heavily guarded so be prepared well this master stared who
driving the mike's me no hay sir just seeing no one we get on that ass all this they only go go but ten miles an hour at best was he heard way one word good on sand bewegter fast
on an asphalt like well you want to go on saying you know what they burano it with the veight in force there so men we had the line eparture we head north and in a opened up on us
in that my catetios crawling on and my section the recess are france has the clegett or peg just miss by anaide but the back of the peoples on fire and and when we're getting hit
the tank start returning fire and hears another really good lesson for for young officers and in indiciums and general when you're fighting at night and you got nightingale on and
antenor fire into these building fright they were shooting down on us neesings she nethewode the tanks are dentate identified targets in their taken him out the debris heavy the
the material that these buildings are made of its very heavy in blindness couldn't see now because all the damascenes did and my leavil blew the turnback of the vehicles on fire
they blow the turn so we all below the turn and lengbach up and now as i looked down the block head i could see these light blinkin which typically tells us it signaling an ambush
there expects to go that rope adhesion time and he got to be quick so that time or but there were a ayleston the comoro nd the tip the turn will be nowhere to get right to the
people that need is right that down tank let's fight our way through the chill only cassimeres that time is when they let loose those southside the iles and one got through our
primaner and man i have one of the marines actually filmed that explosion and a man stoorie fami heard that explosion at just the first thing went through my head i just got five
kids kill a mediately sufers thing that went though my head radio silence and in everybody who aintree no crying there's no morning there's no time at there's no hay steps or in
roberts and you take over no i mean after that thought my next my next day needs to be me giving order out of my mouth and moving people forward because we don't have time to more
right now and in so mealy i set a primate with the tanks i stablish michoel's goin to be the topical for our donteither the casualties on to go where the carman and i get out of
my vehicle i push it to leaders do we go to the point frecher the point of reconnait my vehicle is just hit with a suicide vehicle man i get there and on top it is stony two year
old kid jeff lamps built like a number two pencil right he was just in this vehicle i mean this vehicle is destroyed how he's conscious i don't know but he's on top of it poor
gunner odometer who's got a piece of shrapnel in his head bigger than that book everybody in the vehicles everybody's wounded but statores comes out in the whole side of his face
as melanesie sir were going to be good were going to be i was never more relieved in my life there so gesho at francis is basically walking but he's not totally conscious yet the
bullets of the god i got her rabourdin the beagle first second teodoro course but man to to see lampson this kid who actually you know had a little bit of an attitude at the time
with one the guy's either correct an awful lot hairs a little too long he tried to grow a moustache elusees kid you look at the men you would never imagine this is a warrior but
in this time and need i'm telling you man he was saving whys and it was so humbling and so motivating to see that and we were able that we got everybody in that mikadesse got the
tow got out of there and men we called in a mass of air strike and in and we won but we didn't pitch a shut off that's for sure and in that the hardest part of that would when all
my casualties are loaded on you even were not doctors we have no idea when you see a guy with stratonice that you think they're done to my marines they think we may lost two or
three of these folks and their down and as far as i know where it there to fight for the three four five oars that was gash right that havisham was adwise was he walking wounded
was he so he would he would come to he got shot as landstealing em out of the turkey get shot again in the elbow as we were ponawtan we got him the medevac and and he was just he
was governed with he was curse i can't live a life get as i can't live he let them get is blamed himself for the suitable to get into the deland i told miss it is my false knight
your fault and ah but at least he was talking her but i mean this i you know this is this is pretty freaky when you see a piece of metal and some of head just like this i don't he
couldn't see himself and i nobodynose him an older one to say hey reach up and touch with in your brain ray now am but he was gone i mean once he left that day we didn't see the
rest of the planet and seem until till i had gotten back and the craziest thing is we reunited for an episode of ultimate insight or with the u s c and either really know what
they were after and this disorder you know asked me if i could get this guy there you and you story with really going to be honourable to him this amanani was right but at the
same time he sittensen he's asking this marine had you blame brinstan for this half an angouleme this frame it was i lost was dark and it was difficult it was lawlor for both of
us man because you know forges it he lived right and andy's got a family now but that they manahatta piercing hedassar struggles with you know in and out a calm trying tex on an
old you know we were as numbers at um he's a great warrior great debut the pain he lives with every day a man at that this never going away he had i think four brain surgery after
that reformer eries unbelievable and he was blamed in himself courtyards do you know you you got a rat of that dear go and back to the book or unit three demaruns is known as the
bit to bastards in nineteen forty three to be talian took part in operation galvanic the invasion of tara the tien was the main target of the landing force and the marine face in
the intrenched enemy with pre registered fields of fire on the beeches position know what that is as an actual nightmare when the enemy already knows where their rounds are gone
land when they fire them in a worse case nero the first as always were nearly wiped out by machine gun mortifiers they waited through the lagoon on to the narrow beach the tootsey
six hours to keep clear the island which was barely two thousand yards long and a few score wide over three thousand reins and sailors died or fell wounded during what became the
most ferocious close quarter battle ever fought by the united states marine corps that was the legacy of my unit a legacy of determination her aways and stoic resolved in the face
of unimaginable adversity on may tenth two thousand eight my marines proved they were cut from the same cloth indeed is so humbling when you watch these young men from all
different walks a life you have some of them only citizens the united states for a couple of years that point really diverse backgrounds and tis not a gang full o white people in
itier diverse at any natala and man when they're getting shot at there was nobody duckinfield nobody eareing after there there love and care for one another for the mission for
people trying to destroy their way a life it it's it's on to irontooth their self less act in me what they'll do it and in this was more obviously direct engagement against an
enemy right but that there i've seen them you know just like lamps and with willing to sacrifice himself to save robert gas right i've seen marines do the same to save innocent
iraqi its the same care that they had for one another they had for the people that they were there protect neces lost a lock when people talk about these wars it it's it's become
cool to paint our military like were orthis brutal force that white doubt you know all these people need to francounete devere men never men who were such great professionals but
under the most extreme circumstances understood that they could lose their life and that was a hundred per cent acceptable to them if that men save in the guineth and in that it's
hard for me to meet somebody like michael stray hand or a football player famous person at all impressive people but it's hard me to meet some one like that and be a come my god
kieta picture for integram when when you've been around nineteen twenty one twenty year old kids and in these kids don't come from rich background right it is have a whole line
there is a reason he went when our nation was in two wars they decided to sign up and be infantry in the marine corps at was an they they will for ever be that he the greatest
people have ever been surrounded with the you know what i talk about that allthetime the fact that when we were in remotely you know here we were the special operations guys the
navy seals whatever we all of us all of us guys we just had such admiration and love for the marine court and from the ornerier that we work with those guys like you said and and
frost were sitting or going men we've got we got infinitely more training infinitely more training then a grunt passatas the way it is absent you talk about the budget when you to
shoot more round in a week then amariocapana were shooting at work up no kidding like we i saw the numbers so we get infinitely more training we had better dear and yet you go
down to the government entered remade or you go down the cop falcon and you look at those soldiers and marines that are getting after it every day and that's why we just had
nothing but the utmost highest respect for those guys and they knew it not nasty fighting down there to natoire odin ye onota us back the book here and am track a lightly armoured
amphibious vehicle first proton three two five struck a land mine only a few hundred meters from our position totient operation that your out on in the isere we started to a day
off we heard the explosion saw the smoke and flames rising behind us and then heard the cries for help over the radio we couldn't go to their aid the branch had not yet been
cleared and we were almost certain had he been mined by the enemy besides we couldn't leave our blocking position without exponent the left flank the track burned as three two
five fellow marines and my friend and meant to be tendant diana from our weapons company frantically tried to free the man trapani inside alphere i could see the color drained
from my men's faces they looked absolutely stricken then the tracks ready ammunition began cooking off with each debt nation i could see my men forenoone one to face south at a
while my men to see what was unfolding hearing it over the radio was bad enough five marines died inside the track every one else inside sufferins of varying degrees the driver
was pulled from the wreckage his face bloody and miss antecession it slam as head against the vehicles from consul another marine merge his uniform on fire a thinking men near by
gottiingen and put the flame out of the firetongs valmiki's in combat this is the one that haunts me to most the feeling of complete impotence in the face of such a profound
tragedy scardus all that day a gave diana had actually served in limetree twenty five or three serve unnautical umboo of for he became active duty and then became an officer he
was in enlisted with three twenty five and i remember when when we were starting this operation in three twenty five canto arba imbrian some of these these got a man at men he
grew up with them indeed were his brothers and now they were fire fighters they were police officers all brought together for this mission man it was brutal absolutely brutal and
a i i remember hearing a story about this woman from columbus who they had was the guy was over twenty roweny two marines from limetree twenty five during that to payment and she
decided to paint these beautiful morals of the murals of each one and they were so nice at the marine corisande for a while put them right in there for racial in the museum there
they were in the big and i i i remember hearing story and then i was doing a shoe with the usin the marine corps when the ricorditi sing it to us send and part of the shot was
going to be us as fighters and then with the marines going to ring cousin and i was kind of you know but sides of the fence and that and we walked in and they were there and i
know i didn't expect it and it was really togeather i am you know a maronites marines and moronobo side we shot evans forescore there and i knew soon as i walked in and my eyes
filled either to being getting up jenome some o these men very briefly than we set off and go and because of my relationship with gave diana who is my men toward the time and
knowing what he went through that day childhood brothers of his and end in him also being ouless ah denoting fair combat her we know that nothing sir and you don't have the choice
again you don't ave it choice that gets cleared on that force continues to push west said we have finished the mission is operation we got a continued providing her blocking
pushion in that it if you lose focus more of that gonnen at it it's a difficult thing to deal with but that's what we signed up to do that that's why we've all volunteer force in
his to grace military forces world is ever seen and it's unfortunate but part of it is dying we die in battle said the innocent people here that live in america don't and it's
socks and its painful but the end of the day we all we know when we sign up we know that that is a possibility videsne now you had nine guys willed from your protons at right from
that hope from that hole deployment trot from that couple days okay yeh here oyeyama and we under ago to the book of it some of them wore the reserves tankers that weren't
technically mind begotten by losse many marines under my commanded eatin away at me almost the point where i suffered a crisis and confidence nine men and weak of combat what a
aidon wrong what had i done wrong what lessons could i learn my mind obsessed over those questions inside the so s i braced for the ships storm captain ford phillips my company
commander spotted me as i came through the door he swiftly took me aside here it comes i thought brian excellent job you did everything right out there thank you my jaw almost
fell open those were the last words i had expected to hear i greatly admired captain phillips and had long since learned he always meant what he said his words were never designed
to make some one feel better they were always designed to make a man a better officer and a better marine always his words ease the pain of the last seven days but did not raise
the guilt and i felt to this day i questioned the decisions i made that night that is the owner of command you always bear the responsibility for those under you when they suffer
one's or killed by the enemy is impossible for all sir not to second guest himself and on part of their suffering or death as leaders we understand control that is where we
operate having it is comfort but combat and the enemy strips that way at times pontemolle fly and the violent chaos of a fire fight rain control becomes an illusion a potenciana
cannot determine which enemy boats will strike what vehicle he cannot select the moment when an insurgent triggers idee cannot dictate who survive and who doesn't all he can do is
try and fight back to try and demolish the chaos within a fire power that the enemy dies are run away almost everything else is beyond the leader's control those limits of
leadership were never drilled into us at the academy when i experienced it for the first time during operation made door i came gradually to understand on an intellectual level
but in my heart i still wonder if i could have done something else that might have saved my marines from harm i still spend sleepless nights replaying every moment my head hoping
men like robert gas and jonathan low can forgive me all part of a man and i ate funny i read that passage i was up last night same thing two forty five in the morning and in an
replaying it and it it's not something i would say this is negative aspect people were here he say that like all men that bad you don't postmasters or something no it's it's me
being a human being cares and wonders and its hard as never going to go away and all always wondered that you know wouldhave been a better decision to take a left turn and in a
board the mission at that point should i have tried to get back to the bridge or a fight a gone three blocks up navy there would have been a path we could have found in put her
head light on there are so many what if so many what is that that you go through as leaders in inf you try to ignore those times were you spend those sleepless nights and not
think throat to get makes it worse i think the fact that i'll go through the drill like last night which is the first time in a long time that i did um i think parties i knew we
we'd probably be talking about it i think it's healthy to do that for me at least it has been you know tell ye for me to replay that in to understand and and you know you you
talked about that moment with my caiman or fort phillips i remember that conversation and i remember kind of going back at a aloisa you now just tap oioi would have done this or
demand any stop an bryan listen he did everything right he to everything that you could do it there and in it was you know it was definitely what i needed to hear because we still
a long way to go and that deployment and i still had to go to another one it was it was greatly the ship on his part because he gave me a reno more second guessing at that point
you know because i i that was not the time to sit there a start to question my decision to my instincts and battle that it served me well up until that point i do then i see
moreover sation is matter of fact with late so you know when when married he it was a rig and job who ended up din as well but he had been severely wounded and lay was down in a
combat out posed with his platoon and we got rid jeden casava out and now the gayer down at the combat outpost and the army cotton preseve um bulldogs brabacons cool we had an
amazing relationship with cap my boma main gun mike they they were out trying to truage after it and they got to a point where i had he we think we know where these guys are that
shot right do you can you guys help us i mean it was like the worst day of fighting and lay called me up on the one radio and so say i i won't go back out they think they know
what he's guys are i want to go back out now like go go get some and he went out then you know they were under heavy fire and and that's where marked or killed and you know late
was you know he was you know the missing it's done and all that but next day late comes to me and he says tom you know a a joconde was tore up i know he was tore up his his his
friend his brother was was dead his elder friend was cerealian but are really got to was marked because you he made this esistito back out can you said to me you know i i just
don't know if i you made the right decision and i said to i said to him late there was no decision to make there was americans out there fighting in the streets trying to get
after these guys that had wounded one of yergis one of argives and they thought they knew where he was and i fought you could go and get them there is no decision to make you
don't have in have a choice not such a ration you do what you do as an american as a seal as a frog man there was no decision you did what we do and i think that's something that
any leader when you get your young leaders out there now obviously if they screw something up obviously that's a different story but you know you have the luxury of knowing what's
going to happen to combat situation there is no christ of ball there is no beau don't know like what you just said god is that such stuff to me sometimes like you got to going
left a right oh really because if you could a gone left like you just all about in it a gin i be in now and everyone is dead you could a gone straight and you could have gotten
clear you don't know you have that luxury in combat your making decisions based on the information that you have at that time you know mallister ship yet if you knew it obviously
looking back inside twenty twenty we wouldn't have you romanist place but we don't know that the only way to avoid any risk is not to go is not the do your job is to just go ahead
and stand up raise your head and say i'm a coward that's how he can avoid these situations but guyenne court guys in sultannas their hand and say that they raised their hands and
say where is the bad guys canter going again of and one of the mistake he could make to a sometimes you want to stop me on a think about it sometimes there is no right answer
right they are there's a bunch of things you can do there's a bunch of oberon and whatever one you take and maintain tempo and achieve tempo and stay a step out of the enemy is
the right one it how you executed either way you can be gone into it into a bad day but you'd better do it your way and in your turn ye but one thing that's guaranteed to turn
into a bad day a sitting there not do nothing so goes i'll tell you what if you are not maneuvering ventersome you're not manuvering peenees absolutely mavering they're getting
there flanking you they're getting a high ground there to a something so you better just be in action taking action make it disusing go special and their turf there are their
cities there neighborhoods vain know every corner war guessing so opnion back you you imitator ard and to wear your now becoming a company excelling to look to after we to pot
again and two thousand six i was pulled from weapons company to become executive officer for india company three two merits had happened so fast and avertimus to get no monumens
before we ended up in country again we deploy to allonba province to a father habaniah was cool because you are hobnails twenty miles away and remotism of de thousand six next my
company lost four marines killed lane corral down campchairs our first he was killed by a roadside bomb on the main road running few our area as the end of august to two thousand
six a month later on the twenty fourth franconian er set up utuntor insurgent who fired a rocket into one of our patrobas they'd gone out without a special device that blocked in
coming sellon signals and prevented insurgents from a maledetti kids sure enough the button got it with a bomb blue land corpo renamed artisan meters into the air he died
instantly that one really hurt i been on the base at the time i took great pride and going out on patrol not to ride her on a petonar but to be there as an additional asset and to
share the risks with my marines this time i've been tied up and couldn't get out there with the men when i heard it was happening a graddaning raced to the scene we carried renee
back to the morgue inside i stood next to him held his hand and said my good byes i will carry the guilt of that day for the rest of my life i should have been out there with that
paton we kept taking casualties that fall he even unissaient toughra got hit one yield rioted with a roadside bomb but the blast in destroyed the order on veatetau le fishers
based incendiary deny canavese edited left on the floor of their rig before we can get to them the white hot chemical fired melted them where they sat the sight was indescribable
after that seen moral in the company plummeted the men questioned the mission what was the point we are getting shot at almost every day going into hobanob's a daily nightmare of
snipers bombs and ambushes half the time we couldn't even fire back the woes of engagements were so strict that if civilians were in the area we could not engage the enemy since
there were almost always to billions in the area on the renes head as shown credible restraint even as they watched their brothers die till you got were ratatat are ye are he was
tight it was tough maniban had never been patrolled before they inset up petrol bases but they've never gone out walked around and and they had you know that the outgoing untidy
don't want to do that you don't want to do that but you had to there they only weighed the only way to defeat that enemy with so suffocate the area and what matters most of the
people if the people trusted of they would feed us the information to get captured the enemy of the people trusted them because we wind patrol we were scared then they were trust
emmene would end up we would end up not accomplishing our mission and it was it was so hard you know people have this idea that because you were a certain rank everybody's going
to listen for to hard quarreled ship and in their knock and ask questions you know when i would go but to base to patrol basin speak to my men and they would ask why why should i
walk out there to morrow you know we don't have seen and in this general or the president talking to has given us this big huge ay here's the old may game went over we don't get
any of that in my guys were showering once every seventeen eighteen days that's it we were living amongst the populace amongst the enemy that was traveling all round the country
coming in and in and in attacking us and so it got really difficult but the will one thing that that stuck with a atheous understand that i dare perspective they go with a look if
you quit on that's one less guy to man the post and topics betrayed to keep this roadway clear it's one less guy garden mikey's flank when you ganpatrao got three patrols to
morrow we were already so thin at that time our battle space was way too big for us to truly suffocated to make sure the enemy couldn't couldn't come in in influence way too big
but as we got better as we secure the area we focused really on the main supply of root in the economic part of that the shots if we could secure the shops and secure the school
because the kids couldn't go to school in the kids trotto to school i'll kit a killed the teachers so now we secure the area enough that the two schools can open when we were able
to do that then the shops opened up in the people concert living their lives again that was one of the proudest days of my marines live when those kids could walk to school
against these schools were cornered blown up for my its bullet holes and a nero roofs i mean they were by our standin america you window the fathom with these look like they were
basically concrete squares with with really bad dessin them the school supplies he had were given to him for us and so that was a huge went for us in it that time was reground the
same time in the search it when the surge took place would happen with two iraqi companies pushed west and readable to take up a quarter of our battle space which then greatly
allowed as now now we've got enough people now we can really influence in what happened was the iraqi people who would sit down and have dinner with them and bring them gifts and
talked of i had meeting to the mattoon the morning when they felt comfortable to speak to me now they're tell me who were what time where can we get him then when you've got
marines question the mission and all the sudden you deliver them to intensate i am you're going to go find this person at this spot this with a look like this with their call gene
then they get excited and don't mean give a missiter of hay they're going to go and there they're going to go kill that person they're going to go capture them and we had a whole
process the whole very firstrate now now my ragionando there also detective she hiseterics at led to this detention here the pay port for the detention we deliver them to the
detention center if you don't hit every wicket right that person's back on the streets and three days so that was also detailed disciplined and doing all the right things but they
did it and ate remodified were some of the worst areas in iraq that fall by christmas time these amazing the terance they were quiet the they were quiet i wish it was you know i
left i left october twenty first two thousand six there was thirty to fifty unmetals a day while i was into ployment about six months by january there was like one or two enemy
attacks to day down from thirty to fifty it was low it was incredible and crediamo role left in february february i thousand seven in in bekington home theridion second braine
came home and two thousand seven after sufferings fifteen killed in action could have been wellfar worse for all of us if we hadn't seen any progress in hominy an that's what
you're talking about then almost questions we had over the mission and its value what have returned home to termorrer us for years to come in fact we did see progress and that
made it a little easier to accept things and am the attanets basically what you just said and and that's why i enouie alki about this on the way over as as nice is it was that we
got to see that happen there was nothing more sickening to me than to have eight years later have the the black flag of ice flying over the city of remanier ment senterle that he
was just absolutely haines to see that i didn't need to happen and you know they actually took remote back again the massive air strike all talking to one of my buddies at that
was a atacosa coming on the poastman cordata that is talking to you about earlier but he's i was a hanny bottoms a wee drop in remote while we were there because he was a populous
city there was no male iraqis at one lived their lives we were drops he was like cool maybe a dozen fifteen in the second portion of matty that the iraqis just did behind the
strength of american fire power gnomish on they did they did six hundred strike missions had he seen pictures romanior now robinson now the rebuilding it now but it was just
pecusium and am hesed just it's so disheartening oh thor you come home from that deployment and reprit quickly after you got e got home that travailed have and into and to give a
little credit here to the men teams castrates was met team a wit which is military transition team which was okay so i i talk about the sometime tried so the seals and the special
operations got a lot of times we live in relative comfort okay so we live like okay we're pretty comfortable you know like i said i had nassington i brought a g p medium and to
put matitation a trading we have a nice way room you know we and and heels are super egressive and crafty and figure out like okay what can we do or can we get this well
contractors and order and stuff and so we just make we we do a good job of building or in prostrate and when i say infrastructure i mean some some comforts comet that right now
you go to conventional tip a step down cause they're not get as much leeway that an it as much a pickaway with his much so there leaving lay a little bit hard or maybe even a lot
harder then and of course a by the way their special operations gas there living out in the sticks and afghanistan with two of them which to know two hundred and eighty tries and
so on i'm saying doomi particular situation which my digestion was in iraq when i employ there we always lived good always lived good conventionals we go out there out stations we
stop on a way to a mission we stop by some one you know stop by wherever some componere some fob somewhere those guys are living rough and i had few of my seals at literature were
living rough but my point is you go one step fervand now you get to what called the mitten the mid teams are imbedded with iraqi troops and so they are living with races or might
be two three maybe four of em and they're out there living with their acates counting on the security of the iraqi forces to protect them and a man was horrible we first goramites
a there was a bad attack that killed the on coming mit team commander and the outgoing mittenmeyer over attestation and a leviathian bound bunch but it's interesting because i did
no traversable officer in three color a so so the the rincoes this way of selecting where you where you get what you get to be an rinuncini take the class and shaken up in a third
and then the the each top third you get a pick and it goes down the list so that wait i don't have every single guy and all the best eyes qualunque going to be very horror going
to be a pilot you you might be you might be the bottom the top of the bottom third in class and you get your pick so you don't it doesn't matter you perform i mean it matters but
out of a class of over two hundred transisset intent in his class at the basic school which is a very precious a due to graduate the top twenty five is incredible and he got a
third choice is thirty or legistes officer he was tears so he is angry and then he and the ring court did this very very well they understood the importance of the men teams so
they really took great guidance to the mid teams and he said they they put a volunteers he who wants woosters your hand and go live amongst the iraqis counting on them for
security training them working with them eating their crappy food living without arcesius it's just hackit's awful of course one is travestied do this so he went and h obviously
he was he was as killed in action his kill maxon er a firefight trying to like you just talked about wasn't trying to save all the marines he was trying to save his fellow
iraquois and just like you do said the so many people that don't understand how closely when you worked with iraqis olders and how committed we were without them so that the class
example then by the way that that you lay that he wrote for himself was this trait manon was a man on a fraid to stand for what was right i think that's something that anybody
could aspire towards then an actually another you know you talked about the connections earlier well there's a connection here that traverses roommate in the naval cademy was a
guy by the name of brendon moony o deed what you talked about the painful way of getting to the selfish went to the surface warfare community than he got picked up to the
southeast went through filtering and he was also killed in afghanistan and tony one september do thousand ten but you come home from that deponent and now you've got your married
you got one daughter your expecting another daughter and and by the way the whole time like we talked about a lie you've been fighting the hand he a adraining you fought your
first throw fight with bitten depont ye and your your emeteries before your first appointment and you make a decision that all right you're going to get out of the rancorously
this probably the hardest is is new everham it you that that point your rod brutal but it's two thousand seven how much you you were yeno think it at that time like a amintor this
animating and it's going to its gonoessa at the added making it you know it was it was i knew i had a shot at you moustacho cause you're as was albutius potowatomie may i don't
worse thing that could happen right and in no word then i'm training with so i would basiorum the bass and i found this cormont califorian agitator i ave mistake campanella
resting high school to be here eighteen hundred every night got it all bring you gear cool he was in and he then start a train with a started fighting but einarsen or do not
arrange not a cuirass he you do you're a blue bellagio mine structor mandatory riley my master as i had no striking coached no pat work no nothing it was me and in an a couple of
marines plus a cormenin we would get after every day and then every time we fought we want to so we thought we really knew we were doing and i would take leave every once in a
while i take leave it i would go to extreme cator for up wide and get the stroyin of the temecula and henderson's place now i'd go get to troy it and i just try and learn to move
right give me two moves so here i m in the dews again are bare from the mouth are bare from the guard got and i know i half guards now and can sweep a soul from it though what
molassed me how to defend the single leg in a double line when i was out of temecula so now i got that down path and i still got a mean jacass thought were reproved i'm what in
fine it to sing and you know i i would end up losing the first time into the sea and atwood prompt me to to leave george a gal finds retrain and i'll never forget my first
training session and at jackson winkle john academy and in their training and greg jack he hems walk up through for my first practice and in this is his polite as he could try to
compete the time brian i am so amazed at how far you've gone with held little interknotting one word one while you're desolately you with all the inyanga when you only know so
much red you can fight a hundred fifty miles an hour gethin then all of a sudden in learning all these new techniques then i started thinking i had a an up and down period there
where when some loose some and i got to a point where after the pildash ay you may be odther you know the you have seen wasn't a huge fan of me they didn't really care in honjo i
was at a huge fantysheenys at were versed upon that was a talent he went and found it and i told my fought three times and sit a six months and said look i need break and and i
liry looked at my animating like you would look at the training of a marine company m where am i weak how much time do i have what am i going to schedule where am i going to do
who do or the expert i can go to to get better and all these areas and i approached it i i i knew at that point a look i felt a full time job and never fought without one
transitoria cartoon in a company called mad assets men as that had this disproved a higher heroes when helped that to a job will maybe you could lead that took that over so i'm
working every day but the same time you know i started this thing in an the man i can't go out like this to me people said i was going to wash out that i was going to be exposed
couldn't do it no way they were to me marine to the time taking pride in my performances in there and all the hit was older i'm twenty e probably twenty nine at that time so in
terms of an image i'm already out i'm green in a marty kinyeto little old but i started to find the way start to figure it out and and and not cut any corners like other fighters
worth the time but starting to figure it out any all just came down to discipline where a lot of marshal artists don't want to spend time they don't want to spend thirty minutes
during one move in understanding how they could use that move from various positions and why it works and how it plays into my style of fighting why it will be effective they
wanted drill that one move there wanted to it five times and then they want to go live less to live let's go you you know and and i i learn at that point of time going to catch up
with these fighters who are younger in many cases but much more experienced in me i have got i've got to take an analytical approach in an honest approach to my skill set certoso
re some holes arose i am in a continued a lease practice with distressing like crazy and then submission of voidance in was it is i i actually went pretty gen for the first time
ever i was it's workin some basic because every one to hold me down if i could get out from one ornithology with a goniatites ier noy truth i wouldn't ring it in wrestlers at were
away above my my level aginanwater who as you know in the limpin i was coming in and throwing me all over the place it's i was training wrestling nonstop and then i would go and i
go to albuquerque and i would go live in albuquerque for two weeks at a time away from my family and help other guys in their training camp and get exposed in drill and without
here is the other big part with guys like re shot evans keyed joy vicino name mark quart without those guides it would never happen because after they would beat me after would
pass my guard take me down hit you a discomodated they would stop afterwards and tell me how and why and so i learn at a much faster rate than your typical fighter would because
not only in my andrelinus of the best the world taking the time to drill and take an all ongaro hey i know we're going to work this to day coach but my butterfly guards completely
in effective and i loved to work it specifically not just on sweeping tease i don't think i'm menagier yet i gets my love competition to get up i love to use it to get up or even
just get to the tent to her now i've got a third leg that i could utilise the gibeck up until we would drill specific like that and i've got these guys who have thirty plus fights
who are chancelant taking the time to help me which meant a lot me i'll never forget i mean they were as much coaches to me as might winkle john and grace were you know and then
you know obviously on topical do all of that the other piece that was when i would do my camper when i really got where i was at my best you and i be chris leave and your son
teagown i was beating those guise mentally i was in the best place my family was in it when a wisit a great spot they were my wife and kids were very supportive of me leaving a
doing my campanari my time away from them it made me nasty they'd come visit but man i would literally look at my opponent like ear the one who kept me away from my family this
long here going to pay for it and and it was in was a strong motivator and and that if our and a place the fighter were you not hungry getting new information being able to
mentally be in the right place for you to perform does not about who the better fighter is it has nothing to do it to a hole fights best that night and if you can't mentally be in
the state where you're going to fight best that night you got a problem in your in the wrong place and that that that phase my career that when i was i was there i was able to do
that and that was that with when i was at my best for sure donohoe stonify i know i was tell you sometime my fighters say all you know i am not feeling at that doesn't matter
doesn't matter you like this in training all took out matter i shelter my cause it it comes you might be keen good bad doesn't matter what you have to do perform right now is it
you got to do so train yourself to perform right now but yet you had some on you had some great fights um an christler with corsage guy and that at such a tough basso a you guys
trod down ye when ye i knew neither one of a ray that hard to hit on a bed no tonsors ect or that kind that was a fight initiate the now i i i saw it opening there where there was
a window and and he may just take me as it is a fight to came on me go get a wind it so more and and go on because he had just come off two huge winds and like a week here ten
days not a god serafina in this sport and yet you know it was a while right in what i look back on it there there's definitely sommerau gateby i there there some things you wish
you wish you could have done em some things that happened family wise that certainly stalled and in an helped aid the decision to stop you know my wife losing losing her little
brother suicide with a really tough ing her mam with living with the the time so you know agoing to that tragedy gathers it's hard we were here in being in a lot of fires bedeared
and compete at his white do for living with got a fight through it it's a hard thing when i look back on it where i know i was as an athlete and as a mixed martial or how green i
was to have come that far and benoite top ten middle way at that time i'm proud of them is it messinese air when i fought wherever there was a sexagonal in to give guesthouses
were on no where instead no testing or to which were limited test he is an acute if you fail and you you you he egestan of tom ah but it was fine and i i the guy you like you lost
to sail so it right who was too minute from being the the the middle way changing the world against anderson eva ah you know you you as to him you be sahara then you as a bus
being who actually is the current middle age every so in a guide the bower bad as yet absolutely and you were a guide at will i started fighting three weeks axanuka just also van
at the destined that the other coolest part about it was was during that time a ioannikios happened subtly been neath that you at least to the fight fans was was taken that that
little higher jurors you a say project that that company met asiamen watch over right step one was with certain to build some program step to with getting one of my best friends
in the world who served with me who was right next to that track as it burned natmik come in be my chief operating officer and build this amazing team in levering some of the
mediation i got for fighting leveraging it for our cause in building it and i not just building a company where he we went out we fundator a mission now and that's but we were out
there accomplishing the mission helping veterans get legitimate jobs careers so that they can succeed and lead again back here home and in their communities and watching it grow
from a team of five to a team of ten to him of twenty to her now we've got ninety six full time employees and where were bringing in over three hundred veterans and spouses a week
in the program to estat that was all built with this amazing team of people while i was still fighting and that that was my full time job doing that and in having a board of
directors that had the foresight and in the perspective sahe you know what yes you're goin to be a little limited during some this training camps bought what urabe to bring to our
brand is helpful right now in the face of this company is and in its been a wild and really amazing ride in in some of these talkative where he had these things he's questions and
always haunt you about the loftier friends the loss humoristicas when you can leave initiative like that it helps you feel like he anoai am i am taking advantage of every day
every day were moving forward thieving were helping other warriors now find success post military service and in that me earning it my earning my day where they don't let longer
habit you travailing more and his family would give anything to see him one more time i can't bring him back but i'll tell what if i sat here crying about it feeling sorry for
myself that my friend traps was gone he'd be the first a slap that hell out in so when i died for for at least dooble leg all your elohe was an tell you the intatte was keep
playing on fighting when he got down on his elaine still be flighted his day he was a bad padetha was your of your last fight in the use series e retired after you fought then to
lay sea which the you plan no flotation on now that our abiathar's a gay a legendary makes martial artisan lassie i saw him fight a few times and in japan back in the back in the
day and the ease and he's a brawler and he credible punching power and his nick name is the action uraso's like a sigh and ah anyway is bryantown him and these two guys weenter
even with like russian lestrange in a showbut eliaute fight and eventually he got cough you know got caught by one of the best riders that that have ever been in the game and am
in that i am by the way you tolima couple times you you have that from you to have a one but you eathily you dropped him two or three times in the first round of his white ilerea
from the dead he a minimum of two tallahassee in the back of his head and then he just he looked at negabit bloodshot eyes it was it was unbelievable unbelievable but no that was
not the plan and the silleuse greddon wirt at all i wasn't ice so hard the the osaka but being an vanderlin i trained myself and the reason being was a rafter i'd fought shell sun
in judy's before christmas me and my wife lay endamage claim and i get a call and in her little brother who had struggled with by porter and disorder and in depression and we
didn't know that that merit he had taken his own life went up to a cabin millwood in taking his own life and then tell my wife there baggage claim and in her mam at the time was
living with the siwashes on life was a mess still got to pay bills though right stood still got a company to run sicotiere that i've got a push through and in a can't just say
look at in a take seven months off here to get through this because i have billee anyway it it it caused me to start my own camp so that the game playing going in with hay
organette going to take vanderlyn a little bit in this fight and disrupt him really really confusing case nobody's eresus to me doing that an so i fly to you can we get off the
planet long flight after a long training camp where i absolutely overtrained and we get to the hotel and and and me one of my striking coaches mennonite go start him pat were
heading pads a power done an old man all a sudden i start to cool down i can't lift my need of him lalage tear something on my head be it it happened three a moon heavenly could a
walked in their honey miles he ate on a walk to relent so anyway is now this gets into my head a little bit and so i asked to see the use doctor and so in he as soon as he landed
he was told at you you gotta go see brinstan look i've looked at all the stuff no vacine's legal i just want to get novocaine fighting night home feeling and i walked round the
hotel and try not to show anybody that i'm limping at the press comfort because i a legitimate limp and anyway he's a go kay we shall wernin we're not the second or third world
country eringobragh i couldn't walk rose street probably got light i came anyway i suppose to get it postomani get it i may get them again i don't get it i wouldn't own you fight
your pan the fight so that they could candy american tears you read on him seven a m so he set in their sorry so i let that affect me too much mentally and in were trying to warm
up back stage on trying to shoot some double eggs and i'm not feeling it and in my own henry for a walk on like you know this is got some miles on him i hit like a truck let's get
in there let's knock this do not an let's get this fight rode so prado walk out there and he had met first hit me behind the ear and in you know most of vanderley's fights he's
he's a little more an accumulation gyrocopter under one tis not try this one right hand he hit you if i had never been rocked in the october my life and he dropped me so i aright
it's on let's go and so that i rock in and once i rocked him i thought kay one more good shot on the chin and he's done and i i landed it and he'd go down and then had come back
and the way in it here and some just caught up into this second round i start gilmore technical and move around a little bit i garraghty's obviously not going away i'm kettke
different approached i don't know what the guy's made of and in any didn't even i don't remember him or you know i you call with that huge punch i don't remember any of it and
it's crazy but i realized that lost i came to as john anna chose one of my closest friends now come up to with a microphone and i realized it well i don't remember when tweason i
was a horrible flight home i'm sittin at flying home and i had a jackino in my hand couldn't sleep at all didn't sleep and i a miserable i lost to guy was supposed to be who spoke
be washed up he annie pretty much made the decision then you know i'm i'm i'm out it's all for if you're not an get busy being the champion then there's other areas were that need
my attention more from my family retempering to run it was a hard decision and in part of you when i made the decision thought for sure i'm definitely in a come back right i'm i'm
let a come back if i like two years i held on to that and had a fight against it no it is not your best interest to come back any more it's a you you do a better job talk among
the microphone an you're goin to do strapless on any more value thirty five note thirty six it's all the mesmeric good over here a has a honebeen going for a while caillebotte
specifically with with hir eros what happened people sport that where we look for its fall that star so that way people have information on it yes we've got a web site higher
hero's u s a got work and and if you are a service member or spouse who needs help finding a career for unemployed under employed you go on there your register and will get you
your personal better intransitively fancy term for a job coach and will take you through the whole thing from revising your resume ah to keep hateeta do a job sir chattanooga job
we will help you if not build your lengthenest for you teacher at a house at to impact and expand your network to social media adust and what pictures and posts you not have a
fond face for it now you know take a local no big pop a pump at yahoos not your mail in its generis in a smith a yahoo on are small the use o could we have a job for a lot of
corporate partner for match you told those companies to we hope so people if people want to hire of veteran zakan apostel out of a wheat that's one thing i get hit with a lot is
you'll be a riot that wins i say higher veterans and they aware we find him in our gonella to have a lot when they were bring in over three hundred people a week in the program
were all going to get one on one assistance in an different from any other non profit everything we do is tract logged and analyzed and sales force so that we can hold ourselves a
com i can hold every one of my employees accountable for the work of the have they all have weekly monthly quarterly and annual metric to day have to they don't have them may no
longer work here we run the snow profit like a business because people donate money to us to help better and to find careers period and if we are not doing that then we go away
and i take that very serious in it with the loud us to grow from a team of four to know a team a ninety six there will continue to do so and my main mission also make sure her
hers you assay is there for the next generation of combat veterans as well when they returned home to a society that doesn't understand them as much and in the real help the real
need is for the veteran to learn how to communicate their skill that had to deliver their value proposition it's a hard thing to do think about your seal and they got out of the
art a judge how to write a resmith held we put my for fresnillo like i was trite jobs a mercenary was all i was enable a change a magine these young sailors you know there in
inwove head per centifoil we help it higher hers or your young and listen sermens the ones who needs the most also also and then you got the guardian project going on incredible
project and i had loved to to ticket these guys down then kovacs or executive director come down and be on your shoes some day it's it's so in lying with some a year beliefs on
marshal or siege ben has a vision at every kid should have the opportunity to train marshals every child check and and so he went out network and found a mambajo an infelt is on
my border heroes whose an executive a twitter and they bought a property in oakland where there are a lot of young men and women who don't have much going on after school and they
had on bathershins are stacked against them and there's not a whole lot that they have you know they're their families of a hard time making money in there's a lot o holding get
into and they go find them and they bring a man and they come they train marshal our strange egitto they train boxing they do their home work then they've network with local
restaurants and they get a healthy meal afterwards for forehead many cases these are the dis the help none healthy meal that that young man or woman's getae that day they have
regular members to the gym but those members pay a membership fee that also then pays for lose young kids said taking comfort frippe buy a gee for themselves then they get a free
gee for one of the kids i've gone there and talk and ransome classes and it is just its incredible to meet these young men an women who who haven't been given much of life their
parents are grateful chrysaetos paying for after school care they can't afford it anyway in their kids not wander in the street of but now they've got this place to go to where
there's like minded people pushing them to do better don't low your circumstances to direct in its direct your life until you who you're going to be nothing should hold you back
so the discipline that their learning now the come rothery the character their learning a guardian is starting to spill into the other aspects of their life no dorades are going
up there being more nutritious their folks on their future the awaitment college i can go i can go to college they've got these great posited braces round in the goal is to take
guardian from oakland and start to to to brand and get it in gems across the country where now we don't need a physical facilitation other gems can take on the program where now
we've got a system where they can adopt it and people can pay their membership as part of a way of paying the membership these underprivileged kids to go there and train after
school as well sit they can have a chance just because they're poor as it mentation get the opportunity to train you gyptian boxing to get all the character development that goes
along with martial arts to that's all i got i actually i get another book coming out then the book is called the way of the warner kid and it's a kid's book it's basically about a
young kid who's getting picked on it crool he can't do any poupee doesn't know his time tables and is basically miserable right and anyway schoolin and his uncle jake comes out to
stay with him for the summer uncle jackers tamega so uncle jay so oh you got some issues what are you susianus the eight we can fix all those things so one of the yelowstone canal
oh you're getting bullybase getting bully badly well guesswell you gits so i honestly think there's going to be a little bit of a surge of degenerate a love it and all this is
right of the right of that alley it is and you know i when when that comes out we're going to grab a bunch to make it mandatory for these kids things like that and spire them i
mean then it could differ to when you look at the suggestive social neck and omamao man or woman who has a high likelihood of probably getting arrested especial now look at some
that the the problems we have with our criminal justice system right now instead of a positive vironment never got they go in a college and they go get a great job in their
contributing their winning now raphoe impact for our country for communities to do that and indigenous martial arts and some of these these poor supermoral areas in our country
where there's extreme poverty and are superurban areas were at a string poverty were these young men women don't get that opportunity cause their parents can't pay a hundred fifty
dollars a month for them to go and they don't have any positive influences to life may that if that that can fix a lot of problems that we have going on in our country there is no
doubt does is there a way to help the guardian project how now go to go to guardrobe out of work an there's a web site rate there you could become a monthly spots ermitha orizon
is is is in start a phase if some one could give five to ten dollars a month to them that is a huge portion of a young man or woman monthly membership rover them to go to that jim
get a free meal have some in looked at the report card totterin them in mass teachin them digitaline may we had young ladies and there and in their antherae confidence when they
start dating and who they showed and how that man that the water going to approach the life these young men in understanding how to respect and train with the young lady amattara
with you this round and hotter respect you all i mean it's it's amazing to watch a happening at a young age and how quickly they are developing it of that also so higher eros the
guardian project organizations to support and guess that conterai with us if anybody want to support this pot cast chochere i have a question oh ecocomists the deep question got a
question kind of deep so when you act a few good man are you like on the side of the marines like dolomien groome with em just cause i wear the same youniform in of feeing men
he's again gleninch navy come cruisin aige eserance but in so i i am when i watch a few good men i am with the marines all the way up until they break their integrality move right
and anyway but under no circumstances should i break artery and in that that's a problem that you know that's it so false no colonel would tell some one one thing then tell this
undergovernor no you go remain then lie about a trincomalee yestereve on heberden they break their integrity that sat on don't care what uniform you wear that that's a problem or
if you're not wortlore ateleta about that on the last pot cast maintain the integrity true oh follow question is there such a thing as a cold red now carries not says the villiany
way so support right we can talk about that if you gets like cool eye what's doin ain't wolf up and let's do it fast i will be to her as to about on it supplements i worked out to
day i pray conduct to you o lepoletais there so on him the name of the free work out is total strength and performance i left out the strength in their ochre so you perform good
any strong anyway if you want imperent off on its stuff trente of a brain total strengthing performance good on it dotcommie mother crool rage to day was cool yes could ye if so
that's another story i dare anyway on a dock on less jocoser ten per cent of besselama in the world approved prose of froenum also if he shot it amazon by ducky whatever ah or the
books a dolebout ah hardrat you better order this one quick cause i don't think it's in print right now and i i my mom bought off by homemade monogamia on you he must have so that
in a hand realize it i said it to you pesterin him on then you can buy it in he added and in the advent of you doing that or by anything else on any one as a parmachenee the way
click though juliet do can website or jocatore soaked to onlimber bomano your shop and then get the book or whatever else you get em and you can support that way that's a good way
that's like small action big result like so diamantina fishtakers acoetes the better ones we remind one day at a tholoway men you know subscribitur his soitainly play you have an
already seen obvious but you know do that if you have it and then you know brighteye you're in the mood and you're in the mutest part also you too if we not more videos now i
noticed a sort of videos jocko good that's one of the theives does a good one by the way oh i thought i thought it was a sub privy a you to be you like those videos if you like
little joe mc nuggets rather than the whole focassel at once sharable right i say brain stand watched this dideric two hours long you know watching it roque three minutes long in
my watsonius think exactly right the same thing so that's what we're doing now if you didn't know so yes i cried to that if you want them you know and to be up to it on that also
joculator it's called jocatore cockles or atom we think of a reginald names like that of an amonition like jack a wide sanities yes perfect and i now this i'm sure under you know
if you want to cut a get after it that way get yourself a sure that's cuttin your wearing shirts any way i figure it yeah why not where jocoser right in some got a war on any way
exactly right we riou i only refined aright and they're good to be a penitentes half e one did it is in a freedom yes it's anyone awesome sir dare you go see that i owe some sure
rantanrave is london where most shirts pretty leet head distill thrasimenian you do want to wear the shirt and you want to go ahead and live the life filiatione on a game at an
don't wake up at ten thirty in the morning a rotated on said on the yottowas some get in again you know very well feteasca those shirts on the thing by a shirt in his i'm not
sitting here and seeing by a shirt i'm saying good genoese jock store a look at the shirts if you like the shirts and you want to support the put cast gether sane um this rashers
in there so you can you some some physical activity grappling sir find crop the anything that you know feinting nay to a lot of scretion range of motion rushed good louis good
fathers good regulation size or not regulations of good all good way said whereabout these mud he longs better beyond there alleviation fortunately ah i got a bunch of a maid and
we sold him on amazon and we had a bunch in stock and then joe rougenouse picture his and in a gonerilla to be yet i got more common deadbeat and italy march i think i treat love
for stars to show just to shouldest all the weapons on it emanates strown in the jaw nineteen and thirty to the janitor right honahing boot march right to like a tinker
morgenstiern or something like that and still working on the international for the mugs right the approval so an root make that happen so i stand by for that also case psychologic
warfare i i like to feel sometimes i don't need this city more i'm over it but if i do needs like logical work for kate's what it is i have those ties where you like let your
bottle work out or you have paintwork up and he liked me on may be i'll just work out to morrow everybody has the absolutely right yes so what you do is you get this album that we
we put together all its jocatore like a that ye chopes record mahanan body know that stanistreet at night time can get like a track like if your thing is like i eat donuts wait to
much and you're like an aflight the dona or whatever you can just get that track to call what sugar coated lies a foregone and is as you jack's voice tenorino to heat the
donatello eye in shoaydagon need to her voice is so terence informed as lily regalis it's like that man you if not in the batirton i don't that's more late lady i just battery can
like em one of arnaye erself an hed a way there's a bunch of em not cool like dad's alleyup in the morning way any way it's good an i helps consolatary well received had things
arise ye i'll caspise yet so executor with a good idea in on man people met this alike between two minutes of me talking about don't i any dictation to work out that with really
need is to plan send me in my during no way i can sleep through his one of him the first tract is called wake up and get after it because i i i think that really one of the
easiest way to start developing discipline your life is a wake up early in the mornin so the first track is wake up and get after it and actually do it a count to ten and if the
opportunity ten seconds farington of that not out of bed by then we got his shoes aircraft it's it's funny thought anything else along with that if you want to get to jack a white
tea gets available it avail when in stock on him as on and you know the oriwa hesitant because it one time i said he will never sell on of again and everybody that listens to
castanet that day we sold out in the adonaites fallothe first night and at one musquetoon asked don't worry as will never saw it again here we sold out again to him now i am
feeling pretty confident that we won't sell it again let me have my cataract or that so i were older engineer de gaole thing so we shouldn't sell out of jack a white to again you
get on him as on doubt come international orders check bay when you're clicking on amazon get this book rather by brinstan hartright you heard him talking about it to night i
covered it play portion of the book a great information about combat about leadership and about life definitely check it out i'll for on the web sing yea they will be oberlies you
know boom it'll be on the website and also we are just talking about this got that kid book coming out uncle jake teaching young mark how to be a warrior kid instead of a winikin
to get you yeah pull up ye studying yes being disappointed yes basically getting after it affirmative age ten pre order it now why not if you like this boast one hundred per cent
you will like this book i don't hear of your forty nine years old you will dig this book i think this boat i wrote it and i like it i like to read it ill my nine year old
daughters reading it oh ye the attis it's good all boletiere it at that and i'm not a person as that there in say like oh what i did is really good i don't do that i like this
book a lot liesel good tea but also latin i wrote that book right there the book called a tree ownership you get it we talk about war and we talk about leadership and we talk
about war you know what else did we talk about is the right one not one of the stenotrachelis le extreme ownership master may fourth and fifth at the merrimac in new york city
extreamest er number two by the way number one already happening it was awesome this was going to be on some by the way the agitated about extreme ownership monster to we will be
there i will be there achochre will be there we will not be back stage we will be there is no back stage the we will be up to i will be sitting at your table we will be talking
about things j p de news going to be there as well having a coming get some so come on out to that may felworth and if dissidio coming out about as soon i warn you that when the
video comes out it's goin to sell out because chochmes these videos so persuasive that every one's gonna come and while you waiting for the mostarda still carry on this
conversation with us on the interweb on twitter on insteamed hand when you lean on look at dat face broke you bella we gotta be on that one too so echo is an echo charles i am at
jack a willing and brian stand it at brinsden i keep it simple like an de it to ends on stand by the way echecles you got me clothing shops it man my man good to meeting have you
sure mister brian stan plesais a pleasure and honor thank you so much for having me on we and now you try to do this for a probably over a year now well worth it and ah you got a
new sanscrit repetaient more this anywha about a lot of things that we think we already know i don't but man it's motivating no when you continue to hear it you continued to hear
it you your like monopole out there achieving awsome tarpeia comin on and i would like to thank every one for listening and we appreciate the sport and the fact more so the fact
that you were out there with us trying to get better in for those you with a uniform honest specially those overseas right now taking to fight to the enemy thank you all for
keeping us free to lanforre and fire fighters thanks to you faking a safe for those you gotta distour on the grind working hard and doing good work go ahead and keep doing that
good work and brian texican o thanks for your career in the octagon thanks i'll what you're doing now with the charity and helping that but most of all thanks for your service to
this great nation and to your fellow marines who i was always humbled to serve alongside thanks to you ye proud leather neck for your service and sacrifice and for ever a holding
your motto separated always faithful and when we go forward each of us all of us when we go forward in our lives let us do so with the intention of honouring those brave souls
though soldiers sailors airmen ammerins an stood it held the line and gave their last full measure for as so until next time this is bryan and echo and jocko outen
