this is jacopo gasped number sixty with a hotels in me joowiler devening ago gooding what i am about to relate is anything but a pleasant story in fact is so very unpleasant that
i cannot recommend any one without a strong stomach to read it for it is a story of such crime and horror as to almost be unbelievable the story of depredations of a horde of
degraded criminals of incredible bestiality on peaceful kindly law abiding people i believe it has no parallel in modern history in that is a warning that was written by a man by
the name of george fitch who was an american in the city of nanking china he was working for the why mc in nineteen thirty seven when the imperial japanese army invaded and i'm
going to tell you that that warning is not stronger enough and i know that many of you listen to this pot cast with your children and i am going to tell you right now this pot
cast this episode is not for children this episode is barely even for adults and i'm sure that some of you will not make it through this poast and i almost decided not to do it
this podcast this episode is going through a view a book called the rape of man king by an author by the name of iris chang and part of the reason that i decided that i had to
cover this book is because of the story that follows the story than that is of irish chang the author a bright beautiful intelligent successful and loving woman who was consumed
by darkness and i will discuss her fate in a book that was written by her mother yanging chang in a book called the woman who could not forget for what happened in the city of
nanking is it is beyond darkness it is it is beyond evil it is pure savagery wanton savagery of the highest order and part of me thinks maybe it's best if it is forgotten maybe
that's the best way to prevent it from happening again but part of me knows that that is wrong and the only weight i learn is to study and to understand and do try and banish this
from our memories to me that leaves the door leaves a door open for something like this to happen again somewhere sometime but i want to warn you again that there are parts of
this episode that are extremely graphic then i didn't put it all in there but i absolutely wanted people to understand that this is what happened and i feel compelled to discuss
it for for one for iris chanh in my mind sacrifice everything to tell the story to help ensure that those who suffered all remember and also to ensure that the human race at law
has the knowledge as the warning that evil exists and that mankind is capable of becoming engulfed in that evil and that man can act without mercy or remorse or the slightest
shred of humanity that all going to the book to prepare for the inevitable war with china japan had spent decades training its men for combat the moulding of young men deserve in
the japanese military began early in life and in the nineteen thirties the martial influence seated in the very aspect of japanese boyhood toy shop became virtual shrine to war
selling arsenals of toy soldiers tanks helmets uniforms rifles antigrav guns begs and howard the memoirs from that time described preadolescent boys weighing mock battles in the
streets using bamboo poles as imaginary rifles some even tied logs of wood on their back and fantasized about dying as human bomb heroes in suicide missions no i can tell you i
grew up on all that stuff we played war all the time all the time so i i don't find anything shocking about that back to the book japanese schools operated like miniature military
units indeed some of the teachers were military officers who lectured students on the their duty on their duty to help japan fulfill the vine destiny of conquering asia and being
able to stand up to the world's nations as a people second to none now we're started to did of course they taught young boys how to handle wooden models of guns and older boys how
to handle real ones tax books became vehicles from military propaganda one geography book even used the shape of japan as justification for expansion we appear to be standing in
the vanguard of asia advancing bravely into the pacific at the same time we appear ready to defend the asian continent from outside attack teachers also instilled in boys hatred
and contempt for the chinese people preparing them psychologically for a future invasion of the chinese mainland one historian tells a story of a squeamish japanese school boy in
the nineteen thirties who burst into tears and told the dissector this teacher slammed his knuckles against the boy's head and yelled while you cling about wallis frog when you
grow up you'll have to kill one hundred two hundred chicks japanese minister of education declared that schools were run not for the benefit of the students but for the good of
the country elementary school teachers were trained like military cruits which students teachers housed in barracks and subject to harsh discipline and indoctrination in eighteen
ninety the imperial rescript on education merged at laid down a code of ethics to govern not only students and teachers but every japanese citizen the rescript was the civilian
equivalent of japanese military codes which valued above all obedience to authority and unconditional loyalty to the emperor in every japanese school copy of the rescript was
enshrined with a portion of the emperor and taken out each morning to be read it was reputed that more than one teacher who accidently stumbled over the wards committed suicide to
atone for the insult to the sacred document so we've got a that the eighteen ninety by the way eighteen ninety so this is generations now that this is being plugged into the to
the students brains and these things you don't win when we when we talk about students with dark about till we teach them generally freedom is the ultimate goal freedom is the
ultimate the ultimate the ultimate thing described for the ultimate thing did defend his freedom and here they're getting caught that the ultimate thing was obedience to authority
and unconditional loyalty back to the book it was common place for teacher to behave like sadistic droll sartin slapping children across the cheeks hating them with their fist or
bludgeoning them with bamboo or wooden swords soon were forced to hold every heavy objects sit on their knees stand barefoot in the snow or run around the playground until they
collapsed from exhaustion there were certainly few visits to the schools by indignant or even concerned parents the pressure to conform to authority intensified if the school boy
decided to become a soldier this is hazing and relentless and relentless pecking order usually swelled any residual spirit of individualism within him obedience was tilted as a
supreme virtue and a sense of individual self worth was replaced by a sense of value as a small cog in the larger scheme of things through stablish the sublimation of
individuality to the common good superior officers of older soldiers slapped finals no reason at all or beat them severely with having wood and raw heavy wooden rods according to
the author to shio officers often justified unauthorised punishment saying i do not be you because i hate you i be you because i care for you do you think i perform these acts
with hands swollen and bloody in a state of madness some youth died under such brutal physical conditions others committed suicide the majority became tempered vessels into which
the military could pour a new set of life goals so this is complete you know militant raising of children and what i want to know here is anybody that thinks you know what that
probably produce some incredible warriors you're actually wrong in it revitalise warriors yes i did but let's let's remember that des warriors that were raised in this manner when
they had american soldiers and marines that adduce them when they were in incredibly well dug in defensive positions and the americans had to take beach funds and beach heads the
free finking american soldier proved to be the better back to the book training was no less growling a process for aspiring officers above all the japanese cadets were to a doubt
adopt a will which knows no defeat so terrified were the cadets of any hint of failure that examination results were kept secret to men of mine the risk of suicide so that's what
again this was this is going all the way back to eighteen ninety so we've got forty fifty years worth before we we get into this where this ah masticates place back to the book in
the summer of nineteen thirty seven japan finally succeeded in provoking a full scale war with china so japan was now engaging the war retina day went to shane high the japanese
in vatican i we know a big giant city and ate they thought there are going to have no factor right cause they're getting told old time that they're the best and now the theirs
their eating of the supreme warriors all this well going back to the book here japanese milita military leaders had boasted and seriously believed that japan could conquer all of
mainland china within three months we got some error in going on here but when a battle in a single chinese city alone that was shane dragged from summer to fall and in from fall
to winter it shattered japanese fantasies of an easy victory here this primitive people a literate in military science and poorly trained had managed to fight this appearonce to a
standstill when saying high fine me fell in november the mood of the imperial troops had turned ugly and many say and many it was said lasted for revenge as they marched towards
nan king so there on route now that hard time taking down shanghai they got vengeance on their mind when they're going into the city of nanking back to the book little espard on
the path the man king japanese verons remember rating tiny farm communities with a club or bayoneted every one in sight the small villages were not the only casualties entire
cities were raised to the ground consider the example of seal a city on the east bank of ti who late one of the oldest cities in china it was prized for its delicate silk
embroidery palaces in temple temples its canals and ancient bridges had earned its earnest its western nickname as the venice of china on november nineteenth on a morning of
pouring rain a japanese advance guard marched through the gates of suabian hoods that prevented the chinese centuries from recognizing them once inside the japanese murdered and
plundered the city for days burning down ancient landmarks and abducting thousands of chinese women for sexual slavery the invasion according to the chain of weekly review caused
the population of the city to drop from three hundred and fifty thousand to less than five hundred but the worst was still to come now there was a a general that was sort of in
charge of the a the japanese that were heading to to name king is name was gentle matsui and he seemed to have some semblance of honour to him and gave some pretty pretty good i
would say benevolent type as benevolence can be when you're going into war of orders so here is one of the things that he proclaimed the back to the book the entry of the imperial
army into a foreign capital is a great event in our history attracting the attention of the world therefore let no unit and to the city in a disorderly fashion let them know
beforehand the matters to be remembered in the position of foreign rites and interests in the walled city let them be absolutely free from plunder he's given some pretty like i
said about his benevolent orders as you could give that was matsui well unfortunately met get sick and he can't be the leader although he kind of goes in and out of allersheim as
this is going on there's a new guy that comes in and the new gathercole is as actual royalty named prince a socani brent's princesa gets word he starts to get to understand the
situation that they're going into and he gets told that he peter going to be when they take nanking dereham about three hundred thousand chinese troops to deal with and they get
some preliminary word that it sounds like the the chinese are ready to surrender they kind o hear that intelligence they have spies in there and what not back to book after a
soccer heard this report it was said that his head quarters sent out a set of orders under his personal seal marked secret to be destroyed we now know that the message of these
orders was clear kill all captives and actually do have a copy of an order that came out and this was on december thirteenth nineteen thirty seven the japanese sixty six battalion
received the following command mockery the whole thing but here's parts of it but talian bowl reporter at zero at two zero zero received order from the regiment commanded to
comply with our orders from the rigid commanding head quarters all prises of war are to be executed method of execution divide the prisoners into group of a dozen shoot to kill
separately goes on to give some details about hospodar ness and then it continues back to the book of the vicinity of the imprisonment must be heavily guarded our intentions are
absolutely not to be detected by the prisoners every company is to complete preparation before zerolene executions are to stop start promptly by that time and action is to be
finished by seven thirty so there you straight up orders there gonaive one and it's very important to no perleys are entations are absolutely not to be detected so they were going
to make it very clandestine and keep the echines from knowing that they were going to kill them all back to book there was a roofless logic to the order the captives could not be
fed so they had to be destroyed killing them would not only eliminate the food problem but diminished the possibility of retaliation moreover dead and ames could not form up into
grillers so they have their orders they go in and to begin the operation and here we go back to the book all this was easier to achieve in the japanese had been tipped and to
padenie resistance was sporadic indeed it was practically non existent having thrown away their arms when attempting to flee the city as the japanese closed in many chinese
soldiers simply turned themselves in hoping for better treatment once the men surrendered and permitted their hands to be bound the rest was easy so the chinese give up their
weapons they and allow themselves to be taken not a good idea now we're going to go to a cloak from a japanese soldier named azuma it was funny yet pitable when i imagined to how
they gathered whatever white cloth they could find attached it to a dead twig and marched forward just to surrender i thought how could they become prisoners with the kind of
force that they had more than two retaliates and even without trying to show any resistance there must have been a considerable number of officers for this many troops but not a
single one remained all of them having slipped the way in escape thy thought although we had two companies and those seven thousand prisoners had already been disarmed or troops
could have been anihilated had they decided to rise up and revolt in i didn't go through too much of this but it was a chaotic scene when the chinese realized that was going to
happen in and as that indicated while the senior leadership they fled the city and so it left these soldiers there now with no leadership and when they gonna do and you know the
japanese did psychological warfare on them and drop me fits at said he if you surrender you'll be treated well we have rice for you and that's what they did they light of course
back to the book when the japanese military received orders on december seventeenth to kill prisoners they proceeded with extra caution that morning the japanese announced that
they were going to transport the chinese prisoners to a small island in the mid in the middle of the ante river they explained it a captives that they needed to take special
precautions to move for the move and bound the captive's hands behind their backs a task it took all morning and most of the afternoon some time between four and six p m the
japanese divided the prisoners into four columns and marched them to the west skirting the hills and stopping at the river bank after three or four hours of waiting and not
knowing what was going on the prisoners could not see any preparations for crossing the river the corporal rode it was going dark they did not know that japanese soldiers already
encircled them in a crescent formation along the river and that they were in sight of many machine guns by the time the accute by the time the executions began it was too late for
the chinese to escape suddenly all kinds of guns fired at once korea reserate the sound of the fire arms mingled with the desperate yelling and screams for an hour the chinese
struggled and thrashed about desperately until there were few sounds coming from the group from evening until dawn the japanese bayoneted the bodies one by one and that seeing
took place over and over and over again because what they did as he indicated and in that in that order if he missed it they separated the groups of the had them captured inside
the city and then they took them in small units of thirty forty chinese soldiers tied their hands and said yporcrit you an they did this all over the city at the same time
coordinated and i took him out to different places outside the city and killed them but it wasn't only the soldiers that they did this to back to the book after the soldiers
surrendered on mass there was virtually no one left to protect the citizens of the city knowing this the japanese poured into nanking on december thirteenth nineteen thirty seven
occupying government buildings banks and warehouses shooting people randomly in the streets many of them in the back as they ran away using machine guns revolvers and rifles the
japanese fired at the crowds of wounded soldiers elderly women and children who gathered in the north and central roads and near by alleys they also killed chinese civilians in
every section of the city tiny lanes major boulevards mud dug alsover ment buildings city squares as victims toppled to the ground moaning and screaming the streets alleys and
ditches of the fallen capital ran rivers of blood much of it coming from people barely alive with no strength left to run away the japanese systematically killed the city dwellers
as i conducted house to house searches for chinese soldiers and men king but they also massacred the chinese and near by suburbs and countryside corpses piled up outside the city
walls along the river by ponds and lakes and on hills and mountains in villages near name king the japanese shot down in a young man who passed under the presumption was likely to
be a former chinese soldier but they also murdered people who could not possibly be chinese soldiers elderly men and women for instance if they hesitated or even if they failed to
understand orders which would delivered in japanese language obese not ere chinese person spoke japanese so this is now just a full on killing spree and a mired a section here in
aristeas military warhorse spondent that were there from the japanese military and i will read this one is for a military war correspondent named yukio omaha and he saw the
chinese britaines being brought and lined up along the river doctor the book those in the first row were beheaded those in the second row were forced to dump the severed bodies
into the river before they themselves were beheaded the killing went on non stop from morning antil night but they were only able to kill two thousand persons in this way the next
day tired of killing an this fashion they set up machineguns through them rake the cross fire at the lined up prisoners wrapped a tat tat triggers were pulled the prisoners fled
into the water but no one was able to make it to the other shore systematic murder of every one is basically what were dealing with i inwented got there momentum going on the
extermination of most of the men they turned their attention to the women back to the book women suffered the most taciturn a former soldier in the hundred and fourteenth division
of the japanese army in name king recalled no matter how young or old they all could not escape the fate of being raped we sent out cold trucks to the city streets and villages to
seize a lot of women and then each of them was allocated to fifteen to twenty soldiers for sexual intercourse and abuse surviving japanese veterans claim that day that the army
had all officially outward rape of enemy women but rap remained so deeply embedded in japanese military culture and superstition that no one took the wolf seriously many believed
that raping virgins would make them more powerful in battle soldiers were even known to where amulets made from the pubic hair of such victims believing that they possessed
magical powers against injury the military policy forbidding rape only encourage soldiers to kill their victims afterwards during an interview for the documentary in the name of
the emperor as you masher a former japanese soldier spoke candidly about the process of rape and murder in nanking we took turns raping them it would be all right if we only raped
them i shouldn't say all right but we always stabbed and killed them because dead bodies don't talk takatoshi assumes bluntness and discussing the issue after raping we would also
kill them he recalled these women would start to flee once we let them go then we would bang shoot them in the back and finished them up according to surviving veterans many the
soldiers fell remarkably little guilt about this perhaps when we were raping her we looked at her as a woman a sumero but when we killed her we just thought of her as something
like a pig so where where is this mind set comes from that permit this kind of behaviour going to the book the japanese soldier was not simply hardened for battle in china you's
hardened for the task of murdering chinese combatants and non combatants alike indeed various games and exercises were set up by the japanese military to noits men to the human
instinct against killing people who are not attacking for example all no way to the capital japanese soldiers were made to participate in killing competitions which were avidly
covered by the japanese media like sporting events the most notorious one appeared in the december seventh issue of the japan adviser under the headline of sublieutenants raced to
fell one hundred chinese running close contest sublieutenant muata and sublieutenant note tatihi they were in a contest friendly contest to see which one of them will first fell
one hundred chinese individuals individual sword combat before the japanese forces completely occupy nance there well in the final phase of their race running almost neck to neck
on sunday december fifth the score according to ash ash was subitement mucha eighty nine and semelikede note seventy eight and just again some more context on this the desert just
lining people up and chopping their heads off that's what this was just lining up civilians and let's see lookin get to a hundred and fifty or a hundred first that the book a week
later the paper reported that neither man could decide who had passed the hundred mark first so they up the gold to one fifty maka's blade was slightly damaged in the competition
that japan adviser reported he explained that this was the result of cutting a chinese in half helmet and all a contest was fun he declared another japanese soldier talking about
his experience teinousa o rope we made them like this dodson's good daddy's good elder brothers at home were brought to the front to kill each other human beings turned into
murdering demons every one became a demon within three months an interview after interview japanese veterans from the nanking mass massacre reported honestly that they experienced
a complete lack of remorse or sense of wrong doing even when torturing helpless civilians not a toy hoco spoke andy about his emotions in the fallen capital cot i remember being
driven in a truck along a path that had been cleared through piles of thousands and thousands of slaughtered bodies wild dogs were gnawing at the dead flesh as we stopped and
pulled a group of chinese prisoners out of the back then the japanese officer proposed to test of my courage he owned she his sword spaton it and with a sudden mighty swing he
brought it down on the neck of a chinese boy cowering before us the head was cut clean off and tumbled away on the group as the body slump forward blood spurting out in two great
gushing fountains from the neck the officer suggested i take the head home as a souvenir i remember smiling proudly as i took his sword and began killing people few know that
soldiers in paled babies on bayonets and tossed them still alive in depotoir they gained raped women from ages of twelve to eighty and then killed them when they could no longer
satisfy sexual requirements i beheaded people starved them to death burn them and buried them alive over two hundred and all it is terrible that i could turn into an animal and
duties things there are really no words to explain what i was doing i was truly a devil beyond those situations torture was also completely common and here's what the book says
the torture that the japanese inflicted upon the native population and nan king almost surpasses surpasses the limits of human comprehension here are only a few examples live
burials the japanese directed buriats with the precision and efficiency of an assembly line soldiers would force one group of chinese captives dig a grave a second group to bury
the first and then a third troop to vary the second and so on some victims were partially buried to their chest or necks that they would endure further agony such as being hacked
to pieces by swords or run over by horses and tanks mutilation the japanese not only disembowled decapitated in dismembered victims but performed more excruciating varieties of
torture throughout the city they nailed prisners to wooden boards and ran over them with tanks crucified them to trees and electrical post carved long strips of flesh from them
and use them for bayonet practice at least one hundred men reportedly had their eyes gouged out and their noses and ears hacked off before being set on fire when other group of
two hundred chinese soldiers and civilians were stripped naked tied by calms and doors of a school and then stabbed by special needles with handles on them in hundreds of points
along their bodies including their mouths throats and eyes death by fire the japanese subjected large crowds of victims to mass in sideration a japanese soldier bound chinese
captives together tenente and pertinent a pit where there were sprayed with gasoline and ignited on taping road the japanese ordered a large number of shop clerks to extinguish a
fire then down them together with rope and through them into the blaze japanese soldiers even divided games with fire one method of entertainment was to drive mobs of chinese to
the top stories or roofs of buildings tear down the stairs and then set the bottom fors on fire many such victims committed suicide by jumping out of windows or off rooftops
another form of amusement involved owsen victims in fuel shooting them and washing them explode into flame in one infamous incident japanese soldiers forced hundreds of men women
and children into a square soaked and with gasoline and then fired on them with machine guns death by ice thousands of victims were intentionally frozen to death during the rape
of man king for instance japanese soldiers forced hundreds of chinese prisoners to march the edge of a frozen pond where they were ordered to strip naked break the ice and plunged
in the water to go fishing their bodies hardening to floating targets that were immediately riddled with japanese bullets in another incident the japanese tied up a group of
refugees flung them into a shallow pond and be bartender with anger nades causing an explosive shower of blood and flesh death by dogs one diabolical means of torture was to bury
victims to their waste and watch them get ripped apart by german shepherds witnesses saw japanese soldiers stripped a victim naked and direct german shepherds to bite sensitive
areas of his body the dogs only ripped open his belly but jerked out his intestines along the ground for a distance the incidents mentioned above are only a fraction of the
methods that the japanese used to torment their victims the japanese saturated victims and aid in pale babies with bayonets hung people by their tongues one japanese reporter who
later investigated the rape of man king learned that at least one japanese soldier toward a heart and liver out of a chinese victim to eat them even genitals apparently were
consumed a chinese soldier who escaped from the japanese custody saw several dead people in the streets with their pine's caught off he was later told that the petes's were sold
to japanese customers who believe that eating them would increase vertilizer to the fate of the women they don't know how to determine the exact number of the women that were
raped a man can but they do know that it was almost universal back to the book the japanese rape name king women from all classes far wives students teachers like collar and blue
colour workers wives of winsloe university professors even buddhists some of whom were gang raped death and they were systematic in their recrutement of women the nan came
japanese soldiers searched for them constantly as they looted homes and drag men off redecisions some actually conducted dorader searches demanding money and young girls chinese
women were raped in all locations and at all hours an estimated one third of all rates occurred during the day survivors even remember soldiers prying open in the legs of victims
to rape them in broad daylight in the middle of the street and in front of crowds of witnesses no place was too sacred for rape the japanese attack women and nuntewees churches
and bible training schools seventeen soldiers raped one woman succession in a seminary compound old age was no concern to the japanese matrons grandmothers and great grandmothers
in der repeated sexual assaults a japanese soldier raped a woman of sixty was order to clean the panes by her mouth when a woman of sixty two protested soldiers that was she was
too old for sex they ran to stick up inside her and stead many women in their eighties were raped to death and at least one woman in that age group was shot and killed because she
refused to japanese soldiers advances if the japanese treatment of old women was terrible their treatment of young children was unthinkable little girls were raped so beat
brutally that some could not walk for weeks afterwards many required surgery others died chinese witnesses saw japanese rape girls under ten years of age in the streets and then
flashed them in half by sword in some cases the japanese slice opened of a giantess of preten girls in order to ravish them more effectively even in advanced stages of pregnancy
did not render women immune to assault the japanese violated many who were about to go into labor or in labor or who had given birth on the a few days earlier one victim who was
nine months pregnant was raped suffered not only still birth but a complete mental collapse at least one pregnant woman was kicked to death still more gruesome was the treatment
aloofness of the unborn children of these women after gang rape japanese soldiers sometimes slashed open the bellies of pregnant women and ripped out the feet as is for amusement
during the mass rape the japanese destroyed children and infants often because they were in the way i witnesses report described children in baby suffocating from clothes stuffed
in their mouths or bayoneted to death because they wept as their mothers were being raped american in european observers of the rape of man king recorded numerous entries like
this one february third about five p m at chanson three soldiers came and forced a woman to throw away her baby after raping her they went away laughing perhaps one of the most
brutal forms of japanese entertainment was the impalement of the ginas he mistreats of man king corpses of women lay with their legs splayed open there or if the pier by wooden
rods twigs and weeds its painful almost mind numbing to contemplate some of the other objects that were used to torment the name king women who suffered almost unendurable ordeals
for instance one japanese soldier rapped the young woman for us to bear bottle into her and shoter another rate victim was found with a golf stick rammed into her hand on december
twenty second and the neighborhood near the gate of tongian the japanese raped a barber's wife and had stuck a fire cracker in her vagina a buan killed her not all the victims
were women chinese men were often sodomised or forced perform a variety of repulsive sexual acts in front of laughing chinese soldiers or japanese soldiers at least one chinese
man was murdered because he refused to commit necropoli with the corpse of a woman in the snow the japanese also delighted in trying to course men who had taken life time thousand
celibacy to engage in sexual intercourse a chinese woman had tried to disguise herself as a man trying past through the gates of name king but japanese guards who systematically
searched all passing pedestrians by groping at their crosses discovered her true sex gang raped followed at which time a buddhist monk had the misfortune to venture near the scene
the japanese tried to force him to have sex of a woman they had just raped when the monk proprette they castrated him causing the poor man to bleed the death some of the most
sorridenti of sexual torture involved the degradation of entire families the japanese jew udeti pleasure in force in chinese men to commit incest father to rape their own
daughters brothers their sisters sons their mothers a chinese battalion commander stranded in an came for three months after the city fell saw heard of at least four or five
instances in which the japanese ordered sons to rape their mothers those who refused were killed on the spot as reported substantiated by the testimony of a german diplomat who
reported that one chinese men who refused to rape his own mother was killed with sabre strokes and then his mother committed suicide shortly thereafter those who defied the
japanese were often found later with the eyes torn out their noses ears and breast caught off as i said this is pure iful and i i don't know what else to say now omegon to the
book here it's hard to talk about a bright spot in the horror that is the rape of man king but if one can it assurely to shine a light on the actions of a small band of americans
and europeans who rest their lives to defy the japanese invaders and rescue hundreds of thousands of chinese refugees from almost certain extermination the courageous men and
women created the international committee for the nanciness on to the cis you know amongst obviously this just most sadistic and hainous evil there were some americans and some
europeans that the lived in work and nanking and yeremey seven so wasn't a world war yet d there was germans berial and encantadas there named cane and when this started to happen
there is several of them who basically formed an area with a anothe is a safe one and one of them interestingly was a german it was a note so there's a nazy who they ended up
calling the living buddha of nanking and so this this individual um john ray was he rested his life to set up this the safety zone and actually you know he was a seikei said he
was a note but he had spent so much time in and king that he had all these chinese friends and you know cording to the stew the background on him the he's there and nineteen he's
been there for many years and i don't know what year got there but he's not familiar with what's going on with the actual notepad back in germany's disconnected i mean there's you
know this is wotever's no internet he's not watching t v isn't no what's going on so he was just sort of sort of there and oh the promonotary in germany is the note party or an
amadima aigues monotint when he owe you sounded like you was a a guy that was a benevolent guy he actually went out into town and and literally stopped raps from happening himself
and what interesting is in this destinest up that you could see what they thought of the chinese people is that all he would do is gotten through stop and he who he had the note
arm band or what he had not he the the swastika and when they saw that they would listen to him and he menesee he was a white guy and they they clearly listened to him and were
kind of afraid of them and yet you know obviously they had to zero less than zero respect for the chinese people and so so he actually wrote a letter as well to hitler explaining
what was going on and you know there's there's no one knows if he hear actually ever read it it sounds like he read it and ignored it but one of the most interesting and important
pieces of what john rabid is he he kept the journal a detailed journal of what had happened so a lot of the stuff that at that i just coated which i know is is horrible he was the
guy is one of the people that that rode it down and made sure that that i was going to be recorded and actually the the that diary didn't get really discovered and uncomforted
until much later until really and and am i retain is the one that sort a popular eyes and and took this journal and made it into a real document that explained what had happened
there so that you know again this this john raynor let's let's even in all that darkness there was people that stepped up and he spoke against another one was a guinea by the name
of robert wilson and he was actually go up in an king and he was a methodist missionary but he had been left nanking and gone back to america he went to princeton and then he went
to harvard medical school and when he got done with all of his schooling and said of staying in america he went back to nan king to become a surgeon in and king and he was him
along with john raise the guys that went out and set up this protective zone and did all kinds of henissart of like a shiner's list scenario now they were helping soldiers get rid
of their papers and give him clothes they didn't look the chinese soldiers its sheltering women bringing setting up blips where the women could hide in the attic of the building
that's what they were doing and it's the only thing that's like a not different but you know it's different fact that they could get away with it because we weren't at war with
the japanese and so this guy willson was was a surgeon so not a louis he trod a tact people he was doing surgery on the mall in trying to get them to genesee them from these
devastating wounds if they add he also kept at a really detailed diary which again these bees and this is you know harthope cargenios of this book is that in a oggetto this later
but the you know you heard of like hall a coster's newelpost it happeneth the same thing would this event people say all in wasn't that bad you know wasn't that to go deal that we
all there was some killing so there was people that said that you now some japanese nationalist it said all that did we wasn't really that bad it was provoked or whatever they're
going to say and these documents these these documents that corroborated all this information were truly important going back the boer one of the worst sins nelson son net wilson
saw nan king a sin he would remember for the rest of his life a massive gang of a massive gang rape of teenage girls in the street a group of young women between the ages of
fifteen and eighteen were lined up by japanese and then raped in the dirt one after the other by an entire regiment some hearinge and died while others killed themselves shortly
afterwards but the scenes in the hospitals were even more horrifying to nose in the streets wilson was mortified by the women who came to the emergency room with their bellies
ripped open by the charge and horribly disfiggered men whom the japanese tried to burn alive and by numerous other horrors he had barely had time to describe on paper he told his
wife that he would never forget a woman whose head was nearly caught off teetering from a point on the neck the morning came this morning in this quote this morning another woman
came in a sad plate and with a terrible story a hospital volunteer wrote of this woman in his diary january third nineteen thirty eight she was one of the five women whom the
japanese soldier had taken to one of their medical units to wash their clothes to by day and be reaped by night to them were forced the two ten were forced to satisfied from
fifteen to twenty men and the prettiest one as much as forty each night this one who came to us had been called off by three soldiers into an isolated place where they attempted
to cut off her head the muscles of the neck had been cut but they failed to sever the spinal cord she feign death but dragged herself to the hospital another of the many to bear
witness to the brutality of the soldiers so wilson just saw complete horrors then back the book he operated for free because few patients had money to pay him but the surgeries
exacted a terrible price on his own health in the end his family believed that the old only his faith as a developmentists combined with his love for china gave him the courage to
survive the rape of nanking another one of these uropean in the case of american western araound say was the helena votre or many voters as they called her as by occupation head
of the education department dean of studies at gin ling women's arts and science college was one of the few western women in the city during the first few weeks of the name king
massacre years later she would be remembered not only for her courage and protecting thousands of women from japanese soldier but also for the diary he kept a diary i some
historians believe all of ventilators much like the diary of aunt frank for its importance in eluminating the spirit of a single witness during the whole cost of war votre led
daughter of a blacksmith was fifty one years old a nineteen thirty seven raised in the tiny farming community of sacrileges she went to live with neighbours on her mother died
despite the improvised of her child a juste work her way through school graduating with honors in nineteen twelve from the university of illinois at barbara champagne so de again
a a a westerner is case in american and she had the opportunity to maybe escape but she stayed a dancing back to the book with most the faculty gone from me in king most of
abandoned their homes to flee to cities like shanghai shanco and sheshan born was now the acting head of the institution she labored prepare for the campus for female refuges and
to evacuate wounded soldiers from the area to disguise their identities she burned their military papers and garments in the college and cinerator under her direction furniture
was moved into attics saved were emptied dorms were cleaned and valuables were wrapped in oil paper and hidden meanwhile posters signs and armbands for the name man king safeties
one were created in distributed among the volunteers her talking about a specific day the following day december seventeenth night in thirty seven was even worse the migration of
women into gingling only intensified as the japanese soldiers flooded the city on a harrang sight to tanrade weary women frightened girls trudging with children and bedding and
small packages of clothes they only some one had time to write the story of each refuge came in she thought especially the stories of the girl woodlake their faces and cut their
hair as she accommodated the stream of wild eyed women she heard stories of japanese raping girls as young as twelve and women is elderly as sixty or raping pregnant women at
bayonetting and the sick and depraved and disgusting in horrific stories go on and on and on in the brutality page after page after page of diaries in cloaks and witness accounts
and then pictures there his pictures in the book the pictures of severed heads and chinese bound to poles being bayoneted the death and pictures of others being beheaded in
pictures of giant pits filled with bodies and images of hundreds and hundreds of bodies and entangled masses on the banks of the yang river it's d e it's too much for the mind to
comprehend really as it's almost too much to understand and so what we do is we package it all up right and we give it a name a massacre or an atrocity an i'm sure you could tell
him and even his amsing here reading this undone on diskount we have to remember that every one of those people torture rape and killed was a person a person like your brother or
like your sister alec your mom or like your dad or a person like your son or your daughter a person like you and maybe you can get a hold of that but what's in some way even a
harder grasp is the japanese so there a day or people and yes they were certainly monsters vile and despicable and completely devoid of feelings but even so even though they were
were monsters they were a human monsters and they too had mothers and fathers and sons and daughters and yet they did this then the fact that what happened at nan came was so
brutal and so beyond comparison with anything that ever happened who was one of the things that almost caused it to be forgotten and that that supreme level of brutality lasted
about six weeks and eventually that more into an occupation of nanking by the japanese in a ruled with an iron fist of course then they stole and they plundered in native bused
locals and they continued to do rape to say actually institution will not institutionalized and novendial became everett women and they gave out opium freely to and save people
just like happens in this day and age people become slaves to drugs and it stayed in that occupied state for about eight years until finally almost as quickly as it began it ended
go back to the book the end of man kings or deal came in the last came at last in the summer of nineteen forty five on august sixth nineteen forty five the united states dropped
it untested uranium bomb on hershie japans elargi city killing a hundred thousand of its two hundred forty five people to unfortified thousand people on the first day when a
japanese surrender was not forthcoming the americans dropped on august night a second plutonium type bomb on the japanese city of nagasaki less than a week later on august
fourteenth the japanese made the final decision to surrender the japanese remained in the former capital of china until the day of the surrender then quickly left the city i
witnesses reported a japanese soldier could be seen drinking heavily or weeping in the streets some her rumors of unarmed japanese men being forced to kneel by the side of the
road to be beaten by local residence retaliation against the japanese carson appears to be to have been limited however because many residence he had at home during this chaotic
time too fearful to even celebrate the news of a japanese defeat the evacuation was swift and there was no mass persecution or imprisonment of japanese soldiers one name king
resident recalls that she stayed in her house for weeks after the japanese surrendered and when she reemerged they were gone then so it was over and there were worse some level of
war crime trials and there were some executions mainly of the highest profile officers princes ackawoi that order to kill all captives he avoided prosecution the scale of the
massacre was down played in reason that is a punch of reasons of why this scale of the rape of nanking got down platone of them being at the now chinese communist state was at
retrying to build relationships with post war japan so the mask crews quietly buried in anaho chinese people were now in a commune sate and there wasn't much speaking out to do
and the japanese down played the horrors as saying it was a you know just another incident of war and war japanese official or code a saying as the story made up by the chinese
said turner the image of japan but it was a long and they said things like i sink the name king maskers a lie the women that were raved to were labeled as comfort women and
licensed prostitutes and then he japanese officials say that what happened in name king was just a part of war and there's a really clear example of down playing not only the rate
of nan king but of the war in general and he put the sum of this in the book in the talking about the dejane education system he regato book the japanese the entire japanese
education system suffers from selective amnesia for not until nineteen ninety four were japanese school children top at here he does army was a sponsible for the death of at least
twenty million allied soldiers and asian civilians during world war two in the net in the early nineteen nineties and newspaper article quoted a japanese high school teacher who
claimed that his students were surprised to learn that japan had been at war with the united states the first thing they wanted to know was hoed on the nineteen ninety seven and
nineteen seventy seven the ministry vegetation reduced a section on a world war two within a standard history book of several hundred pages to only six pages which consisted
mainly of pictures of american fit fire bombing of tokio a picture of the ruins of ferosha and a taliacotian worn debt the tax neglected to mention the casualties on the other
side japanese war atrocities or the force of vacuation of chinese in corean prisoners to labor camps in japan much of the censorship might have gone on challenge had it not been
for the efforts of one brave crusader in nineteen sixty five the japanese historian a naga saboro soothed the japanese government this lawsuit was the beginning of a legal battle
that would spend three decades and gained a backing of thousands of sympathetic japanese followers the ministry interfered with the nagas attempts to document the nan king master
for school children for example in his textbook manuscript and negoro he woke us quote immediately after the occupation of an king the japanese army killed numerous chinese
soldiers and citizens this incident became known as there were as the name king massacre that when would his book got checked by the examiner the examiner commented clo readers
might interpret this description as meeting meaning at the japanese army unilaterally massacred chinese mediately after the occupation this passage should be revised that it is
not interpreted in such a way and years with the passage of eventually got changed to while battling the fierce resistance of the chinese armed forces the japanese occupied name
king and killed numerous chinese soldiers and civilians this incident came to be known as the nan king massacre that statement and quote that a statement might have been satisfied
that statement might have satisfied textbooks sensors as a compromise between a nagusami and the minister's position on the master unfortunately the statement is simply not true
because it implies at the mass creature in the heat of battle continuing on the examiner demanded that a naga delite his description of the rape itself claiming that the violation
of women is something that has happened on every battle field and every era human history this is not an issue that needs to be taken up with respect to the japanese army in
particular even the word aggression was deemed taboo aggression the censers rod is a term that contains negative efficacians and that spirit that you conceive very clearly that
spirit of denyce on which is why when this book came out this book the rape of nanking when it came out there were still japanese nationalists that were staunchly against it but i
recant who researched intently and rode with passion she gave it all right did you is a daughter of chinese american immigrants and her parents by the way had connections to nan
king an escape there and both her parents had made it to america and become college professors and iris was compelled to tell the story but like i said in the beginning she was so
close the story that it took a toll of its own and she was right or obviously she got her bachelors to gree in journalism and eventually a masters and writing from john's hopkins
university and there is actually a book that's written about iris and the book is written by iris's mother whose name is doctor king being a chain and the book is called the woman
who could not forget and unmanning you through some portions of this book so this book again is about irish chang and it's written by her mother how she got so she decided she was
going to write about this here we go quote although i was talked to us about her many books ideas for her next book while she was writing her first book or decision to right the
rape of nan kin came all to sudden december nineteen ninety four as i was told us and as the scribe in the book she made her pomidoro about this most atrocious chapter and of
history when she was attending a conference at california on december thirteenth nineteen ninety four at the conference there was a photo exhibition of the war of the war crimes
committed in china in the nineteen thirties taking with the japanese army invaded chinese territory irishwomen her book though i had heard so much about the name king master crew
as a child nothing prepared me for these pictures stark black and white images of the capitate heads bellies ripped open and need women forced by their rapiant various
pornographic poses their faces contorted into unforgetable expressions of agony and shame and she continued in a single blinding moment i recognized the vigilat of not just life
but the human experience itself later she told us in a telephone up tay that she simply must write about the rape of name king for next book it was a moral obligation and it would
be justice for the victims as well in nineteen ninety eight after the rape of nan king had been published one japanese reporter interviewed iris and as her why did you decide the
right this book i wish replied when i was a little girl my parents shocked me with the story of the rape of man king they told me that the japanese imperial army master cured
fousands of civilians in the capital of china and butchered even small children the left a powerful impression on me and i went to local library to learn more details but i
couldn't find a shred of information on the subject there was nothing in my local school libraries or public city libraries or in my world history textbooks still worse my
teachers were completely ignorant of this event the event remained a question mark in my mind for years until i saw an exhibit for photographs on the subject in nineteen ninety
four the horror of those photographs inspired me to write the book so that's how i risk godale in writing the book and as a writer luckily she was also a prolific letter writer in
a mine coat a bunch of her letters because her mother save the lunch of her letters and here is one that kind of describes i think it's a good insight into wire personality was
like when she was actually riding the book this was the letter to her mom about what she was doing on the day to day basis as she's writing this book in this was a second but she
so she's already written one book at it had done okay but this one was her you know or current in hers what she said about it co on its epical day i would rise between seven and
eight a m and take the busaos metro station fortunately there was a bus top directly across from leaves house the tripidation arcot about forty five minutes on probirstein and the
building was opened by eight forty five a m i spent my mornings in the military reference branch of the archives on the thirteenth floor looking through finding aids and filling
out cards to request boxes from different collections of papers dozens of boxes will be pulled from the shelves placed on carts and made available to me in the second floor
reading room which stated opened it a nine p m on tuesday third days and fridays i was usually there in the afternoons and evenings scanning documents tagging the ones that
pertained in the nan king massacre and zeroing them as quickly as possible so she is dig in deep into this book doing massa mount of research and you know research back then was
infinitely harder than it is now because we have the internet now as she began she stemble all this information and she was start so far to speak about it starting right on
articles about it before the book came out and he was interviewed by the san jose mercury news which was a big newspaper up in the south bay area you know south bay san francisco
and a she when she got done with that interview she started getting a little bit of recognition so here's a letter to her mam dear mam here's the latest exciting news i shall be
the master of ceremonies for what i believe will be the biggest rape of name king conference ever the event will take place at stamford university during the first week end of
december hundreds of people from more than fifty actisanes all over the globe will be there as well as representatives from all major news media organizations of california china
and japan to gold the tree day affairs to discuss legal strategy how can we see seek reparations for the victims through international law and und resolutions popilated evidence
of a trocero atrocities for lawsuits what metthage should we use to force the japanese to accept responsibility for its past misdeeds so she is in the game susette after it she
started to get some leadership positions in here and start to get some recognition now as she continued a work here's another letter to her mam dear mam thank you for your
inspiration email i'd been working on my book all weak and feel more confident about my material sections of the book are so short that i organized each chapter as i would a
speech thinking of the chapters as speeches forces me to distill each idea into a tiny hard gem lately i been reading so many of the world's classic speeches for inspiration they
are breath taking in their power and so much more pungent than prose in the evenings when i read the speeches of napoleon or clarence darrow or winston churchill i feel engaged in
the actual conversation with them words are the only weight to preserve the essence of a soul what excites me about the speeches is at even after the speakers are dead and buried
their spirit lives on to me this is true religion the best form of life after death this is the first time i have ever devoted much attention to speeches my previous reading had
only consisted mainly of essays plays novels and poetry love iris so greycoat you first of all i'll i love that letter because she's recognizing the power of speech and she is
she's realizing that what she's doing as an author is best that her that your market he's going to leave on the world and it's very unresting that yanging jane is also an academic
sesoun obviously a really smart personage darya these sort of intellectual conversations in in letters and there all a really good insight into what i resist mind what was going
through iris's mind as she did this now book comes out there's it doesn't like jump out of the gates but as it comes out there's little controversy about it and as i started some
articles about it is minerve and cheeseman er views and the book starts to get some good traction back to the bush on january fourteenth she food at washington for a v interview
with p b at the same francisco airport she left the telephone message for us and said that she got in a call from her publisher and that her bows number fifteen on the new york
times best sellers lest her voice told us she was weeping i'm sure they were tears of joy shojin which is the the dad and i were juvent we could not contain our excitement for
many days in the next one call we said i rest you've made it so boissee york times best seller that's to gain change your for iris back to the book on iron january twenty eighth i
rest called us with excitement and said that laurel cook her publicist and jack macinoise had called her in the afternoon a teller of that her book was up to number eleven on the
new york times lest her highest yet only two weeks after first making the list when they called she could hear wild cheering whistling and clapping in the background she was
overjoyed so did that they the big thing and is as a writer to make the new york times less than an and her parents understand that to a heradic and you know there there super
stoke for iris now wi the success starstone some stress and as sartorial itself here is another letter that she wrote dear ma i'm sorry that i found it so rushed when you called
me at meriano sometimes i wonder if i offend in a lot of old friends in the last few months by not returning emails phone calls and letters perhaps many people believe i've been
corrupted already it's true that i neglected my love tones for last few months i feel ashamed that i haven't yet brought bought you a mother's day gift or even a card only this
note that i am hastily writing for my laptop computer perched up on a bed and i am as achimenius how i wish you could have been there during the woman of the year ceremony i told
you i told the audience how you inspired me over the years how you served as my first roe models sigo another big a worn woman to the year right please forgive me i love you
dearly even though i haven't found the time to talk to you in the last few weeks and in a few weeks will all be reunited and the book toral finally be over i feel like a soldier
returning from a six months war love iris so she's a person of field you know and in the idea that she hasn't been returning emails and phone calls and she feels bad about it and
then i found this interesting perhaps many people believe of been corrupted already oh so you made it big time and now your boon me off she feel that pressure too back to the book
when iris's book became an international best seller she reached the status most writers can only dream of she became a celebrity but she also paid a price for it in february
nineteen ninety eight after a long book tore she'd already told us that once she came home she did not want to go out any more all she wanted to do was stay home with bret that
was her husband she'd been met married now and have a good sleep after several weeks of continuous book signings public speeches and travelling she said her life was a nonstop
lore airport lecture hall hotel airport lecture hall hotel the responses to her speeches were overwhelming wherever she went people besieged her after every speech when she came
home she neverland down with a cold or a flue only recovering time for the next book toward she was physically exhausted not only that but during the book signings many old asian
people came up to her chinese korean philippino singaporean indian they poured out their personal stories of suffering during world war two and in asia to her some of them wept
and thanked her for profusely for riding such a book they said it so frustrating to see that japan to this day hasn't formerly acknowledged their war crimes they exclaimed it
about time i resent all that on the one hand she felt rewarded that she was sought out and greatly respected by many people but on the other hand she was meant to ly and
emotionally drained after hearing those stories undue twenty ninth nineteen ninety eight ireson dear mam i arived safely in new york to day after giving a well received speech in
baltimore to the women doctors actually it was very depressing during the cunacarai doctor to be audience about the atrocities against bengali women in nineteen seventy one a
filipino doctor i cried how she escaped the rape of manilla when she was twelve and amiano had discussed the indian tradition of suite which is the burning of widows alive others
talked about the internation international sex lave industry the trafficking of women and children female genital meatin in africa you get the idea it seemed there were endless
gruesome stories that people were eager to share with her on top of her busy schedule of book tours outside people might not realize that besides her traveling signings and books
and speeches juice constantly bearded with additional email request from news reporters for written interviews sometimes there were ten or fifteen written questions for dancers so
the reporters carite a news article in profile i retoc still could find time to answer those questions accordingly so she's just a sesuto go get a right she's not stopping
regardless of what's happening and now as this book is gained all this popularity now she started to get some attacks as well from like i said from the japanese national is that a
saying of the spital and your your glorifying it or your making a sound like worse than i was and here is the letter that you wrote dear mam tonight i read an article about john
stantin backs life in the in the lost cottontree and learn that the reception of the grapes of wrath mirrored that of the rape of nanking in a letter to a friend stein back road
the villification of me out tear from the large land owners and bankers is pretty bad the latest rumor started by them that the oki hate me for a line about them so in frightened
at the rolling might of this thing it is completely out of hand i mean a kind of hysteria but the book is growing that is not healthy love iris so she feels the same way that she
started to get this book is almost becoming more powerful than she you mortmart than she can control and here is another another letter that she wrote a few nights ago i leave
through richard roads autobiography a hole in the world after our lunch together as you know roads was starved beaten and psychologically abused as a child by his stepmother his
mother committed suicide by shooting herself and his father degenerated into an alcohol at leaving him virtue incapable of protecting his family every time i reread this book on
convinced that richard road is lucky to be alive he was a genuine victim but even his experienced pales and comparison to the stories of a bandon children in the p r c orphanages
of pelopeia i don't even want to get into that right now devinent history into other people's stories places all our problems into perspective time and again we have to remind
ourselves how extraordinarily lucky we are much love i rest it clearly that something that i talk about on the regular basis you look at the suffering that other people go through
in it reminds you of how lucky we are not to be in those situations but it seemed like i was was having a hard time name tainting that positive outlook can she keeps getting
dragged down into the darkness back to the book hearing that peanuts cartoonist charles shalt had died iris was quite sentimental and wrote me a letter that here's the letter
quote dear mom i have a favorite as you can you save the last peanut cometic that appeared yesterday and male it to me i'm still reeling from the news of charles shelters death
it's the end of an error i still remember all the hours i spent reading peanuts books as a child do you recall the time we went together to grassdale and champagne and you brought
me my first snoopy cartoon book a used paper back already yellow with age that's when i first fell in love with the peanuts comments strip you and dad grew up with the pin put
cartoon as well and chinese new pit newspapers in time on making both of you part of the penates well years later in santa barbara i met charles salton person at the s b riders
conference during his lecture however is surprised by his demeanour which was vetterale and depressed almost nasty after his lecture i stood in a long line waiting for sholto
autograph a copy of his book i finally stood in front of him i asked shelley ride a profile about him for the new yorker or some other major match magazine why is a young person
like you interest in an old man like me was his response at the time i thought his being sarcastic but later i learned that show like charlie brown is a terribly insecure person
fundamentally convinced of his own unworthiness that was the last time i ever spoke i resolute last year i had one more opportunity to see him to make a long story short i didn't
have time to make the long two hour drive to san arose and i figured i would see shouteth next senor barber's riders conference i never expected that shouldered pass away only a
few months later do you think charles should committed suicide don't you find it odd that he died the night before his final strip ran in sunday newspaper as you know penuts ran
from nineteen fifty to two thousand a perfect fifty years and he died right when the strip ended a life is seldom as neat and tidy as a cartoon box it's almost as if he timed his
dramatic exit from this world achieving his final deadline love iris continued on it seems like iris could not get the death of charles shot shalt off for mind the next day she
wrote to me again about him dear mum i think it was carlo's pessimism as well as the billy to understand human failure insecurity heartbreak that made millions love peanuts you're
absolutely right shelton reason whatsoever to be depressed after achieving wealth and fame at such an early age but the pression is not rational perhaps he did have mental problem
or some chemically induced condition but whatever it was i prevented him from losing touch with the under dogs of the world is strange but i still feel a void in my heart after
shelter's death even though i never knew him and didn't particularly like him after our meeting in person it made me wonder what is this secret to shelters magic appeal the answer
i believe his simple shalt understands a heart of a loser he captured those moments in life when we feel utterly unloved unloved unwanted and alone all of us no matter how
successful have felt like losers at some point in life love irishers a there is a an indication right there's an indication she sort of seeing things like the pression on other
people regardless of you know how successful arnat this point you know she is a new york tibetian of the year all the other substance success will and yet she's recognizing how
that doesn't really mean anything and you can still be pressed after september eleventh two thousand and one she wrote this on a few days after it she wrote this again to a oman
dad in this case quote events or unfolding faster than i can rack them first the w t c and pentagon tragedies then the japanese prime ministers unexpected apology to comfort women
and now a major court victory of a former translate labor against the japanese corporation this week i tried to work on my book and recover from general exhaustion and a mild case
the flu but i have to admit it's hard to stay focused i planned to do nothing more than right exercise in rest for the next few weeks love iris so she now working on her not next
book still working hard probably working too hard not focusing enough and her mam now she's got a kid as well that we know that addykit mixed does make things you know the thought
give you more free time we can promise you that and she's married now she has a son and her mam actually started like putting some pressure on her this said he you know you got a
kid now you got to spend you know maybe you're going a little overboard with the work back to the book on october third two thousand three an email a asked iris weather she was
putting too much emphasis on her career placing her career before her family she replied that is not true it's just that i believe that i have some power to shape my destiny and i
want christopher that that's the sun i want christopher to have his mother a strong at have at his mother as follomon a person who is his own individual impervious to the whims of
others i cannot teach christopher to be an intellectual and a socratial person unless i demonstrate to him through my actions that i myself am such a person i want to teach
christopher that it is far better to be long to the critical minority than the unquestioning majority i want to teach him the ability independently till valuate ideas and
information on his own without the official sanction of the authorities and if possible to create these qualities are not universally popular in our society my tendency to stand
alone apart from the crowd has caused me a great pain and suffering throughout my life but in the end i am stronger and better person because of it now she continued alusentido
dis kind of grind and grind and grind and there is an incident she gone on a trip to louisville kentucky and things start going sideways back to the book that night we went to
sleep in a son that iris or be all right but about two a m california time in the early morning of friday august thirteenth we are wakened by a phone call i picked the phone and
it was iris her voice was shaking and she told me she had seen some frightening pictures on the t v and her o tell room iris need then had a conversation about this apparently she
could not fall asleep so she turned on the t v i asked her what kind of pictures were on the t v screen she said it showed some horrible atrocities in ugly images of children torn
apart by wars she said that the ted was showing something similar to seeing from hell like an automaton world war three she had turned off letheward awhile and then turned it on
again to find the ugly images had disappeared i responded that may be the t v had been showing a warm of the toossle i said that during the wee hours of the night the stations
would show such as jean roof horses then i re told me she did not feel things had been quite right from the very moment she arrived at the hotel the clerk at the front desk looks
suspicious to her and spoke to a person who lather kept looking at the window of her room while i was was still talking with me all the phone she come me that she could still see
that person standing outside all melon and front not far from her room he looked at her window and and as she peered through her curtain she told me she suspected her room was
wired and that what she had seen on t v was real and intentionally shown to threaten her so she's getting paranoid the paranoid the japanese national acuminate she's an i start
now affectin back to a book it was past five aiming and tucky i asked her had she gone any sleep at all she said she couldn't fall asleep and she was exhausted and had a terrible
headache she was sick i could tell she had to be ill because she had not been able to sleep for three or four days prior to the trip she also had not eaten nor she drunken liquid
for some time she said she to order some take out dinner that was delivered to her room but she did not have any appetite and had eaten ething she didn't want to drink anything
either afraid that some one might poison her i knew that under severe sleep deprivation people could have delusions so our parents desiter going they're going to fit while she has
a breakdown and magenta call saying hey something happened to iris you need to get out here nay fly out to louisville as soon as they get to louisville they go to hospital when
she gets to when they get to hospital she nay they go to find her and she's in the psychiatric butt and they show sense the syachas they hadn't found anything wrong with her
physically which you know would include in my opinion of a goanese thought dehydrated she's not starved she got some sich atrocities so back to the book in the evening the doctor
finding came into met with us he briefed us on high reis condition in front of all of us he believed i risidince a so called the brief reactive sycosis due to stress conditions
such as lack of sleep and food he added at her condition could also be a possible onset of by polar disorder in recommended that i received doctor for follow up after her return
home he gave as a reference he also prescribed and antipsychotic dredre respirer respired all two milligrams a day for irisated for at least a year and then they they get in a cab
and as to getting a cab she kind o like making statements and saying strange things about what she sees bill board semandre common about him and finally they landed santoro in a
go back to book we called michael and that's the thatthe sun or irises brother recalled michael to come take her up while we are reading for michael i resideth felt dizzy and had
a headache she told me that things seemed distorted to her and that the expressions of people around her were strange at that time we did not know how powerful sicians were and
thought that irises behaviour was strange i later realized that while in the hospital i reshaven given heavy doses of riperda and a trank was recolored down beside effects of
psychiatric drugs could be severe that explained why she felt dizzy and had a head ache and distortion of a visual perception so she now all these drugs she she taking tip there
the resteraw ah to milligrams a day the medicines making her super sleepy and once there back in the bay area the the man aining start looking for a you know board certified
psychiatrist bring her to and she and up with this guy that they called doctor b back to the book i was is now seeing doctor be once a week and she persuaded him to reduce her
doses those sage of riper draw whispered all by half from one milligram from two one milligram from from two down the one from the very beginning irised not like take any drugs
and she kept trying to reduce the dosage or stop it entirely the rest of the family was hoping that with the rise all iris would be less depressed but to no avail there was no
difference so interesting the iris is saying don't want to take this drug you know i want to get off of it and they're all saying look just keep taking it and eventually he does
he prescribes her with another drug which is called ablain and as soon as a back to the book as soon as i rest took the alfie ten milligrams she became excessively sleepy she
could see for twelve hours or more straight so now she's sleeping in twelve hours a day bad and back to book i resetter illness and inability to take care of christopher was a
burden to every one something she hated i could see that she was very sad and felt helpless so this continues on and finally they go back to meeting with doctor b doctor beast
under than with what he said next in a very serious tone he said he thought i recondition was very grave and he suggested that irish check into her covery facility he said that
the facility was insulted on near the beach it was code ideal for mental patience to recuperate as soon as i rest heard this she madly showed her disapproval i could understand
her suspicion of any facility design for so called mental patience she had learned many a storical instances of government persecution of political dissidence one way was to put
those dissidence intment institutions and abused them sometimes leading to death i do not blame her for her suspicions she was already suspecting that evil forces were at work
against her for what she had written and done in the name of justice doctor b she told doctor betise did not think her mental state was that bad and that she didn't need to go to
recovery facility so they start looking for some one else to take her to besides doctor b and now she gets perscribed another drug which is called selecta and so she's on
alexander ab abafi and back to the book at this time a sorry a belfast me i rest was already experiencing the strong side effects of a villifie most obvious were her lack of
energy in a facete was drowsy all the time in addition when she woke up from her daily nap she complained that her shoulders and leggings were sore which were new symptoms that
she thought likely to have been caused by the drug i was worried about the side of facts of a villify and voice my concern at doctor b he said the dose was the lowest possible and
that the sight of facts would gradually disappear in restrospect it the pears to us that ability had a big impact on iris's mental state it was a turning point in her condition
became worse and after she started taking him bellefontaine later worse even more with select so now a another instant takes place she kind of disappears for a little bit no one
really knows where she is they call a cop to find out eventually she called back and she says he look i was out i was tired i checked it to a hotel to get him sleep that's the
story she tells and she her mam says she found guilty as she's trying to tell this story and then a few days later they they find the one peeping pills and a bottle of vodka and
there at a realized that she was the old thinking about committing suicide but the olema says she probably is went into a room to do that and fell asleep on you woke up i guess
she changed her mind and you know back to the book here an the drugs that she was taken we now know that a belloy web side warns that the drug can affect her judgment thinking or
motor skill as well as the side effect of increasing risk a suicide drowsiness in it and muscles and the select of a web site worn about suicide anxiety and self destructive or
aggressive impulses so these drugs that you take for these problems have side apex that sound you know worse or that pretendeth problem is then she goes on to say that that the
first attempt that sercies that she made so this disette was when she was when she was on ten milligrams of ability and the other thing that that mentions in these about these
drugs is that when you change prescription when you change doses or you go on or off them that's window your most vulnerable and so i did that suicide tempt was in line with one
of those changes so they go back to now there with another doctor do cuticle doctor s go back to book i rest op taking select on october seventh after the support group meeting
she told doctor see on the phone that she would discontinue seeing him if he insisted on her taking the men medicine as a compromise doctor sea persuaded or to continue seeing him
and then he would decide whether she could gradually decrease the dosage of riper alwise was still on all of us told iris that both the medication and the psychotherapy says an to
were needed for rapiniere if she didn't want to take the medication that at least she should have she should have psychotherapy sessions with the doctor she agreed to continue
seeing doctor s looking back at one ended up happening it was so aroni i rest was the one who did not want to take the medication whereas the rest of the family believed in
doctors and thought the medication would help her continuing on the morning of thursday october twenty first when i went to see her she was very unhappy and complained that i was
following her too closely i found she had not eaten well the night before so i suggested going out for lunch we drove to near by restaurant in the parking lot when she stopped the
car she sat there and told me without any expression that she wanted to cry but had no tears her face was greenish and in a horrible depressed state at this time she'd already
mentioned that she did not want to live any more i also noticed that her arm and leg movements and face expressions were rigid and it seemed even worse that she wanted to cry but
had no tears back then i did not suspect that all these symptoms could be the serious side effects of the medications i riegen to feel hopeless i later realized she wanted to
carry out her plan and she did not want us to find out in the last week of her life she prohibited me from visiting her should not even want me to call her and did not return my
calls or my mails in that final week shoutin and i took a walk ourselves to eat a worries i went to a pallat support group on wednesday november third shall jane and i went to
another support group in san jose on friday november fifth we tried to gather information on how to deal with the pression i loved one who were possibly suicidal for all this time
she was actively planning her final exit while we tried to find a way to rescue her we raised against her and we did not realize that she recurret her plan so quickly one week
later on november night she was gone and here is the note that was found next iris's computer dear bret mam dad and mike for the last few weeks i have been struggling with my
decision as to whether i should live or die as i mentioned a breath when he believe you have a future you think of terms of generations and years when you do not you live just by
the day you have not just by the day but by the minute you don't want some one who will live out the rest of her days as a mere shell of her former self i had considered running
away but i will never be able to escape from myself and my thoughts i am doing this because i am too weak to withstand the years of pain and agony ahead each breath is becoming
difficult for me to take the anxiety can be compared to drowning in an open sea i know that my actions will transfer some of this pain to others indeed those who love me the most
priest forgive me forgive me because i cannot forgive myself love iris and i resist mam closes out the book saying it was an untimely death over the years iris had always
commented that life was too short for her to finish the thing she wanted to accomplish she said many times that she wanted to write more books to make films and record more or
histories it was so painful to realize that many of her dreams were not for filled yet it is not how she died miradero she lived that will be her legacy whenever i think of iris
the memories of a loving daughter and a beautiful soul will always remain with me in her short thirty six years she had inspired many many people in the world with her noble
spirit her passion dedication and carty and determination in percerin historical truth in pursuing justice for the voiceless victims i rest was a woman whose heart beat
passionately for those who suffered she was a woman could not forget she could not forget their agony and she refused to let their stories go on told i resist life were short but
brilliant like a splendid rainbow across the sky one that the goddess she was named afterward be proud of i reis rainbow was magnificent vanishing quickly a rainbow vanishing
quickly and i guess that that is what we all are parabo vanishing quickly but before we vanish i say shine shine all that darkness and the world be the light and be the colour be
the good and the strong and the brightness that drives away the dark we have be one chance here one chance one opportunity to stretch across the sky and shine value that now you
that value life and now that light will spread and good will prevail that will prevail over evil so long as we stand up stand up against all that wickedness in the world we stand
up on shine and i think that's all i got for to night echo is what you go in and take them my cement dare her while i decompression beside for i was a tuckered tranest of it and
you can complain about something where you can embrace the one of the big things a kind of learned from you and this is like when you look at your own situation compared to other
you know pasetti n that a way worse right to one you start with okay your your situation isn't that at that's what you start then you go on to ocamy situation these are small
penitential engis that all you have to do is approach him in this way of like embracing it you know how like em like any tokay in savour feeling fresh ataut your situation or
whatever it and really in personal when put in perspective use small challenges that you just got to overcome he you take it on as it's like yet you want to put more work on my
plate that word if i can harhaus i can handle it rinaldo at the best and watch me work you know that is good and interesting you know when when we had tempersome and when i did
tempers his interview the first time i was on his boast he existing that i talked about when he came on here like i e asked the question sort of saint a how close to you get to
the darkness before it consumes you fetch for ah you know if you stare into the soul of a monster you have to be careful because you might become a monster yes and so i i mean i i
think gathers the drugs that she got but one obvious pedro she got in this world were all she saw was the bat he and i think that to tim parisis point where you was saying to me i
like hay how often should i get close to the darkness you know how often shall look at that and you know my response was a in order to know the light you you got a know the
darkness but you can absolutely go too far in that direction he and you can say to yourself wodewale is evil and every one's evil and underneath the surface every one could turn
into this imperial japanese soldier and commit the ashantis and that is what you absolutely and i i would say be careful i don't know if that's the right word i guess it is the
right word be careful but to me was after dosett the balance it and to me as an american as a ben there's so much good right i think that people generally get get jaded to all the
good that's out here that's why i say you know what look over here at the darkness but for some one that stuck in a horrible place in horrible situation in my that's those those
folks got to look out and say way to second tis not there so much good out there you know if you think it let like that's clearly i mean you look at look at iris change i mean she
is smart and successful and beautiful and well white did at a came up with amazing family or parents were adored her right she had every thing in her life was good right and she
will as all that she noontide a you talk anybody that flies plain spright if you go into a cloud you lose your orientation and happens in diving too and you happen to win your
serenity fall off the big wave and your didn't roll around as i unite hard to tell which way is up right i can happen you know guy's drive drive their airplanes to get lost in a
cloud they drive your alansone mountain or they drive it into the ground because they don't they get disoriented and they lose sight of which way is up and you or your under water
you low sight of which way is up that's what you have to watch out for you got to be able to say wait a second if everything is black around me okay stop owlet me get oriented let
me figure check my control panel in the water it's release you got a one look for bubbles which way or the butt where the bubbles bubbles are going to go up and so enogat traced
in that darkness if people and up in these situations where everything looks black stop your disoriented you just can't see i don't know the right direction it's okay figure out
with a bubbles are they're going to go to the surface and when he gets to services going to be light you're going to be okay but obviously i risk she got dragora down and
distorted in the darkness and she couldn't figure out that she had a husband and a son and a family and money and she had all these beautiful things are life yet with a lot o them
first if he go full speed in that direction where you don't know which way up so you're going down even the good things that come in you know it even you know won't get paraites
something good and your like that's bad he erasions ance she's on a trip and lo louisville attago do the speech or whatever and someone's checking her on to tell maybe someone was
saying all i think that's irish can i satighan that she's thinking of her he so national astenaco get me so sir yes she was absolutely so that something that that i think it is
something that for for those of us that are not in that situation how do you pay attention and observe people i make sure that your friends are people you know or people that are
in bad situation how do you make sure that they are getting enough that that they know how to worry themselves and get back to the surface and get away from all that horribleness
when you approach thing in a suckin a great that's kind we witness is reminding me of it when you approach things like that you onalik youse said you're going to if you lonowics
up you're going down a good thing you're going to look at it at a bad thing reinforcing my whole direction by the so if you approach it in a way where things that even would be
frustrating to like i never do person if you approach it like good um you know i'm the one to do this thing bring the challenge as a challenge or good you know if that's the
approach that oleine that way of thinkes so yes you will be going you know the and ring when you export darkness that's not to embrace the darkness and be dark like a sail become
the dead that's basically your trinobant that's what you're doing do because you got no jack answer nonresistance yooka gas what this and infatuate i mean obviously i i pre ever
have to read anything as haines is that again eleotesia that is but that happened yet right banana happened we should not you shouldn't go through life and not realize that that
happened that i happened to see chitta human beings said that oleron being as horrible editis you need to realize that that is a part of our human history so hot when you can say
you could you recognize an say okay this is this can happen and we do watch out for it and the so eloout for your friends keep them knowing that there is no keep em knowing which
direction her head in and hesione going sideways bring him grab specimen this kind of a a specific to this story but the ah the drugs you know when you know that i catocalae i can
mess up your prevelie how you said when you get off the drugs riding oasis esraic things are you breeder certain things sorter so when that part bisilican like reason necessarily
with someone you know they can reason with yeares in with yourself you know a up that would seem obvious he if i you know walk off this cliff it's obvious that that it does it
really work that way i like your chemicals are off torosay kind o got a you know like look out for somebody you can see that apono doubt and it's very it's very andresen the the
the mind is so incredibly durable but at the same time ringest totally fragile and little some little change to the to the composition or to the to the chemicals at are in or to
the top patterns at her ida you know can be really drastic changes on an a person yes you ever ever have a read flew native in the new tenait flechten yes i asked me and it's
almost like a mix between dreaming hallucinating and like you could and licorous are all jumbled up in you want you only tell you to echo story right now yes this will be a stupid
echo story i overrate fast soderini was like twins i was twenty three years old or something and i was doing the dishes speaking doing the dishes i was doing the dishes and i
turned on the water and i didn't see what was happening but this little stream of tiny little stream of water had had broken through the pipe at some point in the handle and it
and it started the land on my hand cidin know that it was water cause it must have been that the similar temperature to what my body walland so i see this and it looks for for a
border of a second i had looks like my hand is blistering if just a ansering so rapidly to inferior of a second i thought to myself i'm being attacked like amoraim in to die in
the next text half a second on dead a think we were swerving some chemical warfare training or whatever and so at that bowman for about a half a second i thought i'm about to die
and only last about a day ioianere letenant but my point is that mental we yea what if you know a difference situation i could get locked into that mode and when you see i
reseated people coming after me the if you get mentally locked in that moninho start seeing things that are that that you you start imposing or overlaying your reality over actual
reality you start augmenting reality yourself that cis really really scary yet like when he thinks to one's madiera you think so one's manitou the too looking for all the little
you tasters to him here here they not in normal everyday stuff you know why i didn't wish taxed me back quickly he walkerites in all usually she he sesoosis no for my
leicestrensis he'd met i know she's met something wrong but yet so yet you have meanwhile like wonota you talking about einy speaking of bob being mad or should i say the opposite
of being mad so this lad take alphabet alpha rani he the renconter worked out performance and strength in le work up see what happens that will make retort report back i am luata
ly that something irish and her mom both referred to couple him doctor times near the elite for mamma you know how i want to i want you to go exercise with me i you know i should
have put that in the bocas but by get the book and read yourself i've not sarcinet do i isisi the earlier the rapidan king absolutely you know get it i shook try and read it when
you are in a happy place right ye deities had heard read it might be the hardest read of any read possible i don't know what can be harder than that and end in the book but woman
who could not forget by yanking chang which again crackles her life and its a really beautiful story and with with obviously with a tragic ending and hopefully lesson forneron it
for one of the lessons being beat his accabees lective and emanating to get her to go to the gym with her and work out with her because there is no doubt a stiffist
physiologically fact as you watch a fact when you work out you could endorfield you feel better underverden yet it also with his good austerities in no jot roman and a doctor and
a patrick is an she's talking about how workin an exercise like is it is one lemore powerful anti aging orders you know like when you get older you know people you know all i have
aridities one she said not to physical aging but for mental way mentally in restorative yes so mad is just so all around good deal fred this is so one time i think they even
mentioned not emendatione time i i might drink may be the night before this is like antimony go and i didn't work out for a while you know i was like you know immersed in an work
out either way i don't work at it now i got sick and then i got hurt so i can so you cure that with the bottle to do the haliotidae myself now you're not actually hear it worse he
probably come pelayo story and tell everyone what not to do ye and we all don't do this no but the happenings at it so bolalile sickness for andrew was good and i worked on a work
out kindheart too and it was weird because i went in to work out thinking i can glad i get to go work out but one when you're done okay all emit this and i think a lot of people
have these thoughts were maybe you've done somethin like maybe your routine for whatever he's in it is going over and over it like just riveted and then i internal yes a true but
i am jessamines these thoughts what is all this even mean like owhaw amendation bar sinistered her mahater a while he in south end of you know life it's like okay a did all this i
just i'm no just didn't relieve i will have in some of those thoughts they weren't like supereminet there in there like a karate so he may press forward it worked out had the work
out god asked her it textbook definition of god after it that was near wore out i was done in an actually not even done elslein the middle the work out in a lie than life as
straight up meaning like this is where life is and not a early work of the erythean you know it was that feeling so that the alphabet must the alfierian your saying i get out
roussignoulet go work up i like that play he got it i'm nothing you've got but i'm younger yeah work out or aufertur tenelli take on it leapt yes well the offering i am natationes
memory and what's not so anyway if you get work out and you want to take some self lament which i recommend now of never supplement person i tried to but never was really into him
i'd be like thee he gotta take this take the pre work out forman and strength that's what is called check take out one we're bout shrine i hain't in the shoe is an agent aconite i
see with all i have i been taken to think i really i feel like that's like cheat not cheat in training but i mean intuitive hum i don't feel like a cheating no it's not cheating
but i've felt as you thought of cheating i feel an i'll tell you what it don't matter i mean when it comes down to it the conation jack bring kai none the less my real point was
only working out that meinander that's the inner you want inhamorano day or a forelooking me think of more star okill stop for a year and then i feel it as she talked about that
anyway working on an important part that inhances the life yes alcoran these supplements overbranching tack all these other ones that in hanother the worker out which is the
announcers of so inaniter kanonnawen he liked these things you want ten percent of you do want to pay full price or maybe do other no but if you don't go on i do can flash
jocolate person of support yourself as well in your wallet i want to talk about amazon clicked through said a good way to support satadoo because it's like you know small little
thing doesn't cost you anything as you always say and um you know figure is all big support ye in make the sodium in the fish tank and alleged it bruyeres i was expecting not of
the age till a sodium in water and it blows as small pieces sitamon low down important that you said that boat would be more important would be actually say how you do amazon
quick through a so ye think you're right mastheads you go to just huestaco little banner on the side this the the you came one not see do you i well i i germany yes there's
germinatory sure ye it's right there in the sight bomberette main on the top one ear that the one a top is the the outline and anacaona pick to there before you do your amazon
shopping that's the way to support the coffining small action big reaction be the sodium be the sole jocasta store called jocatore you are ill jocatore outcome if you want sure to
dislike cal freedom they are all jocose anna ficial with go on there to look at him if you like him get a shirt a ieutenant all jacobite approved the pink woman's tea shera's true
that all not approve right thou actually jullundur yea but we are as menenen yees kind of part of the game to right no not really twell according to the shirt that we got it is
epenthetic ically not jock or proved but it tuckleton so it's it's dull to the less and um if you think they're solid ten yet a shirtman support that way you are a sport yeah this
somewhat is on there in some rash birds oh i beginning to see more and more people with the rash guards the other as cursed boiler yes at least a victory of a main fitness yes no
i online as well i see guys doing it oh anyway look out like something gets so nothing good way to support coming eline travel mud not improved now in improved high quality to
hear all it is higher quality yes like technically well hold you to a you put something hot to narrow makes it keeps it off er long time hours i've at hours or something like that
it's cold same thing i think cold gelatin keep it cold longer one that'll be on the store and two weeks ye also good way to support and this is actually supporting yourself be
time psychotherapy it's like when you're benching you ever bench the achradina any more today so we in the event of you benching this is what it's like it's benching as the
analogy it's like someone spiting you if you need it is what it is psychological warfare you like that is right or your pot it is on neatness gaily every day or you know time
maybe you don't may be don't depend on you know a lot of things but if you do need it even if you just want it eh can you spot me i might get the all probably get all asia but
you're there you know just in case that's what this is so if you're like a man okay this hat is for those i don't know but people do now but if you don't know it's an oleman by
for i totes with tracks on it for different scenarios of what weakness he'd call it i won't know of weak mind with torreano near a little your boom eolian guess is fighting you
talk that's the gayest or a very dependable very re li a ho o'cul all that stone will to it they're like two minutes long give her take ye there's one about you know before you're
going to go and eat ye there's one called sugar coated lies yet i think that one might be of good one you met him of now and which is i think one of the more memorable moment
lines whatever new say something about more wise will cause dear will is stronger than the will of a donaria bathe and that's the wenever sad though you think you is a amachanon
at ye cause i'm in a hole i will proportional the the well cause all war is a is a war of wills right in arnest an now he loses that war against the donovan will is weaker than a
don anonatea that's not going to happen no not out now we netawatwees echo like his the dona in your life you will stronghold then you eat the donat you basically said i
understand it said he this donegall is strong in that mine don't want to be that hers that's your life frighten put into perspective sinai you need that spot psychological warfare
from docile willing do a search i do and it's also on other things at far eyes her yes o amazon musings a hoonamunta tembuland pretty sure i anywhere the where you you can get
like empetre misery more and be espaing and pere music weethout the file right so big member the used to be enmities yet other sin ye technically everything that can play em p
three isn't a fishy place so ye get get a check on out down for good and as a good way to support you know so that it's a all round circle of support in that way he am also if you
want to get some jacobite tea you can get it you can get that on him as i and when you get it i know some people are a little nervous when they try it for the first time just be
careful you don't want to you know being a situation where you you you're gotto a little bit harder than noble right to be ready for that when you bring bring all jacques you can
get once you used it before you don't have to worry about the no precautionary alone your winter yet yes but when you start and be careful busy going to go at that little exertion
he had to go on a tack mode yet i can like when you turn on your car in the volume is out little bit more than you are ready for it you and all reyhani he do the game you like i
onisim saying so watch out for a ducat on him as on an also for international orders it's on e bay the official listing is of the jacopone sold by progress forcing so here
international and you and i get it you can do that and for those you gainin america that it says you see that the shipping is a hundred dollars does not for you to get it from
there it three to get on amazon of your america if you're oversees the shipping or show on it all as to show watever them to gossips on for you i let a couple of people like say
why is the shipping hundred dollars it's not it's emson prime to shipping is no cost don't get it from me balourdise us if you're in the u n you made it you a great and try and
get it to shipping all shows a hundred dollar i don't get it from me back you're not supposed to we don't want to sell to everybody to america we can't handle that but we can sell
to some people overseas he's let you do jacot do come and that has the information on a tearfully doesn't have that particular information but it's it's like to disobey sick
website um an we didn't have in a way the mention this before the basic website it's like oh you're in the u s order from her ainter national order from here jocato jolt do tom in
one its undocile store too but it's like you got to go to the tab and then go to the porch well it's i it's i it's thing but good a jacket do come if you give your just down for
the tea flattery all right well that's all thank you for informing us of that yet another web sight tis you that her asking to get after him muggs we look in at march to be honest
with you this so keep looking um also you know a kids e a kids out there running round we know the we know that kids are impressional yes right as a grown up we know that we also
know that is hard would be a kid right you come up against hard times and if you want to help kids get thesame you can order the book that i just wrote preordered it's called way
the warrior kit and this is the weird thing about this book um so the other day i was talking to somebody it might be he eyewater i got done with it it's like the final at it i
was talking to some one to set you know i just finished i find it it's as i an awesome and in i felt kind of weird because it's not exactly the most humble waited describe your
work right now so i felt that like i should have sansiya my saying that this book is awesome that not like me it walkrite poke over yet as safe a monstrous all smelt o listen to
my park cast is also no i don't say it was to a note if you want listen to it he might be interesting you are more good i know my my might get him value out of it i'm not running
around sesame by all something yeah some reason i said oh this book god just got done reading it eating it it's awesome right so i kind of wondered why i said that any i realized
that i hollored okay so when i wrote it right i wrote it like i was in a ten year old kid look at last at me as the guide that's in the book mark restarted it so i read it it
sounds like him the salamonie him yea so i read the book and i i think it's him that rode this kid i ever had i think of myself i insaide out how's the book i i mais also so yeah
am that's what i realized in but it is the kindest that sounds did peered mark the kid the tanyard kid he hartright ease national can't do any polpenno his time table down to how
to swim and he getting bullied my canny williamson i can't you know any one in we all met we all was i'm going to post a picture can i haven't introduced kenny worry missus yet to
the public on epicure out to a is going through all this trials tribulations about luckily his uncle j happens to be a big tough rob man he sing to come to stay with him poisoner
and when oh gawain when mark breaks down cause he doesn't tell his mam what's going on because his mom just as count you not so don't set other than sense definite you do you know
what she's got to say oh an you'll learn that stuff she's a oh honey here nice boy don't worry about that big bully he won't bother you any more no no mamma actually you will riot
is to mark breaks down kind of ye won't tell somethin uncle calms and his uncle were you know we'll hang out where you can dory or good haytians who breaks down so you know what
uncle jake says when marked that dumb wasting all his problems at him he says good all whose problems you got wet we can take care of those props those are all solvable all get in
des o got a work we got a study we got a train and that's what they do so like i said i won't take awesome but from the perspective of the kin in you look at it if he had wrote
that you say that the pretty cold story got there an here's the preordered on amazon why why liore let me tell you what they are printed right and they're going to print them in a
walaitipu catch locks on calvary well so am i i you just we'll print out eighty copies what a you know we got the formality the formal right the formulas not goin to work a des
like i did work on jog watson you not in the work is so the the earlier that you perriere the print the then new we won't have the shortage the scenario the masses streaming in a
street and give us a book out reordering the and that'll take care of that while you're doing it pick up rapacities chained these will be on the jackpot cast store click through
in the book section no not the stork tuckett come dale by a back comb books and the woman who could not forget grabbed that one of course you can also pick up you can pick up a
cup of copies extreme ownership which is the book written by myself and lay babinot did if you copies and i'll tell you it because you got a gent you people of the de right to one
people a great right to me to i gave this to some one so in they said thank you we attasted him all the game you know they need it if you didn't have it would you want somebody to
give it to you in the assaust ion yes you would gongoe you out with your name sigourney do that and by the way if you're a if you're on your company your business ain't you need
some some leadership alinement you got some little situations going on you can check out late that in a real we are a book we alsatian be called orlando you can check that out as
we do leadership a man from cisalpine and that's what we do we get companies leadership a line and on the same page and give them the tools to lead an win nough said on that also
with extreme ownership we got the muster coming muster number two may fourth and fifth mary at marquis new york city boom ye now ye people talk about the people say oh it's a game
angerhale say that sir i think and and you usually go oh really james saying i can make a got a new flavor of tortoises restaurant it's a game change of no that's not a game
tenent description cinemas common description i've heard of muster number one that we didn't send iago is game jangers people are getting after at leadership management a hall
dugast of course i'm gonna be there of course lay babies in to be there obviously echoed charles in a be there day deal you heard am on the poast gonna see their an we none of us
none of us are beheading back stage there will not be a backstage not going to be there we'll be with you out front talking discussing solving problems and crushing things so come
and get that may forth on tish and until the master while we were waiting to get to the master you can still kick it with us absolutely cause were on the interesante grant we are
on taters well and if you've got to be looking for the one that faith book you bowerman is well so you can find is there anois at equities and i am at jaca willing and finally
thanks to every one for what you do in the military and the police and the fire department thanks to you all for keeping us safe and in the work force the troopers around the
world overeating and building what we have making the world a better place thank you for what you do grinding and posing and making things happen and again i know that this
potestas carouse i know that this episode was disturbing and it was hard for me to read but again to me it is a reminder intermined all of us that darkness is real and as i said
we can not get lost in that darkness and we can't let the people we know get lost in that darkness and it's a reminder that we have to illuminate that darkness and we cannot we
can not let evil thrive in a permanant permit we can't let it periosteal like man king or on a personal level like the beautiful i recant so go out there get there live your life
get after it get after it every day go out there into the world and shine so until next time this is echo and jack outmaneuvering eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeelllllll eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeelllllll
eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeelllllll eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeelllllll eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeelllllll eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeelllllll eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeelllllll eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeelllllll eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeelllllll
eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeelllllll eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeelllllll eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeelllllll eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeelllllll
