this is jackal podcast number sixty one with the others and me joaille god evening ago bodies he had seen a few episodes since we got into the quay sir so to day for you all right
into questions that come they actually come from me into webs sir people out there several that's gives questions appreciate i thank you for the questions i can't answer them all
but talking some people out there if you listen to the different questions you can figure out your own answers to a lot yes you like lerotholi and then you can apply but thanks or
questions appreciate it sometimes when you in my experience in a when i think o kaimak jock his question and then you you write it out or yont what i remember the other day when i
when i busted up questions and when i say a out loud it was like a few to i say it out loud when i as i'm saying it to you on my going now that i won't ever any your laying you
know you realize seeing tenesti that whole sir you've darted a formulas in your own head the and now as your saying i musitional how do i get out of bed in the morning generative
mentally tougher be mentally tougher all right rocketeers questions go jochicalco day i had what i believe you refer to as disciplinary break down this morning i found out that i
had to take additional credit in college that i believe work completed so he thought they were completely up to take more but the turns out in a fit of rage i suifant across the
room in frustration i felt really good at the time but i secondrate because now broken fall and i lost control my motions so do you have any mental tricks or anything in general
that you do when you're slightly retainer in or outright furious p s is you to happen a lot more cardigan have a roll for three weeks maybe i'm reading it too much into it but if
all great whenever as rolling consistently maybe and i not well however we do know that gosoon the soul ah so he or one of the things in me and in you talk raise when i realized
that losing your temper was a sign of weakness as soon as i resist made that connection i i said to myself this week on gaetano to any more and what's weird is when you're a kid i
don't know if you remember this spot i was a kid and you see some one get angry in it it made you afraid and so for while i saw it as like a power no it's kind of a way to achieve
power that you can lose your temper then all of a sudden you have this extra train in so what you're a little kid and when i say located i mean when i was thirteen fourteen years
old i thought he if i go if i can get that rage going and people are scared like i used to feel as if attention like i said as i got older now you you know now you're talking
sixteen fifteen sixteen seventeen i realized hey this is an missus in cold this isn't shrines actually weakness and when i realized it was weakness and i didn't realize that over
night but i started getting the idea that that was weakness and now when you see some one that isn't control that even when that things are happening to their you know their
theresa stoical an oke let me take him there look at that and i'll get it done yeeeehaha then you'll realize okay this guy's really unflappable which is a lot more impressive so
again you got be allested from this and i know i like to take pride in the fact that i'm regimenter what happens and definitely once i was in the oncertainty definitely want to be
that guy that keeping your keeping a hold of matter what's happening whether its people are doing the wrong thing or you just want to be the other stay okay come back over here
when you do re do this demon of the bee that guy antha's way more impressive than the guy that is okipation be that first so that if succomber water the preventin decatur's that
show you or reveal to you that your temper is about to be lost for are they is it you concepist sid is it you raise your voice and you start doing donato desert to have the
breathing do you fouler your nostrils right assets an animal thing here you're in a takanori open up the knowes to your booget after it do you you you know sir desier your head
tino shaking or whatever i just like these things what is it what indicators do you have when you know that you started to feel that innocent you feel that you you detach you go
oh that's what that is that's an indicator and it's a weakness and on a like weakness so maternal it and then to take a breath i like to say you don't want here's a good one you
want you want to get through that that moment nod your head slowly in the affirmative bright so sowings one telling me something that's making me mad i'll just slowly gat my head
like i understand this is the way things are i accept this and this is a calculating what my next mephistian has angwer you know gussie you know you tell you little kids that tell
you little ishanashte losing a temper he know you need the competent now nathan count a undred counter thousand whatever did you got to do and get control because it's like i said
you losing a tall it's not strike three year is the i said this before where i read this book of mine game small little book talked about anger management like a people have anger
issues ye you realized there was low or they said it was low self as a sayang issues stem from loevestein an that was really embarrassing you know i don't have anger as shoes but
omsk if some one ever told me like oh you have loevestein or something like that that would be pretty embarrassing i always thought hm and so to me i took that as an extreme being
so sensitive to the even the expression lost elf has seemed as like all i can never get angry get it says right there every one gets angry you know so that was always on my mind
any time i started to feel mad as i woke a few matter it now but i don't want to isoetes to the i better actor i you know and of thing and an after what just became habitual on
but the nosegay like there's a difference between how you feel and i you behave like you fifteen but then where even at a piou know you're mad yet its mad feeling so ulango and
state of behave mad you know now then ye an oil do it and not of people actually behave mad and justify it because that's my true feelings but again two different things man don't
don't factory true feeling her on every body instead on a gate that good no not good not hear at ye that i ideelise you know because you know that shellabarger feelings by the way
the reason saying that is if you act on your true feelings all time you won't get the long term place where you want to be oh yes true feelings do not lead you to your true
destination yet right they don't my gossensass don't actually a your man chief your true feelings focused on the true destination that you want to be at and it tefillin that you
have of the anger and frustration want yelled somebody all that other stupid stuff you know what you end up with a broken eye phone could you hoctionear that's what you livelihood
store on magic so eh what what my ratafia long time who am i s chris so is driving get cut off or something you know fruitarian true feelings right your feelings alete i want a
pet him up on it will not hurt him it wrodging yell something or whatever may be the god ye ter him first out on ahohite what but we pulled over givin a fight that kitin away at
the time that feels like the fantasy right there we see fight disgust i hope i the store i'm going to help he's right there so i can fight on one whatever that's a vent that your
feeling so inway chris gets in a fight with this guy aside of the road ronault bytheway fights the guy tersis pack tears it crushes his own park yes in the fight on an affenthaler
but he's going on her somegate you a anointer they are torn packers is six months injuryede yet it did you know can you work with a torn pack almost as i'm portly not you know and
all because you know the guy cut you off for whose line fast enough for it was coyotito that whatever you know what those things and that's that's what you had feelings get you
there as lichimin but you want to anger ye that's where we'll have to explore that at some point cause i know it doesn't make sense i'm not say setting your saying every one
suppressedly feeling tell really but the stupid feeling a you have a suppressed those yet let them let them man of fast themselves over time for a long term as that's going to be
what you actually want yet life usually the anger ye anger for sure is one for but anger jealousy a ego almost that hose all things that if you just act on all time yet you're not
going to have a good time and life in the italian every single feeling on your drum next wilsmore not vernet don't have to neither nessus i led a lesson based on the book extreme
oldershot to my team at work i'm not the leader but everyone including our manager with very supportive enjoyed the session the talents from a tea member was is there such a thing
as taking too much ownership won't you start feeling guilty about not tufting completely this guilt would not be a good thing doughtiness whether septing of a you can definitely
take too much ownership but that not for that reason of doctor of his before he if you're taking to fit you and i are on a team in on the leader and we've got a mission and i take
so much ownership and i took elise how we're going to do everything you're going to let me i own this and i don't give you a new ownership now it's not your plan answer now you
don't execute it the best way and you go by into an all that stuff so that is how you take too much over ship takes away the oof you take too much on erheard you take away
ownership from your subordinates and so you've hikanei it's that's old ver owner he is i take over ownership now if i give you the mission and you go out and executed and you
mesrop an i say okay i go and giving a guidance ain't give you the sporting in you the training i'm going to on the mistakes of an on the failure overtly but covertly if i'm givin
you the mission i esaau take it run with it so that's where you need to be careful that but dil for failing is not a valid cause not sayonara the yes what will you fail to put
yahoya feel guilty but it had different catmore of a disappointment because things didn't go your way i i i l will feel guilty when you feel guilty to me is if i know having done
my best i know i cut corners i know i didn't invest the time i know i do know didn't give it everything i could as a leader that's what i feel guilty if i give it everything i've
got everything i can and i look back of course i thereyn that you didn't protectrice hindsight twenty twenty we all know that lizabethan ere you look back and you say i wish i
would have made a different decision but you have to you have to say okay so what do you do it you or be in decisive now you not going to make a sysoev at that moment when i made
the decision which which was wrong now that we can see hindsight well what were you going to do you in a way and sit around a new nothing and now we get a tack we get movrone we
get the competitor moves or of the enemy bosats you might feel disappointed that you made the wrong decision you might feel that type of guilt but what will the real guilt for me
as if i i i didn't give everything i could to the situation so that's where causes guilt to me now the failure an actual failure i shouldn't cause that level of gillian you to dig
deep and figure out what happened on a reattack at that's what kedoos you to want to figure out where you failed where your keen failed and what you can do to insure that never
happens again if you are called a guilt you can call it guilt but that is not a reason not to take ownership you know i might call a disappointment sayoni call it i'll call it
modoties i don't throw that word around easily but if i fail or something i animated to make sure i i get back on back in line and get that thing squared away so take ownership if
you know take oneship get things done right and if you fail don't feel guilty don't get guilty gin aggressive fine problem in it himself that's it reattack and make sense yes in
the guilt is let kindlike to an it's all my thought like no you know to get on to the air but it's like pang it's all my fault this failure look at er one on an oil guy lost his
commission or on a red fragata kind of guilt thing yet and it you know i i say this with a businesses there deoli you do satou make some one loser commission because you couldn't
get the deal unfasten ough you couldn't give a guy to support that donned now they lose commission you can be sure you give you a duty about that is that a reason not to take
ownership of it absolutely not in reason to take more or abohali okay buddy ato i know you of commission on that hears what i think i i let you down perched to communicate better
pisani need to prepare and be ready to suport you next time so this does happen again or you with me right and as opposed to say in not taking onderstan icehouse kind of you know
those deals don't always work out maybe you should prepare better was that make me feel good as leader mouth and fell like a a a eighty kind like the swamps of sadness so is
samoset at once to sadness is a on me in when you get don't want to visit her as a surly never ending story when fifth basically you go through my sash and if it super heart not
tibuta entitled afore for life okay he footmats a lot tokelaus never ending story he had the never any sort anyway the sanest nestor hard to walk through him it's like harnishes
quick and everywhere quick swamp wotever you know that exercent but so you sink and the more you think the sadder you get the satage the more you think so you got to like enisle
it alone feeling guilty in this case or if you get sad alive tom to get sad in your like haunted it as goward's firolidae file exactly so you got a fight to say you fight the
samosatenes and work it is that any tolio easy that's what the wife on her at a carter of the fact that if you are in a small and your sinking if you panic you also say more oh ye
then and getting agressiveness hive like just be like thrashing around now your running out of breath as your sinking yeh a cover that now that they don't cover that bear that on
the metafor to annoy well rethink that it awaited it at no no well i don't think that that's the way to have the wool in the water the you know when you are in the water a thing
at any wrong yet if you get panicky your breath is going faster your audience going quicker you are going to die yes you as her relax you after learn her lax he at the head a ship
and just switching to prome love in modeled the man don't don't let the sun batiste that you can go in the downward spiral and you know we see that in people's lives ride people's
lives they they they mess the they lose their job and instead of going cooperised is give me upon social meteors lost my job good i got an opportunity go out find another job and
in a step up like zat you do eh eh and as opposed to pass my job oh no what i do and now you start going out to doniphan pay you at extingo know you're losing your your apartment
he tenaya can't pay your car bambini her and now you're losing your car yes so what do we do how does that help doesn't help o don't panic get aggressive figure it what you're to
do next take advantage of the situation the next west next quest can you talk about the experience of rolling with hickson a enyhow impressed were you i answered this on toward
her some one said allan pressed were you i responded i'll caps impressive yogii was this is back in this is well it's back in the garaschanin the day and i was that ten wanted the
time and and so i think we're talking ninety five ninety six may be doing the even a many fine intimate ninety seven i think it was ninety seven and i was it was it some causes
working in the training department and i was in the get bo i was a blue belch and i wanted to go tradition right crooning about ex in pillows people that aren't gebars they extend
is the e e considered to be the best effort at jugend a but be above and beyond just being the best ever eingesehen considered the best ever at the sport he has a high level of
mystic about him and you know there's a bunch of reasons for that mistakes a great story and if you know where onorato when he the guy from japan challenged him yes yes so guy
from japan he beat one guy japan and his team mate said i will fight you at any time the guy came to hickson a cademy and challenged him to a fight and in wasn't there to time
they called exigencies guy from japan her to challenge your honour is one i other fifteen minutes so i can came down they wanted to record it he said no you can't you goes i will
record it i will own the video and and we will fight now and in annihilated him and that's one of the mystics axelike back little while later and brontosaur helmet and a samaritan
something like that there are some dromore that though i think the guy went back on wasikini like a bunch of people beat me at work at one we all the apennine reported it and then
some hafore the details of that somehow he was persuaded to dispell the truth there on they had a video of it he yes he linteatae it in that atheist ye i for the guy told the
truth and then it was i was cool any other thing that's crazy while the other thing that tagged to the mistake in action is that everybody that rolls with them every moveable time
you don't five times six times seven times were old champion juicers on roles with him and they say i was helpless the legis that are winning dominating the world championships or
saying you know he i was helpless and he's above him beyond anybody else at a ever wrote with so in alison's now probably fifty something and he not like rolling with the the
competitive black balls any more ah but this is you know five years no maybe ten years ago he was he was doing that man wouldn't compete but gasoline to train with him and he knew
troy and there's a great stories on line that a bunch of really good black belt hoosed i mean really good black belts had said yes rolling with hexendale just a milites this is
for me you know i was a buured noosed her tangueray and this is the beautiful thing is asasiel the worn and so there's something to milor you can get no cast orders meaning hey
you do have to take leave the will if you orders to go somewhere and were not going to pay for it because you know we don't we're not goin to waste government money or spend
government money on what you want to do but we'll let you go do it so i got no cost order space we see in one it hey you can go and train and so i did that destested academy
bernini was weel street gate was kind of a meat was a dance study or something when they would lay down maps and i went up there i think i have too ended up stand up there for
nine days to say of him rapporte round a corner and when i got there a kicks and wasn't teaching it e e so i go there and i you know hey i want to train and the guide that was
their lemon whose ah you know that is right of ye he said was a hero and is what is last name oh one to the yenleet so little one of some youth of some black bell you know hakon
gray black ball answer he's teaching east you know an else coming from favosites whose another hicks and black belt and you know my my original instructor and giguere you know he
made all kinds of incredible guiteras faded you know you got it just all kinds gregg trained been heggs james a call me all kinds of really good i level guys coming out of fabio
and in there's a whole there's like another generation of black belts or came out of taboo who are all of some dried to and is a bunch of really good guy eric um anyways leal was
another hicks and backbone was sort of the instructor at the school so we get up there i'm taking the classes and i need teachers to classes a day or maybe three classes a day
some unstake three classes a day while he's teaching you know one in the day and he has one of the afternoon he has one at night and i'm taking all the classes in a burden you
know his pal and at this time honestly the styles worn if you go to a different school now and you can there's a little bit more variance in styles between schools at this time an
it was all closer to the source spirits all the styles worn so it was closer to now now were actually getting beyond that be as now with you two but everything in every one
competing so much all the time there's a much wicker transfer of energy but five years ago eight years ago when you into a different school that was a much different style but at
this time twenty years ago there was there was i know the the italicam from the same source danson was much more similar so what i'm going to these classes two three times a day
and there there's the ten fifteen people you know their good you know were all probably about the same you know he that might have been perault and lemon was awesome super calorie
casual guy and so that's what the class of electro proposal we lay out the mats on the wooden floor in the dance studio and then we we train and choose the breeze kindlike a gift
class just laid back little stretch may be learnt a move or two had some rolls little bit more lace foot for santron a lismore old school and more regimented you know for you you
you're like an get in there you get of the arpad then you're going to learn some moves and then you're going to train but am led always a little bit more laid back cold chill
teaching really good stuff so that's monday and tuesday and then wednesday and then and then the moors know in the afternoon on or in the evening on wednesday or i think it was a
free wild day what was it wednesday or thursday things one day he's a haakon's got a teach tomorrow night and i'll capasse so i come in thursday night i i is i'm pulling up and by
nineteen ninety wotever but dodge caravan pull up in an many an man and am i sees a cars more cars but the groom titisee now i have walked in in its its there's people everywhere
with its crouded it's in crowded when from a ten or twelve people in a class now we but there is like a hundred pieces we had to lay out like all these differ mats and every one
is a white no one talking it was i was stillings einarsen a corner you know just cool jill andy looks at lionesse like a head not in the mutering up and otoo so everyone gets in
the line to start doing that the old school it you were running in a circle a silence big no one say anything just as islands it is so you could see all the presence of hagen's a
hundred people now and then so ten times as many people and every one's quiet every one serious and then you know he we get done with like a tunnel any minute warm off of stretch
all in anolidae in it and then he gets down he gets us all icicle and the circle fugeand then you know iceni walks out into the middle of the mat and then he said in the center
and in keeping her indropat tatters at also and and then he talked class he talk class and i took notes um an maybe at some point we can go through all those notes that i took but
there is one of the most important lessons that i learned about jutas a hole i learned that during that time and i i actually the way hicks and told it i've translated into my own
way of saying it but believe me it's close like a it would it was what it is is this okay and you've probably heard me i i teach this to this day is if if you're playing it
basketball or your playing soccer i think soccer is what hicksons as the example if we're playing soccer and i i want to or footpeople pit for all if i faint to the left right you
as a defender you have to react to me you you if you don't move to the left indistinto left an you're goin to be lost so so when i say to the left and now you move i can quickly
adjust back because i'm one step ahead of you it was a fake it wasn't a foreman so i can get by you because because when you put you when you move your weight your weight is a
real thing you have to place it into the ground and when you put your weight into the ground it takes a corner of a second to pull that weight back off the ground and put put it
in the other direction so that difference be in jugeth in the bottom when you face me i don't have to put my weight anywhere at my my my my weight does not have to follow you if
you're on the pearwood om intuitu his what doesn't if you if you shuck in give my way etratat by weight that's really hard to like faint one way in the run the other way i don't
really want to go can you do it yet but it doesn't work consistently in you gito and so that was this huge lesson to me that i've always remembered and when the other part of it
is was the popian ye and how to move your hips on the bottom and if you don't move your hudson the bottom you're yer gun get your guard past ain't if you don't control the hips
when your passing then you will be able to pass the guard so i have are i had a real focus reblong time of how to keep my hips mobile on the ground so that people can pass my
grady and it's something that i still concentrate on it and when your passing the guard if you and any again is the nutty might hear me tell people like all you got control my
legs cool you didn't get you to my head and even the tommy legs you can put pinion the ground i can still move my haps eventually it'll be a little bit more tricky but i can do it
so those who are those two points that i learned from the een i i really focused on them for a long period time and so that was awesome and then of course i rolica friends with
fabian fab tomaso to be there and so he you know he was a a great guy and you know rolled with me and like i said i was a blue bell and i was a good bluebell right meaning where i
went i rolled with when i rolled with brown belt and black fells which there were along of at the time i did really go you know man we were all competitive at at fatso that time
you ask guy that were really hard cares beam at this time was the might have been blue bolter purple bumole the guide hayes was a purple dog the time silently were the guys and
you know when dies would come from brazil off the competition circuit to come and train her favors when they stop by you know those guys were have a brown belts black deterging
against enlister and hags i mean it did disease not getting it was your deed an he s were all some den was fenomeno the eggs was phenomenal and i was in the mexican you know so we
were good is what i'm saying he is so what did it feel like to row with icon i thought about this i thought about a waiter describe it and this is the way i am going to describe
it is good bye hard to imagine but trying to magnit tokay he the if you have reveltry quick a large amount of very quickly rolling water arf flowing water is so a river a giant
whose a pipe with water like coming out of it and when you stick your hand with you can't barely resist it that much water so imagine that feeling of force but it's not going fast
it's going slow but it just it don't you can't stop it and where ever you but just like water so it's exactly force but just like water wherever you go to stop it it just goes
around it and it was that that was what what it was like and am really really just phenomenal do to name even at that time and remembering back to it it was a nother level of jegu
for sure that was was ossuna sore that's that's wrong with six i still actually i got some mutual friends with iron and ah i i see him occasionally and you know the the the cool
thing about texan he is he's got a personality that i would love to tell you that he you know like a stereotypical peaceful warrior master that he seemed content with where he is
ended up in life and with physicians in life but with hein i get the feeling that he's a guy that fighting in is in his blood right and even though he's a mellow guy and he has
nothing to prove to anybody i think and i kind of feel like the way i feel he likes the taste of blood you or that i mean and even high even though i am kindeslied a feel like you
know i'm pretty millie don't i i i don't have anything i'm a tryin to prove anything anybody i guess i am in some ways but i'm pretty mellow but i i still i like to taste a blood
and i love that feeling of combat hand that's kind of what he sent for athali sense from mexonian so ye also and maybe will have the moaner sometime yes it gangrene does have that
made dolerites crazy hum i had as you know an it's because it's real yes if you got a real even going as i asad go go he and grace he stories you can gray black alters the stories
were he would lie up ten black belts and sam in a semi you all with the oar walk on your right arm and he would do it and you would do it and that in so the ale that built some
the steak he is sure no yes i want time i went the aretina fell with him just like a quick video clever mean holic fluent crones academy cronise the cademy and so i get there and
he's there at home ready now and he is so as were leaving they were done training as relieving and halesia goin to be like forty five minutes to an hour late so it's just meixner
the whole everyone's gone silesia telmantio fail arrow i would have been a get your giahaure gave penance i submitted to the mystic but nowhere am i you know we were to win for
halisey know blade or whatever you like i know he he told me or whatever so he's like you kind o just there looking at me so we just set down i got to talk to he and grace for by
bastinado do about whatever he and you kind o looking at me like as if to say like so what you know who are you then know newman or like all who batista aigra so my mind cap while
we were talking my mind kept going into like jumping outside of my brain and thinking like olock what you're doing right now nor sitting with the king you know how make after we
roll and we don't have any where to be will be just talking about stuffest ing there most people that our and i was doing that with exegetist menabrea gratitude someone who knew i
know who that is from the beginning even before even started to get there i know who that is sir so he and now like how you don't amesfort beat night the pack at the day he
brought he brought his son with him so hakon was there and can was the comes little yelled man tiny kid and foothold him that was the times in stuff in it in sweetmeat little
conversation at another plate he said ah sir when we got done rolling it and we were talking like years of sane and he says to me then got youselfa roll whenever he was yet he
said ah your your your very comfortable in bad position in those ride off with a taotai if it's i do this to some as when he lost ask me the what was it like rolling with ex nika
let me get your bard and then i'd get in the garden and say okay now an then i say okay now just relax and let me pass and then i would just pass the garden mount and is a less
out of yoletta come to one bed that the penal ache after you like box a day and you say hey you can take punches ronsard anear your finesses tough in it that's another thing i
mean i kind o help on to that like i always like decompositions are dean it's really good because indignation all the time and so on you know there is no one that that i roll with
on a regular basis and a roomily good guys but when dan is mounted on you or indeed is on side control on you it is insufferable that policianos ito and especially because like
all older i roll it other really high level is at a farm from are school and when i rotteth get position like that they don't know exactly my every little escape does he teach she
goes full fourteen of my escape he knows all so you're more trapped in more try and i say with him when i get to san i know what he's going to do it now and so you he i joke about
it you eat boneeta one of us want the other person to be especially in cross it now we don't want that yeahlin ages as an accident as it in boxing to he can take punchinello's is
but a comfortable in bad positions in jugo is is kind like back when you are talking about the ah when you're in water and things are going battalion fairly if your comfortable in
bed positions you have it you have the ability to yet do not panthan helps so much as when you panic you gasped jury at my door sakanoshita es he an imitators this leg out of her
own i was grabbing my arm ye ye wanted you to do it good homefulness my next weston he in poesie four the armed forces officer member that book berenices as serge there one of my
sleeves nineteen fifty edition ye can you expel on the difference between these two these two seemingly contradictory clothes from the manuel a firm hold at the beginning patented
dividing of the timid approach followed by a show of firmness later on from general molon story of the illorin compared with and general melons of you remember the story was
there's a mad mistuned and he went in there was an art yet squarey pity boards and plays get out of the mud what you need at your uniforms together just tighten a bum outrattle
firmness ratoneau of the gate and then compared to a eisagogeis a mistake for an officer on taking a new post to order sweeping changes affecting the other man in the belief that
this will give him a reputation for action and firmness the studying of situations is the overture of the steadying of it and thus from general lame and general relate remember
that one she said he no you guys are bein east positions unless you were doing things right so i suntay doing a good job in word continue what you're doing that's what he said
when he took over mum so what's going on here is to get two completely different situations and the yoits are one is agitating over her situation unknown bad situation the true
saracen discipline their not executing the mission it if you remeasured even doing basic military bearing being they weren't so looting the officers they just hadn't thrown
everything out the window that a situation you had come and you got a afimua that's what you got to do now they got to know that they are not things are going to change they got
to know it's real they got to know there is a new plan and they got a now what that new plan is and then they got a now that there's new standards that he got no new standards or
boom and it's the same thing you'll have a worse he did that he came in with some thou know umeer when you took over the the hard corporal what became the heart cortone first
thing you do is like all those radios and good tars and all the scrapes round base put it all of the middle the base to morrow and we're getting rid of an all that was a big
change now hack worth then he then he started implementing the changes a day if you remember paying got a garroteurs up the next chance okay did your helmet okay now we got a
helmet covered and he just made one or two more or two small changes a day after he made some big sweeping changes out of the gate as it was a jacked up the talon and now now the
differences if you're going into a situation where everything's hontyng or o k or in a bare minimum it's like no male then you don't need to step in there and show that you are
the man by making these sweeping james you don't need to do that they comes across thet comes across like the people that you distorter of have no idea what they're doing and you
know you don't respect what they did what they what wther method all if you respect there their performance does your coming in said oh echo by the way the way you report
cordemais you need to get rid osapho you need the added it tighter your basis to a you don't what would you be thinking of i came in and said that well you know me livandiere i
understand your pa boy being if somebody comes in and start criticising you right when you do it a lowly your ounagandy you're not a good job ye me i think you're going to get
tanks is something an i get on you about that basically a mere that's you that's really on you till your pairtenency pink so that's the thing if that that's the decision you got
to make an aswat it's not black and white you don't go into some units it it's not like you're goin to get a choice between a unitati horrible and a unit that's doing great you're
goin to get every thing in between the end therefore you have to modulate your leadership to reflect a bit a if it's a group that might have a tendency of being blited jacked up
and they're getting close gesagt a got a beat maybe not sweeping changes but you might need to make a little statement met a it's a group that's performing awsome fantastic topped
top pan tap whatever you might he come in to age is i set you to great soiree in guy's doing what you do let me know what you need to support boom any could be anywhere in between
that that's betroth t's why leadership is and i get a cause you got to be only got to have new or come all to modulate ye i figure out where that is and you got to test it out too
once you give that sweeping order got to a kind of reaction you've got you know you've got to see the people just instantly rubbell okay then less talk this with get some feed but
what's going on clearly we have a disrespect saaran we needed to bobinette to key leaders in her only talk to them get a feedback which you should do that before you make any
sweeping change anyway got at least talk to keleshian yet them in the game get them all board ye that's why bearship is also that's why the that's why the stuff is so funus it's
challenging its diffenderfer time yet feels like um pennyworth about earlier where if you start to understand the formula all the different details that come out you can kind of
fly the foreland one were an even then still dynamic but but you can unwindest get a better noasis you leg yogini you understand the concept he that you have to be able to move
your hypsebeth different ways you get your epsome if you understand the concept that you need do a moblige hypsos the guard you understand the consenters all kinds of different
ways you can do if you unnerstand the concept of totally jacked up tea is gonna need a sweeping change to get their attention and get them to understand that things are going to
change in what they were doing was on acceptable if you understand that concept that that's what it contakes you can apply it all the way through those traditions all the way down
to hay the senator at and i don't need to change much in june to give the support if they need a conceptual instruction very important one detest duco i recently listened to the
street tejanos who on my way to coach across and i was impressed how many of the points made between both maurice and your experience as an operated translated into the field
another point of the cast that that stuck out and now i reflect on as learning experience and coachful moment for myself was the saying of good work when we recently battled
through a a a the first half became lacrosse it was a graduate initones talk i edidit le bon out of this cause he had a really long mail and we believe in bravadoed here tirection
now talking about soccer match of arrogance at their plan oh go the wall mantar for as half her was a graduate of a very evenly played until until the half when i told the boys
they were doing good work out there and that we were matching their intensity and putting pressure on them then the first thirty seconds in the second half we were scored on to
teasements and followed through i suspected may have been from my good job what on quote good work keep it up talk we had in the end a tasting my question do you is how does one
reinforced the fact they were heating heard up there give them some words of encouragement and send them back out without taking a hit in intensity as the coach but freshman high
school boys who are basically wild dogs and need direction plus the port what could have done different to keep the intensity up and the second half in an even after getting
scored the soiseubuda talked about this before m a torebo it with regard to emma and i'm talked about it with regard to my shilpit my helas you knit and that is that you have to
be very careful with praise because in the example that i give in the corner of animates you tell i aoob you know you will you on that last round cheap just keep doing what you're
doing he's going to back off yeah he's got to back off and guess hat the other corner stone him you've lost that round you need to step it up you knew that your dress if in that's
what they're going to do very aged out there cause i'll tell you most people in an mamaliga animality is a it's like restless very intense carnotite you everybody's got to be
tired betakest about everybody be obviously so we get two guys will any blemmin refasten when you get to guys that are evenly matched to a going at a hard they're both going to be
tired and so they're going to want a little bit of a rest so keep give him that opportunity to back off the throttle just a little bit some conaly they're going to do it because
they think they're doing good they think they'll put that last round so you can see that all time you see i mean it it happened it happened with randau know there saying he good
job good job you lookin good and she getting crushed to that's kind of a bad exanimat anyway you give you got to be careful that in an have told the story before but when my task
it was going through training and uh well do in seeks so close corisandre were going on the killooleet and you know we broke for lunch or something we come back from lunch in the
guide to the contrary there like hey you guys are ticket asked this is great keep it up you guys are best ask you to ecoeoeure god's crushing it and literally the next run guys
goin to house they screw everything up they missed targets just to disaster then they talked country mittoevo tell my guys again this the best guissant world don't e don't tell
him that i you can tell him good job but don't be totem they're the best people in the world it tells in a work and and so that's kind o what happened you know here now the thing
is this doesn't mean that you can never give anybody credit or never give any one praise because you do absolutely after do that but what's your has to do you have to proactively
counter act the men to lapidate sity dat about the take place because you just complement himself how do you do that so let's say your on the lacrosse with the sacrified you bring
the boy in you say look gus god a good first at you took it to him you showed me that we can hang with them he played i even that's fine here's a problem even isn't good enough a
wenige out there and play harbor we neested it up i ax wot you as to play like murderers that's what i want to do it with you in every loose ball i want you to make every tackle
and want you get your head on every ball is in the air you stick to them on defence even want them to be able to breathe i want you to work them into the ground i want pressure
pressure up from pressure in the midfield and pressure on de you made them fight for every inch every ball and every breath i want you go out there and take there so so you got a
counterfesaunce good job then so in a a same thing you he good round who's a close round but it did round the listen you can't let up right now you need to step it up he knows
cases epoptae you he knows he's got a stepping up and if you come out weena get the upper hand right away you need to put him away ye go out there and crush him crushes soul turn
it on and put this guy away i want you to kill him so that at you need to do with that now for tactical training same thing cause you know i anyplace all sirs and sought teams and
in guise ater in the military you're doing tackling all the time and you're going to see to that as the keen comes together they're going to start to do good like i said if you
give him too much dagonia right so you know when you're runnin your tackle training you for your guys you say lo a god as he sat he progress out there were making for good runs be
meets not good enough right right now okay this is the deal the enemy can rely on luck we can't we rely on our training we trained to be prepared for any thing that the end
methodus sir working work as hard as we can and be as perfect as we can so we are ready for the worst case scenario of it jacotot er run right now and i want you go in there like
a band of blood thirsty viking shock troops on a bare baserite and crusts see an bring that kind of colnerinn in combat again i just was talking to some guys yesterday and it's
the anything like complacency is the worst thing that can happen with your team will your acomats nursery combat you know it's lookyhere running to get operations right we got the
upper hand and that's good but it's not good enough we cannot be complacent and we can't take our foot off the enemies throat we are going to be relentless we are not going to
give him the chance to re group he will not get the chance to recover there will be no down time for the enemy and i pay you what i want the enemy to have a cane to bury their
dead we are not going to stop until there is nothing left to pursue and no one left to bury so sharpen up your knives load up your magazines because we got work to do sir gin we
got a counter you know the complement in balance essentially what i'm doing in each one of those you know situations some balancing the positive affirmations of what is happening
with some new goals and new objectives that will insure that there will be no slack no yes so the guy said there were ninth graders fresh nay a freshman wild dog hip seneque
toques how do you detach without seeming completely cold okay important question easy all time to know you got to detach i also say all the time if you detach them all your
motions that men you robutel on all robots i say old time so when you do detach you can't you can't completely step away but if you do you have to have left do a little acting now
first of all we already talked about the right we are talked about these red flags that debt show that you're going to lose your temper that you're going to get emotional about
something you know your clenched fist and your rate voice your hay breathing in your flared nostrils and all that stuff right so you know those things mean those en mean those
they your your signal that mean to tach c so you got to work on that now here's the dichotomy of it is one you are there and once you have detached you actually half the now go
back in de one or some of those things that you are trying not to do hester going just to do a little bit in a nice little controlled manner right may be raise your voice a little
bit maybe you just kind o clench your john and memory said to you like like nodding your head in a positive way and that's that's the when you if you're coming to me with an issue
and i nod my head to the affirmative you know up in downing yes i understand yes i understand that's a home being thing to your team right the heat that your your okay with it and
the opposite of that is when you shake your head in the negative eganites problem and i'm shaking my head is like now meaning came can't believe this is going on right so he soon
made me that's another thing that you beat you you clench or drown shake your head to show the person like look i know where the bad way i get it i'm not sitting back here like
it's no big deal i know it's going to be a tough i know we just lost the sail or i know we'd just you know avenante plan another mission that we just got back i understand that
it's hard you care i care now i'm i'm with you you want to give that may you let out that little sigh of frustration you know like a little i but something like that right i just
got to do that you'll find you in that list showing that you do out some motions and you are invested in all that stuff in an tin once once you see that you've achieved your gold
here with it you can see that that they see that you abstentions on the situation then you you quickly go yourself to recover from a practise composed nearhand you show them in at
any senselike a little i see like a little weakness and they got hay you'll tales are heinerle you at have been but you actually want him to call boastall clad so bedient i i'm
glad he's coming down up good okay so the new recover now go back to your comb cool collected self right that's argand now but i said this is ducal this acting i i guess maybe we
could go acting but the same time acting means your trying to pretend to be somebody right out to tent be anybody else your being you that's all you're going to your being you
you're just acting like yourself you showing a little bit more of the emotion in then you would be if you were just completely the thatch so as i could reach like some you know
that i'll eat you out at your not turn it put play a roll of some alerte now so and you already know what you do cause you learn how what the signals are so when you know that you
raise your voice and that means you located your voice alone if you know that you you just gave a little sigh as though careful sayings and so er i guess it is acting in a way but
it's not full on anybody can feel i think yes ye ye did i think that's great isn't my opinion you do with you kids you know i do i mean i you know my isonna you don't mat or or
whatever any good even happy even for ten accaparation eowall sake excited the aagot some in freer wing of a happy face same as she did yesterday you know it's like i'm not the
honest truth is i make cited about other things will just say that the brown caiaphas i'll elsa that moved you got for triturated her you're gone i look you atomotor now people
going as you to hold on to money signiorial have a beautific ture and you lose caribou it to mutilate any giver is a lot excitement i'm going a matter you like men may be been
going lilie that's what i'm on a giver so that maating i excited by the looting a little little bit though brederode ah essankay jane i is it is it a form of minute lations it
might be a little bit of a monition but again if you do it to help the individual you're donate the team then it amanition or is it leadership i say of course if leadership you're
not manipaotu is i'm tina fool you see you do you think that i want you to that atrani not doing that not a run in here right next question next goes leaves discuss how discipline
in one area does it make up for slack in others the for example a fit is growes no saving mere you know that it is something that if we all have to work out watch out for is the
fact that the we we focus on our strength ratatat we do as what people do so you get a person at smart orell intellectual person and they let themselves go physically on you know
or you get a person that the physical stud but then no not on a challenge their brain power or like the question that was you know put to the example here that was posed you know
some one that to fit this gorra party go him anthro that went out there as oliverotto they you know thereon anthropotomic once pure answered the giving a numerous aties but its
least and there behind on payments unstately at an a that m so you don't no i mean you take another example is what about the business person that doesn't have time for their
family right and so that's not good so i think the focus here it is you we try and we all have to be try to be well rounded and not focus so much on one area that dear let
amattara go that's target fixation is what that is right is you walk into a room and you get fixed and on one tartan one bad guide you use think there's one bad guy so you focus
all your energy in the you're goin in flint stepped tartarian you can't let that happen you can't but it happened on the bathrobe can't let it happen in life so look out for that
when you do this um and i'll tell you this is actually a reality of the sit showain am i try maintenance but i've been actually working at lalala what and nisses clear indicated
to me that i've over booked myself is last week um we had tissie had to skip a day of jujitsu to record me we don't do that right when we record we our cotata tegitur i knew i had
so much stuff going on that i said he we got it we got a tricklet this time cause i got to get others other stuff done because i'm traveling in this anat and so we had to skip the
ejiceret is it red flag to me that's as i need to grinned to trade up i need to get my you know give a scedule back in check so that i can do the things that i need to do of
course what did i say about the situation fine you know what can't trentotto that day cause i'm try i got to travel come up good i'm in a heel up my shoulder a little bit more on
gatty know i'm goin to outsetting but it is an indicator of win thanks starting in the wrong direction may be young any carteria ed on you know too much work i certain time which
to me again i will run this thing in the red sea i like i like running a red right on in the red and i got no problem like we will go hard in the numbers of ours i been were i
will work well at actually know impact on elusion to timespan with my family in duodenum do it all but there is a capacity that you reach weok now one of these things that is just
started to slide now and to make sure that my levels get re re level myselfe eyes is what i should a said he ah so back to the subject don't be one trick pony you know be a jack
of all trades and a master of few those straits and you can hand for size then yes go row you can emphasize intellectual power you can emphasise digito but don't put a hundred per
cent of your effort into one area because eventually it will take you you won't have anything else and by the way are you put all your yearly put all your all your eggs in a
basket of intellectual power now your unhealthy and you die right that that doesn't you know one of her house smart you are you can't do to pluto when you're dead she hit so don't
put all your focus a hundred per cent in no one area don't become unbalanced in your discipline spread around obinangoes i get a kind of fields like like you can be understood
that a trial good an fitness mum and it's easy to justify your yourself you know like your your little tale came rugiens you know agoand i go round and then i see on and i go to
the store go to some party and i see this other guy whose like socially he's just a hundred per cent everyone likes me such a nice carisma i makes a lot of money in on all the
stuff but he's not in that good a shape for out in a smoke and whatever you know that it's easie think aloud o people they feel like it's easy to justify wolf became bad shapes of
cares a ray winnie i i want all the money you know all this stuff it seems like an ant now at the other guys saying yet you might be in good shape goriot yeah nice to yakoma
you're driving his all negative on yees so bogos guys should should instead of saying hey you want the she do walk up an be like ham and you don't want i know you presses
financially i would like to get in the game with you a little bit and i and learned from you about that any other guy should say to well you know what you look like you're in
pretty good fitness levels i would like to get in the game with that left work together and improve ourselves and go on and kick out and dominate are you in imageless do this
instead what is a normal person do they do exactly what you said just a i criticise i cut people down instead of buildup yea and what you have to be careful of if i was to go to
you take pay you know echo i got a lot of money i can tell you don't have a lot i'll help you out that's the can be offensive to some people he could you think do you that you are
a lilliesford o money thinking worried about money when i got as like to fill some what we have to do is instead of if he if i came unsafe do not want ads like you got sir let
little can you help me get in the game and then we form a little relationship and now i said you an't so would whatwhat you were with your main income stream do you know when you
doing and he said well you know i got these two clients to a web site no not really why don't you have website to gottschal mediator advertised on you know we go though that road
leilu we take care of each other it's a real one to do as people here and like you ever think see the guides to go they see like a football player or something will go a gay
keisse though you know you o that kind o got it can always like some successerat i kissed off her tete aye there well i've told the story for the seine's a non no one is good all
they is if a guy like we have guys in his olesale rally you know world class hassles in whatever world class tryanite world class sailer world class whatever and we owe you owe
your your world cost trafflin all ye that is really good traffic that's cool he's really bad shot some one of eachin and cut him down a else ye lack no slack alack it now we go on
where i think so oh doc will you come front in individual team member when reported by other team members that they are talking smack about you or would you just ignore the old
class or there where he do about the about the negative guide that trenor you down and sure you can do can front them right in you can by doing that going in there and her little
game and in doing that you give them the satisfaction they now know that they the cadet your head an and then you're turning your work place into you know your basic grade school
gossip hall so we don't like that but now there are times unfortunately that you you have to address things and when you do it you do it professionally and you do it your goal is
to disarm them because i remember that this negative person inside they probably want the competition that they want and so you know you say something like a year some cut ports
for me about how i'm doing my job you know i'd love to get your feet back so i can tighten up my game but she just disarmed little bit and something like that will likely diffuses
this inari a little bed and you know hopefully people will under the the the person will understand that there are other people that are telling you what's going on in all kind of
put him in check and stifle the situation but deep preferred methodology for this situation for me is quite simple the that is it nor an out perform them is while you're over
there watching me and talking about me i'm working i'm working hard i'm taking things to the next level you keep gossiping and i'll keep working you keep talking smack an i'll
keep working you keep focusing on it everything and every one elpinike working and when you finally look around that where you are and where i at you realize that you have nothing
left the talk smack about it you will lose and i will win and this heracles to when people are playing office politics or for manille click or marking their personal agendas and
again i know sometimes you have to play those games but let your first or servation let the fundamental or of your reaction be tower and out perform every last one of them and i
think that's all i've got for tonight so i go charles is speaking of workworn want you jugatinus into more right now an let him everybody know how they can support this poast if
they want to yes they will actually you know what i'm talking ondometer i did to day macon it seemed all that he is a will talk about on it to support this pot cast port yourself
on it what the brother cruell a real it's real and i thought about this i am canaletti in a hard and like i do arms like squats right very like different kinds in different
weights and jugeaient yesindeed read squalidly went ter hell it a lot but just one that the age at deerlike one at home you do all like front square or something like that but i
go all away down normally do meteorites yeah well some on sometimes he now people will have the flexibility in their feet or the ankles or whatever or you know you lift in like
five hundred pounds of something good alloway my point is it's it's i can be hard on your niece it can't straight on her those those are the facts they can be anyway and i'm
pinckard nowadays like pre much every day life and reduce you know like part of it i have in the past for a sure and unlive the anyway the crepon is the creole doctorow is real i
don't have any any pain no pain no pain still come on you to lake three a day three in the morning and three at night i'll just three days three a day yeah i do not wish his much
as you well you're bigger and an older you mean tiger and matafatatele little oh ye ye an i thinking is zero before ye yea that didn't mind to but ye man good creole that's the
what funny when you think supplements that's you think like something is getting making me stronger you know it if i take it versus don't take it we escort does make you stronger
but i like her a rack out more yet you know i been tancredo long i don't even know what it's like him not to grow any more yes i think it's just one big misty now what is the
passivity we we knew i take the curl oil on it ecologically friendly harvesting of grill watch the video on a doom on a dog home flashed jocolino want temperato but pre work out
with its total strength and performance he'll give you more strength and more performance my anecdote sheeta proof tithe way i i got all i had a bunch of like i said to work on at
suitable lot in the covelong on plains with a bunch of people that you don't know and they have won't con to germs as do i and some people get sick and i can't be sick and do my
jobs i got to talk to people i meet people and gives speeches and all that stuff so i can't be getting sick so i knew i had critical events coming up so guess what i did so teck
indian meal as i did the sidecar power through that you're not sick now no amount aknown training hard sir to day sold basically and worked out and got after it so animato the
sickness the danes another one in the rotation is that we were here then and ye i icicle it he iustitiae i knew i seen want to get sick nespole you could do say he who when do you
want to get sick right whenever her maybe it something i should take more off yet what anastasin is pen like a a like a back in computer program er where you don't really you're
not hit by the success of it your only hit by the failure of it on osoamokita mun you take it you don't get sick you're like a a you know it's cool you know but oh no i like i say
bunch of advance back i all that i talk he and so what in a shop to the tea talk coughing can't take that and yet i can tell i can get at it not stuff i knows yer now what would
ye to do no young can't do those sins you got a shop in have your eight yet you know threecan yea these are good because these aren't like a yooka so cruel escorial hwhere that
works your joints work it's not like it's like a quarteron shot where you know you just don't feel it when you get off at your jack you know you are you back to zero it's not it's
the stuff that like help your body do it you know that's the good part there it's not it's not a far in parable substance than i you're going to encumber a lilian to and so got um
in well can the other all good all of them and this other stuff there's cool stuff too did he the armaiti a three nut butter bland good tindirma ceetation you broodale of anna's
potentate and obviously quality proving paruasi you're into proaching powder a shriek for performance that the free work out that's one brief you're left in and doing hard work up
get them get the pre work because it is not stimulant not like if you know so shall i don't because i work out early in the morning as we know and i don't like workin out on it
empty stomatological i work out of any tomatin indebt i and you told me that you might consider this cheating because i will take it preestes yes you allogati umtagati guy i had
more to one it's not as butts not teeming at all but at any also on top that i don't do it the aldith every heavy heat is coming tramp i'll i'll i'll do it it's a advantage i
remember its rolling with i was on the seventy two hour fast and i was like almost at the end of it and i did everything normal i didn't i didn't change anything i scooted i did
pullover thing on a war out sir did you get to all that the end of it and i was on a big eric um you know guderian i say i'm goin to tell you something would we it down so we
rolled hard and it was no is just the way we normally roll you know and got after a hard and i said and i said what we ontell me as siddonian the tale under a seventy two hour
faster i con install a didn't seem to affect your performance then i know it i don't think a fact you perform it at all you just strategically somebody in the iago of forget who
is is the low o but and then and i got him and he could tell you passed that was the day anyway he said oh well first thing he said on tasting wherein ye i for he you asked and i
have that is actually why i didn't call eric ringstone place or out you also and also psychological washer they i tell him ham fasted even a fast is staying like at all
irradiating power the knocking let that happen now jesus at em beauty there's big is a miniature going on even before you ronfland you know give that little bump it was ben
crestham member that time a right after we rolled and he said ah you know did you feel that elsington tired towards the end there and i said no you're like a cause i wasn't
eatonton hold you are of that italy there that's like you at your best line to yonnendio was not good one is pretty good this it's it's hard i have it's hard to get me tired a
togither you would hardly it's not all condition if you're a just i'm i know how to conserve some matter ja but you eat but prolongent what this is what what part of it is if not
a major part you can endure fatigue and tiredness if you're enjoying what you're doing that's why for a lot of people that treadmill just hell even little the treadmills not that
hard the like your going out like a certain like a low percentage about but it's just so boring as no like pay off indigitate its pay off upon pale for pon paolistas one's guard
all my godmither pass your baraitha if i otway i you know it's like this is intricate bayou know the menial you giving to pet i mean a genet really a etired when do you jinteel me
i'm in coinage shape of and you know all the shushan made summoned strides though on two areas you used to gas out really really bad until until you started doing that contend
your training in your in your nonirritant useless out really bad yet the man number two used to get really casterton not be able to handle that yet and they were the yegoroff each
other i cured you of both foot eraise you you're called a roar gore crailey like test time ye ye a let us all the year and what's crazy is a third element there is because if you
know you gas quick and then you get costprice now you that's another enemy do be gaping in the class of that's another enemies on not to bring it you and you noisemaking cost so
that makes me even more like it and tightened like you said there came pounding problems the more tired you get the worst position you got to do now in come ye over on panic and
eat or tire deaf and then let that happen one day the next day what in one of my scared of nowheres rentheim so sadness roeren well you go your way out of that pretty good i too
met conrad a watch i do with a din you just would you just meneely say like a gay when jacko get side control on me and hold me there i just need to relax in to sit at her in
except that i began her full a while yet and a big part of it sometimes i start to get em dizzy like for real cockatooing of antelopes in a isles i think he was like a far real
custody start to get dizzy and i you know like you not my your but the faint but but something like a hat here don't do it at was a cousin not the theme or like a wolf my
filtering where a noise to get the guys and train with them all like in a row and i do like fifteen minutes of this kind in fifteen miss miss canonised and is good the potions and
um and there's a one guy and he was superposition you know you'd be you don't to get in or i'd hold them you know i get across it get the mouth and just not let him move but like
seasover his face feel any which is now in use lose it you know it and and take cappy me like this in my there's no so mister orythaon is no austere drop me and then you know find
the atap amount and i let him go and he be like a god you can esista off me at olmeta don't kineto training and the tirol man you have like a confident that to me what a back in
the when i had excuse like mounted than i do like a girl and i am using my aim from the ill man as a man yet did i actually stony yesterday may be the eyes yesterday to the dido
the powers going out like momentarily in the gym of yetive pits well before the power started like his going off for ten that in certain lights to ye but he also it was killing a
clock yes so we were going when the clock was to running and he was doing that to me right and wouldn't he tries to make me gossiper tries to get reaction out of me i dis goin to
let complete detachment mental shut do not not mental shut down in the negative way but mental set down like other mocoso you any you and so he's a like beastly rot upus knuckle
into my rebby's mouthed smother me and rubbing his knuckle into my rib and i'm laying there like taking it and just thinking about other things in an action thinking like when i
get on to keenan and din the time ran out and he kept doing it kept doing it any yet done for like another thirty seconds and then he he laughed he jumped off so that we were
going again and i i simigliante dogood position right my i got him in the arbor and sit there is refinishing the on believe me go watch him go get jeanjean in metamora you know
withers jeanjean best you get you practicers of all time i go for a walk on dining get out of it so going for a walk on dean and the time goes like the end of the round and in an
he's like oh dear yes a cleave one no i said you violated the giorgione or other you laughed in an a lettin go but not misled he is kind of a sad is for the meditating moonlike o
that's the violation of the generone tion for you his shoes a convention so outersteene cateranos lo the met kin in getting into condition to losing a little bit away to whatever
sure it gets being my case i got me a bid better shape and i can and go longer less gossipin general but the the bigger impact was that that's not something after worry about any
more daymoth being on a gentian mentally you be come you know what it feels like to have tired because i don't like you know what that felt like before it is hard to deal with
those that's how it felt to me like what my thing i'm tired i need to not be tired that's the gold oodn't hear about getting captare it's the tiredness is is really the fight that
the demon here not to the tapent once you go the machinated the men can and in just muscular conditioning in general it'll sure twill get you in shape but sentiat kind o do it all
the time for it's a work like an exercise you're used to it that feeling that becomes like commentaries to oh i'm out of breath i'm not a yowahoos to think was i outreason it on
gonadotropin i'm out of breath and that's okay yea all recover yes you know coverings other positano makes you go to watford way funny can discrowned two ten minute right you know
with the thing and he's been he's going hard and it was like tree your bolong good work on but it's yeah's makes it way funder for sure lay at the point is there that's why you
can into her tiredness it's when you're having a good time when there's little passover notice even if you don't really roll that in you might be different actually not tree fell
this when you go home you feel like the heat radiating from your body now still you know even after you go home but then he really rolled that heart come denafil like it's that
hard cause it was so like fun you know ye well i re heard everything i moecassins behind it anyway if you want help is near the foreman was that just fourteen ratoneau a talk
about on it not com slason sure go ye and a little bit of some digression but one arheetoo very helpful in it that just gennip ve your performance straight up the deed you want a
proof for formia which we do is another one i'm to go into it we got some time so i'm feeling of a water yonder a water jar of my myles so it go fill up i got four of them so i
put him in the back of my car in the back seat esoonian them from the the iwate fill a thing too my canrobert and i walking across the street you know or you had four at four but
to a time i feel too because his two bread things whatever saledero i walked prostration the street a parking lot to my card upon a man and i like this is an even hard but they
look and of pain now from my tosher is like gutenthal septinsular up ready to get after you know from my poganut and you walking there at handselling that hard for some one might
wait in it outwater so i get to the car and i put em in but at my hay i need more room to put the other to so i don't just totalement all perfect for i got a like state and put
these needle there i pongoes will see at a stretch is awkward position but i did it kind o no problem if i were an i've been a time for madesha my diner off brood i would ha her
myself death you hurt you that laissais how people are the bacon the dumb stuff beget or not they are not in curcheyed that's a lot of comte's really what it is is because you
just your bodies not used to like moving all of a sudden like now what if it is an let the crillon that's lookin thing you can do almost like a super power anyway if you want is
amazing supplement to noetes one's cause we all know that on it dot com slashed cocotiers no support yourself supported every one in want and if you shall be amazon who good way
to support and you know you sapristie bear getting book getting whatever quick through the website again this is just support so good a jackpot as occom little banner amazon shop
amazon banner were there on the side a quick on that then do your shopping can sit fortnoye don't think that's a big deal and you're like a you know what that's probably not that
her young sinnoo right to him as on yeatara is cool to me that that's cool but if you do not the support but you still think and that's not that big of the deal may be all support
another way or something like that but that that's cool but it's not true that is a big tal there it's a small action so it may not seem like a bilezik what just quick though not
to contribute it's a big deal and it doesn't cost you meticulous anything to second praries on got some money that they want to give to us as long as you cockeye there like it
they made a blithe attitude is from amazon is that's a wind wind the they're like hey bestow shoppers or coming to buy stuff from us through jockies i go cool then that's
vitaragah exactly right so it's like a circle triangle three three parties trying and when the pores then you get you know your stuff if you got amazonites late one day sometimes
same anyway etwas on click through that a good way to support and then you can subscribe to the pocasset you have an already i to stitch or golah and very sarious how lanesome
body posted that you can if you have a lace doolies e amazon echo its emperiale this and if you have that i do you you know that you can say alexa played dolopia and in it says
back you you want to hear that show jacobite don't they think that podcast isn't part of the name criticall gence fit to just out to hear the shell joncoes and then it says i am
finding the latest atise and then it plays or honourless kinelike a elecution of watch a restraint song yes it but then the song of the all losong or youantee would probably be
called destroy clinic or threading their case her shiresmen a ship he alleadged a cool card trask it the one noaemasin well what's one bless one there as she's going i say be some
of one to one is too but i think you already knew that in five midianite little things anyway i stooping to a the part cast on a ten and all the various outlets um if you not in
tiendicita ly on and on you too we do have you to go but some videos on there m constantly working on these video situation some take longer in a more remote work in whatever time
oh then others but they're out there though doing it dromina clips of the words the advice and philosophy shock of the alcoved had talked out at it sees on you to brederode
jackace offer something like that yes you'll get her see it good that's alabout ah you know war and stuff that a little consequent extreme ownership he nailed it it's actually
good like that that's a ah one where you know how you got you got a condense it down obviously eellike mais steal it do that was a good disolation says in point twelve minutes not
want are you go you too but yet the gritted you know thee to canteener also jocatore called jackassdom your all jocatore stuck come if you're into shirts discipline equal freedom
giant was actually the old discipline equals freedom there only one regionibus misteaching oderigi nal theoriginal discipline equal freedom so persil to the point you a good
quality with it you know made sure that they were good quality shirts in not the kanouge away at the ball park and all that kind er new to talk about those shirts that you give
away at the alpargata man that now while yeah they're at banattee ojosan's true gravely because that one's cool because all free step on you get on he don't wear it now this was
oceanhood as not wearable you know now on where you're like your friend gives you the free sir they're like that for you then you lie you wear it it's like this it doesn't stick
good or whatever these ones like picote solid in fact it garandine he said it's my favourite shirt to wear because it makes me look good it's like it fits you know don't you i
don't observe not at hanuman never make a man in here a winehouse you look attribute good solid look at him i'm nothing by shirt is good ljotr come i go there look in a shirt you
like to shirk you want represent you on a support get a shirt get a rasher got some good reviews of the rash guard multiple instances of increasing performance and raps with the
rash guard proven and against jacklight amen they looked it you know if you are you know that you want to live it payments that element as well layers or i'm more pictured about
the performance in the look imitatae that nineteen per cent minimum nineteen boonesboro go i guess yet denizen of thing be sure oh patches the valiant is a regleront ah but the
balcone with the thitherward ye call the color right aglaion yea the one you can wear i saw a sheircein you showed me his patch like collection of the velcro dithipline treetoad
up in there's good droond this wan is a big one to support yourself psychologic harfar let literal like support the enough like a spot the the sheet back from everyone out there
on psychological it's one hundred per cent of venesection to the track savagely yet if you was not track you could be in crispiano nuts after not eating for three days and you
will go in there you listen to that track you will not eat a donuil not lie the it's true sepoy true and at the wake up thing of wake up the son say the wake up you will get out
of bed yet because you can cause you visit the thing you know what's being told to you is true you know it's true and then you ye party or bravest ing you know what it's not true
ye that just yet onarano in one dull not not then he can actually it is no kill you ill sir you not on eat it asked you so salagrama a good one by the way illicitos some toy while
the you know it's kind of like wit to actually listen as now now i listen to it billionaire actually in a way be more effective for you because it's really you talking in
adelsheim yesli you talking yourself like your brain a sleek jussices sure and this is a bad one just like the cruel oil and just like that on its stuff it's not like like get up
and get after it like it's not like we leaking what it is it's these tracks on an all you can buy from i to ans and is on amonate resources yes i verlaine at her yeats's a eatin
dis purchase these empty tracks i can play in your fond before you're about to be when you're having momentariness you goin skip the work out because you don't feel like it really
going a ship you're goin to mess up your diet because you're doorlocks or delusions for or you want a press musenheim you can put as your laminate you buy these tracks and their
for different situations and i'll give you a little spot we'll sit that jocal be there to give you a little fun he in the ante on mental spot yer psychological msidi the urge to
be a slacker crier but it's good because it's not like the genuin get out it scares you out of bed so you'll get out of bed it's not that more it's like psychological airy tells
your lying when it is the certain way you know has really no you're doing it it's like a sminute cometic strike its psychological warfare in which is actually more effective he
cause you're doing it like the courtezans verses the cruel we prefer to let our body do the work an yes exacted we prefer to let our mind do the work if you getting out of that
casson's now to you okay well that's okay but it's better if it's you that katouse out of bed because you salonican yourself the up cause he feared he did good things with the
information savoient with good and ill and don't give it to you omopoua the back on now you do on the back number it was cyclonic war for was the number one it is domaisen cents
day one or who i don't don't have me on the back said you every one that's a gone in and botschaft thank you he has also yes fully but he got a min it's like you deep in now you
did that thing on actually you got her meant that if no one wanted to hear it and want to get after it than i would be all you ad myself so it's like were like a little group of
like this is a good going where i you know she'd anybody out of bed and stop eating donauworth or it is if you want some crack a white tea sure it's in stock it's an amazon if
your america get it on amazon if you are a foreign country go to e bay for a resource it's the official listen you can get it there you you already know what what the key is goin
to do for you you already know that you are weak you will become straw you are stupid you're going to become smart you are lazy you're going to become aggressive disconsolate your
profit to the you know what that's the sight affect us it also just tasted so which one's genoa'll you what right now i do we are assessing and likely going to put jock a white
key in cans already like the lightly natalie okay an energy drink doinel furred miss wake ye this is boom oh you're in seveneven goodlie sugar caffeine candy negativity timelon
here you go is there caffeine in dockwater only a little bit but it's good for you italia little it mickety thank you echo microdots bucket get you old jittery so jack white tea
you can get in all amazonian you're on amazon you can pick up the book extreme order ship by me and my brother lay bainne what's collis or company a sanford we work with a bunch
denkendes they should be nationalising in its always cold to see and hear about how the books spread through those companies somebody you know somebody heard about it some bear
mean tim pariser so to be remunerator three per me on this pan cast and it gets in there an a guid it spreads the gusedub buys it for his team and then he buys it for you know the
sea is a gain in the sea o bysance such truly cool to see that and it's cold to see how it helps companies a line vercoe and a line theiler teams so go out get it for the people
you work with give them the tools to lead and you know the dealers you make a little investment get in a book studebat you give that book your kite members it's an make your life
easier return on investment good to go and while you're doing that you can get this book allote book right here it's um it's called way the warrior kit and this is the deal is is
what we have to watch out for order it now why order now for not going to get it until may second that's when it comes out here's why if we don't order it now it's going to happen
titantic happlication had a pretty slice on no one's ordering it so we're we're not going to you know well pretwell coffees the day comes out where gignoit lot of orders and never
going to have to sit around and wait for the thing to be printed to so what we want to use gave them the indication that yes bois coming out we don't want to end up with jack
awhile teetle bar in armageddon honour hands to with the book and i'll tell you it is you know it's a book it's a kaitaka book admittedly but i atellane jake was in the book who
teaches his nephew how to get after it uncle j got some lessons for a re body about disappointed about working out about overcoming fear about diet and exercise and life it's a
book about like an corelation you yet then or you are a over ological colonially that in holding in my hands right now it's called a galley and i you it's so leave can see and
make sure you can go through it to correct the old like a final end like a final ed it and this one's pretty good a hit something close soredamors ain't creosoti point here's
what's going on um that this point basically the kid mark he's at like i said he does know how to do he can't do any poop doesn't know his time tables he's getting picked on it
croelean how to swim guess what he detente life his heart he realized that he's bombardes been sad as uncle jake comes to live with him for the summer his uncle jisuke jake to be
in the saltem he's getting out siringo to college but during the summer he's living with his sister so now when uncle jake realized is that mark as all these issues like i said
what is he say when mark three out and cried i i go no is use uncle jake says good we can solve these problems and any said look you you're not really getting after it do you to
cuneo be sad of being this kind of wine kate over here and need to be a warrior kid and mark sort of what what's a warrior kid and i at this point there they're talking about like
deacon now what a war yours and i'll back to the bullion so here's a uncle jake do you even know what a warrior is markus yes i i i mean i guess i know a warrior some one who
fights in worse right in uncle jakes that is one part but what else i'm not sure what else so do you think that the only way to be a warrior is to fight in wars and you think that
any one who fights in wars is a warrior i guess so well you guess well there is a lot more to being a warrior that just being in a warm warriors are people that stand up for
themselves they faced challenges warriors work hard to achieve goals they have the discipline to overcome their weaknesses warriors are people that constantly try to test and
improve themselves and yes war is the ultimate test but not all warriors go to war and then mark says but how can a kit the warrior and uncle mark says her uncle jake as by doing
it everything i just said a normal kid doesn't push himself a warrior kid does a normal kid doesn't work to constantly improve himself a warrior kid does i look at all these
problems you cried to me about yesterday a warrior kid wouldn't cry about those problems a warrior kid would do something about those problems and ten marks as do what do what do
whatever it takes every problem you have can be overcome every one of them you can't do pup you work out and get stronger and to you can't you don't know your times tables you
study and train your mind until you know them old you can't swim you learn how you get picked on you learn how to fight fight i asked yes fight does like anything else in the
world there are technique to fighting like learning a sport and when you know the techniques and practice them you can defend yourself for any one you really think i could learn
all that i know you can like i told you last night i had to transform myself when i got in the navy i had to get stronger i had to learn to fight i even had to learn to learn but
i did it and if i did it so can you do you want to you want to overcome all these challenges you face of course and then as the trap up that conversation they were out the part
when they're doing that and mark says we walked through the park and back to the house without saying another word something had already changed some like were but poetaster at
asia a fumble my want to get after it and also on top of that the book is coming out may second that's cool may fourth and fifth gusset's going on the master right there mary it
marquis in new york city basically two months away from right now so sign up booked her ticket get you tell room it's going to be awesome lay going to be there i'm going to be her
obviously last going to be there japson to be there acts going to be there dave berk newest member of ascalon front marine corps boom fighter pilot boom pop gun boom to gun
instructor ye and my away with all that he was all the ground in remote with fasting to bruiser do an operation after operation after operation as an anglican leader so the guys
out there forder control he's got on the poast well and as just like the first master there's not con be a back stage there's no green room that were going to be hiding in we will
be helpful we will be talking to you discussing things taking eldership of the problems that we all have and get himself so we will see you there at the muster extreme ownership
dot com and until we do see you there we will see you on the interesante on instigate and may be we on us in a fit book bore will be interacting with all of you echo is at echuca
i am at jaca willing into the military men and women that are out there right now in harm's way putting your life at risk for our great nation thank you all for our freedom and to
those that have fallen for the cause of freedom we will never forget for the police fighting crime in the fire fighters fighting fires and the rest of the first responder out
there thanks to you all for keeping us safe in the every one else out there thank you for listening and thank you for supporting this pot cast and thanks for being here with us
you people that we hear from all the time from all over the world in every walk of life thank you for joining us as we make our way through the world trying to extract every drop
of blood from this life by pushing forward every day with everything that we've got all of us and getting after it so until next time this is echo and jack out
