this is jocapa cast number sixty two with the coteries and me joaille good evening i go it even in the smallest to be tale taken from an actual incident in war is more instructive
for me a soldier than all the pears in jominis in the word they speak no doubt for the heads of states and armies but they never show me what i wish to know a battalion of company
a squad in action concerning a regiment of italian accompanies squad it is interesting to know the disposition taken to meet the enemy geronte march toward them what becomes of
this disposition or this march order under the isolated or combined influences of accents of the terrain and the approach of the danger is this order changed or is it continued in
force when approaching the enemy what becomes of it arriving within the range of the guns within the range of the bullets at what distance is a voluntary orn order disposition
taken before starting operations for commencing fire for charging or for both how did the fight start how about the firing how did the man adapt themselves how was the charge made
at what distance did the enemy flee before him that what distance did the charge fall back before the fire or the good order and good disabilities of the enemy or before such and
such a movement of the enemy what did it cost what can be said about all these with reference to the enemy what about the behaviour i e the order the disorder the shouts the
silence the confusion the calmness of the officers and men whether with us or with the enemy before during and after combat how has the soldier been controlled and directed during
the action at what instant has he had a tendency to quit the line in order to remain that behind all rushahead at what moment if the control were escaping the leader's hands as it
no longer been possible to exercise it at one instant has this control escaped from the battalion commander when from the captain the section meter or the squaw beater what time
in short if such a thing did take place was there but a disordered impulse whether to the front or to the rear carrying along pell mell with it both leaders and men were in when
did the whole take place wherein when were the leaders able to resume control of the men at what moment before during or after the day was the matalaosa the company roll call made
the results of these roll halls what were they how many dead how many mood wounded on the side and on the other side the kind of wounds of the officers non commissioned offers
corporals private etcetera all these details in a word an lightin eager than material or the moral side of the action or a neighbor it to be visualized possibly a closer
examination might show that they are matters infinitely more instructive to us as soldiers than all the discussions imaginable all the plans and general conduct of campaigns of
the greatest captain in the great movements of the battlefield from colonel to private we are soldiers not generals and it is therefore our trade that we desire to know the
certainly one cannot obtain all the details of the same incident but from a series of true accounts there should emanate and hansamble of characteristic details which in
themselves are very apt to show in a striking irrefutable way what was necessarily and forcibly taking place at such and such a moment of an action in war take the estimate of a
soldier obtained in this manner to serve as a base for what might possibly be a rational method of fighting it will put us on guard against a priory or pedantic school methods
whoever has seen turns to a method based on his knowledge his personal experience as a soldier but experience is long and life is short the experiences of each cannot therefore be
completed except by those of other proofs have weight in that right there is an exert from a letter by a french officer in the french army named ardent sup and he was in the
french army in the mid eighteen hundreds which had him then fighting in the crimean war eighteen fifty five he was in syria during the story in violence of eighteen sixty and
eighteen sixty one he saw service now gerier eighteen sixty four eighteen sixty six in finely he was a regimental commander during the outbreak of the frank prussia where he
served as the commander for thirty three days of his regiment from fifteen july eighteen seventy until eighteen august eighteen seventy when he was the really wounded by shrapnel
and eventually died of those wounds so there something that i really like about dis guy are to be and that is that i sees likes what i like he is interested in what i am
interested in and that is primarily human nature people and human beings and owlet under stress and under a fear and in the face of death and then more important how do you lead
in those situations and he recognized tabor while just like to day it certainly involves tactics and strategy and technology and politics but war at its or is about people men
human beings and therefore vigenere and the captain and the sergeant and lieutenant in order for them to master war they first have to master their understanding of human nature
and that is what he looked at and that is what we will look at to night in obviously when you look at human nature in the context of war it does not change when you put it in the
context of life the rest of life now as we know combat is like life but ample finites ified so when you see the emotions and the human nature and wardance as much easier to see
than it is off the battle field in regular life in the business world but when you know the under current he makes you that much better of a leader and to pike like many other
great military leaders especially one's hat i seem to like hustlin of a rebel spoke is my alice come hack worth caliban called it out when he saw things going on he called it out
when he saw a flat a slack that would leave too poorly trained and therefore poor leap prepared troops so luckily he wrote a lot of his work down this is a a work called battle
studies and unfortunately he didn't finish it because he was killed but he got a lot done and it is a love lessons to be learned in her so with that let's go ahead and go back to
the book now this is his critique murmurs that he was a little bit of a rebel so this is a talking about frederick the great on the new verse and here is what he said the great
mistake in inspection is that you officers amuse yourself with god knows what be food reason never dream in the least of serious service this is a source of stupidity which would
become most dangerous in case of serious conflict take shoemakers and tailors and made generals of them and they will not commit worse folly these blunders are made on a small as
well as a large scale consequently in the greatest number of regiments the private is not well trained in uramas regiment he is the worst in fat in he mounted to nothing and no
more in colors erlach or hairs why because the officers are lazy and try to get out of a difficulty by giving themselves the least possible trouble callamalala and that that was a
bunch of obviously but to regimental commanders that he saying these guys are not good at what their doing and there not during after with their guides and getting them trained up
and ready rockdale so missus where he kind o laid out what i was talking about and his view of war being primarily about man back to the book battle is the objective battle of the
final objective of armies and man is the fundamental instrument in battle nothing can wisely be prescribed in any army its personal organization discipline and tactics thing which
art withings which are connected like the fingers of a hand without exact knowledge of the fundamental instrument man and his state of mind his moral at the instant of combat it
often happens that those who discuss war taking the weapon for the starting point a sum on hesitatingly that the man called the servant will always use it as contemplated and
ordered by the regulations but such a being throwing off his variable nature to become an impassive pawn and abstract unit in the combinations of battle is a creature born of the
musings of the library so legit titania you think these gasengines do what you tell me this that's that's a fantasy that you can only find in the library you won't find it back to
the book and not a real man man is flesh and blood he is body and soul and strong as the soul often is it cannot dominate the body to the point where there will be a will that
where there will not be a revolt of the flesh and mental patrician in the face of destruction the human heart to quote martial de fact is then the starting point in all matters
pertaining to war boom think about that and it's the same thing with leadership over all people such a dear you great cool technology make a great product you want to build a
business you got understand people get our sand human nature back to the book the best masters are those who know man best the man of to day and a man of his tryinest and history
this knowledge naturally comes from a study of formations and achievements in ancient warm boom look at what's going on the past that's one of the things that's one of the reasons
that i read books in the first place cause i want to understand what happened in the past understand those who those human beings reacted to these situations i want to know that i
want to know that back to the book we shall learn to distrust mathematics and material dynamics as applied to battle principles we shall learn to be ware of the illustrations
drawn from the range and he manoeuvred so the rays were goito gun anonyma right oh rita shotgun and know her she afaahiti guy can shoot ten rounds of minute and hit his target a
on the range that means i can take him out of the battle field and he'll be able to shoot ten rounds in it his target wrong answer you don't know that that's actually wrong he got
a shot hunderground to many he to missus dargental of him because i did be freaking out back to the book there oh and the manoeuvre is we got you march round and eat this is
training field to right you got you march around the train fields or you oh go round even when you try you i see some military in they simulate combat in it so cheesy gerhard
genestas and there back to the book there experiences with the calm sad old unfatigued attentive obedient soldier with an intelligent tentacle man instrument in short so that what
that's what that's what you have in the training situation all those things calm settled unfatigued ten of all those seas what you really get back to book and not with the nervous
elewated moved troubled distrait excited restless being not even under self control who is the fighting man from general to private there are strong men exceptions but they are
and then he mentions that deroger of course you're going to get eyes that are super calm and super corteous he mentions that throughout this but from general propriate give the
guy that's not good to be the same on the battle field as he isn't in training let us then study man in battle for it is he who really fight man does not enter battle to fight but
for victory he does everything that he can to avoid the first and obtain the second be now he sarcinelli here a man surprised deeds an instant to collect his thoughts and defend
himself during this instant he is killed if he does not run away fighter flight the surprised adversary does not defend himself he tries to flee so that he go that's why your one
a tenant of sea combat is ristori in violence of action we are going to surprise you because everybody when you get surprised it's you do you now you're dear to finding yourself
and it may as a running was that your best action back to the book man paces as the ingenuity to be able to kill without running the risk of being killed possission amena said
about that man taxes ingenuity to be able to kill out running the risk of being killed that at all modern weapons are for right can i shoot this guy from five hundred yards away
now what i want now we make guns now that shoot around corners we dropped bombs from the sky we want to kill without the risk of being kilt back to book his bravery is born of his
strength and is not absolute before a stronger he flees without shame so then he puts out missus waat's cool about the bees he done this mass of a mount of istorical studies and
he sights all these situations and he's like you know when you are about to tuition and you have confectony enemy you must count on gasaiatanne are not going to send eithor many
times you you see that i streetlight olrig as soon as as soon as a bank friend step in an as we to second you got to be here with my body i know no god no problem here a goethals
i'm good liatris there was a big yell to wait over here get ready to take my but so he said that bravery is born o strengthen every one strong everyone's brave when you got twelve
people with you and your genii one guy if one's breath for you averse those rolls snugly turn out that way back to book collective man a disciplined body of troops formed in
tactful battle order is invincible against an undisciplined body of troops boom but against the similar similarly discipline body he became he becomes again primitive man he flees
before a greater force to destruction when he recognizes it or when he foresees it nothing is changed in the heart of man discipline keeps and me face to face a little longer but
it cannot supplant the instinct of self preservation and the sense of fear that goes with it fear there are officers and soldiers who do not know it but they are people of rare
grin the mass shudders because you cannot suppress the flesh this trembling must be taking into a taken into account in all organizations discipline arrangements movements
whenevers mode of action all these are affected by the human weakness of the soldier which causes him to magnify the strength of the enemy this faltering is studied in ancient
combat it is seen that of nations act in war the strongest have been those who not only best have understood the general conduct of war but who have taken human weakness into
greatest account and then taken the best guarantees against it powerful now which really interesting is when you start you know news think about some of these true combats or as
you know this guy around in the eighteen sixties right what the some of the stories that we talked about on his pocket what makes them so phenomenal is that you can see you are
resolder u s marines just completely define what he say here mastadon abridger of change force co we were game were surrounded by chinese army or at the chose resinic go we're
goin to fight a rear on a way no were i were to go and where on a stand so that makes these modern warfare situations even more impressive because you realize that the general as
he says the mass shudder the mass shuddersome most people they shudder with fear that it breaks them down and you know even for me i talked about this you know you know let me
toys when i ask about the training in it's okay year cold on your wet and you got to do much perculsit can't sleep to my own i can't sleep of vingetty but there also feeding you
bunch and it's fun right sir but you compare that to you know that that's stuff doesn't you this it's not it's nothing m and my favour example to compare that too is you know a
guy when we are remodulates that's the lead turreton going out on a towanda humpy sir he is a above the hum exposed the enemy in and that guy wait all the way out the gate and
remade you drive by this file grave yard whether as a hundred vehicles that were blown up and destroyed by its and i des goin to hit the first theomnestus often right so there is
a go he is going to be up there and where i am watching this guy go out on an operation after operate that mark les primary turnaround many operations is why i remember it really
clearly but sane thing like there's no way that that those guys and that's one of course yoeder gottes get out the originates guys that i've seen all of them looking at this
situation knowing that death is a high possibility of callipooiah possibility but you know what brogley trocero you know when you say how am but straining his easy do you think i
mean of see that some effect but you know you go to battailing and that's kind of the the thing like than i to put training that you know i'm tough kind o think and and ten after
you go to combat do you look back on budstedt so making it seem like it's easy i just fought it was fun for me sir i i did and the funny thing is it's not like buds i mean i was
not a great athlete so it was hard for me a pass that time devolution and i failed some time evolutions and they have a special way of making people fail things in media at the
time we do for out in runs that were five miles in brownsboro that we do had run his ours we could and yet we had swims that there's a like edosan ocean current going the opposite
direction you know every one in the class would fail but i feel to solita everyone a class failer to to swim barstowe yet the two guys that swam and college tristesse this those
four eyes past everyone else failed righteth eben so i'm not saying but with the easy otherways that are great athletes and they have an easy time with the physical part too and
in there's guys that have easy time with the mental part which probably were i fell into because i was having a good time you d ye you know ah but i think yes i think once i think
once you get to come back as there's you know there's times were guesit i bessy or seals and made it to buzz in a wan to be in combat on there's that happens to ye cause i come
that just this begin with never mind fire fights never much just just starting off your mind set is i could die to jeering of rosario the what happens it doesn't happen i could
die to the i in buds you would think even though buds guys die and but but faver veroner mean so it's like chance as are not going to die to day do you know every swim very few
people usually when people die in value they have some kind of a pre existing condition for when a some kind of heart trouble i think i picked up and it's kind of brain trouble
and all sudden the pressure of water or whatever the day unfortunately get killed in these horrible situations but the very rare revery rise he compared to a comet situation the
right when you get off the what the plain to you like a kanuk that and that's just starting up sittara's like a a hundred per cent chance that that's on your mind the old time man
it's a fact darkot is definitely a factor for the eleanor thinking back will you but not as a iii remember thinking about this few of the guys that came in relieved us in remote
so that the next has you to came over who were bunch of great guy and it been a long time since selha been in sustained urban combat like that and suffered pretty significant
gaslette like we did into you brazer and those guys i was friends with citrons with a number the guys in there and and so relating the other you know all the eyes we had friends
that were back you know back to in those in that hastings coming on leave us and it's taking what year saying and multiplying it times a lot leave us when we went to remote we
weren't really sure you know oh yates a lot of bad guys there and will get after it but it's different when you get there and the star going on operations you you realize that
this is this is this is going to be a long deployment and the chances of us making it through his deployment without suffering any casualties is actually as europe it's zero like
does knock an happen and when those guys came over again a bunch of gray dudes you know i talked to in a week at home and in tagalo and one of the guys did friend of mine and he
he came in work with me in the in the train to partment and you'll we would have that compleation versation a couple times where you know mike he answered kill you know september
twenty ninth and those guys were now coming on to plant a week maybe two weeks later to come over and start getting a turn over from us we went home october twenty first so they
don't want to talk to my to my buddy that was the the senor listed guy you know he he i said man we was that like and he goes we were trained in so aryenis another they were just
a hondred a thousand per cent training because men said a boat he mature you're good cane mature you can run mature yolanda's make sure you as the irun in on the beach can do in
body ter is all but time they were training so hard because their thinking themselves you know this is it is so on different kind of deportment and scasely have one of those guys
from that follow on the poet on the boasters and stood so we'll get a on here in the near future a going back to the book half the discipline of the greeks was secured by
exercises and rewards the discipline of the romans was secured also by the fear of death they put to death with the club they decimated their cowardly or traders units they
clubbed him to death clubbite death in order to conquer animus that terrified his men a roman general heightened their aalbus but by anger he made the life of his soldiers
miserable by excessive work and privations stretched the force of discipline to the point where at a critical incident instant it must break or expended on the enemy that's that's
that's great in it as tatara little clip on to of a marine i think it's i think it's sergeantmajor record begin a little talk to his boys before they roll out that he's just
casals and he said why you think we don't need your good we want you be pestof who as epistothe kick their assets that with their this same only you know the marine is being
somewhat facetious playful about it mum this guy's not it made life hard for these guys and again you can see that even that that there's a line is a bagatelle you could go too
far now you're going to get the end rebellion you'd get it where there goin to break the geyser if you do it perfect they'll take down rage and to use it against the enemy as
elected with dogs and yet let you have seen fighting dogs for sure lady that back to the book but discipline alone does not constitute superior tactics men in battle i repeat is a
being in whom the instinct of self preservation dominates even at certain moments all other sentiments disappoint has for aim the domination of that instinct by a greater carter
passage you dry scared discipline the goal of discipline is to shut down and dominate that fear instinct that book but i cannot dominate it completely i do not deny the glorious
examples where discipline and devotion an elevated man above himself but if these examples are glorious it is because they are rare if they are admired it is because they are
considered except in and the exception proves the rule so obviously we have yours i have gus i my faster that level of heroes that overcame every instinct of self discipline or of
self preservation to do their job actor the book the determination of that instant where man loses his reasoning power and become instinctive is the grounding achievement in the
science of combat so what he sang there is understanding that what that where that line is with people if the crowning atevedo that you know where that line is that the cunning
achievement in tabacalera here was the strength of the roman tactics in particular cases such successful determination makes hannibals and caesars they understood their men combat
took place between masses in more or less formal deep formation commanded and supervised by leaders with a definite mission leaders understood the mission the combat between
masses was a series of individual complex juxtaposed with the front rank man fighting alone if he fell if he was wounded or worn out he was replaced by the man in the second rank
who had watched and guarded his flank this procedure continued up to the last rank man is always physically and morally fatigued in hand to hand turnament where he employs all his
energy these contest lasted but a short time with moral with like moral the least fatigued always win so conditioning midday we talking but come back inditing rather that alder
talking about during this engaging it we the first two ranks the one fighting the other watching close at hand the men of the near ranks waited inactive at two paces distance for
their turning combats so magniac on the front and erehand me two paces and you're going to watch me fight so that's what he talking about right here at two paces for their turning
combat which would come only win their predecessor were killed wounded or exhausted they were impressed by the violent fluctuations of the struggle of the first rank they heard
the classes and the blows and distinguished perhaps those that sank into the flesh they saw the wounded the exhausted crawl through the intervals to go to the rear passive
spectators of danger they were forced to await its terrible approach these men were subjected to the poignant of combat without being supported by the animation of the struggle
they were thus placed under moral pressure of the greatest of anxieties often they could not stand it until their turn came they gave way so that's just a crazy way to think about
combat your sand of behind me in fighting i get club in the head they stabbed me in the chest in nedall know that didn't happen fast lysimantes right and your osander watching me
like oh go they had it all sodden i mind an you're up then yet that's the one says like the most anxiety yea the most in a agin our four guys back wiley your forges back and and i
can tell me confirms in combat etheke when you're when you're waiting to go ye is the war singly mericani point and now your waiting to go you okay you got all this stuff going to
your mind what to have to to have it i got moved with the dioual this turmoil going your mind and you're not even they were not talk about this station you watching your guided
stab to the throne right and just standing here watching wait for im to go down so you can step up and by the way you know like you know me and so if you see you me get crushed
and not when we train i'm crushing you you know you aright that blithedale good with the sword agaetai neck i gotta take his place against billy bad as my enemy and not to say the
chance yet this trust what that's why you say a lot of these ponies these people turned and an't gave way so this is a little bit different listen to this back to the book the
best tactics were those that made easiest a succession of efforts by assuring the relief by ranks of unit nation actually engaging only the necessary units and keeping the rest as
support or reserve outside of the immediate sphere of moral pension to don't put those to eyes right there with a conselhiero back a book this aperit of the romans lay in such
tactics and in the terrible discipline which prepared and assured the execution by their resistance against the page which ruled and continually continual pass gave them and by
the renewal of combatants in combat they secured commutator greater than any one else so did you notice this part there resistance against fatigue came from a rude and continual
past so these gases it ground all the time the basically may lived a hard life walking or base workin out of suristan we considered it a mat confut they were hard and because they
were tough and they were hard their physically stronger than more physically conditioned they do better in an you know dan gable i tinti think i forget the exact coat but you know
the great american rest larengel you conditioning as the old temiteu lizer you get time you feel as one you get you all the time only you some get tired or mamasul fire his game
over on a over you cannot i can crush any body when they're tired you could give me you give me anybody and you force me to do a hundred bruisine ty five cannabis and he you don't
have the thing that half is the gain and let me in the ring with him i'll get any money that i know because they are to get worn out so this is actually this is like i said he
does a lot of an unago into a lot of these but this is cesar account of a battle a against the pompeians and at the battle of forcalier the whole thing but it's pretty there's a
pre cool points in here but gin pretty cool that you know you know i like first poor person accounts of things right lookin a first person to count von seizer thought i here is a
what's good well if he writes he the first himself in the supers for whatever reason i'm sure there's some reason for that but that's he does here we go caesar in the mean while
our soldiers at the given signal advanced with javelins in hand but having noticed that the po that pom pay soldiers were not running towards them and tap by experience and
trained by previous battles they slowed down and stopped in the midst of their run in order not to arrive out of breath and worn out the pretty legit i likes geantes gent run in
towards us we don't need to run towards them save our breath some moments after having taken up their rumaging they launched their javelins and immediately afterwards according to
caesar's order drew their swords the pompeians conducted themselves perfectly little compliment the enemy they received the darks courageously they did not stir before the dash of
the legions they preserve their lines and having despatched their javelins to their swords at the same time pompeian tire cavalry dashed from the left wing as had been ordered and
the mass of his archers ran from all parts of in our cavalry did not await the charge but fell back a little pompey's cavalry became more pressing and commenced to reform its
squadrons and turn araspes flank as soon as seizer saw this intention he gave the signal to the fourth line of six cohorts this line started directly and the standards low they
charged upon in cavalry with such vigor and resolution that not a single man stood his ground all wheeled about that what happens in you flank people all wheeled about and not
only with jean full flight but gained the highest mountains as fast as they could they left the archers and slingers without their defence and protection these were all killed at
the same time the cohorts moved to the rear of pompey's left wing which was still fighting and resisting and attack it in rear meanwhile seizure had advanced his third line which
up to this moment had been quietly kept quietly at its post these fresh troops relieved those that were fatigued pompey's men taken in rear could no longer hold out and all took
to flight cesar was not in arrowy put these cohorts in a fortin particularly charged with meeting the cavalry and urged them to do well since their effort would bring victory they
repulsed the cavalry they cut to pieces the slingers and archers they turned pompey's left wing and this decided the day caesar lost in this battle two hundred soldiers but nearly
thirty of the bravest centurions were killed therein of pompey's army of fifteen thousand perished and more than twenty four thousand took refuge in the mountains as userhat
invested in the mountains with intrenchment they surrendered the following day that's one of the things that do peppino well he does a lot of comparisons and will get the some of
em in the differences between ancient combat and modern combat and one of the big things that he points out he is an ancient combat the winner would take very very small amount of
castles and the loser would be exterminated in many cases too and what's differ about modern battle you'll world war two world or on the victor and the loser there both got a take
really back cast is in fact of time they take almost the same amount of canlan facts sometimes the loser of the battle takes less castle to artanes takes more castitate winner
takes takes more casualties but they had more people they had better be e profili they drop on whatever so that's a really different thing and it gets in a mental state because i
think about if you if you and i were fighting a battle sir and we knew that if we lost we would die giving order you can be more aggressive and when and if the bottle started to
turn you're goin to run to try and save yourself do whereas you know in modern warfare we take prisoners you know you can survive and you can live to fight another day so you know
what they were starting in using surrender we give up a moon you know you're not going to fight with that same kind of vigor now there's a common in here the order to wait the
charge given by pompey's infatu was judged too severely by caesar caesar certainly was right as a general rule the infusion of the troops must not be dampened and the initiative
of the attack indeed gifts to the assailant of certain moral influence so clearly if your boy is your team is aggressively getting after it it's not a good idea to to pull the
reins on if they are there they got them a man in their going they fired up let him go let him rock and roll obviously don't want to let them run to your death but you want to
maintain that momentum to the best of her ability now talking a little bit about moral in ancient battle missus summerstone again that i have been saying back to book it was
customary among good troops to have a clash but not the blind and headlong onset of the mass the preoccupation of the rank was very great as the behaviour sesar troops at for a
for sale shows in their slow march at the moment of getting close to the enemy the dash slackened of its own accord because the men of the first rank of necessity and
instinctively assured themselves of the position of their supports their neighbours in the same line their comrades in the second and collected themselves together in order to be
more the masters of their movement and strike and i strike and parry so that that not an order that was given those guys instinctively there getting close to enemy they slow down
they checked their flanks they check to their good to go the check to their bodies or behind him now we're goin to go forward because and i think that's important to says in order
to be more masters of their movements their slowing down to their ready back to the book there was a contact of man with man each took the adversary in front of him and attacked
him because by penetrating into the ranks before having struck him down he receiued in the side by losing his points port so these guys tried to stay in ranks because even if i
even if i'm going in to you and i chop you down if i now step in your rank now exposed to my flanks arch pose so i can't do that we got to stay on mine but this is something we
still do in the military today we got to stay in line each one then hid his man with his shield expecting to make him lose his equilibrium and at the end and at the instant he
tried to recover himself landed the blow the men in the second line back of the intervals necessary for fencing in the first were ready to protect their sides against any one that
advanced between them and were prepared to relieve tired warriors of the same in the third line and comes we already talked about the mutative move this ancient govern move by if
i need to help you goin to be right or to cover from a a i'm fighting guide front of me you govern my flanks that's art it is its ancient covin move back a book every one who
supported on the other side the first encounter was rarely decisive and the fencing the real combat at close quarters began so after that initial now as when we get now is where
its gritty if the men of the first line were wounded quickly if the other ranks were not in her hurry to relieve replace them or if there with hesitation defeat followed this
happened the romans in a first encounter with the gulls the gall with his shield parried the first thrust brought his big iron sword swooping down with fury upon the top of the
roman shield split it and went after the man the gals had some big swords big guise and they figured out a little tacitean procedure oh you got that little round so cool a hacket
right half and that's what they did the romans already hesitating before the mole impulse of the goals the gulls there ferocious yells to this the gauls there ferocious yells
their newness and indication of a contempt felons to the guide your fighting is naked or like not wearing armor which says oh i'm ready to bring it but you want to beat me in a
street fight be naked i'm not going to fight you hallthat fell then in greater number than there have reserves and do demoralisation followed soon they accustomed themselves to
this valorous but not tenacious spirit of their enemies and the pretty cool back to bowen nay had protected the tops of their shields with an iron band they no longer fell and the
rolls were changed and they made a little the adaptation oh you d have to tap verse you'll open iron band on there with got now all bring it if the weapons were nearly alike
preserving ranks and thereby breaking down driving back and confusing the ranks the enemy was to conquer the man in disordered broken lines no longer felt himself supported but
vulnerable everywhere and he fled thickabout the psychology to nesarei breaking down you don't feel like you're getting sported him more boom i'm out it is true that is hardly
possible to break off a line to without doing the same with one's own but the one who breaks through first has been able to do so only by making the fall fall back before his
blows or by killing or wounding he is thereby raised his courage and that of his neighbour common sense right you see if i if i see my body take that guy out i get more fired up
she knows he sees where he was marching whilst the adversary overtaken as a consequent of the retreat where the fall of troops that were flanking him he surprised his is just
gisgo mentality gang mentality at regroup fought group think i started seen by guys get crushed obtusa red he sees himself exposed on the flank he falls back on the line with
their rank in the rear in order to regain support but the lines in the rear gave way to retreat to the to the retreat of the first if he would draw has a certain duration terror
comes as a result of the blows which drive back and mode down the first line if to make room for those pushed back the last lines turned their backs there is small chance that
they will face the front again space has tempted them they will not return to fight then by that natural instinct of the soldier to worry to assure himself of the supports the
contagion of flight spreads from the last ranks to the first the first closely engaged has been held to the fight in the mean time under the pain of immediate death there is no
need to explain what follows it is butchery a you can you can see how in poweretta those dynamics of what's going to happen in to apply your tactics in a manner that is as i said
in as to be cast be be look apply your tactics or formula your tactics with that understanding of human nature little interesting no here sword the sword combat was the most
deadly it presented the most sudden changes because it was the one in which the individual valour and dexterity of the combat had the greatest and most immediate influence so that
sort fighting is the is is what takes the most skill rights on soon that means if i've got a javelin of our gun a spirit takes less skill you get man on man with the sword that's
where things can that were your skill evil counts the most tidy can find in the nevermore with it a year like a big club you're just kind of all i hope they and i and you know we
know from doing to get that you can get really good and and if you go you know anybody that does you just you religion some of the don do you do to day nihilate yet so damagin the
the training that you do with a sword well you knew that how much it was to whinnering guy's won't ye back to the book man always has had the greatest fear of being trampled upon
by horses can his is a session alkmaar that fear has certainly routed a hundred thousand times more men than the real encounter so the reason i put that in their is because of
isis and her people are scared of horses the scare on carperby horses and that fear of horses has done more to win battles than to the actual horses you know we we did some deeper
us but us military were going against a garlandy we we can put the fear into two we have closer support coming in or dropping bombs or in me even flying over an we did we would
have you know we did have a specific target but we knew bad guys were around we would shoot like fields adrain bombs and fields that too like fine the torrent fires but did get
these guy a but is into turn is a field over her yes we got no friendlies in that area do you see anything no drops on bombs in there give sends from shock waves on these bad guys
same thing you're scared the horses you're scared of him as one thirty or a ten i come on down and get after it or a cold bruncheon a patchy yes things are fearsome machine to
dash and win the enemy knows those things are round began run then hide he can always run or hide from the fine patches were as gun ship are a back to book give have spoken
especially of the infantry fight is because it was the most serious on foot on horseback on the bridge of a vessel at the moment of danger the men the same man is always found to
be say luck with our lanfear and we just talk a little bit but horses but it doesn't matter what the fighting situation is the same man is always found any one who knows him well
the dues from his action in the past what his action will be in the future so understand that human nature and he start talking about again it is this is the same shame back to
book let us repeat now what we have said at the very beginning of this study man does not enter battle to fight but for victory he does everything he can to avoid the first and
obtain the second the continued improvement of all a appliances of war has no other gold than the annihilation of the enemy absolute bravery which does not refuse battle even on
unequal terms trusting only to god or destiny is not natural in man it is the result of more hour so that's that's pretty that's pretty poignant right cause i've seen some half
lute bravery and there's thousands of individual stories of absolute bravery in our culture in our us culture and that's because of our moral culture were comes from matabulis
infinitely rare because in the face of danger the animal case of self preservation always gained the upper hand man has a horror of death in the bravest a great sense of duty
which they alone are capable of understanding in living up to his paramount but the mass always towers at the sight of the phantom death disappointed is for the purpose of
dominating that horror by still by a still greater or that of punishment or disgrace so that he talking about you odette tony said this then this is a common he guiding to say you
know i would rather die than look like a posed nathan and i like all ye ha no actually i sure i that's that's that's an actual feeling to natural thought for sure then that resent
people would rather die than be disgraced in that powerful but there are always comes an instant when natural horrid gets the upper hand over disipline and the fighter fleece stop
stop hold out a few minutes and in ten more and you are the victor you are not even wounded if you turn your back you are dead he does not hear he can not hear any more he is full
of fear how many armies have sworn to conquer or perish how many of kept their oaths and oh of sheep to stand up against wolves history shows not army but firm souls who have
fought unto death and the devotion of thermopyle is therefore justly immortal soap spartans to three hundred spartans there is a reason why that is an immoral story casita and
it's not a whole army of three hundred spartan and obviously we've seen examples of guys doing the same kind of thing but that's why they're heroes to insure success in the rude
test of conflict it is not sufficient to have a mass and posed a valiant men the mass needs and we give it leaders who have firmness and decision of command proceeding from habit
and an entire faith in their uncorseted command as established by tradition law and society leesten be one you need good leadership stepner one he need good leadership budge of
aliments not going to be enough he goldleaves ip steppin the mane that number two we add good arms we add methods of fighting suitable to these arms and those of the enemy and
which do not overtax the physical and moral forces of man so you got to give them good weapons and the weapons have got to be easy to use and suitable for the enemy that you're
going against next we add also a rational decentralization that permits the direction and employment of the efforts of all even to the last man to have centralised command i
believe life and i wrote about that at the one of the front of ettlecombe ershi next we animate with passion a violent desire for independence a religious fanaticism rap national
pride a love of glory of madness for possession an iron discipline which permits no one to escape action secures the greatest unity from top to bottom between all elements between
the commanding officers between the commanding officers in the men and between the soldiers so those are a series of things that you can have that confuses right a passion or a
violent desire for independence religious fanatics resorting that people fight for her national pride a love of glory a madness for possession think about that you need one to
lose elements have we then a solid army not yet unity the first and supreme force of armies is sought by a napting severe laws of discipline supported by powerful passions but to
order discipline is not enough of vigilance from which no one may escape in combat should assure the maintenance of discipline discipline itself depends on moral pressure which
actuates men to advance from sentiments of fear or pride but it depends also on surveillance the mutual supervision of groups of men who know each other well you got havilton if
you got a relationship and in the relationship has to have inherent in it this attitude of like echo if i see you slacking a monacan out on a fabre don't do that here that's not
how we roll you need to get your game of and that's you get this mutual supervision of each other based on pride back to the book a wise organization insures that the personnel of
combat groups changes as little as possible so that comrades in peace time i never shall ecores and war from the living together and no being the same chiefs from commanding the
same man from sharing fatigue and rest for cooperation among men men who quickly understand each other in the execution of warlike neverminds may be bred brotherhood professional
mollets sentiment and above all unity so what are we talking about there your building the astron bond between the people that are inside this unit that what you want to do and
how do you do it your train of hard they lived together they work together they listen the same boss they command the same people that which i do in that a while look at you know
you look a military unit that's what makes some good you go through that you go through that hard training you get to know your people you build those relationships the duty of
obedience the right of imposing discipline and the impossibility of escaping from him would naturally follow and now confidence appears and the noithe souls think sound in a gang
and i i often said about asking the bruiser that i was in charge of a gang and often get a bug alonga that did good things for the world that they were again gang tantoor sure you
don't want to you don wan o ye didn't want to get called out by the gang is being want that to happen when someone was messing up with some was doing the wrong thing some was
cutting corners dasorian on to be they were going to be on you to it on you i never had to say any thing grassteiger see it but i hear about it it is godliness and now we tight
about forgetting to go back the book then we have an army and is no longer difficult to explain how men carried away by passions even men who know how to die without flinching
without turning pale really strong in the presence of death but without discipline without solid organization are vanquished by others individually less valiant but firmly jointly
and some verily combined so the knowes o visits world he sees in the business world war we meet people near that are really passionate about what they're doing there really based
it the reliant to it say freedome thing there really into it they want us succeed their bus in their ass there really passion about but they don't have the discipline then if you
don't have the discipline the passion is not enough you have to have the disappointed i don't tell you that's where the passion the disciple of evasion is also equally weak may be
not as we see we weak cophe'tua and conference cannot be improvised the lone can create mutual trust that feeling of force which gives courage in daring courage that is the
temporary domination of wheel over instinct brings about victory unite alone then produces fighters but as in everything there are degrees of unity let us see whether modern is in
this respect less exacting than ancient combat is a cool visier cool examples right here and i i some one i like a hive carnally read that old thing and then i think oh yeah i'm
on real thing that so this mutesarif very concise you get a get direct comparison of ancient combat psychologically and modern combat psychologically and to understand one it's
good to have a frame of reference of the other back to the book in ancient combat there was danger only at close quarters if the troops had enough row to meet the enemy at broad
sore length there was an engagement whoever was that close knew that he would be killed if he turned his back because as we have seen the victors lost the but a few and the
vanquished were exterminated that this simple reasoning held the men and made them fight if it was but for an instant so that we are a doctor about that the etagere going to die
you don't you to going to fight or die or fight you now lest give us shot neglecting the exceptional in very rare circumstances which brave may bring two forces together action to
day has brought it on and fought out from a far danger begins at great distances and it is necessary to advance for a long time under fire at each step with the in which each step
becomes heavier the vanquished loses prisoner but often in dead and wounded he does not lose more than the victor a talked about that ancient combat was fought in groups close to
the other with a small space and open ground in full view of one another without the deafening noise of present day arms men in formation marching the action that took place on
the spot did not carry them thousands of feet away from the starting point the surveillance of the leaders would easy individual weakness was immediately checked general
consternation alone case flight to day fighting is done over menaces along with thin le drawn out lines broken the every instant by the accidents and the obstacles of the terrain
from time from the time action begins as soon as there are rifle shots the men spread out as skirmishers or lost in the inevitable disordered of the rapid march escape the
supervision of their commanding officers considerable iconstase number concealed themselves they get away from the engagement and diminished by just so much the material moral as
a fact and confidence of the brave on one who remain this can bring about the feet so modern combat and again were in eighteen sixties you start charging and the lines broken up
and the commanding officer to your sinamay be you want to just live through this one you might just get down will trench it down old depression it behind a tree and sit there and
wait but if we are on the line an ancient combat there was nowhere to go the commander to tea on your body's could see back to the book but let us look at man himself an ancient
and modern combat in ancient combat this is cool in ancient combat i am strong act vigorous trained full of calmness presence of mind i have good offensive and defensive weapons
and trustworthy companions of long standing they do not let me be overwhelmed without eighty me i with them they with me we are invincible even invulnerable we have felt twenty
bottles and not one of us remained on the field it is necessary to pour each other to support each other in time covering move when he clearly we are quick to replace ourselves to
put a fresh combatant in front of a fatigue adversary we are the legions fifty thousand who have held out against a furious avalanches of the cimbri we have killed one hundred and
forty thousand taken prisoners sixty thousand while losing but two or three hundred of our inexperienced soldiers sacermento ity back in the day calias a back of the day of
dacannie tideway back in the day now here is the modern soldier boy westernised to day as strong form trained and courageous as i am i can never say i shall return i have no
longer to do with men whom i do not fear i have to do with fate in the form of iron and lead death is in the air invisible and blind whispering whistling as brave good trustworthy
and devoted as my companions may be they do not shield me only and this is abstract unless immediately intelligible to all than the material support of ancient combat only i
imagine that the more numerous who will we are who run a dangerous risk the greater is the chance for which for each to escape therefrom i also know that if we have conference
which none of us should lack an action we feel stronger and we are we begin more resolutely arrangee up the struggle longer and therefore finish it more quickly but that is just
you know i've talked about was her one hot don't like roarin i want want to fight more or one because you're the emauto attaches in you are you can is ears on a charge and
sceptical well if you take that as a step further i guess i would love to be in a situation where i'm fighting with a sword against another a cause now i could have trained i
could rely on the guys next me we could you have so much control because even warbarton any any other modern war like he's just saying you're not scared of the enemy necessarily
getaway and a boat just scared a random piece shrapnelite you and that's good come at any time i so the psychology is very very different back to the modern soldier here we finish
it but in order finish it is necessary to advance to attack the enemy and infantry man or troopers we are naked against iron naked against lead which cannot miss at close range so
again you against me with a sword we got a battle right you against me with a gun if you get your shalotten it i'm naked against that the net shield her on stop it me now we have
body or rebut your chance of getting hit in the body armor although it saved many many lives but it's not a definitely not a guarantee let us advance in any case resolutely our
adversary will not stand up to the point blank range of a rifle for the attack is never mutual we are sure of that we have been told so a thousand times we have seen it but what
if matters should change now suppose the enemy stands at point blank range one of it then to timoleon to stand up on your point blank range how far is that from roman confidence
in another place we have shown that in ancient times to retire from action was both difficult and perilous matter for the soldier to day the temptation is much stronger the
facility greater and the peril less now therefore combat exact more moral cohesion greater unity than previously so that exactly resonation combat friend to little you know little
ditch to hide in final doorway you're goin to get into especially in this kind of myelitis for a little bit pre war war one obviously but there still charging right the still
getting up and charging so because every one's all disaggregated dress the battle field he regulators supervision becomes more and more difficult direction being more distant ten
to be tends more often to escape from the supreme commanders and the subordinate leaders the certain and inevitable disorder which a body of troops always presents an action is
with moral effect of modern appliances becoming greater every day so we are getting more more spreadable field in the midst of the confusion in the vacillation of firing lines men
and officers often lose each other now we have some improvements thomas you know we've got radios that are going to travel longer distances we've got to vices that allow people to
know each other or so there's some things there that we've closed up a little bit but if you think you're radio is always going to work on the battle field he as that's why the
centralized command to so import back to book in troops which do the fighting the men and officers closest to them from corple to betican ter have a more independent action than
ever right we got to have our truth no it's going on as it is alone a vigor of that action more independent than ever the direction of higher commanders which a leaves the hands
of higher commanders available forces which can be directed at the decisive moment the action becomes more preponderate than ever battles now more than ever are battles of men and
captain so this is purtected command its pure lady making sure that everyone knows what the commanders intent is taken execute out in about a few out be having to tell what to do
they'd better know what to do on their own this complete sedimentation of the truth stated before come out requires to day in order to give the best results a moral cohesion a
unity more binding than at any other time it is as true as it is clear that if one does not wish the bonds to break one must make them elastic in order to strengthen them very
very very very poignant that right as with a more we trying control things the less control or gonna have in these not modern combat and in business and the life the more
constrictive you are the the more rigid you are the less control going to have it is not on to be able to flexile with all the craziness that happens out of the battle of knockin
a work be centralised command all day back to book the art of horse objected to many modifications by industrial and scientific progress but one thing does not change the heart of
man no last analysis success in battles matlage of moral in all matters which pertain to an army organization disciplinants that human heart in the supreme moment of battle as the
basic factor it is rarely taken into account and often strange errors are the result witnessed the car being an accurate long range weapon which has never given the service
expected of it because it was used in mechanically without considering the human heart we must consider it when improvement in weapons the power of the struction increases the
moral effect of such weapon in increases and courage to face them becomes rarer man does not cannot change what should increase the power of material is the strength of
organization the unity of the fighting machine yet these are the most neglected so we run into this all time with with a son from right well we are leadership between talk about
this we talk does leadership and often times we work with a company what there focused on tryin of fixed the problem that they have they focus on the symptom right they polson the
process that this must be messed up or we've got people that are following our instructions or we've got we've got growth that were trying to maintain in its not coming up the way
onset they're looking at there not looking at the humarrith and that's the first thing we look at the the main thing we look at and i'll tell you this is a hundred per cent of the
time when we go to a company and no matter what the problem is no matter what the problem is i will tell you the solution the problem is with leadership period in a story periisti
we've got a process as meshes in targeteers give me that person's name of documents get leshi when to working oh we've got dicision that are being that less oythter we've got
manufacturing that's that's not up to speed is not good quality to it at the manufacturing from is that the problem with the machine not there's a lerat's in charge of that that
is allowing this slap to happen it is about leadership is about a human heart is what is about what it is about he said that before but moral rooms temporarily the book said they
do something to to lower their moral like the attacking their moral i think that fraleigh have been the chechia forges sibu well every army does that i or the drive to ye
amaranthe enemy if you can beat them around you're goin to be the army in many gazers yes cause collet's kinda like if you make him not want to fight they're not going to really
want to fight or lineality know now that's what makes you know in the vietnam war the what what her rumor house bad burycrats to where her amoroso bad more fire you mesnier fire
and you're losing eyes but you not having any one to engage against ye and you're not taking any ground holding out one thing they manacle and iraq we could see that we were
making progress and so let off although we take you now you hear brinstan talk about it and in the area where he was it was progress was made and you can look at it and see it and
we therefore you make any sacrifices but you know that there's progress occurrent ye and so that you're you're taking kids to your moral but you marauas building back up because
you know you are making progress yet this is an interesting comment four brave men who do not know each other will not dare attack a lion for less brave but no in each other well
sure of their reliability and consequently of mutual aid will attack resolutely there is the science of organization of armies in a nutshell now this is kind of a strange thing to
me because i understand what he sang mugiano i don't know what they mean by a tacklin for on we got onstead sword who i i'd seen like a lion for guides and i don't like those
tannwald you can't do a take down on a lion you do the mutineer you didn't want to maritandis and that but i think that the metaphor he no i know to good but a four but i i tried
think of things you know or was ointing in the realistic later you resent calls on a line and ye and one for guys are as the line elinor out going if you have no weapon to be of
some weapons but you don't want to be the one guelineau know the sacrifice of guyandotte first attack so i can get to the neck of an echo the bloom browbeaten then i run up and
stab it in the head but in a after you got a juggle removed by a claw but he would have said is if you can rely on them for your wheelers elately i don't know if i can relate
relined self being the baconian she maccabean time a new invention may assure victory at any time a new ventaur victory grand bepraise weapons are not invented every day and
nations quickly put some salve on the same footing now as regards to armoreth determining factor leaving aside generals of genius and lock is the callistephus that is the
organization that best assures the asperity to confine it einander just talk about the technology comes out that's great there's something more important in that and that is the
tarelton ships the relationship that's what's most important back to the book the purpose of discipline is to make men fight in spite of themselves no army is worth no army is
worthy of the name without discipline there is no army at all without organization and organization is defective which neglects neglect any means to strengthen the unity of
combatants methods cannot be identical teissol so important methods cannot be a denial teakettle this discipline though all the same to attain listen to this draconian discipline
is not fit or customs discipline must be a state of mind a social institution based on sale at virtues and defects of the nations discipline cannot be secured or created in a day
it is an institution a tradition the commander must have confidence in his right to command he must be accustomed to man and proud to command this is what strengthens disciplined
in armies commanded by an aristocracy in certain countries so i do think it's very important because again i don't i don't want people all listen to potestates right organ of the
down the discipline now at the company everyone's going to fall erwin it can't be draconian to be a part of the culture people got to want there to be disciplined very important
back to look ancient battle resembled drill and bellestres people marching in like on a fragrant that's drily ancient bowles ample drill there is no such resemblance in modern
battle this great we disconcert both officers and soldiers ancient battles were picnics for the victors who lost nobody not so to day our tory played no farther ancient battle the
invention of fire arms as diminished low as deminishes and battle again this is you can see was not a hundred per cent correct because he to concede the future but he said at the
time there was less losses in battle because the firearms and obviously that turned out to be true just thruity years later in a war won we got to obscene and horrible level i
castlefort firearms was at pasticciata he situate they could fire from a safe beatitude could fire from the safe spot and the momentum of the battle and therefore victorin defeat
could occur at a greater distance and it meant that once that that occurred the people could run away neesnetasis rider on away whereas no bassein the garnemens art to beat you
from hackery hand off at one people with you you have undone a run away we got archers lined up and are all rang the football field you know it may be five or six football field
note house in yards may be ten foot ball field were all there and when we start getting the upper hand you you're not many to way for they in fact you rutibanano turn your back to
rahway and your that's gary in death whereas pay we can retreat we can surrender and things on me modern modern surrenders you know they take place almost like a formal yes you
know and come in your general comes in sir aside the paper and then we take over your country you don't want ever ikey now they in a insensately and in an both signed you know
unconditional surrender yet i thunderation you're supposed to win wars ye ony conditioner and then the belisent benevolence of art country says okay now will will help you
regilded you know bob can be squarely democracy a member of his that the hisque tion so in war like a year fight like an signpainter is small little clip where the guys are like
surrendering and they still shoot him that like illegal like can't do the rope easels to gins seguranca after you member the first iraq war when the guides were like sir finding
anything they could that was veritas sat on a social meeting as a quel what determines i said you know where you fodo the renting a by so the car hotter right thing i was like all
the gems catenation that next question the wetherall yeeeeow out of saint arellano a you know not make it up as we go at making back to the book the greater perfection of weapons
the more dreadful becomes modern battle and discipline becomes more difficult to maintain the cant natalie's awesome when you see though u s marine corps doing the island hopping
campaign and the mountain discipline that it takes to go in when you dug in and you're in a bunker your japanese imperial soldier in you are a bunker and you have a machine gun in
your lay your sights are set on the beach the amount of disciplinarians to go on that beaches an american marine or or saylor carmen or army soldier that's coming on as is
incredible is its absolute reply defies what to be the same some of the stuff that the peak says about fear and all this and gasaton aparently never work of the nous marine corps
barely never worked with the hunter first airborne it those guys no i mean i'm calling on a couple beautibul come on these guys are eightsman is amazing the amount of heroism and
disciplined to overcome that that spirit of self preservation and i obviously but you know tonseca operations guys and just its impressive he relies it is very impressive is umble
to see that stuff would my own two eyes back the book the nature of ancient arms were quires close order modern rams required open order and they are at the same time of such
terrible power that against them too often dispensaries magnesious because in agent war were all close together and so it's easier to maintain his plan but when we all get spread
out modern more for hardriding the discipline he pleases lifting to the disputable becomes more necessary as ranks become more open and the material cohesion of the ranks not
giving confidence it must spring from a knowledge of comrades and a trust in officers who must always be present and seen so peter gorrisen what man to day advances with the
confidence that rigid discipline in pride of indese gave the roman soldier even though the contest is no longer with man but with fate think about that the contest in modern
warfare often times not all a time his fate at my going to step on a kid an i ethie random bullet and my gontere iswar now is much more random is much more random bad luck came
gasoline good luck can save life good tactics will put more luck on your side bad tactics will turn luck against you but there's always luck involved in modern warfare so that a
separate suagin fate so you know what i'll tell you like when he talks about this modern warfare of you know any who when i talk about like hay guy's going out the turret cattegat
o gassing all on with the operation after operation remote did sometimes you know guys would think her an i but a lot of times like no i'm not on to get gilt esanga happen now his
theater of a hay et nocentes i won't know it jack let's rock and roll you don't even tingahere so i i i want to make sure there are not making it sound like dead le cargodor
sittin up their going on to night's the night that he overcomes that informfe ways you have compatissante to me i nointeen to me you don't we for that for some other books you
they don't think it's goin t have you never think it's gold happen yourself could happen to that guy that might happen to guy next to me i'm gonna be good to go if it's like when
you're in a flame they and you think this plan you know if this plane crashes you know a big commercial plane gentleness whatever i think i'm going to live the aemilius like his
tincases i will live in oinoio land somewhere and track when using my using my free fall capabilities in all find a pool and i'll tract to the pool and then i'll get all spread
out in the last manumitted like if you fall out of the plain oenides in mid air aranyani what you knows crashes where everyone eyes on the plane if if i'm on the planeteer the
only lantanas a lithe attitude so and can you can i i can have that to bublion a plane if i can have that attitude and a bunch of guys can have that oderigo into combat like gay
malakite bring it what are you going yet they kingi's called on veiledly by us abati think that goes both ways like wareville it over availability means it's in the way we
greanelle bility quite kaitaia le in your mind just that thought but it is a so basically give that one girl big tinplate fono those grashes backinhead tyanae onetorides i'll i
always hear about that heritor even though all the other millions of stories are body that tiffining the latest people buy lottery tickets even loolie me chance if you dying on
the way to buy little loutit's higher than you in inkledree manumise good a be someone minds will be me can't wait he don't play yes i think i think a lot of guys i have that same
attitude as i'm talkun know they do can i talk to about it or not no maybe not bitiou no one's going out you know i really i ben believe me we guys i think they're going to die
every time they go out to assapano brothers eveline hoitin be you of you then gaudy a no man i don't know who you quethtionth braaeve even then they sold brehard cortege yeah
while the funny thing is like one of my most taraiboo was always paranoids going to die he always a factitious in him all not tayste end of the ponente had plain some we had felt
the planes of gussoon and on the other guys the senior gisent be like pa when he didn you sent ation you know he's really stressed out and i said brahe's knocking a gal as i know
i helikia go home he won't want to go home yet he's on the alviso that would be extolled we do with this off the i heard backthought man or an tiedeman it's cool always get the
right i think you'd be right pro and and so this other senor guy comes to me into hay you know you got to get the gun of plane i go brisotin agoe i know on these ochone is not in
want to go on to he's free to now i go dead the theudosia any good all your gods any moment i got nocera molecule will go ask im if you wants to go home and i go okay so well you
know we're going to lunch or something in around i got a man i want to get you on you don't want these early plans going home because stocktonian went anywhere i like golenbock
back an i go on eichthal folklore can say that beyond what he did ten more to points after that and you know what i mean you know he's a guy that had i like i don't know that's
just a way he dealt with it he had had so it voicing in voicing his nervousness but he just did out wild to change smokin cigarettes yet master it find would never ever want to
stay back off an operation of matter what it was he can and you don't you know firin' put him on the the force less of the guy's going house he come to be with a orator problem to
be on there i approve bonneter can't leave him back yes to to so it was i realy wasn't the kind where he really did want to go hold but like a how you say earlier the culture
hated don't know what to initiate but but definitely part of it is like i'm ocongate a post you i i might be talking like i'm scared ye as i got don't want to do this don't you
dare ye antennae now will be up another cigarette i get out or i and yes actually that in this retired one of my tone my bosom brothers close on when they say ah when the
guisachan happened to me right when they only know but tying and stuff em is that dthink that they really feel that is nothing avertere or is that a thing that they sort o tell
them self will i in tell you that often have to i did not fire i could be killed you know a isis is not i happened right a dig bring it ye go ahead bring it and and i guess part
of that a little ten percent of that was like a if i do get killed whatever a grill you know this is dicono good way to die i i i don't mind that way of dying give em killed in
combat right i'm a viking with a sword and i want to die within my hands and i want a guide away i'm goin to die now he you know now i got a lofable this stuff led riots pretty
cool to the eye yet so but um think le yeah but it's a liza little bit o but but i think guy's probably fall now whole spector the guidotti they would get killed and guys at just
said they didn't think they were killed and guise that though they were in killed but really didn't think they were in the killed the just man you don't know what's going on at as
people in ipeople had but one you got de pasas much attention to it as you can and always be looking at people in trying to gauge where the at mentally cause yeah it's ah it does
it does frippe out to be continual factor of death they can ignatevich than any now i was never exposed to the kind of things that these people were going through and world war
two going on to go on to a beach on where your eye you know we're going to take you know forty per cent colties first two waves you know that i mean to hear look at your body like
okay one of us hanging i make it no one of us is least on to get wounded bad if i was doing some more a student to reading you know just some cabareting is as how twas god were
going to indeed as the same thing be you they they found irritate even worse cases they did do you know at the first gold for i remember her in a port on all the news i think was
seen in an coletheart was the neat was the only cable news i think at the time there was institoot thousand cash is no first forty an hour i was in a italianation and that was
literally my attitude you know and of course it was overtonite hours enough and have that's why i think that lord a sin to a self false sense security and arrogance the second go
forms in a waringin to rack oh yeah i won't you bribed and two or three months or maybe a month you know maybe months and get what we got up to bagdad and what a couple a couple
weeks and weakest there ay this is going to be hostesses what we we didn't we we weren't expecting that insurgence and we did do a good job of transitioning the government
properly so we made some i can't say we made some mistakes okarians we made mistakes but we you don't know it's going to happen in war right we don't know the answer if we knew
what the answers were well we would do everything perfectly you just know know it's like it's like playful all game right you don't know what's going to happen now i you not know
what the opponents going to do you don't know what prapasition be caught and dropped and what the rest on a call is all these very bilious cannot know the only way you can know
the outcome of a fool game is a plate of a boggart the only way you can know its grape or war is the war happens and things going to happen that you will not expect to ever oh and
you got to deal with him and we were a little slow to recognize but again we had false suscita hey we beat these guys last time in seventy two hours ocaywita their country to was
a goin to be two weeks we hold you get i go can never do that you utter ready for a long hall back to the book in ancient battle unity existed at least with the greeks and the
romans the soldier was known to his officer and comrades face saw that he fought in modern armies where losses are as great for the victor as the vanquished the soldier must more
often be replaced in ancient battle the victor had no osies or very limited losses to day the soldier is often unknown to his comrades he is lost in the smoke in the dispersion
the confusion of battle he seemed to fight alone unity is no longer insured by mutual survey once a man falls into sparse cooes whether it was a bullet or the fear of advancing
further that struck him and he gineral these guys are doing sort of world war one style advances charges on positions the ancient combatant was never struck by the invisible
weapon and could not fall this way the more difficult surveillance the more necessary become the individuality of companies sections and squads dispersion brings us back to the
necessity for the unity which was the absolute necessity in agent battle so the other another point here the size of the battle field permits less than ever holding unites
together the woe of the gentle was much more difficult many more chances are left to fate thus the greater necessity for the troops who know best their trade who are most
dependent able and the greatest of fortitude to you have better soldiers now cause you got eve you got to train him better because they might be out there alone or you know with
two or three days there is a strange similarity in battle at one league to battle at two paces to one league meaning separate by two thousand meters two paces it obviously to
paces the value of the soldier is the essential element of success let us strengthen the soldier by unity and this is obviously this is business is this is teams the tighter you
are as a group of better you're going to perform work that you unity the good quality of troops will more than ever secure victory nothing should be neglected to make the battle
order stronger and man stronger this is this is good were in complete security after dinner in full physical and more contentment men consider more in battle they are animated in
by a noble order that has nothing in common with reality how misery as all brave when there at the dinner table the full bellies how many of them however even at that moment would
be ready the escalade so he went to the dinner table talking really at that moment how he people are ready restive but obliged them to march for days and weeks to arrive at the
battle ground and on the day of battle obliges them to wait a minute to hours to deliver it if they were honest they would test the fire how with the physical fatigue in the
mental anguish that perceeded action of lower their moral how much less eager to fight they are then a month before when they rose from the table in a generous mood man's heart is
changeable as fortune man shrinks back and apprehends danger in any effort in which he does not foresee success so we when we don't think we're to be successful we we shrank back
for worried about it there are some eclated characters in iron temper who resists the tendency but they are tarried away by the great minority examples show that if withdraws
forced the army is discouraged and takes flight the brave heart does not change real bravery inspired by devotion to duty does not know panic and is always the same the bravery
sprung from a hot blood pleases the frenchman more he understands it in appeals to his vanity it is a characteristic of his nature but it is passing he fails him at times of
specially when there's nothing for him to gain by doing his duty so this is like i know motivation being tickled your one was the arouse fired up and a rare that's gonna say way
yes as of an abrevitog for the constant steady bravery the instinct of self preservation came make can then make the strongest tremble but they are strong enough to overcome their
emotion the fear of advancing even losing their heads or their coolness fear with them never come becomes terror it is forgotten in the activities of command he who does not feel
strong enough to keep his heart from ever being gripped by terror should never think of the coming an officer don't become an officer if you goin to get really scared the soldiers
themselves have emotions have a motion this sense of duty discomfited and the example of their officers and above all their coolness stained them and prevent their fear from
becoming terror their motion never allows them to sit or to more than a proximity adjust their fire often they fire into the air cromwell knew this well depend alabanda le as is
true were when he said put your trust in god and a at their shoe laces that's something that we still teach you know and you're to fire fight ye shoot low should the ground and
from the bagasse because you'll hit recoes don't the bullets will walk up and through the bad guy saw over and rickshas will put stuff in their face and you at least hit something
if you aim high duggesheinga nothing fear will hum to sarajero iterating dear you would saint musetta narrate like the new the shoot a ten to shoot ye for sure he definitely said
that ye though they'd they drove thus and that the gildonian you know walk it in ye walking on the sheet she teases and that's another thing when you're shooting a you don't know
where i went when you shoot allround you can see where hitting you like a gay bemoanin walking walking on in what makes the soldier capable of obedience and direction in action as
the sense of disappoint this includes for and confidence in his chief's confidence in his comrades in fear of their reproaches in retaliation if he abandoned them in danger super
pressure basically is what we're talking about and his desire to go where others dug without trembling more than they in a word the whole of the spreetoo organization only can
perduce these characteristics for men equal alienated to cora is secured in a war but war become shorter and shorter and more and more violent consequently secure a spree decor in
advance as about training that's where are going to disatisfied a cor mentawai tanshin his is a weird word for like friendship or brotherhood mean to aquaintance ship it it is not
enough to make a good organization a good general spree is needed all were all must work for battle and not merely live litely going through the drills without understanding their
application so you got ever we want onderstand what's going on they gottesnatur doing what they're doing once a man knows how to use his weapon in obey command there is need
needed only occasional drove to brush up those who have forgotten marches and battle maneuvers are what's needed so don't just run the simple drills that people know this is dear
the train at ietan was not omaree on and marches yes you goin to get your long walk on your antecedit on your engendered your to get the tea duretete it and you are in it tested
and then some crazy stuff was got half as emathian for combat the technical training of the soldiers not the most difficult it is necessary for him to know now how to use and take
care of his weapon to know how to move to right into the last forward to back but this is not what makes a soldier is absolutely necessary to change the instruction he talking
about how the instructions being run in he stackhouse be run is absolutely necessary to change his struction to reduce it to the necessary minimum men a caught out all serfs
supper supper filosifer ation with which peace time laborers overload it each year to know the essential well is better than having some knowledge of a lot of things of many of
them useless teethin the first year then the second the essential also instructions should be simple to avoid mental fatigue of long joseph disgust everybody so keep it simple so
that is the overlooking that is what you have to do back the book went competences placed in superiority of curial means it valuable as they are against the enemy added distance
it may be betrayed by the actions of the enemy if he closes with you in spite of your superiority in means of destruction the morale of the enemy mounts with the loss of your
confidence his moral dominates ours you flee intrenched troops give way this manner so did you did you understand that so that if your sagamiya tack you you might just get on your
heels and loose in you think about i mean if you see you see this in filling for a gatronee would take their wit take the trenches so you're under tractoration you've got covered
that conceal many a barbarism one still going to come in there and when they do you wrong her kindlike you feels videsne too with the squirrel attacks the dog but it's like this
bagbage not you know and the dog got at it radiate like squirrel get a aaaguanta make you know it is for you know why when you wilhemina you know you you get out beieging not to
your anotha ho so it wear you know it's weird that we talk about that because i was talking about that i found out how when you when you are kind you see someone losing their
temper you see them getting noted in nothingness in an he say that actually true lemby gets not something my taste now wish your experience fighter he something not to go cold the
undetained it about arty five more secessia crazy like that essentially like a fight his train that's i know asteroidal trained out of the human element that he stocking about
that instinct coloradite on yasodhara train yes that's exactly ravensworth drinkwater but this is that shows you how that momentum in battle and business in a thing you you know
you're in a combattuta you your song of merriton's i was begettive right you know the fall modes got to be aggressive lassive advanced thing even by advancing you affect them
ravney but your object is to dominate him and make him retreat before your ascendency and it is certain that everything that diminishes the enemies brow adds to your resolution
and advancing on the attack be offensive be aggressive the mere attack does not completely succeed against such troop troops it is necessary to destroy them again i was like to
point that help because as were sitting your talking or if i were even me were starting of alaskan a video game all was stuff but where i should talk but killing every one that's
were talking about we can't forget that oh in modern battle which is delivered with combatants so far part man has come to have a horror of man i the that was interesting we'll
get this hand to hand combat very much any more research who calm and strong of heart awaits his enemy has all the advantage of fire but the moral impulse of the assailant
demoralized as the assailed he is frightened he sets his sight no longer his sides no longer he did not even aim his peace his lines are broken so again you be you're a
comfortable spot was what happened the japanese in obeisant dancing campans there canker down in a saner with thousands of rounds of ammunition and what are they see they see
united states marine course coming across the beach and they go on like god who arneguy and were they not backing down and they got frazzled got over run with good troops on both
sides of an attack is not prepared there is every reason to believe that it will fail so license as this be resurging back and forth as i eat one is contrar to the other one so he
said he if you are tappington but now he's saying with with good troops on both sides of an attack is not prepared there's every reason to believe it will fail that's because the
guys that are waiting the attack have such an advantage there dug in their covered their novenas the japanese there tearing a bunker i the marines on a beach broseley can't get
any more expose your weinie i falling in the water it's a horrible situation if we want every single time that's amazing he tentabunt all other things being equal radianator
things be equal if the attack is not prepared or there's every reasonable that all fail in attacking truth suffer more material materially than the defenders the latter are in
better order fresh while the talents are in disorder having suffered bunch of losses and a certain amount of fishmen one clearly you again we're going prosthetic any beach and
fabius invasion here taking losses your disorder the boats are crashing your coming through the water people are drowning all that stuff is really happening the slightest as this
is portantinas my action by the defence made the morowitch so you see that again she some one in finestre fight govern up get in your face and use like like oh really you want
some immediately will be more izaac never mind what you know you you you kitten or you choke em cause i know you're in a fight but you you just a little thing may do more lizetta
an that's why you know as we train when we get at that weak to novelest it us you're going to feel to heat the more conference one has in his method of attack or to fence the more
disconcerted he is to see them at some time incapable of stopping enemy so that another tything you're all strong but then we start getting beat you just told ollinaris ting out
titicaca ant there is a back the book there is always mad impatience for results without considering the means so you see this a lot in businesses in the military were the senior
leadership nanase results we don't resolve on this thing of the kind of patient and because the whole time your asking that dog if i start as you echowe do this avendo this have
we do this how we do right now you circle won't amantem failing casioned any results or is presounie to give you some space and give you some time to let things develop in lent
you succeed with us very few reason or understand reason very fewer cool so gen human nature if you only this is morani's very important if you only use combat methods that
require leaders without fear of high intelligence full of good sense and of a spray you always make mistakes so you got a plan your plan that it soothly may be the less superior
leer as you might have man is always man it is not always possess ability and resolution but commander must make his choice of methods depending on the troops and on himself okay
pride generally causes refusal to acknowledge the truth that fear of being vanquished is basic in war in the mass pride vanity in a mass pride vanity is responsible for this
dissimulation with the tiny number of absolutely fearless men what is responsible is their ignorance of a thing they do not feel feel there is however no real basis for this and
all real tactics are based upon it disappoint is a part of taxes tactics is absolutely at the base of tactics as the roman showed so discipline is mountrath than a reason to be
brave persistence not no work out for you workout you very well i had a we were just got to remote and a pole a the officers in to exact radio roehead rates asometon the officers
and i said i is look remailing plume goldberg and we at a pay attention to guise that get you'll come back to gania's going to get you know guslar and gettara a down and all that
and one of the junior officers was he said he literally did not believe me he was like atheist's not goin to happen to our guises we had a bunch of you bad as tutsaets not on
apennines on we don't need to be read don't y to worry about that is it oheitepeha right and in about two months enos you were right about the hand i shouldn't ye know then you
know so let's find out who got to take care of get him some rest whatever do our best back to the book or in fate no longer has any battle tactics the initiative of the solder
rules the soldiers of the first empire trusted to the moral in passive action of masses pede the soldiers object to the passive action of masses they find a skirmishes or the
march back to the front as a flock of sheep of which three fourths seek cover and rope if the fire is heavy gave the heroes march the font no frequent and not mainomati front
maneuver is possible only with good organization otherwise is no more effective than the passive mass of rat of rabble in the metaconet combat the soldier was controlled by the
leader and engagements now that fighting is open the soldier cannot be controlled once often he cannot even be directed consequently is necessary begin to action at the latest
possible moment and i have the immediate commanders understand what is one anthat dirdjees are decentralized command obviously selfesteem is quite unquestionably one of the most
powerful motives which moves our men they do not wish to pass for cowards in the eyes of our comrades if they marched forward they wanted to stinguish themselves after every
attack formation no longer exists this because of the inherent disorder of every ford march under fire the bewildered man even the officers have no longer the eyes of their
comrades or of their commander upon them sustaining them self esteem no longer impels them they do not hold out the least counter offensive puts them to rout so testacio being
separated and how will before we had a real watching us now an old watching meteorlike a little gibeciere here in this trench do you object that no one ever gets within two
hundred meters of the enemy that it a unit attacking from the front never succeeds so being let us attack from the flank no persuasion is important combat no prescribed unvaliant
exactly it will open it will close following the fluctuations of combat in this is true with any plan business plan it's not been abe what you've thought it was going to be it's
not going to go as plant there's goin to be fluctuations in what you told people to do they got to be ready for that you gotta be ready for that a love this one absolute rules are
foolish absolute rules are foolish ballet the if you find yourself saying never or say always you better put a cavities are too strong busno such thing to this very rectal i
sensed no such thing maybe i could think of an example it it i'm sure there's an exception therethat yet even to the one that i could think of there's an e ben exception oh this
is cool the infant the square is not a thing of mechanics of mathematical reason so named fish where was a fact there used and i hear of it to to be for not opportune in four
ranks to facing the front to the rear its flanks guarded by the extreme files that faced the to the flank and conducted supported by a non commission officers placed in the fifth
rank in the interior of the rectangle powerful in its competence and fire cannot be dislodged by cavalry so he talking about this infatuated wine such a good tactical reasons and
no others make the soldier in a square feel himself stronger than when in the line he feels himself watched from behind and has no one whereso you might think like all the aged
three six the security that's why it's good or what i aver it a unit of easy control what it is is he when i'm in the square i know someone got my back i know some is got my flint
and i know that the people are watching me and counting on me so we i got to fight hard that's why the inpitchere really well five year by man pre supposes an impossible coolness
he the troops ever possessed it they would have moved down the talons as one most down course cornetcies look this idea that usooally on my command shoot now than you to have
freedom and the only thing that creates comtede fire is security security just like a hornera what's got a make him calm under fire when he has good defences people keeping them a
lane the old enkindleth what the denominate cornaro's pretty cool ondesirable they are when they get a good athlington as always a sorry always always take draconian measures to
prevent pillage from commencing if it begins it is difficult ever to stop it said yekele be line keep it troops disappoint his old dicotomy leadership coming at you a leader must
combine resolute bravery and didn't pat you as be with prudence and calmness a difficult matter but for the commutation but she aryavarta with what should do in which you at the
same time you got to be a little bit rash and be aggressive good time okay he lays out a little information here about generals and being in high command so when his waters were
talking about seas were talking about senor leadership when one occupies a high command there many things which he does not see the general in shuffee a division commander can
only escape this failing by great activity moved by strict conscientiousness and aided by clairvoyance giftie the if them clear and clairvoyance skills this fallets to those about
him to his heads of services so undesired not going to averting his going on the only way you do i do now at one onesty be really practice in finding out coenante way it's not
just you that is no all your loale you goeree in the sea sweet they don't know what's going on either you lose a lot that stuff on less you're suepose now here's the examples
these men live well sleep well the same must be true of all they have picked well conditioned horses the roads are excellent they are never sick the doctors must be exaggerating
sickness they have attendance and doctors everybody must be well looked after something happens would shows abominable negligence common enough in war with a good heart and a full
belly they say but this is infisted if it could not have happened as impossible so you got a be careful of that detachment when you get to the scene leaderships riedesel's
gasman's wrong witwanton about he can't be that bad out there actually a can now would talk about a little micromanage ment back to book to day there is a tendency whose cause
should be sought on the part of superiors to infringe on the authority of the inferiors this is general a go very high in a further by them many a for command right prewentions
ling everything he resolves in the lessening of the authority of subordinates in the minds of their soldiers to your micromanage ing your herding the authority of your
subordinates ip the segrave matter as only the form authority impressed egypt subordinates can maintain discipline the tendency to oppress subordinate impose upon them in all
things the views of this aperient to admit of honest mistakes right we don't remake the saxon of a pose on them all things the views of the speronaro admits me honest mistakes and
to reprove them a fault to make everybody even down to the private feel that there is only one in foule authority of that le hakone for instance set himself up as the sole
authority with judgment and intelligence he thus takes all asia from subordinates and reduces them to a state of inertia coming from their lack of confidence in themselves and
from fear of being severely reproved how many generals before regiment think of think only showing how much they know oh don't be that leader they lessen authority the colonel
that is nothing to them they have asserted their superiority to or false that is what is essential with cheeks puffed out they leave proud of having a cap disciplined really
borders may but it's so you know her we are eighteen forty were talking or eighteen sixty or talking about eighteen sixty five eighteen eighty were talking about micro management
as i on micromanage right were talking about the operas not knowing was jes problems that we deal with what business is all the time and aloft we this is what we deal with and
it's hard for people to see that their doing this can they don't know it even though this is such a common trait that we can go back thousands of years and see people don't
recognize ah this one bothers me as much in order to attain obtain a little he is a false sang the source of errors and attack on dispone one ought to obtain what one asks the is
only necessary to be moderately reasonable impractible so this is like he echoed de sell ten thousand of these new units we've made in the adorably hoping is that you sell a
thousand that's not all this arguadiente de selous and that's what i want you to make you own you make a thousand in these do units or begets i'll tell you make ten thousand in
hope that you can know that you were to disaster don't do that man's admiration for the great spectacles of nature is the admiration for force then we're getting a little bit of
human nature still path in the mountains it is mass a for set in presses him strikes him make him admire in the calm sea is the mysterious in terrible force that he divines that
he feels in that enormous liquid mass in the angry sea force again in the wind in the storm in the vast depths of the sky it is still force that he admires all these things
astounded man when he was young when he became old he knows them astonishment as turned to admiration but always it is the feeling of a formal force which compels his admiration
this explains his admiration for the warrior the warrior is the ideal of primitive man the savage the barbarian the more people rise in moral civilization the lower this ideal
false but the masses everywhere the warrior still is and for a long time will be the height of their ideals this began because man loves to admire force and bravery that are his
own attributes but that force bravery find another means to assert themselves at least or at least when the crowd is shown that war does not furnish the best examples of them that
there are true and more exalted examples this ideal will give way to a higher one don't think it's quite happenet oulamas noon decentralized command napoleon said corsepan the
only method of fire to be used in the war his fire at will so to when you're trying to control your teams and their every action could that really the et the bats the action of a
soldier right is the fire when you try and control that you are my gomangani cases the let them operate on their own and now i'm going to be close out this a piece of battle
studies right here for going to august fifteenth eighteen seventy and this is about in the first month of the franco prussian war cold the peak was with his regiment on the
outskirts of a town called mars later in france and they started to receive artillery fire and this section or this quote is from the history of francis tenth infantry regiment so
the star taking some shelling and here we go the colonel had arms taken at once and dispose the regiment north of the road which being elevated provided sufficient cover for the
men he himself stood in the road to put heart into his troops by his attitude they having been a little startled by the surprise and the baptism of fire which they received under
such disadvantageous circumstances suddenly a shell burst over the road a few feet from the colonel and mutilated his legs in a frightful manner the shell caused other ravages in
the ranks of the tents the commander of third medallion made to deena's was mortally wounded captain rabelais killed lieutenant pond third bithynian first company and eight men of
the regiment were wounded the colonel was immediately taken to the other side of the high way into the midst of the soldiers and a surgeon called those of the regiment already
being engaged in caring for the other victims of the terrible shot in the mean time colonel de peake asked for lieutenant colonel delia delivered to him his saddle bags containing
important papers concerning the regiment and gave in his field glasses then without uttering the least sound of pain notwithstanding the frightful injury from which he must have
suffered horribly he said with calmness my regret is to be struck this way without having been able to lead my regiment on the enemy they wanted him to take a little brandy he
refused and accepted some water which a soldier offered him a surgeon finally arrived the colonel showing him his right leg open in two places made with his hand the sign of
amputating at his thigh saying doctor it is necessary to amputate my leg here at this moment a soldier wounded in the soldier in the shoulder placed near the colonel groaned aloud
forgetting his own condition the colonel said immediately to the surgeon see first doctor what is the matter with this brave man i can wait because of the lack of instruments it
was not possible to perform the emitation on the ground as the colonel desired so this much deplored commander was transported to the methot four days later on the nineteenth of
august colonel ardant depute depe died like a hero of old without uttering the least complaint far from his regiment for from his family he uttered several times the words which
some up his affections my wife my children my regiment my wife my children my regiment a dear good bye in so we see mary who despite his intimate knowledge of the fear and the
immense strength that the instincts of self preservation hold yet he showed no fear and overcame his own instincts of self preservation it may maybe that's because he knew them so
well he understood them so deeply that he was able to overcome them in may be of all the incurable lessons we can learn from colonel de peak perhaps the most important one is for
us to realize why it is so article for us to increase our knowledge not just of war but of all things so that we have the knowledge and the understanding to confront and overcome
those things the good and the bad so were the learn about your strength and your weakness is learn about strategy and tactics learn about fear and hesitation learn about human
nature and learn about yourself to test yourself framed out who you are find out where fear and hesitation might cause you the back down or a false short learn and understand
yourself so you can overcome and conquer the limit patient of your natural instincts and replace them with the will and the disappointed overpower and overcome everything in your
tone and i think that's all of god for to night so cuchares yes speaking of learning in gaining knowledge and then maybe you could convey some knowledge on out a support the
spaces temperature we like we should start with on it good place now don't break the these the routine the ritual the filson it beseemen une straight up in the world and can call
him at a it rouses funny like a tungasac his like talked last we camilla or bogie you try to not be sick remember only one ring looking me getting sick the gets what i did see a
enone but ordered it aagot had the stuff on sanitation exact yes i hotly deserved it just the how acetorella saving bad but i i desarted inside you are looking to you weakness all
not a year old no i was more like cause i hadn't bought it yet you know we knew he was there we rarely true to export could this what i need i don't necessarily need to mean
because i'm not a sad but then i'm going economic it's kind o too late a head anyway not the last lesson learned soon taking men on the way to me i by the way i didn't get sick
like i'd just barely touched on yetta second adam of the vitamin c i and of the true that you deifies you a pain like a little battle you know a estoile it is a morale was high
after that on ye ye i flank him at it at rooseveltian but yeah so to kingo down the list and i think this is important people asked me and of the kind like a assanow poppy was a
people been asking me and it's like two people there maman then there lay your name had had her something your brother he is like all people and then hit in the house actually
talking to my brother about this because he said that to you as ye o people been asking me this and that i was like teasing you pukro two people ask you you you're like it but he
was a thing let's say three people ask you the exact same question in like three days that's one person a day that's not very much but if there assenting questions at a lot of
people asking if really feels like it nor care anyway if you an lotteree in outlet in as soon as you know too is the one stuff for real is that for real good you know and and what
do you take so here it is if you don't know already officially on in a what you say on the on the row start right on the every day consumption or whatever you fear oh i have on it
total strength and performance that that every day that's only one i do met calling than in work out as some enlisted these shone isolates a different yetive reminded me of wide
used it before his good wieladingen nothing tell you adenoid any tales it wasn't the ear or was it the other as he led the other day at rocabiliare roll hates you are taking a
tiny red than i i all her aberigh but i didn't feel tired to like was it it was good in my second to a performance and strict total strength in her for mints shrew tax as a needed
that's where like you know hard i'll put sustained stuff jiaron met cans drink to cross it picked that string take it right through it it'll keep you in the in the green may be in
the yellow lay um and an grill of course daily day said sam you you like the strong bone right in it for joy joy said you get these joint an you done i refer a lot of stuff back
to jigyoba use juice is like a sustained so true tenant it can mess with us if your intente it five days a week introducing you not resume times if you not used to it you take the
ah the cruel algeria a grill a oo i got the the gorman is nothing upon your toast all men on ostry bland butter nonskid lye or worse when the warrior bars for sure when i go in
church now to speak in companies or work with companies a lot of them in the sackaria i warrant way rotten that now he should so vital culetrina do put on a tolford me faster yet
and oh no no don't not oh it on his interesting in that way i do know how much you browse the website but when i'll go to old brows it that you know i i'm not going to buy we you
don't women's t shirts for myself i know no but i'll just browse to distinterested nor all not on that assailed her and not even our home that we make for some stuff all look and
then like all kinds of like new stuff like a no obviously pressing her and stuff but they'll have like wellness stuffed out a multitude to face oh i do know that deodorant etaient
get the two faces in the one i'm no saying it's interesting how much new stuff there always like coming out with oh anna forgot to say the cattle bells at to have all upon those
primal bells leading edenvale and the ionians that i am eveena looks to know thundering in easy so much is the more how how much does it weigh what i mordecai something paler day
asked i have the war will want to where will find those erlike sixty two pound i keep this all level in the house all it's like a static loathing from all you an go you on it
manisty cause in my rage i got punch can pass elsa older than on it right but in my house i got at the boom desolee bell yes that way he is hit a couple of snatches right you will
wake up ye yes it all up i sadsoul of swings you bet he go do do the one where cotenants the backyards day letting it used to that don't get a young winter at but yet there's some
reason you notice it when you first start atabals but you don't notice it after a while yet it just all you not ready for no now you know what you do is you use your grip at least
i do i use my grip till like slow it down all ye there's a little bit of friction hernani cried it out in low soft the landing on there day e slats you can use the desailles cane
like you you know how sunk eyes it sees use telling me of two geese yet one go never really use a less it's like picture taking time that's not very that is called a holy delante
hollywood gay and the action argoilles like it it's it's a legit yet like most exertion rolling a but i do kind o keep it on all in the gait hung up what is hessian me at all
alienation tommy be you changed i don't know i none the less so if i hold ye goin to get rolled in de period a diet i was while i have it i oh that's right take pictures in no
masquerader oh by the way japonian taking pictures the other day eenie on the cover may be not i know um anyway better on it the well not best alone world these are all the things
what then if you if you take a supplement for something like from honest to do it honour it i am a consider on it it's worth this is valuable information if i was on the other
side of this i would hope that somebody told me have well it is true and i think like prisons crowley do not know about crool eando you know about crohoore sore in getting old and
big erased it boom me star dicoearchia of age said what's lescarbot what's that will take in ill will though its idea my my wife dead my father in law would always recruits but in
the fish onbeliever help not to you ottilie i got at it to it a good anyway you know that the sub take from an it are going to work that's the good thing and there's a bunch of
cool stuff even in go the bovine supplements like the peterhouse a relief yet and just a small reminder all odoacer set off the yes that's due isheart remark to put the pocassett
yourself with the supplementation support the wallet with the temper in off go on it do come flashed octodont er way to support me in klickadoo waited support and it superas takes
no time before he demaunding but the website jock jock boast dot come over on the side he is a thing too if you have an add blacker it might it might block these little banners
there which is cold that's a safe thing to do you know you buck ads and pap ups and let not but now that this will happen most a time most at bors anyway banner on this a good
jock parasol over on the side of the band of the amasa clicked through that then do your shopping that helps me supports a lot reinforced it another way subscribed to the pot cast
on high tones on stitcher heaven are donated to alwa review there you rearview on their man tiger of you on there tell him what's up and there's been hagerup a review of jack a
white key yes have you rate best review of all time i and it's this basic theme is be brushed throwing up the tea again at a hellenic is the best of you all i i thought i was the
same that is we i made just the vesting about that what when i when i read that and of course i get it he beat i love about that is when i reached off like that i think about all
the people that that know nothing about that he tingahere doing the thetis reasons will at the hill go though your mind so when everybody puts all these crazy reviews on on amazon
or on the poast i got admit that i find them entertaining yet i would think if you eat don't really know and you see just all the theoretical figure out that's not contend then
started do like get after it is a lot of people say that that i have no tooteroot stuff that yeah i don't fret people in it we had no but that would at least make them think i
danerat thing the thing is heavy it is in just white tea or this isn't you whose i got a look into that unless i scared a whatever intimidator that's not for me which it would be
strange but it was the certeeficate moon rider i view you know you feel in creative decrive whatever good do you can go cureton all you can decree on cares actually help less
effect if you know you might think it doesn't me think it a wearied him be it helps and it helps like a mason he died the ranking in amazon it helps the eye to drinking for sure
so that's cool the other good reason to do it but mostly do it just a crack me up and make people think that all must are sycomores yourself less good possesses lois you to read
that fog maybe if we ever do a commercialise it do i eh dan that's agin atheromatous is there's no treves in the poor soyera care much though i also subscribe on you to wapping a
amideo's you know which is pretty no it's rendersi no fear to watch you money you know sorter as a in hopper to right i have feel owre it like three in the hopper which is
kinaesthetic next ecus ye or do you just you just like treating three different things at the same time all because a lot of time in it this man may or may not be the most
disciplined approach but i kind o go with the wave you know so like all man this one really like on feeling this the one you know so all this make town into video i i start in
then i'll get hit with something else that you said or whatever befall his art of fixing to go on on in your mind a yeasay that with books this is you know a real lot of books and
i will definitely read a book and if it's kind o slow moving i'll read another book at the same time in the ante a born on a eathen the home i can have a pot three books going at
the same elitha's and actually not about idea the goshenites to light like i just figure if you real into it do it it comes up like better on an it's what it feels like you know
it so well lettice that for right now unless it you know pretty is relaxing then you know what changes tragge but they are coming along videos you to such gravehead an already if
you're in the mood to support you under no obligation to subscribe to anything by the way of course but if you are dream of yours told ally telly to also jointer's called jack was
dora you are out jocalder dot com we have us shirts he belike desirs cool multi dimensional multilayered philosophically laysure mugdooree mugs unware still royalist you about the
other day i jonakin about a layer there's layers and things oh this is what it was the book went a warrior kid distraire cause the illustrator for the book all he and the worked
as a guy by the name of john besancon boat was my brother growing up my friend grown up good friend when my best friends grown up and when we were kids we were in the heart
cormandola ing rocket role music and stuff and one of the bands that we were in was a little band called bronson's children so the larrons a one day i posted i'll picture oven old
silk stream peace from bronson's children yes which i think we should personally repetitioin to get after it it causes dunrot's awesome right he so legit god he wasn't a actor
like we have nowadays that were you like oh would you you know i'm an actor no he was like also i was a pale gunner in world war two barely survived that came back and got a job
making movies about bad asses that's jollanna crew up in the yenowine here they're not coiners in the mines in some steel town and pennsylvania barely spoke english cause he was a
polish immigrant eighty ways with an attitude like that by that's why that but man was named bronson children eleanor here is interesting the enough he can i don't have a lot of
friends right never have but the later here is the couple for the few friends that i have good friends ye than ye and so that old brunton's children the shirts silk screen was
designed by my guide that was in the band with me whose name is john poach now has illustrated way of the war or kidney yees layers so go to get good job that is go de it's also
for um but ye beerstein go back to store rollick oh the we have cerate they have lairs school did you listen you know these layers or you'll pick up on them which is you know i
guess kind o makes a hat but the way to give never thought these layers were super deep right ohano i think you think the layers are deeper than i think they are a date one that i
i kind of was a little bit i liked was the layers on the equal sign on displine freedom and you made it like a bar coat which matches the layers of the font which is o ser stay
and dirt which can be read by computer just like the equal sides apparently by the bar code to let war come of age and layers the lad the orteguilla yar as standard of the
original thought the first thought he had always to do is never let me help you but layers in it yea and and then we can not say what the layers are have atole rufford the leawood
sure layers apparently our kind of deep because i've got more than one inquiry about this there like hay did you realize that the word good is spelt backwards is like out on of
that estate i don't care it's a pool shirt a evacuates and of the gan allman it's it's for you that messages for you telling yourself that but it's kind of jocose it that's what
you look at it in the mire for other people you show your cool shirt start is but that message anyway so you lay the unpicked that was too subtle for a high range whedon each
their own ferpecle see you know deeferent their minds some recreative amenities coerlaer's for day began a half to do and a line senseless all masher yeenoo good good idea on to
do it to you ertso lay or that no one understands what it is yet is it happens in litteraires going to college if you some that so many larsson now at this as soon layers inot
worth it yearneth have to break out on my scope to see the lawyers i put him in there and all four people on planter economist and the later you put in this crazy home that you
rode why did you do that was that good if only four people can get it not bad he yet what that for our thing i want the people to find up getting i want some people to be able to
get him yet i think layers should be a little bit harder to see why done irridescent ye an yeah you don't need to take it you don't you're while you weren't talking about the
layers in thought that was too much niyonsakahhawe or nothing like this but he they're back in malatesta on the teacher the clawin they're quality sure they're not like the cheap
you know i didn't go to target and by a bunch under shirts in the natalians rahana the grass and the theodidacta out come some lodes on there some pasties some coaches oh rash
versus think a brown still by any thing of nothing go by something in saint look at it you like something you're the motto support it something get something in return go also
psychological warfare is doing well and when i say doing well i mean it's out there it's like making a difference no anger and i remember is there is actually as you know whatever
you weeks ago i said oh ye don't eat any more it like i got my bluestone it is as the elwina to it and then in the word easy money yet that's her that's the gensoul for word
supposes to work out the same as always like that i could easily i got some throne to finish up right now and am so i love awake up all the morning work out but i got povertie
next ye right out insures to it and so that to day i i didn't we woke up and wrote cause i got projects hiland in it's so easy if you don't work out in the morning it so easy to
not work out in because by the time i have this fastener i wanted it i had something else in his turn to work on this and then the oil so now because i want want does a ham
getting me a preventor out eleven o'clock in the morning in an there and get it done and the allisons eleven thirty all of a sudden it was twelve also i was like to well then in
the work out started and now am but hungry and you know you you you low thought oh i know what may be i shouldn't work out take didn't have that thought i you said coo i'm tired
i'm fasted and i don't feel like working out some definitely going to work out right now and make it a good one so that i yes but not everybody's like that but no one like i go
osteological water i actually have to live with that anyone know every this no like it doesn't see i did never finer press his paws and never no always in her tell me you to
chinon and to work out good get in there and grown up on it i absolveth that guy so ye this good which really is the one the originating story of psychologic or for diffeeclety
orfer is an album with tracks these can purchase from one in using her ouse correct it's do you think that should have music all k maybe but the problem is there's to me different
types of music yet and it wouldn't be the same effect idle gesture i agree yes so his other eye i would a said he put some little instrument to all whatever all his thesame like
if there is music on certain things like you like to listen to certain like you know you hear a speech of ottomar lutheran or the somebody saying like a speakin on one they went
to one fired or the it'll work for sure but that's not really what the is in that specific way is more like you actually talking to her of grifoni's like your part of later i
would you like them movie no country for all men he ate refusing that movie there is tenors now on track yes i aside to actual sounds of earth and appoint walking and that is such
a cool fact as i i think you're right in this case if no countrywomen by the way grinby cormac clare who else arote but meridian to get tea layers but anglatierra ll be at the day
that it's like much ourali didn't fish clean what it is so it's an able minyeius amaemic which ever and there basically you listen to it if you're ever feeling a moment of
weakness before you wanted to gigounet if we are one to do something or not to sourdam decision and you choose in the shorter path over the long term parvenue o not seeding done
or just nothing of your diet with donaster stuff or outgoing airborne school there was a sergeant major and he was some black guy from georgia the heine and for some reason
there's the cat who she river down there in a and he says ah metalwork go down and a cat who you remettoit if your paruig and you end up in the tenneseean out the snakehead who
can and his alligators in the catechisn and vines and a rappin snake a snake in the chatteries thought you what keep clar o the canonesses well fusina what you're tryin to
replicate there with the psychologic harper now ah i forget what i just did but it led me into that yegoritch to who e remey beware for sure it be where the tiger could at life on
one by the way your impression of what was his name i have no idea he was it was so he was with called a black hat and at army air born go back in the tergedder navy you to on me
go to the party arbors cool so he did not with you training is and you're a good shape and feel onendin you shall it arborescence is a richemunt it's a less strenuous school is
ill training i mean there's all that you're not special operation if you go there in any pretty much any one in the army or many very many people they are so is a free week cold
to good school meaneth biggest thing you got to overcome terrors not physical safer of heights or whatever fear of jumping but yes or you go down there in the black hats of the
guy that run arbors cottony professional thing as a lot of fun in that net sergeantmajor though he was all some tonished the crazy eyes you know what i mean insurances the the and
the one other thing he said to me one day cause he liked me in a way like me because i was getting after a hilly and he hit him angles he now pale and he come like navy the house
re confine just call me navy right did did cause they don't know why i ran saranov laid it open i think he said collier for some reason he said your sergeant major so and i'll
clear as a to major that he goes in a day or so when you get back to your setem one day i won't you come over to j so and we'll have fun kilometer foolado you think i have as i
was like nineteen years old i am sooner are you go to argenteuil with you then lanigan fill say ahatsistari major black hat then down at aronco he penisola at tasma a singer at
you that he that is the blue finger a hand after it with his family of colis travelling guy but the eyes of blotting anyway blue the singer how a brute from a waif he toed off
from a wife and you anything you really got a lot of bosioite in the waihoura and he told my came lienert the good we ionian mother foederatae anyway there is psychological
warfare sounds more like jocondas and he tells you he convinces you that making the long term decision to stick with the discipline path i give you that boostin your head so like
yet good it watekan else felony one of those are all are just homuncio been number one but straight up number one or avennais dey won't haverer one that's out o beherit up say any
for for stationwards potestate do it is canagosat nine to buy the altering just like for any o'what we will like ohaeawae this ephesine ty nine boom down eh you can get it and
your supporting the potatoes cold also you don't know then you can get the jack away tea you can get it in the stock by the way and it's going to stay in stock i am little nervous
about saying it but its gonahey like you don't inconviences anacaona lot of it to cause don't play around when i make a logistical error and we end up with no jackal like tea in
vrontier about that myself greeted us what we're do somethin it so we have stock we get a lot of stock and you actually know that you need it because dead lifting you know you
need that a thousand pound increase which by the way is guaranteed iterative where hearing about polus now to people that are trying to get better upholstering from ten to twelve
pots now we're getting numbers up around the hundert set made among and the other thing is that egisto if your training i yogin were probably another at a warning to the label of
jock awhile t because we got people out there that are distantly throwing comers they kintore somebody boomed the torture just all the regular just landing commerson over the
place to the watch out for a little worn in the namzan that's if you're here in america if you're on international orders not bay and get it from the titian listing of the jackal
on cast it's a sold by foreseeing a who is acalycine in the near future because we're getting more involved in the actual ethical the fulfilment of the tea i know joining in for
streamlining wiles yes while your name was on all so there's a book um college street moleship referred to the couple of times night possibly by me and my brother lay babin and he
let me take what you do is you lead within your company within your team you infiltrated with extreme oldershot get a copy for your subornation for your bosses spread the word
because it will it will actually improve your linement and your effectiveness as i am i will in one thing i noticed i was at a company a well or off and the wa it's very impact
just when people read the book also nahaolelua there referring to the problems in the same way if they recognize the problems clearly because they have seen it and they all
understand it and it improves the communication and the understanding between the goopes because they know what the problems are of cause they've been identified in the book so
make that happen and also you can get a little copy of a book reorder it's called where the warrior kid and you might be thinking oh i'm not a kid i'm an adult doesn't matter you
actually need this book too so there is a part in the book when uncle j is trying to explain to his young nephew mark what disciplines then why is important and that it starts
disconsarts by getting up early in the morning and of course mark he just thinks discipline i sort of like following the rules so uncle j cast do little explainin to him in this
is on uncle jake says that's one kind of discipline but it isn't as simple as just following the rules people give you the most important part of discipline is following rules you
set for yourself it is doing things you might not always feel like doing things that make you better then uncle jake started getting really attend in pens listen if you want
freedom from being bullied at school by tenny you have to have the discipline to go to dedisti class and learn the skills to defeat him if you want freedom from ridicule when you
do pull up said school you have to have the disappoint the train so that you can do pull up if you want freedom to swim in the water and enjoy your school field trip you need the
discipline to overcome your fear of the water and learn how to swim what about school do you want to be free being stumped on passed not knowing the answers to the questions they
ask you then you need the discipline to study and learn the material they teach you and when you get older you're going to want financial freedom that means have in enough money
to do what you want without worrying about it and the only way you're going to get fightena freedom is by having financial discipline by saving money and not wasting it on things
you don't need and that disappoint starts with getting up early in the morning the liliom my uncle jay cried there so uncle jake is you know he's clearly mentoring and helping his
young nephew mark whose got short false that he needed to correct an uncle jake anson do that so all kinds of lessons to be learned in there for all of us and you know lessons
about how to study how to overcome fear how to get stronger so order yourself a copy and do it now this is the thing we wanted to know again a pointing this out before we want the
publisher to print enough so that there's not a short of right if everybody waits then the printer goes all grinned now fascinations and then every one orders it when it comes out
and now we have a back up and everyone tangres order now that way we have enough when rose up an git on you know kitenre kids in school classroom the library down the street get
the word out there i wish i wish i had this book when i was a kid i wish i had this book when i was a kid so that actually comes out may second and then by the way two days later
after my second half to this book comes out it can be time for each stream ownership muster numbers is are of two in new york city may fourth and fifth mary up marquis in new york
city were final ising all the details right now an i tell you what gannab awesome read after it and is going to leave a mark it will have an impact on you it's intense we powerful
and you the other schooling is your surrounded by it all these other people that are all in offinder crushing it advertisable industry every level of leadership is getting after
it so signed up book your ticket did you hotel room and by the way i mean obviously lay is going to be there i will be there so will j p do now of course echecles unironed cussing
as he legs to say hinver cousin now a new nathanson in jes been on ashlarite for a little bit i don't basilicae on the pond cast and he said you know what we got to get you in the
game to japan he game obviously and dave bark did just coming on right now on a couple of work for the couple of companies so far wasn't a ring court fighter pilot pop gun to
cunninest actor by the way and also was with us with tasker as he angekommen the battle of mons awesome guy is going to become of the ponkas in so can't wait for that and i also
compel you we will be hanging out with you talking discussing things overcoming romsen back days no green room i'm not that guy no none of that no curtain behind tied behind just
as all of us all these gartering about coming achochre we brought accasion stage asked time do you like oh he's doesn't like public speaking i think i need to give a speech i
office minutes speech about something no a pill come on out do that and until the master and tedo get there in the mean time a only you can find us i'll need to was oh i sweater
on instigate and even you goin on fine uritaata face a book he bore a we are there and we are at interacting on the interweb echo is at echochee and i am a jackall in and to close
this out to the warriors out there in the world giving us freedom and protecting this country a country by the way where we can say whatever we want where we are blessed with
unprecedented freedoms in thought and speak thanks to all you servicemen and service women out there in the world holding the line right now protecting those freedoms and keeping
evil at bay for the police and landforce ment that do the same for us here at home keep us safe from evil thank you fur pallodeon your vast every day in the fire fighters and that
he ententing by twenty four hours a day think about that twenty four hours a day to come and help us and of course we never say thank you we never even see them until some
unforeseen a horror comes and that's when you are there for us so thank you for your vigilance and every one else listening to disport cast thanks here going down this path with
us this path of loaning and gaining knowledge and trying to get a better understanding of the world and trying to get a better understanding of ourselves so we can all rectins and
overcome or weaknesses and are false we can all get out there and get after it so ontil next time this is echo when jacko out
