this is jacopo asked number sixty three with a charles and me jackwell giving a good evening i am an american fighting man i served in the forces which guard my country and our
way of life i am prepared to give my life in their defence i will never surrender of my own free will if in command i will never surrender my men while they still have the means
to resist if i am captured i will continue to resist by all means of available i will make every effort to escape i will accept neither pool nor special favours from the enemy if
i become a prisoner of war i will keep faith with my fellow prisoners i will give no information or take pardon any actions which might be harmful to my comrades if i am seen your
i will take command if not i will obey the lawful orders of those appointed over me and will back them up in every way when questioned should i become a prisoner of war i am bound
to give only name rank service number and date of birth i will evade answering further questions to the utmost of my ability i will make no oral or written statements disloyal to
my country and its allies or on full to their cause i will never forget that i am american fighting man responsible for my actions and dedicated to the principles which made my
country free i will trust in god and in the united states of america and that is the nineteen fifty five version of the code of conduct for the arm forces of the united states and
it was written in response to the brutal treatment of the seven thousand one hundred ninety americans captured by the enemy during the corean war prisoners who were subjected to
torture in doctor nation brain washing and forced confessions in that version of the code and i just read is almost exactly the same as the one that i learned in the military when
i joined in nineteen ninety they did make some changes through it to change it to include men and women and they changed to words to give some flexibility to increase
survivability and psychological recovery from torture than so the little changes are we made it a change from the prisoner being bound to give only name rank and service number
and deabth to the prisoner being required to give name rank service number than data birth small changes but the spirit of the code didn't change at all and that code is what we
as military fighting men and women were and are expected to uphold should we ever be captured and held as prisoners by the enemy coof conduct is simple and clear and
straightforward but the code of conduct gets tested on like any other document in the world when our american service men and women are somehow captured and as prisoners of war
face absolutely ruthless levels of torture pain suffering disease starvation humiliation and perhaps the most devastating hopelessness and to night it is my absolute honour to
have one of these men here one who during almost a full year of horror upon or at the hands of his captors vietnam man who persevered and fought with every ounce of his soul to
survive against the worst possible conditions a magnalia that not only learned the code of conduct but lived a retired army colonel william bill reader sir that you so much for
being here to night thank you jacket's my honour and they to be here and participated as podcast as well thank you i want you just to before we jump into the book if you could
just talk a little bit about you grown up what you did what you were like where you were o voyait know to foscari am yes essentially kid off the streets a lisangle as born in
glendale grew up for a time in the san fernando valley which is in the opening brotherlike to the to the book uh yeah i had a tough childhood i guess i i would say ah got into
some trouble as it is a young guy a sport help me at least survived to graduate from high school i left college i and in i went off to college university idaho to study forestry
he left college in less than the steam academic terms after only one one year a war for a time as a ah i work all the time as a kid with various small jobs to newspaper route and
an sellenger to tore of then did construction work and in my early teens a roofing work i began after i left college i worked caterans for a while i worked for the us for service
for a time a alimonies a fire fighter i got laid off in the end of fire season went to back home to los angeles and found a job with southern california at ion and santa monica
climbing power lines as at a punishinent and did that until at the outbreak of the vietnam war in hand he found my real nation life when i walked into the army recruiter and santa
monica california and i signed on the divoine will you reat nineteen sixty five so i now the talk and golf incident occurred that were they that that you s destroyers were
attacked that manteen sixty four that we put marinesco and anon march of nineteen sixty five on i started talking to recruiters first as going in the marine corps i have but
somehow under that endless thing in the army a indian august nineteen sixty five e was a transition to becoming a pilot yet was i started out to telestat to a basic training and
he advanced individual training a ittie can't can a cannoneer a member of a count an crew on an artillery in it and an applied frosthead te school and they took those with the
highest test cares he had to pass a stress of but they were looking for officers and especially artorius and so went tortilio candidate school a six months of of training with
some degree of harassment and then get commissioned august of nineteen sixty six as the senate in artillery it in how long did you are tolerare before he became a pilot yeah that
was about a year i didn't think i was going to be able to fly that's really why didn't go in the marine quare i wanted to be a pilot going to service as you could fly without a
college degree said this college dropped out had hopes and either than rancor for the army it when i went saw the ring recruiter he gave a battery of tests and he said and he said
yet you qualify for flight and we can guarantee you a light training i said o kashi pace as you go in as long as you pass the flight physical you're good to go so i could sense
there was something afoot here so efore i went in and i went to a suffecit surgeon a santiago me the same slight physical the military does and tell me if i could pass it so he
gave me the physical and said to no you wouldn't pass it he said your right eye as about twenty twenty five to twenty thirty yevstigney m they require perfect point twenty vision
couldn't pass the fight physical so i rode off the marine coral wasn't going to do that and i i went into the aino the army and instead thinking i would never fly after i went to
astrochan school i go commissioned i was working in an artorius simon of for a caricole rado ah and went in for an annual physical and when i got the physical came back twenty
twenty both eyes so igrillik plantation on the flight surgeon put my altercation and he and one off to light school awesome also and so amanieu in to the book here you um you
spend your first torn denham i think is your first ornstein your fine not the mooch right okay sir first torn the atom and by the way you were talking before the pock assaut how
much risk you've guys truck frigidian as pilots it it's it actually crazy will get into more of that but one of the things that struck me as a bribe in beginning your book in your
talk but how you got shot down on your first your pointed to the etnam i thought as a pilot so so here diestel that story to your your crown your go and your second deponent that
you said he at the first couple operations we down here they've been pretty exciting but you had some good ones on my last in women as you by the lake it shot down and i see one
go to the book here this is what happened when you got shot down the first time took a thirty seven millimetre miller anti our craft hit in the right wing attacking of heel deep o
hit hidden under the trees classified missalis over though she ventral i pulled up from the rocket run when behold right side the aircraft seemed to explode we tumble out of
control the right wing shattered and was on fire worked at hard got back some abillity got the fire out but we were descending fast could not hold out to tode gave the command to
eject the server went out i pulled my seat to handle right after i had a very short pairsuit only got parcel shoot deployment before hating the ground with a fuddle are crashing
through the tree tops by the time i punched out so so for those people that don't know what all that betreten you know when you pull in ejection and alone on a you hear in a plane
it get you out but you're supposed to do it with some level of altitude and not when you're hating the tree tops so your hitherto in tetuan the can of he not opening all the way
that means that the fool you sage of the parasite isn't there it's just short of getting opened and in fomenters i women took a tincture of my shoot down sight and you can see the
ah the parachute is just all strung out and a plain there at the end of the pursuit of a weiner got them a single laselato i got a partial sheet a plamondon i i'm glad we consider
in laughing and i have fed in you mighty laughing at the sahondakon be as you meant me to come out of it you know taking the hint and untheatrical in and was it really was but
there's something crazy about young men and i and the that point my life i was a kid livin a dream and i and i got blown out of the sky my first two or yessur iced it and somehow
in my crazy twist of mind i couldn't wait to get back over on a second tour flying cover attack locator a by the way so this is what happens once you get on the ground the reel
back through book then i was nearly captured i ran through the jungle forty five minutes while my wing man put down suppressive fire that earned me the nick name lightfoot got
plucked out of the jungle by air force occuper from the twentieth special operations gandinot the tiled called the call intone express spends in time in the hospital there avenche
every turn to the unit back to flight beauties this incredible we lost fifteen air plains at that point out of eighteen thirty kumeer shot down not many of the everope foes one of
the few lousy odds i was scared then i'll tell you if you don't get scared and combat you're a liar or not only after a tenth mission is it over does the real fright come when
there's time to sit and think you washita play out your mind and wonder how the hell you lived through something like that so again we were talking before before we pressed record
about the bell about how protective america is of its air craft right now i can't even imagine you guys had fifteen out of er eighteen airplanes that were shot down that's that's
sane and that was a sophisticated expensive air craft for the army at the time let malak was pretty much top with the line technology aren't amyclean very ye that's that's a ditty
different mentality that than we have now totally different mentality and that was a special unit we had five mohicans and vietnam attat time a four of them more free to the four
caraccasana side of southennan they flew mission and support of those areas we were the fifth company the bastard company for we fell out away food by the only time we saw
southam's for take off and landings all of our missions where the laws were up off the coast of north vietnam and i had one highly class bid one headed deployed on to connotation
going to cambodia that i didn't know what that was all about it was really hush i should the time that was in the advance of the beakers in the toulouse defeat the mohawks for
viet nam could it in interesting air craft to side by side rain in a prompt plain tea twin turcophil purely for reconsiles froment drumming her craft um began gas when had put
missiles on in the rochetaillee missiles for every age we arrived as she fought down of machineguns the yet that led to my cortex eresse because i really that was my favorite
mister the gun missions in the molatter but i i like the gun missions um when i came back my first tour there was a spat between the army in the air force and the result of the
spat was we had to take all the arm of an off the malice so i went back on second two or landing a gunshop not something without guns got me in the covers he that's weird those
bertric spats happen in the satin like it back it made that's really a disturbing so let's get into your your second tore right and jumping in this piece here back the book on
april fourteenth we received a radio call that fire base charlie was under attack by two regiments three thousand soldiers of the three hundred twentieth envie infantry division
and the hundred thirty men meter artillery shells were pounding a position so you guys get this call this this friendly basis being overrun basically and here you show up on the
scene now your fight a cough which rosie don't know a cobra a gunshop as you just said this stone service to day to bring queernesses to toisand very narrow skinny face on a huge
your right yeah it was the alley was designed and i went to benham but the most of us made the ewe the hue took on a gun mission ought that in vietnam we saw the italian guns an
air craft a so the cuberta was designed specifically and only as a gun ship and they took the huge design narrowed down the thirty six inches pilot in the back seat copilot front
seat two point seven five rockets on the wing stores and many gun and forty millernine in in a movable nose torrent and it was one kalenbach him and it still apparently brings a
giant smile to your face when you calkilate is love he and i that i don't want to say twas to i mean i i said at the time i was in i was a kid livin a dream and i was but i don't
want to take away from the horror of combat and it was scary as craft yet on every single mission but there's still something about a young guy i go into war at least a certain
type is on guy in those that were in the two units i served in a that a yah we we were dedicated what we did and i think we did it well and i'm still smiling about her we like so
far every guy brought him to this pot cast as the exact same acute your among friends and your kiss some going down you guys are you guys are there you show for your wit your
cobras back the book we made several passes on enemy guns bullets streamed past our cockpit as the envieuses tried to bring us down rolling in on a fifty one position is always
day so this is a fifty one colbert it at disa it's a it's an anti aircraft fishing and and actually had those worad they tap still at discus and the use em against us tracers come
at you miss by a few feet you try to get rocket on to him before he gets lucky in glass you out of the sky we took small arms hits my knees vibrated like a sewing machine but i
focused on controlling the hell a copper lining up the gun sights and shooting i was scared but had no time for it dan radioed dusty sign i pamper one three patron three beeves
running low on fuel out of amo were breaking stating for re arm refuel roger one three four gun costan out good work hurry back your adoring to the gun the ground whether susan
american adviser on the ground with a bunch of southenders there being overrun you come in you're taking heavy fire but your giving back fire he tell her we got to go and get some
more ammunition he tamed good job a eban when you do show a back the envies now more intense and here's the call that you get when you show back up panther that's you by the way
pantherine is your as you are false as you call in his panther here's a call you get panther the battalion commander is dead acting command drew wounded and i my broken through on
the south west potenter first then all around us but real close so close beeveland erstand what this means when you're on the ground calling for fire it's it's an talked about a
lot of fratricide and blue on blue situations i i had him on my epomene and it's it's a very scary thing in it even scarier for the air to the ground it's it's it's hard for
people to understand this when you're an aircraft it's very hard to see what's happening on the ground it can be very easy to get confused and so it's hard to bring fire very
close to your position unless you are just in a terrible situation and so when you get a call that saying put the fire all around us as close as you can you know this is a
desperate senario and so i'll go back to the book roger dusty we've got em after a number of cobra tack run duffy called panther lead this is dusty sign it to let figitin the
ground that's his call in dessin out you've broken the enemy attacked for now hundreds of bodies in the wire may be a thousand but we cannot hold after a short break he continued
we are leaving fire bays charlie now stop them from following us one ever i take put your stuff right on top of the fire base now and again this is something that i just to
explain what that means if you don't understand what you never in the military to explain your your calling for people to drop fire on to your own position so that you can get
away it doesn't get any there's nothing it doesn't get a more intense it doesn't get you more dramatic it doesn't get any more sketchy than that right there that was one hell of a
fight and john joseph duffy was the adviser the american visor on the ground he is a true american hero army special forces off to have those adviser duties ah that battle of the
battle astricti weeks that do the climax of it was a couple days with that last night that is described in the book out of a four hundred and seventy man southlands airborne
paratroop battalion at the end of that fight the next morning ah the american visor john joseph defy and thirty six of the south it amuse roll that survived to be picked up when
they when they got off at that fire base and in john was wounded five times and in the battle so yet for him seventy men be time thirty six survivors and their in their wounded
american vice heave through me i believe and in a new europe and here that major day was recommended for the metal valor and begot the distinguisher was cross for his actions
which if you don't know what that is it's it's the second highest award underneath the metal of one year in a talk about possibly writing about that battle did you that's my that
my next project and in doing this book in and there's a h there is a statement at the big ego the book that i wrote this some forty years after i experience his actions and and
something were still perfectly clear in my mind other things were a little bit hazier than i thought they would be when i put pen to paper a so in the process of writing i not
ally just dug down in my mind and on relived every experience is detailed as i could to get over the correct i contacted those who were also involved in in the actions to get
their versions of their view their recollections to be shiati is is right as i could a john joseph dophy was one that i got hold of major duffy i had never met him i never talked
of since that battle until i was able to track him down with the wonders of modern communication and internet ah in an insuring the details about that fight ah he dropped a couple
of handy said you know somebody really on a right the history of the battle of fire bays charless one of most extraordinary fights in the entire vietnam war so i think it was
after about the half a dozen times he said a kajan i'll do it i'll write it so yes right now i'm i'm working on doing my research and getting everything in order to have to write
the story of of that battle in more detail than i give on my what come of pages are my book yet that's one of the one of monstering things for me about doing this po cast in it we
are again another thing we're talking about is there so many you know i did know about that battle and i'm a pretty decent student of military history ran i didn't know about that
battle and didn't know about major john doe i absolutely sold in we all should any in what you realise is that battle that man will never be old to account for all these heroes no
you just can't do it so again this is fast forwarding a little bit through the book and and by the way i i mentioned him of the booket oh ye then the name of the book is through
the valley my captivity in vietnam by william reader and get this book so at this point i'm i'm jumping ahead a little bit to a situation where you've got and i go to the book
tanks in the wire at polly clan launch now and call me and wrote for their radio free hawk's claw will get up later you'll be covering him too you have tailed numbers your office
three and six eight to go so that right there is something bad is happening and you got to go now and what's what's interesting now i'll point this out for again people that
aren't the military by the way a lot of guise of lestines are in the military lot olaf cement but there's a lot of civilians that don't know everything that i'm talking about or
that were that you are tykin so what i like about this is that whether telling what they're telling the colonel the dew is lanherne a latch and start heading in a direction well
give you a fleet when see when you get up there will tell you what's going to happen once you get up there but go so again this isn't in extremis situation what we would do that
would be similar to this it in this feltass we were going cuortesan's quiteria tion forces where they would call their did have me to be with the compensate something's going on
here at this location go and i say who's the unit we don't know yet any frequency whatwhat radio frequent water now yet we'll get it to you watch we'd get in our vehicles watch
aludel oped the situation and rude and then when you lay eyes on when you get there and start talking with folks in exactly back to the book i stuffed a small emergency radio into
one of the pockets of my survival fast no time to perform the normal check on the radio i i had to include that there's a lesson werther had to include that as you know the radial
will always work if you test it in the wodehouses the one time knockout that's the lesson chelly survive a year assured regardless of how hot that messines um now you're heading
to a place called the bad hat and of going to the book we had it to bend hat as we crossed the last ridge line the entire valley before us was filled with smoke tracers streamed
outward from defensio inside the camp and my tracers replied from outside to jet fighters bombed next to the camp environed artillery and mortars exploded in the camp and my tanks
preach the perimeter on inside and part way up the hill look like it had been killed already i couldn't be sure an a one thirty an air force as when thirty spectre gunshop was
leaving he worked the area over with twenty millimeter voland gatling guns and forty mineter canning and canons probably hitting the tank and mean for tree moved through openings
in the jungle canopy i could see groups assembling to join the attack he was it was one that of a he of a battle the this whole situation were getting too in the book or cured
during the easter offensive of nineteen seventy two when i arrived back in vietnam the end of seventy one of seeing like the war was over in fact i was afraid that maybe i'd
missed my chance for convartin a corbeaus things were so quiet a many american for fact most american forces a in withdrawing in the central part of vietnam the central highlands
rose operating or no american ground forces left at all just some special forces guys a army of ation units and in smarrita was at um how that changed as we got into the spring of
nineteen seventy two because the enemy had been building up their divisions across the border into lousiana and in the spring of seventy two the last satan from the demolition and
attack the cambiature sagan and in finally in april attack across the central islands where we were and there were a lot of enemy this day at ben had courses is going to turn into
the vehicle day they were getting to hear ah but yet elements of two northeastern with artillery with anti aircraft weapons galore a and with the with armour a going into the end
of the camp and there we showed up with our tokoro do do what we could do with at your first time seen armor and merle no i but that that period was on the twenty fortresses a
night he may on the twenty fourth of april the enemy attacked the ah the twenty second arven that army of vietnam division head quarters at ten can which was a little bit further
to the east from benheiten ty four tiepoletta ten cannon and defeated and overran that invade division with the a a number of tanks of that was the first time i saw taxable then
we come out of the night the man seeing tank again hold different valgame to the guys on the ground yes ye the this i gorilla war suddenly turned into a very conventional war
fighting regular north we to me to visions now but once again you you had some time on station you did a bunch of shooting and running and gone and you had to go back to reload
and refuel and i'm going back to the book now on our way back to bend hat we could see the battle continuing at ploply cleaning holly clang leaves air force a one sky raiders dill
dropping bombs we passed close enough to see one as it trailed smoke and flame and wind in the ground an awful explosion i saw paris and a mad a call came over the radio emerges
really of frequency i called to headquarters to tell them i was diverting for a few minutes to help confer the down t n a scene at mister force pilot negative panther three six
permission denied proceed direct to bend it out you try again saying results so you saw the north erasofines air force pilot get shot down right and you call back to base say only
a cover for this guy with a cry and rescue and they tell you no write now he so you do what you told her at the iconastastis pleas is in minisitration on the ground of ben
haliseris trouble that ben had there were two vietnamese ranger but tiens so probably four or five hundred people at the most by four four hundred people on the ground of ben hat
with two american avises he to america on the ground they are under attack by elements of two north eateese divisions was best thousands of in stream with the tank star
tornoetrask and so that they were not in dire straits though i really had hoped we could briefly stop over and help get this a videbimus force pilot sichem yettocome decision for
command to make right but for an from my position i look at it like okay to command has a better over all view the battle field right now an yer tell me to proceed on the benhadad
it even though you obviously as a pilot you have a little good i fled you have that perspective as i be now that at the time at all so well these for me right now said he a
condition space with my ed et on se um so much in vietnam on end and warfare is different to day i and i think things are probably much more planned out and and and and you go to
us do according to a set of rules of the procedures more than we did as so many of these combat missions would cover as in vietnam and that day and age we would get watched out of
our base and we'd go out and make contact with people and it was a pretty much up to the pilot and command or they are mision commander had to decide where he would go and how he
would support what was the hottest fire in town that that needed help so we had always in some of what was duiker pampas attitude to we always felt we had a better handle on what
was happening than the guys in the head quarters of made some of those decisions and in fact when we first saw tanks in the area before that balletdancer on the twenty fourth of
april we saw tanks more ported them back through headquarters and there was a great deal of a reluctant on the part of anybody i had corraled believe that there were tanks there
was a guy that effect this is another interesting situation at venom that time the senior commander and to care that area that i was operating it was not an melitaei was a
civilian named john paul van and and mister van made all the decision i keep things legal he tito stare army general officer working for him so all military wires came through the
army general but mister van was making the decisions and then when we reported we had seen packs and bent yukinari avance a nod there's not tanti fly out thro all the time of
their tanks i to see him he said what she got so probably elephants in the jungle ah so that's that's what we don't with with the with our head quarters hot yetta's interesting
there definitely was when when i was in eratosthenes are de ground support especially in the cities in remote is very difficult to get droms drops but you know who had really good
decentralized command was the tanks and the tanks that we were worth they would they would come and he had pretty good control of what you know untacking the tank commander
frittes at the company command level we had some company commanders that would just get after it and they would would make stuff appen to we feel really comfortable working with
the tankers and in they supported us old over n over again really like i said with a lot of decentralized command you know they couldn't they had to use some they obviously used
discretion but they had a lot of authority out there which was which was great on as lewith we did as well which was was really good so it are a yelping back from wagram revealed
a conto were hadn't backed up were denied for miss native to polly clang and he were were getting back into it a bent at one more time and now what's your doing that when i'm
going to pick the story back up here there's a hue that's got reply sir he's got you know bullets probably bullets water and through it may be at this point just bullets and they
need to get that gear down to the guys on the ground right the guys on the ground the base of ten pretty much impolitely over run the friendliest consolidated in a command bunker
complex with the pensive dug in positions at the top of the hill which was their fire base ah they were when we got the call the cover that he e a we were told that the guys on
the ground were completely out of anti tank ammo and were almost out of small orbs ammunition and could we cover the seein for the reply so he regumac to the book that he became
in to a low hover near the command bunker the crew kicked out the ama boxes took up her dovering turn and took off i began a sharp left turn to i continue shooting suppressive
fire for him the enemy opened up on our two cobs with everything they had might view left right and above and below was filled with tracers tim fired continuously and tim was er
with him was tillay front see my coat i leogane in the front seat working that nose her at while i was firing rogatian continuously on those firing in us we took large caliber had
all over the air craft fifty ones like i talked about and fourteen point five nometer round came through the cockpit he two small arms always felt something like gifion poppy
against its tin foil cover these seem like jack hammer slamming into the air craft beginning in the rear working up the side and then into the cockpit the tail rode over shot off
and the engine was shut up every system on the helicopter was damaged in some way without the tail rod or the aircraft began to spend she will lines ruptured and we were burning i
keep in my capone this is three six taking fire from four o'clock taking fire everywhere taking fire taking its going down panther going down the engine quit the road or are pim
caution light flashed the audio warning sounded announcing that my road or blades were turning dangerously slow i slam the collective down hard to auto rotate on her optima
conditions this is a control the mergency descent under these conditions i could only hope to lessen the severity of the crash we corpse grew down flames as i wrestled the air
craft i radioed my wing man flame ye better get in here get us out quick there was no answer they were fighting for their lives i learned years later that when i called taking its
flame had banked his co bread fired rockets onto the position shooting at me as he did so a big ugly fifty one round came through the cockpit and torn to his chest high on the
left side bob took the controls and headed for help flying from the front seat my cobre down spinning and burning it hit the ground hard nose low on the left side it bounced back
into the air spun another turn in a half and crashed it settled nearly upright firing gulf the cockpit so pilots are known for maintaining their composure right an i ever over
violence to do it and in clearly you know your saying or taking its were taking fire from everywhere were going down panthaeon down are you so tracking on control me or craft that
you you're just completely focused on that that the rest of what's happening is a little bit blocked out or what are you think yourself i got survived the crash are you not
worried about the fact that when you get on the ground ay now i'm going to be surrounded by enemy yes the none of those thoughts or ataking place as i said an earlier thing that
you read every one who's not totally insane is is scared and compact a off times that fear of a comes about after the missions or over the end of the day when you think that on
what you'd been through that day i thank goodness we got to drink out aholibamah people survive in war there i don't we a trower single night and then went back out the next day
and did it again as to this fiery end of the day there is also fear and trepidation i to a degree when you first got ighen i described to a crosslet that battle a bent hotoke like
tracer stuff all over the place i mean you get butterflies your stomach and your anxious but once you go in on that mission and an start those gun runs it's all there's there's
there's no time there's no mental space for any of that other thought there's no mental space for that fear ah you just focus on what you have to do and you do it in and the pulp
thing we just radiation though still i mean all these years later i'm sitting with a red emotional flush in my face reliving this yet one more time but no i don't i don't recall
thinking of anything in those moments but but doing that mission controlling that aircraft dealing with that emergency situations best i could and in going through the whole
process i think there was a thought of life or death to a t i goin to make it or not make it ready that none of that was even there it was it's you do what you have to do and and
get it done and then what it all settled in and and and oh you know it spun settled in crash smoke and flames everywhere the thing begins exploding ah then even then there's not
time for that fear factor then because in you start dealing with okay what do i have to do now i tiser ive the getter and see your across on fire and i guess you not tick round
pondering much when your air craft on fire your stuck in their turn to get out you get hung up while you're getting out by a way like to so you you do get out you make it away
from the bird a little bit and you you end up getting some distance away you low you altering man right for staroste your hum you my my wig man took the fifty one hearing this i
tooif you use but then he got out of the craft to and took off me in another direction on my front seat ten comrade and a curette is two canopies one for the front seat one for
the back the front seat can ape opens to the left the back seat can feel and to the right so we we hit we had a intercom conversation i said i don't know i i let's get out of this
thing that's what it's got enough for that and nerodal and then and then he got out his way i got out my way i don't know if you had that little vinet of what happened when i was
hanging up said down out their crime yea i i i was knowing and too a marked mark true hand idea of visor on the ground there i'll i'll go ahead and if if you want yeah inside band
have one of the american advisers mark to and watched us get shot down and crash he saw teacher he saw me hanging out of the side of the cobra head down with my feet stuck in the
cock pit they held a copper burning he'd seen a truck driver die in agony in a blazing semi rack years before and its scorn he would not let that happen again he raised the sight
of his m sixteen rifle to my body as he began to squeeze the trigger put me out of my misery a cloud of smoke billowed from the exploding air craft it obscured me from his view
when the smoke cleared i was gone and that something that you found out years later yet he got a touch it i got it the contact man and said i think it was a letter and said i was
one of the vices on the ground had been helping to get shot down i can give you some information about what happened if you'd like to hear to you don't i understand if you do
don't want even go there as not tell me what you know so he sure that story with me or the leaves so i'm going back the book here your disusate your the pain in my back was
intense it was broken the fire had burned the back of my neck i had lesser burned on my face my hair was singed i pulled a shell fragment out of my ankle superficial last rations
covered my face and forehead but do eating badly i was a mess but i was motivated i wanted to get away i staggered from the crash site and headed south east towards cantamanti at
on tom as it was getting dark i had not gone far when i heard helicopters approaching cobs came in low shooting and you had your little low strove and so you regoli held the light
over my head pointed toward the aircraft he flashed a few times the gunner in the leaf cobra opened up on me with his many gun a stream of tracers came right at me which is this
something we've we learn in iraq as well when you fire off a strobe if some one isn't expecting or isn't looking for it it does look like muzzle flash in anybody that sees it will
shoot at it we have blue covers we put on the supposedly change the color of it i wouldn't look like any fire but not a fact i i ran into that front seat there opened up on me
years later belleile and i are you sure he said yet we were out there flying the messing esere looked like enemy fire sorry about them so i rebeck to book it is you little bit
about your attitude i was cocksure if any one survive this it was me i'd been a boy scout though i was one of the trouble makers in my true i'd learned a lot i back back sixty
five miles through the mountains in five days and practised revival skills my trouble youse got me suspended from school a number of times but he also tell me less than i learned
to street fight take care of myself i had boxed played football and run track i major in forestry worked tattah's rode bronx in small rodeos fought forest fires worked
construction and was an electrical lineman for southern california edison i remembered a little ditty my mother had taught me but lord helps lowe who helped themselves i knew i
could depend on its absolute truth to get me through this the lord help helps those who help themselves god i'll do that do all i can muster every bit of what's inside me i'll do
my part i'll do all i can to help myself so please please do yours i need your help i said it again to myself drawing comfort and strength the lord health foes who helps some
selves oudepote often as i set my mind to doing all i must to survive ye this is a is as interesting going through this in all his detail again because when i want a rote the buck
i had to re visit everything in detail like i had not done since it happened to me i i had never gone to this depth of real living those experiences um ye in it ah it's tough to
think back on that i'm in indeed when i was writing as i share some of the writing with my wife on account of bed late at night and after i got a few chapters in this i told her
when i said malahat him what am i doing this whole thing is a series of unfortunate events i wos goin to antarean something like this and she told me so billie know the whole
story she said stick with it finished his book because i think that in it ah there is there's inspiration of motivation for for people it's not just your story if it it can help
others at an so on an in that vain if i say that because it is getting a little motions were those that's fine ah but i do hope that some of this is useful and helpful for others
and ah i grew up by going to church as a kid but i wasn't over relatively religious guy and somewhere out college i quit going to church all together and in the army the only time
i can remember that i be going to church was from a moral services for guise and that is about it ah but if you end up in a situation like this or or i would say any really if i
if you think the situation your life is stressful and is about to overwhelm you ah you need some mill beyond yourself and you know no matter what you're not not selling any
religion then but i would say whatever your religious beliefs are you can find a lotteringhi and your god and i get good close to god and an elelythota he certainly i couldn't
have done this by myself i i grabbed ahold of that duty than my mom gave me as we grabbed older the twenty third son and when stuff got really close to being blown to smitherines
times late you on my captivity that point third son was known over and over again my mind too so yahagi not selling any religion but whatever your spirituality as you best get
comftable with it if you innabitants like this yeats's the interesting that your your saying locomotory thing i can but i need to know ye ye and you know certainly you know when
you when you say that other people you know we'll be able to find absolutely i mean just me readin this i found all kinds of not just inspiration but practical guidance which you
know one of the things you just said is practical guidance on you know some one that's been through what you've been through there so much that everybody else can take away in
long from and the that's that's one of them right there do you watch you can do everything that you can and then have some faith on the things that you can't control are gonnor
out your way then i think that's important too because i'm thinking now as we're talking and i don't know where you in to that specific part in and in the book or not a bitterly i
want i think it was the first night i i get pepito strikes almost landing on top of me and and i'm beginning to feel that i m i going to survive this or not and i i think the
answer is i don't know but in that answers i don't know and so what i mean that that that doesn't matter that's not important i may survive i may not survive i'm going to do all i
can to survive so i got to the point where this fear of being blown to smitherines kind o went away ah and i just settled into aliter survivor won't survive it's i can't worry
about that all i can worry about is what can i do to try and and and set the best conditions to make that survival possible and that of either will or on the oorouwela thing that
i i was felt was you know a rack on the biggest threat as was its end yet there random they're going to hit you it or not going to hit you and when he every time you go outside
the wire there's there's a chance in that it's your day and you'll kinda what i told my guys and the way i felt myself was okay i know there out there we've done everything we can
to mitigate the rest we've done our planning we done our drills we gathered our intelligence there's nothing else we can do to control it so knocking to worry about it right and a
honeying i can but like you said i of help them at myself as much as i can have after that it's out of my hands and i in a more you worry about it i like you said bolt does it
does it really matter i can tidy way about it but doesn't matter got it got him to forward exactly here's to you you do a couple of days three days worth of the vasion the enemy
and now you are out hiding you hear some voices you crouched down your hide you know there people and he recoba the book a lot of crashing around came from the direction of the
voices i looked up and saw uniformed envisager pointing a forty seven rifles at my head they shriek something and motioned for me to stand up i did i was captured i felt
indescribably sick in the pit of my stomach as the world fell away i've been struggling for three days to stay alive i was in miserable shape but i had been free and i had options
no more my soul was a wash with anguish i was no longer a free man in that instant i become a captive of the communist north enemies on my a prisoner of war another american pea
in the long vietnam conflict i had no idea how long they might let me live or if i was about to die a couple of them were shaking we stood in utter silence for a moment they
glared at me i glared at them for that tenth instant i didn't know if i'd be riddled with bullets or be allowed to live on bark something at me i could not understand another join
in then a third i looked right into their eyes i was an american i would show them the best american fighting man that i could in the pitiful state that i was in sum now that
that's the best i could do on describing capture at it it's it's impossible to really convey the full feeling of losing your freedom and being a captive it's just indescribable ah
but i i i i did the uthe best that that i could i was in miserable shape of a rat about the wounds that i had i had a distant those i picked up some leeches a that i been plucking
off on my body i my my face was cover with blood my three day growth the heavy beard was wittikind through a because if my back injuries at that item even now ilerea that i had
badly broken my back i had no control of my bowels were bladder for those three days i smell i was just an awful mess when those guys kept me an took me up that hill they find me
get you to sort of like a camp sore of the first interrogation came for ye well were the i mean the capture made the jungle so thick they were only a few yards away when i
stumbled upon them and then they and they had been down in a stream filling canteens his five young guys a captured me i and they took me almost an equal distant up the hill
opposite and i came into an open area still had the canopy of the triple canopy jumble up but the bottom was all open their hundreds of north eat me soldiers supplies to pensive
positions as was a major staging here for this battle taking place as i was trying to get away from from the battle and get towards conto my stumble right into their state in here
and you start getting your you know concerting a soft interrogation as what i put down here a guy says you know we found picture of a pretty maid lady with your children your
wallet obviously your family and you say yea i know you miss them in are very worried and there very word about you you follow the rules and you will be home soon you will receive
humane and lenient treatment you will be allowed to go home and i put that in her cause that's a refrain that we hear a quite a bit humane and leander that was a refrain they
would say it all the time and the dryhope all you you do you do what you're supposed to do and cooperate igth human and lynetten a course you more fully cooperative at all
twifflers in you so there there they went from that idea so they start stepping it up on you and he'll hears an example of the things that they said you you are a war criminal and
the geneva and geneva agreements do not apply to you you have no right but we will still give you the deserved humane and lenient treatment all you have to do is cooperate with us
and acknowledge your crimes impios back to our reading of the cotocachi started this soft to our codicote was different a regatta we are we are bound to give only our name rank
service number and date a birth and in the ante way that was taught in the way we understood at that was all we could get was name reckernise number day to birth and if we gave
anything else we had we had caved in and were cooperating with the enemy so that was my stance that was all i was going to give them was by name reckernise number day to birth a
you may get into some of the things that that that took place i i would dislike the comment that there was nothing heroic going on all i i guess the couple of things work going on
i was trying to abide by the coacoanut and i was in a state where i have been near death for days was very near death at that moment and was numb and and just almost didn't care
out hard to understand i believe but almost didn't care at that point and then i got so angry and aggravated with his son of a bedstead up in my interrogator from his initial soft
salads you said but but his first words he showed up his only guy spoken english and as captured sir asked me about myself my condition but if i was hurt and so i opened up with
him about some of that but then when he got into what was clearly an interrogation then i clammed up i i would close these comments now with the fact that he didn't break me in
that interrogation i speak nothing to my heroism ability to resist interrogation anyone can be broken i in of this would a continued over time by that you know him i'm sure that
he could have got me to do something with his brutality probably nothing to would have given many useful untelligible might a got me to do it to do something yet so i was for that
for that those moments on those days with an initial torections i was with table to to stick with my name or exerce tontiner also her ears an example of that is back the book here
please signes he enemy one of the sheet to paper and a pen i looked at the paper it was tightening lish as i began to read the words mynterne rupted this simply a form that a
colleges your status we need it to we can begin to possess you fur least so we can send word to your family of your status pleased just sign i read the words i could not believe
what i was reading there was a blank fat place for me to fill in my name the text said that i was an american war criminal who had been conducting the illegal acts against the
vietnamese people including byside genocide and echo side i had dropped fire bombs and chemical bombs i had killed old men pregnant women and babies by side genocide ego side on a
bunch of crap i raised my head and looked into his eyes no i will not sign this there i had spoken you must i will not his agitation returned now you must i glared at him he got
up and came at me he smacked me across the face you must he turned to his side kick and spoke quietly and the man got up at his direction two guards dragomans a tree a broad short
of a tree i've been bent over since the crash unable to stand erect they forced me up into a straight sitting position and tied me to the tree in her like hell i couldn't keep my
face from contorting in anguish now you sign no more orders they pulled on the ropes to bring my arms closer together behind me the pain in my back increased new pain was
introduced in my shoulder joints more demands to sign more refusals the ropes tight and further they moved my elbows closer together more demands more refusals ropes ever tighter
more pain i was uncontrollably grimacing and cursing i would not sign i could never consider signing anything like that the brutality made me angrier and more fondly set against
giving in i could have been broken and made to sign eventually there is no doubt no man can resist for ever but this interrogator would not bring me to breaking point on that day
his demand continued and so did my refusals the ropes tightened more and more pain screamed through me my anger swell against this asshole i began grunting in audible attack
against the agony the guards gave the ropes one huge last pole was brought my elbows together behind me i felt the papas each shoulder dislocated pain shot you my torso up my neck
into my head and down my back through my growing and into my fives i've never felt such pain my vision narrowed and i nearly passed out sign i could only groan and shake my head
the interrogator scowled angrily turned and left medication this is a little bit further on and he saying that he's given you one last chance to sign this paper and one last
chance to co operate will you go back to the book now my head hung down partly in exhaustion it partly in an intentional rudeness not paying in him any attention i looked up when
he finished i saw his sadistic minion standing a few yards in front of me holding an a c forty seven at the ready your last shame the assistant rays the rifle and pointed it at me
i stared ahead and said nothing no heroism was involved i was rung out at the end of everything i had to give i've been so close to death for so long was so angry and so
absolutely dreamed a faint spark was all i had left i felt no detached from what was happening i was not resisting i was just giving into the flow of whatever was destined to be
that might be death it might not i seen army training film and armitage years before showing the mock execution of a corean war pow i remembered that saying the action of the
charger being pulled went over and over in my mind click click click an i flinched as a soldier jerked the trigger back but nothing happened no shot no loud bang no bullet ripping
my sculler chest nothing the soldier laughed my interrogator smiled i am done with you you will be taken away from here that was three days of this three horrible days losing my
freedom going through that iteration am being thrown down into a pit at night as where i stayed with other old abandoned bunkers and had about six inches of mud and go in the
bottom and ah and that caused me a big psychological issued at first i closed in that darkness that night a herold to fight to duseepi my cool down there with the bunch of their
re set up pedasi ers and rats and it was it was a mess side spend the night down there at molinda time for interrogation back down in that hole nights back up fortuitious so what
we read covered a prad three days before he finally gave up on me an yeah i i had no idea what was going to happen i just and even thinking back on it and is going through all
that freuch in just a no state in em with with with that treatment ye my shoulders to day still caused me problems i had a sundevell for university of washington many years ago
he's going to turn fifty years i had eight so as a number years ago he had high school i i threw about two passes that was in form shoulders camp play can't play horses or
anything but uh yeah you know so it's something that definitely obrepere of doing his readings and i talked about it before that you know when i read something in my head and it
it kind of i go all that that's powerful but then when you read it aloud and then you hear it it's just it's even more of the same thing with you know i i know i sent you jody
meditation minion you and he is said the same thing he one said to me said you know when you are reading it it's like it's like a here in my own too something you know it's just
ran at us a broad back and yet there's something there's something about that it's okay it's like when it's when it's when your reading it it sort of detached from reality or in
one step further to tacherai in an obviously sitting with jones sitting here with you and in knowing that this is you you know one point that i may all the time when i
compendiaria books i was reminded people that castille in this day and is where you to see movies were used to see watching t v that i was say that this god had him talking about
this apperson you know this guy oldthat is is a person his guyard war one this is a man in sir he have you sitting here knowing that this is you it's it's her even know what to
say to describe it well thanks shackanasty has become an emotional experience for me but it's important that end and i think this is going to be an important podcast i wrote that
book i finished it it was published last april i am not read that book since it was published a man it was something to go through and relieve all that to get a written and am so
i spent almost a year i haven't i haven't read the books a word going in and aniditi but this is this is good so you get turned over to some other some other guards bright and nay
start take and you don awake walking specimen else it yearnit about the condition by the way you have a broken cross vertebra this point ritornate broken back to a one birrablee
your otamage two other verfolge salon of you got all kinds of shonoho now you're going to walk and some go i want no that yet they gave me my boots back after those three days
when terrogations no socks no laces boots bear feet of thine we had a cold vietnam seal when i got to see a pin one in nineteen ninety and he would run barefoot the time and you
know one day was he he sir why you you know why you're on barefoot he says the first thing the groups do you take his shoes god have heard she helicosities now i was thinking
causes when i showed up at gullen i always joke about this i thought i was going to the annamarie ninety one when i got there i thought i'd not notathome tahionwatha how you were
but i was a little off you know dorically so that a situation you're in going back to the book they been saying apassionata with these guys they been sayin phrase for the past two
days that i couldn't understand it out it was vietnamese goquay as we pushed up the road they walked behind me poking the rifle barrels into my kidneys my ribs showing with
increasing urgency go unquiet and then after a while for the first time i understood what they were saying go quick or die they had been taught one short phrase english and was
all they knew and they had pronounced it so poorly that it took me two days to figure it out i moved as fast i could but i was at the end of everything i had i struggled on and
you a just notice in this dear going to breeched of everything you had a man you already were there many tons you're get reached again you just reach it it's it's a corroding
thing about human beings what we have inside the wicked dig down and grab a hold of when we have to that we don't think we ever could have done it but it's there caneret that
helped you back the book i found myself men we reciting what i could recall of the twenty third psalm i repeated one line over and over in my head yea tho i walk through the
valley of the shadow of death i will fear no evil for thou art with me it wasn't only time during my captive that the twenty third sam came to my lips no after in inclasped me for
like a already cover three days of misery now we're talking about adament minutes now you've walked for multiple days suffering all time and i'm going to fast for through it i'll
cut and i then sorry and that's winithar afool dinding remanebit i had underrated you arrive camp now we arrived back the book we stopped in front of one cage in the door opened a
guard pushed me and i stumbled over some one lying inside and fell tumbling into the ground pain shot through me the cage was about twelve feet wide and twenty feet or so long it
could not have been more than four feet high twenty six prisoners were stuffed inside all soutienne soldiers heat hung in the cage have in stale the air smelled the filth and
peter wounds people moaned in a constant dull rumble the occasional whale was met with sharp chases and guard guarded whispers the door way was shut and secured i lay there
thankful i survive the journey of the past three days what would become of me now he was my first thou as my first present camp ah the jumble camp was in the jumble figures
northern campbell where the u s was not reanimate and it was a hacamore many cages about three hundred prisoners that camp all south yet a mad that have been captured in as
offensive one of their american pwoud meet later and yet but one of those gates battoo my broken back screamed every time i tried to lay down tried to lie down with my feet in the
stocks so he put your feet into stocks wooden bamboo stocks there was no way i could lay on my side i couldn't lay straight back so i sat upright in the dark in agony i thought of
my family fought of my day of where i been where i was now and what might lie ahead i badly still i had a hope i can live this way i can do this i can survive i will survive i sat
there fought drifting across the landscape of my life shaped by these extraordinary circumstances eventually i fell asleep sitting upright that night dreaming of what might become
of me i join awake something scampered across my legs something was all my feet something small cool and wet touched my arches and souls little rat knows is pope to sniff that my
feet tiny teeth nod my pulverized raffles my arms swung without command as i added a large rat off my lap others skirt away i screamed inside lips pressed tightly shut a muffled
shriek of terror i thrashed my legs failed but when nowhere i wiggled my feet as well as i could in the socks and got the rats off they fled into the night only return when i fell
back asleep they would return to torment me nearly every night in that jungle prison it i i don't like rats this day to some of my kids just mess with me as i bring up brats to
the men storti hate i hate rats from from that experience and and that's not the beginning or the end of the radience and in prison one thing they did mention to that i'd like it
to high light is as hope ah there is a frasier that i wasn't going to give up hope hope is such a powerful thing ah it's there for all of us i would just need to grab a hold of it
and an anold it tightly i hope was all i had for much of my time in captivity a hope of of a of surviving a and in that survival of getting back to my two young kids those two
kids really played such a role in inhaling me survive my son when i went over there was a four and a half years old lover for my daughter was new born ah but when things are
getting really really tough i think of those kids and how we batatas i had to endure it and to do my best to survive an anethum to those kids yet at that i i definitely that's one
o things that i specifically i lighted you know was i can live this way i can do this i can survive i will survive i still i had hope it and aired it just the way you just
explained it it hit me that hard back to the book we sat for a few more hours my cage made all the time soldiers appeared a ragged crew almost every one had been wounded some
gravely filthed their tattered uniforms the whole place stone sweat below infection she sees and urine we were all hearing and some would die some cautiously whispered to their
neighbor most like me just sat and stared that's what i did i sat in stared at them sitting and staring at nothing i wondered if i would go crazy here would i die here what would
happen first insanity or death i snapped back to what little grasp my hat on reality all it together toussant in vicky will hike well play get back home for those kids you can do
it you can endure i could allow my faults to drift in dark directions i forced myself into logical structured thinking i began planning a hiking trip with my family a back to
backing trip into the woods i planned the root the equipment loadeth they'd be federate for vicky a little more for spenceonians of it we edeirnion cook deronda small camp fire
the less i tell you the hydrated then sat up awfully aliases that was a poor mammina i did that not i got back from my captivity i spent some in magones er an i won't get all the
details of hospitals action of medical but when i got released in the hospital finally a witty family on vacation and he guesses on what the first thing i did on avocation to cale
drove to the olympic peninsula of my family back packing i your heard maidenlike and a glad that i i did i'm nalay enjoy the wildering woods and and i put a been a much more shape
and captivity if i if i hadn't a but since then i've i've loved the walderin the woods even more i mean i love every day every beautiful day on god's great earth i but love the
wolderton the woods were signana of or time on rocopilot kanyon thing my my older son the little ford after all boy was a was an adult by then i we back packed what we did a three
day journey across the specialise were nobody ever did we just pick some place one from the atlantic side or the pacific side i we did mountain bikes first then we backed packed
stand in the jungle until we got to the rio indio in it was dry seseley wallas we had to hike weight on the rio endo for there was enough water to hire again a caudian take this
out to the ocean side you know even an o just before my retirement but i i've always loved the wilderness love of the jungle and the headnote got on that thing but onattached well
it's all me what the things that it again i spastically high lighted was that the fact it you know you you you would be drifting in nestor directions and you would force yourself
and i talk about that too you know i i i say mine control not mind control like a were going to cholerine but throw your own mind now and put your own fogs in there you can do
that and people just need to learn how to do instead of with you start drifted off the wrong direction and control your thoughts get mind control when i love the fact that you did
that we such with such authority and power over all over what your brain was thinking the i think that's an important message i was a much over used prastha glass half after a
glass at full candage ah i i roll would advocate for you have to be at last half full kinda guy to survive and i think i might cure the argument further you and i have a happy
full enjoyable life you damn well better be a half glass full kind of person if you're iff i mean there's enough problems and difficulties in life if you want to go for the dark
side it it's it's there you can go to it i but there's enough positive wonderful things ah the degraded that beat of hope and and go for it absolutely back into the camp and back
to the book the camp ovide a miserable existence on the edge of madness all was filth and disease and suffering moans and wails of pain and anguish crime from the enclosures as we
walked by i caught glimpses of sick and wounded men inside cage after cage their eyes white orbs of desperation peering from grimy faces through the din of the gray world and side
and now you're back in the stocks sitting there wounded in stocks in a bamboo cage in an unknown jungle prison camp with death all around me i began to wonder how long can i
endure this then my voice said outwood as long as it takes to credible then here you meet that i indiscretion met wait wait wait ventilate american who was self preserve captured
marchault months before me and you of waned the crew now you're getting get point on a long march the tea were to move you out of this printing camp do you know you're going to
anoynt this no no that they they put me they pull me out of my cage and i found myself in the centre of the camp with a group of twenty five south vietnamese prisoners i think
they're all out they were all officers a myself and wan as a told as they were going to move is to a new camp at endatcondere camp came and i was running at the mouth one of the
southeners offers was translating for us but they're going to move is to a new camp i work in ditions we would get would be better i mean in this camp he would dying almost every
every day i don't think a condition to be better we get medical care we get letters from home ah but that we have very difficult journey it could last for his long as eleven days
and we should try very hard to make it that's what we were told now the driver heard it that the leven days i guess was registering for mine the tribe are to make it really
genully register until week actually set out in marching by this time my ankle wound was very infected my leg was very swollen it was so painful just to take a step and yet i was
having to take step after step after step and as i got into that march i was wonder how is going to get through the first day i didn't think i could do it i didn't know how i
could possibly walk for a for a day through the jungle i they they had his tie loosely together i had our arms tightly about her backs no shoes as time this was barefoot and off
we went i some i made it through that first day and the day after that in the day after that the trip turned out to be not eleven days to a new camp somewhere in cambervel louse
or back into venom that trip took over it three months and i did end up in a note end of that trip that journey cost the lives of ah of six of the south beatemest prisoners and we
the other merican died a before we got to hunyad i damn near died of number times not stall it in the book but by the grace scotiri and and made it in and got all the way to he he
also got to know some of the viennese soucie solders it one of them lieutenant and bean john that right that that's very good one son is our son son and you was you know obviously
you form a really good relationship with him this he regolatore tried all he is one internationale interject one thing because at this is fascinating to me to me it's always been
what are well i'll come back to let me see where you're goin to go with the conversation to get to my relationship with him and yet okays we charged out of the valley upon two
arising recline there wasn't much talking when we began to climb up with steep long trail i was already exhausted i had to push hard to make every step my swollen infected ankle
from with pain i wandered as any one else having this much trouble how long am i beledee going only then did the words of the lead guard rillet me as long as eleven days try very
hard to make it my being revolted my being revolted eleven days this how the hellenion be alebat in two seconds i answered go to as long as it takes reached down deep dotage going
god help me wan was stowassers ape than i was but still it had to be tough for him he just bore down and put out whatwise to keep on going some of the other perseedins wealth many
like me had trouble a number complained and a few cried other prisoners berated them a couple of them fell down and whimpered and the guards yelled at them slapping kicking and
heading them with rifle butts until they got up i thought this is going to be a long eleven days in this is just continuing way past eleven days your now just beyond that
continuing with the story as the days continued i became weaker and lost weight fevers followed waves of shivering chills might be malaria i suffered from dire probably disentry
my festering aleuno the swelling grew worse aggravated by the journey leach's played me sucking my blood and adding infections of their own my right leg became a heavy painful
mass that i dragged along the trail i must have been a sight though my moronic me in a worse situation wang was sick and deteriorating too he had some sort of jungle fever and
lost his appetite he quit eating regular rice preferred only the crispy layer that formed right next to the surface that cooking pot what the vietnamese called calm jay or fire
rise son was having trouble too in greece from his you down the clime from monhegan ivy poor diet disease than the daily toll of this horrendous march north every step of the way
or personal demons threatened our physical ability and meant to willingness to press on every one suffered we look like the walking dead struggling to survive each agonising mile
of that march most of us stoically face the challenges that beset us sometimes selfishness and self pity erupted in temper flared pain and suffering took its tone the senior
ranking prisoner nor group was fan tan tan a major in the southener he tried his best to be a leader for the twenty five southey's officers and two american helicopter pilot under
the most trying conditions the enemy gave him no authority to lead i had a lot of respect for what am tried to do i felt the frustration he had to endure moral sunk lower and
lower bickering grew rampin prisoners died don was seen her but most dismissed his efforts as they struggled to survive and now there's a prisoner that goes down on the trail the
guards yallack and forth did each other they ran to that the prisoner lying on the ground they barked order to the rest of us i did understand any of it on said softly but
earnestly to wane and me keep walking no stop we continued one guard stayed with the prostate prisoner where he lay we walked on after a short while bang one shot some time later
the god guard caught up a dull sense of disbelief and shock overcame me i had no doubt what had just happened i kept walking as i cried there was clear if you could not march you
would die and that message really settled into my mind that that point that i knew if i ever get to the point where i couldn't march any more that that would probably happen to me
as well the aside that i want to say about son i was an in it was mentioned song was a vietnamese air force pilot ah he was young and thin and strong in my mind he was a lot
bigger than he was as say still a short stature fit the maze he was the a one pilot that i saw shot down on my way to bed had that i asked for permission to go help rescue the we
put that together shortly after we started that march north of wawat he was flying where he was when he was shot down as my god i would were shut down the same day he yet the
innateness wonder resenting crude at peace because i was such a fasach a coincidence or the feet that you guys were that was him they are you work and he turned out to be such a
good friend and i oh my wild wylie to several people wandinong especially for what he did for me back to the book the journey was a nightmare a horrid sole wrenching nightmare
they grew worse others fell out and died each step every day racked my body with pain minification became worse disease was taking me i knew i was sliding closer to death but i
kept fighting as hard as i could to keep my spirits up i continually thought continuously thought of my family of things i would do a spencerian i got home thinking of those two
kids gave me strength always bolstered my hope my leg was now swollen to twice at normal size dark colored filled with post long splits formed in the skin pass and bloody stinking
flew it loose from the cracks i dragged along like a sodden club every moon every movement lashed me with searing pain that kept my face contorted i shrieked a silent cry within
pain burdened a black and scarred deep in the centre of my soul gain green said in my bloody disentry worse and i had chills and fevers out found out later that i had three
different kinds of malaria each morning i fought a battle to stand and with all that going on i tried to maintain a sense of humor it was hard but it was necessary to spirit is
the most important factor in survival a sense of human humour even under the worst conditions help maintained spirit and in spirit lives hope i was determined to survive still i
oouch to wait and on they helped me during the through the worst and were always concerned about me they did all they could to help me zanesville help me remain positive to be
hopeful as bad every as things ever got i never gave up hope i muster all my will each day just to wake stand and take a step then i fought hard for the remainder of the day to
keep going moving along the trail i could barely walk but somehow i did i survived each day to open my eyes in the morning to the gift of one more dawned the realities of my
miserable world were clear death our constant companion stalked us waiting for us to give into its relentless temptation that would be the easy thing to do in normal life you have
to take some over action to die you have to kill yourself as a prisoner of war under the circumstances that is reversed you have to reach deep within yourself and struggle each
day to stay alive dying is easy just relax do nothing give up then peacefully surrender stop gagging down food stop struggling to walk stop fighting then you will die many did so
ethnical paradox that you point out there and i petitot that i that i saw cause it is i mean if you give up then is distorting and and you die it's it's hard to stay alive and
need something to motivate you to stay alive and i had an oven can't talk enough about those two kids and when they when they listen to this yet no it's often aricie from getting
very emotional foot to those two little kids or probably the single most important reason that i bet i survived along with a lot of other other things that helped yet that little
four years four and a half year old boy will celebrate his fiftieth birthday in april and you'll be there were to my ear yes yes beautiful i think we're getting to the low point a
year to worse dan my life came a few weeks into the strip i fought hard to continue the march but i faltered i don't deep inside myself for strength there was nothing there i dug
deeper i staggered on and faltered again i struggled more i reached deeper yet i prayed for more strength there was none i collapsed i got up and stumbled along i collapsed again
and again and i got up again and again i thought thought with all i had in my body hardens i collapsed and couldn't get up i could not well myself up i was at the end of my life
the guard looked down on me he ordered me up he yelled at me i could not it was done i knew my life was ended here on this miserable muddy jungle trail it was over would my family
ever know what had happened to me then zan was there looking worried bending over me the guard yelpings undeteriorated down to help me the guard all lower bezan's face was set
with the termination in spite of whatever threats the guard recreating zenaide me up turned and pulled me on to his frail weak back he wrapped my arms around his neck and clasped
my wrist together in front of him the rest of the day he pulled me along my feet dragging on the ground behind partitive he was helped by lieutenant home non le a big impish brute
helped briefly but it was zanhahar the burden that day it was one who rested on life to lift me from death there was jan who carried me and cared for me until we completed that
long day's struggle at another wayside camp the tefillin my life absolutely absolutely you end up falling into a river as well the thet's the next day when we tried to set out
night couldn't get back of a mamiekwa so infected i could early move that leg and yet three cassimere disentary and three kinds of intestinal parasites malis or some endromis just
to in a bad fatly you fallentis river back the books on and weighed came off the log and down the high steep bank to my rescue they waited into the turn pulled me back on to the
bank with wang shouting in english and though in vietnamese pleaded for the group to stay at the camp until i was able to travel again they were ordered away they wouldn't leave
me guards dragged them away and force them across the long bridge at gun point they marched off with the rest of our prisoner droop everyone believed i was left at that camp to
die so you give left by that group i do and you go to another camp with the condolent you recover a little bit the eyes stay in that camp and for some reason to decisions because
i natan medical treatment to that point at all for for for months ah and at that camp would be laid up there they've got the camp metic and came over and i got some shots of
penistone i guess the only reason for this that his ision was we were along the trail and headed north and they wanted to give me to hatorask so they did give me pensoso fur about
five days running and as soon as i could stand up again put any weight on my leg at all then off off we went back on the trail it itnow year on the trail to be you witon guard at
this point i make one man one guard needn't going north at so does the you you and your again your hiking again challenging to rain and going back to book we continue to after day
after miserable day the journey was taking its toll stretching my will depress on again it's a egestaean to the bottom and finding more on believable each day's track to mandeme
than i thought i had to give i was able to go on only by scraping up the few remaining bits of grit that remained in the most obscure recesses of my heart and soul i prayed i
commanded i will myself to take step after impossible step that effort itself fed in agony festering within me which swelled and not of my corps as week followed wretched weak
malaria tax and bows of bloody disentrance me the pain of my broken back pierced me every day the soles of my feet were most eggs of raised well on open bleeding gashes and
punctures previously broken toes throes i broke them again and as always there was the escurial leeches but i was still alive and for that i thanked god and not only did you think
god you also still tried to escape them at safe that was one of the stupidest things i did of my entire captive of yes i don't that i had that i nicoticide escape was cape escape
and we had planned even in that first jungle camp i had planned on escape from there with wan ah but it was because of my poor condition that wants a lot won't we can wait til you
get to strength though this in it a work in that of course it took us off on the onthespot windiness ah be aside day that i'd finally did i may add not preterites was with one
guard we'd often travel with groups of other groups and northome going up and down the trail and we were travelling with one such group this day and how on a war you going to pick
up the ore in they can't get all out delpart it but so as my guard so is talking to some other north peto mes guy and they let and i were all a big group and so they fall behind
and i'm still with main group but i'm kind of slow down in the group is moving away from me and i came round one turnin the trail one quarter no do behind me no roopeno of me so
just in that instant i said this is my chance and and plus i knew about what we were near the demolatry one o we are always several miles from the coast so that in the back of my
manihik i could make it so i dustoorie and head it up the side of of a hill with my great escape which sallala lasted for a very few to outina two minutes but every few few
moments where i was recaptured he yoritomo that had his what happened you know here recaptured the years your thought him dead as all over as you over over me his ecarty seven
moleship ting from the centre of my face to the middle of my chest he shrieked you you why you his face burned red his eyes wild and rage spit sprayed as he screamed at me this is
it his fingers on the trigger eisegonto kill me in then you i missed the trail i got lost he didn't shoot he poured his rifle away in a sullen voice he commanded get up you do
very bad you have big problem now he was shaking it raged he motioned down the hill and said go nothing more was ever done to me never heard about the incident again my
psychological assessment is a he was so embarrassment a would have been soacatino do you lose your palate talkin's like you don't what works going to come of that one year he was
you out of all the guards that i encountered he was about the worst the meanest despised me the most i think of almost any one that i counted and lucky me i get stuck with him be
in my one single guard that it was moving eater i get sertarash he wickemi group in he stayed out hetherton i've got to that first jungle camp living in the cages he was our
interrogator there i almost actually felt a serf the guy is english was so bad it was as bad as my high school level spanish asonante got the barely speaking or enestin to
atergates propagandist and all this but yes what he was the only guard that was spoken english at all so wenten i had to be separated from the group they they assigned him to be
the one to stay back with me and and move me north and now her ganabara you now to truck year your now moving in vehicles oliwer wide all the way up across the north or to the
north edoreso er on foot so are all away just north of the developers son at this point a and then they put us on trucks to move is in the north venom and inside northiam we'd
some nights move and trucks some days and nights would would would march to pining on the threat from american urseren they recourse the chocks of these old isolate irthing at no
shock in by the wave a broken back at this point and is not like the prods in north diet now or any ekandono a shinto is no one withersteen after all this death march north mind
mine my attitude was all fructidor ful god thank god and got on the better that truck it took about a minute half riding down the road and that truck with no shock no springs slam
slam a lamb to death and you leader he had a broken back at this point i niederlaender and and and of course as you said i i think you describe this to your wife as a series of
unfortunate events so yes sawyer out there and you see a flare in the sky of you've recognised mediately know what's coming you know it's ever letalis two or flying mohawks a off
the coast we would pick up targets on radar night of the convoys moving along highway on inside northbound we'd turn it over to f four fighter judged for nineties second ninety
seventh a fighter wing out of pyland they were called the night fighters they dropped flyers and then strike the target eyes i knew exactly what was taking flahault air strike and
then he recoba to the book the first at four screamed down from altitude and bombs exploded near by and venta envie anticaire responded the next at tour screeched toward us more
bombs more antiaircraft i began repeating the lord is my shepherd i shall not want yea though i walked from the valley of the shadow of death i will fear no evil for thou art with
me for thou art with me good god the earth shook our truck bang about as if in an earth quick soldiers yelled from other trucks as some were hit the world shuddered and explosions
and flames then it was done that was our first the first resecone night on trucks aftenpost only i the unpleasant bouncing around i was extremely paying for all sidinane book got
a horrible case a heart burn at night to his ringoal this sour belt is going on and an then we get that the then her strike and again it wasn't the first last air strike that i
experienced but that was pretty horrific and they hit some of the peace that limitationists me of the venom so aiyeh and i was by at this point when i got right to the border just
for you the tracks i was married up with a second group of south lit the mast prisoners senior officer southeast pressure so agropin ers was on one track but yet other trucks in
the convoyit and people killed and luckily we didn't now into another camp and i'm going back to bucklers to a as to a small hut with posts and enough to kirah they fastened the
door shut in place local militia guards outside we settled in getting comfortable in wresting the door opened a guard came in and said something a salthenius entered behind him
lieutenant hung my god and i knew it was a wan who had died in this camp captain waynfiete wan was dead my god unstared as if at a ghost astounded to see me alive he cried i sat
slump devastated at the realization that wantin was dead my friend wainwood helped me cared for me my friend waved who i owed so much he was dead shocked disbelieving i fused to
home to the others he told us how every one thought i was dead how the group suffered on the march north after they left me how to tolomeia pilots joined them how waned continued
to get sicker lost hope and glee i fell into sadness twisting it into melancholy self pity sinking to the lowest point i had known and i had to be to be devastating it it was
always been separated and when i got to this camp with the new group of salviani at the camp the camp commander gave a speech and and i could hear him say seeing fin and the south
one is southam's offers transfer for me said joe know of the fin there was an american fin that died in this camp and i said not anonyma but what i did it what i should have put
together with the bad pronation was finch and hung had been one of the guys help drag me through the jungle with within and within a soonds hung i knew that that it was it was
fenced the they took me to see the grave where he was were he was buried and and at least that rough idea where we were helped me when i came back to in my deep rivestita that
location to the americans that eventually took a few years for several years when body was was recovered and brought back to that was that was a low moral point for me on the trip
that was it was devastating you in on the potato story no tell the potatoes to opaleeta because this is another guy that there there to vietnamese i mean a lot of people help me
if all yeasaid how yet hellohello tattered then i'll wrap it up for you cause yet alliteration dodwell had tied where you goin on and on and i were good all right um song it
helped me as we already described but in the second group of prisoners i i came to know of one a lieutenant colonel kane a who to day lives in san jose california i still a
terrien but k when he was captured a headache gold cross pen i mean rolled gold was a very valuable pin i when he was captured hittin the lining of his his uniform and he was
going to trade it for something for his own benefit when when he got to wherever he was going to get to so i am in the state that you've described i'm just physically erect now
emotionally mentally in a low i were being held in a in a hut there is a local militia guy guarding it outside cages to the wall if that wall talks to the guy and i see him and
his pen out to the guy and the guide disappears callower later the guy returns with a small bag and passes it in in the bag were six potatoes so kay had traded his valuable crowd
gold cross pen for six potatoes have potato cooked each day for the next six days for me and i ate it c wooden take it in potatoes none of the other vietnamese senor offers with
take any of the potato they were from me and just i mean both the the physical strength that the tatoes gave me but even more importantly to the mental lift that that his
sacrifice i gave from me really brought me out of my onomatology me the spirit to an onelie awoke the a one more thing it happens with k your your getting ready to leave the camp
to go to a new camp or i and capemen look he said the curious malicious who'd been so interested in learning about south vietnam in america who fetched my potatoes stood there
looking like a kid with a new puppy he came close to the truck and i lean against the stake side good bye he said grinning his simple humanity made me smile and i said good bye
case all my astonishment he wanted to learn to say good by to you when you leave i teach him he good man yes i thought no doubt he is there are good men everywhere it's the
governments the systems the leaders that are bad its communism that sockoto people of northeast are not so different from the south not so different from me i learned a lot a
lessons on this trip a alarney humanity and people and i do honestly believe we are all god's children and yet yet you and i had the good fortune to be born where we were born in
this wonderful country of ours a others have had the not so good fortune a beacham across good people in invitam a anhetus he was my enemy i was was one a sometimes people asked
me if i if i have any hatred for those guys in the treatment that i got in a annion's hi don't i think they were human beings not so different than you and me a they had there
their news controlled by their government or propaganda pleshey were suffering airstrips north else they pave the way that they they behaved as has the one guy don't up care what
war was it so but we'd probably get over to fifi i we met the guy i said i don't i don't have any hatred there there's people like in you and i and here is even times i mean when
you are walking through a village and now you're notroska wear what you're just talketon they'd been bound they lost their son and heir trying to basically attack you to throm
rocks at you and the guise that are guarding you actually don't think they shot at them but they fire is erotaetheis ti to perteckler i found to be it myself enemies friswell talk
to people have the expression of it i warrington of differentiations of the south bittherness whatever and in and they have all all varieties like we are there are some that fight
valentiney like the guys a fireball a people that i was with us is a prisoner war work were great human beings and when we get a tacked yahveh first thing they put me in they that
the common as guards its stick me in the middle but then the south yenowine would form preasn me and then the guards run the outside firing as necessary all to to protect me one
time going back to book the guard starscape beat on the hay be now the hay there bottom on monomania high on a high which metem's bob be gone five high too in forteviot turn they
that real quick that's beef fifty to go the lamson hundreds of bombs fell or all round us big booms nearly on top of us i knew there was little chance of living through a beef
fifty two strike but by the grace of god no bombs fell in or creator the earth trembled at shook it ruptured he and heaved waves of crushing pressure blasted through a squeezing
hurting my head and ears the suffocating pressure was painful awful frightening it stopped all was cried i was dead i knew it i felt rating in my ears frobbing in my head i must
be alive next to me the officers sat up in osteitis by the way you'd be the guy joneses and held it your head to me no onger husband yaranyacka was moving all this began sitting
up day but live no one could hear no one spoke we called up the whole started walking and direction we'd been travelling yes was in in north enim we come upon a real lot of bomb
crater civita frequently and then as the enemy shot two aniara round that see of either signal two rounds was a wasnaer and then the other starsheen all hell broke loose opinino
you get to annoy it and you get a bed aboard okay bordogni et though there was a life of a gestulated french bread to call it relates in here it's a slight of this small piece of
french bread is what i looked like fit was just i mean it was kinda half rotten and pieces of rock and stick and junk in his jeaenne book cause it for when he first talked about
the french redolence bredderin tears at the lad hotahota av me a couple of paces later your saying there is bogeymen you first got that french bread the first i was put in
solitary confinement my first prison and i was brought a meal and now the whole time i was captured down in the jungle we got a ball of great regret frizell rise in the morning a
great futility evening for a food that's all we got hiking up the hohenthal we would in the evenings they they would cook rice that the communist wood and we would get about that
same a quiverful a ball size rise and then we would roll up a ball to eat during the year the journey on the next morning so was the same thing to congratulate ballaratians all
that i had with an occasional piece of menace and maybe some hwhat the hectical it abucheta casual was eerie so i get to hanoi i'm in solitary confinement they bring me a meal and
a plate of a of umberto a plate being pashwhip ece of french bread on the side and i'm sitting there for a lotteries i mean i iguiari hero i knew that this horrible trip of
walking every single day and not knowing how is going to survive through the day all that was over i am here i'm in her noyous he'd give em me a bath and gave me a prison uniform
and shave me ah i mean i had not shaved the whole time sive been a prisoner for months i underhung bear im and i sat there in the brought that food and i did i cried tears rolled
down my cheeks i i knew for the first time since i was shot down there was no doubt my mind i was going to survive that was no longer a question i do do was get out those last
hovering was going to be in her no they give me this wonderful food of being sprout and his pace and crafty french bread and but in he was it was wonderful that he deathening here
in her noising back to book i stood in a alabout twelve feet wide and twenty five feet long six bunks lined up to my right head and against the wall two others lay lengthwise
against the wall on my left the bunker three by six foot pieces of wood resting on sawhorses of the same with each was covered with a bamboo mat a blanket me be folded on one end
between the bones of my left i saw two buckets just like the one in my sons my solitary selves a row of three small window slits six by eighteen inches opened high at the back at
the top of the back wall seven sets of eyes fixed on me one approached and put out his hand i'm john murphy cappin airforce how you knowing americans a room full of the mericans
oh god bless you the mater there with the other prisoners and i hadn't seen another merican tophet up from that group fall that time ago in the trail it was a glorious moment come
out of satricani ent bebung aroon with seven other guys and ye other so one of the things it that i talked about you as we were getting ready to record i said look i want
redentore vol on this spot castration iole's got one to go by the book that it is hartington and and one of the decisions that i made was one of the things that you do and here is
the is a book about you that you do a wonderful and a beautiful job of describing and detain the stories of all these other heroes that your within as matter of fact you call this
chapter capewell in the company of heroes with all these other americans i you know you you told me on the way over here and you talk about in the book you'd been in you were
there for at this point what six months were you there this point seven months yes something like that some of these guys had been in captivity for ere years five years seven ears
and in agenting talk by their jimtown afeared for nine years i i felt i needed to do that in this book i i had some rolobele my writing ness book i didn't want to do a book
focused to you know this happened a mestor and i did all his great stuff i know i suffered but there were so many other prisoners from the southern experience natest line to tell
this this different southern experience is different than the prisoners were shot down and captured in the north so many of these guys many many of these guys suffered so much
more than i did spent so much more time and kept tivity than i did ah so i do share those stories of those guys in the company of heroes when i got to it oy got into the prison
plantation gardens i met these other guys and they had the truly incredible curoi stories to share in and you do a fenomeno job in the book of of describing meal than who they
were what they been through bill gone out carabajal parcels bill thomas bill henderson dave man just you go through the guise a little the guys myself had a teuton of the
continent of the age guys in the self four of us were named bill is hazy and americans in a cell and four of his name bill excited became a new bill ah there was a ciganas an air
force pilot but six four six five he was big bill there was a marine war after who was some prestor elderly gentle to forget thirty six years the only pity we couldn't leave eat
survived of but he was old bill and then we had a hanaford by ten pilot who became young bill she had four bells out of the aeacas beathen the the others and that the those guys
had all suffered too but then there were other guys in the camp i shoot to a dentist thomsonian and harvey brand a two special forces gaycat in long vay there experiences a
somanath five five guys but hev station way he were hatteraick that a t radio station t v station crew would get captured but they had all of their other trials and tribulations
and in the other most was a was jim thomson in his nine years of suffering as a prisoner of one in one of the guys i do want a high light is colonel peggy some ado go to the
bombardier or senior ranking officer yet but in some of breathing you kind of count you what's going on and an hears what am here's what dave says dave mathesis the sorrow that's
the scene reconoiter for the camp is colonel ted guy he's in the shed up on top of the camp that's where they segregate the senior officers and entos from the rest of us he's an
air force retention who must have been promoted to foller by now he went down over louse in and at four in nineteen sixty eight he is a good leader and a real hard as he runs to
tight ship doanou making any proper gan to statements no one can accept early release we live by the code of conduct he taken a lot of beatings and torture for us we call in the
hawk alcobola into mediately yea and where hawks heroes just like hogans on the t v shell only we don't have as much fun he had a shedderin rose face he also looked like crap so
that's the atonement's one of them you know you you again you go through all these guys what they've done and you also talk about you talk about some of those heroes that that
held the line and you also talk about another group who i'll go to her sometimes i could hear a lot of noise from the other side of the wall separating our road sells from those
on the further end of the orbiting i could see the top of a basketball hope an occasional volley ball arched high over the out of sight net what's up with that i asked that's the
peace committee came the answer what's the peace committee eight guys who collaborated with the enemy they've been ordered to stop but they won't they studied communism to
propaganda make radio broadcasts even rat on other americans for that they get packages get to right letters and can go outside whenever they want and playgame we call them ducks
because the way they followed follow the guards around and do their bidding they'll rot all i said that they will the collaborators were but a small but significant minority among
us there were a hundred and seven prisoners at plantation gardens and except pretty eight in the peace committee all were patriotic loyal american to resisted enemy interrogations
propaganda and pressure to sign statements and make rotation broadcasts we resisted with everything we add in then you know you attintive those guys backed araguacais say enough
about carly and as he's passed away several years ago now ah but what a what a strong leader and we talk about military discipline in the requirement for it and offers his and
then seized wenniston camp that discipline was so essential and so sought after by every one and we were lucky to have a curl gay as our senior racking offer he was so tough and
in and by the rules in the code and thank goodness caushets wawe all needed to hear and to andav that standard to to live by a just a a great and wonderful human being when we got
back i i there were several who would have strangled some of those peace committees his fesseshious cial forces gayer captured with as a becroft out an order and he said this is a
direct order every one stay away from the peace committee i'm going to take care of this i got it don't you do anything and colonel guy press charges against peace committee again
and again was over written charges were never brought against them but what did happen as coral guy's career was was curtailed far based before it it it should have been but i
have the deepest respect for for him as our is our senor offer the matayan im in a pomisano again you go through these stories of of some of the other heroes you distention denis
thomas harmsworthian harvey brand bill murray i beg you just you go through these stories and then they're just all phenomenal and you do him such a such an honour to an their
stories so by this book so that you can read these stories because i will have time to go through all here i d o one thing i want to point out though is going back to the we also
try to keep our humour going within the cell and allen me as the central culprits telling disgustingly bad jokes back and forth hours getting a lot better his nose was subsided
because usual as e his naughty we society in his boils heeling some of the guys exercised to fight the deterioration of their bodies i couldn't even lie on my back let alone
trying to do sit up what i could do was get was tried to get into a position to try persius i tried once in a jungle and failed i couldn't raise myself up off the ground now i was
able to push all the way up at once and half way through a second pretty sad for a guy who could do a hundred push ups before i kept at for at it for weeks until i was able to do
several as part of my daily route routine and reseat that out as cost i always say you know a people get injured people come with sickness do what you can yessney what you can and
that's exactly what you are doing so some one portant semarites night to save rateth nineteen seventy two after many weeks of quiet we got bombed like none of lesser been bombed
before her redesign wailed the rages of sam's fired and bombs poured down american beef fifty two had arrived in force over and no bombs fell close and plantation garden shook we
lay on our bunks whooping our bombers new where our camp was still we fell back into a mind set we all developed in captivity what will be will be in no sense the warring about
something you absolutely have no control of her whiches the lower sonontowane on her head that that was the christmas bombing a nineteen seventy two that next order took to
finally bring the commonest too on a bargaining tegean and i it i had to put this part of her i had to read it goes after those after that massive bombing repercussion so that a
guard that you that you had nick name repercussae re progression of guard so named because of his violent outburst and threats against prisoners stood against the wall as we mill
around the water trough he spoke some english old bill thomas walked over to them him and said you think those air strikes were bad what the gard asked you think those air strikes
were bad last night bill said again yes that bombing well you ain't seen nothing yet wait till they drop and a bomb on your fukishima in smiled old bill prouder he'd been pretty
quiet gitano me more we all glowed inside after the bombing it was a huge moral boost the bombings went on night after night not without impunity beef if he used got shot down
their ghastly giant carcases burning falling we wondered savit the fate of the cruise we lost their craft yet they kept coming quietly weathered them on ye that that was a huge
moreuil tales for blesses archies always kind of a quiet gait just let it literat that ornithogalum o k now were wearing the hat up in the hunthill the infamous they moved as in
the middle of all that bombing attacks they loaded stuff one night on trucks at the plantation garden as drove round on rose like for a couple of hours like they just trying to
disowns we thought there takes out the country because of the bombings were then they came to a stop and we got out of the trucks and found out where only a few blasel blacks
where we started at the inoino they set up like a little movie night for you gushed forth at the noyelle move night and they they said you down to the movie night you guys are
making fun of the projector operator and invited they tell you quiet no talk and then the movie starts back to the boat the film was of jane fonda visiting north vietnam we saw an
american cavorting among the enemy leadership supporting their cause senaar of her climbing into the gunner seat on an envenoming a clean white blouse smiling broad leaf laughing
downing a north lyinest army helmet with live ammunition at her feet that would later shoot down american plains in the film she sent a message to american service in calling us a
war criminals she said we were following the orders of other war criminals that were like the lears of germany and japan and worldward who were executed for their crimes i was
stoned we didn't dare speak out loud but we had plenty to say to each other we up back inside ourselves tasleted they showed us some news clippings from american newspapers and
magazines the all had news of war protests on one was former u s attorney general ramsey clark to mending that american stop bombing nor three in the meat dykes he had been
attorney general under president johnson during the build up of american forces of vietnam now he was making statements from annoyed that it was in humane to bombinates should
never do it again a photo showed him standing beside a dyke with a single bomb crater i knew he did not have an air campaign to destroy the dykes this was an errant balm but war
protestors at home never bothered me in fact i took pride in fighting comunismo this far corner of the earth so americans could have the right to protest in the streets it was a
sacred honor to defend the right of other americans to disagree with me or anything within are american system of government firio believe that so strongly of the poor were
democracy is not the we all get in line and in a march forth on thinkest a nineteen eighty four the strength of our american democracies we can have different views and people
disagree in the health of the tapes as when those disagreements can be argued in edigus and then you reached a solution the deer a democratic solution and then and go forward that
sits the beauty of our system so at never bonteen gointer uncompensated as it is the horrible disguises no exactly what i said there i am fighting as an american soldier to defend
the american way of life which is democratic disagreement and arguments so have at a guiser protest to protest beautiful now you come gainskoot the book we joined the rest rest
yourself mates and pressed close to oleander and will doe a tarsiatori corporal capture a couple of years before he quietly related what he gathered from the broadcast or he was a
translator he was ease dropping the interest one of the guards was out in the courtyard playing a radio which i never did i never heard but obviously there was some important news
coming since darthead his red a radio out in the courtyard listing and and house heard what was set on the radiness it sounded like a piece agreement was signed and the war is
ended and he kind of get back confirmed back the book that afternoon we were taken in the courtyard with our fellow plantation garden prisoners from the sound next door film
crestwood behind a couple of big old funkey cameras set up on tripods we stood in rows as instructed waiting for whatever might come and order passed through the ranks hawk says
if it's good news no reaction no smiles no shouting nothing for propaganda a love that he's just hard to the end then doctarum command go the camp commander he he says he looks up
and says the peace agreement is signed you all go home he waited for us to cheer nothing he looked apologetically at the film director then backed us with a hint of the scowl and
he goes through the hole the whole point of of what the peace a cord has in it right in as he read the remaining high lights all faded into a dull groan i'd heard the most
important one to me the wars over were going on within sixty days i made it thank you god we went back to ourselves out that was that was made landleaguing the heads up and then
we can front the guards then the next morning and they denied now no no no and and put to wheat afternoon we get let out the courtyard and got the appreared to us what a wood of
tremendous feeling but he was a tremendous feeling and then stop just short there because we weren't home yet ray weren't going to believe it until it happened he still a sixty
days sixty as an axe consoled date other prisoners now ran the started doing releases earlier on or was supposed to be the longest hell and an posteriorly entered the got out
first and then that the releases were going to be spaced out sevagarous over a period of sixty days back to the book here after the new group joined us we hear god awful shrieks
in the middle of the night i thought it might be ten gates and intelligence officer captured in a way in nineteen sixty eight he'd been hung from ropes denied water severely
beaten for any periods bashan the head with an e c forty seventy kicked in the stomach and an effort to gain valuable intelligence he never revealed gosses was now a physical
wreck who had been driven to the precipice of insanity sometimes dangling dangerously over its edge but it wasn't ted who was screaming in the night there was jim thomson jim kept
to himself he was hard to get to know but in time he began to open up to me and share some things about himself he was only thirty nine years old and god he looked like hell he
been through more ship for a longer time than any other american soldier in history and nine years and you do a beautiful job of recounting the story that he told you so this is
the first person the first person report of of what happened in again it's incredible incredibly horrifying in heroic story that everybody needs to read about and when he finishes
telling you the story of of of how what he'd been through up to that point of going back to book i looked into his eyes and saw a troubled soul he survived captivity for nearly
nine years longer than any other american soldier in history it had taken a lot from him my god jim that's incredible i said he smiled weakly and looked down prisoner leases began
a few days later and jim was truly an unsung american hero most americans don't even know of him ah the longest hell american prisoner military prisoner of war in history a those
i mean most people day don't know much about the vietnam war any way there's not very much taught and in our history books reclassed but those who do know something about the
vietnam war if you asked them who the longest tell prisoner was they will respond navy lieutenant of alvarez lieutenant was the longest health prisoners shot down over north at
nome he was not the longest of prisoner from the vietnam war ah jim thomson has several months ah more time and kept one than than a alvares so i don't want to get anything away
from from alvarez but jim never got the recognition really i massenet one here in there but finis far as people realizing and giving him to the honor that he deserved i never
received that his being the longest held american military prisoner in an in history and he passed away now a regret of a well we will do our our best dispread that word on here
and i actually ordered a book about him too and i a woild make sure i spread the word to the best of my ability about his service and sacrifice in her in heroism and the way you
do it in ears negrete tribute to what he went through his wealth now the days go by they finally pack ditchbank your dear give you some new clothes put you on a bus and take you
out and deigo back the book we milled around for half an hour talking montrose and getting no information from the guards the staff car returned and we were soon back on the bus
afraid we were heading back to the hilton but when we came to a row of darlings we knew we must be on a noise gisela as ilagan airport used by enemy made fighters gets throughout
the war the bus turned at a shabby hanger with a rickety control tower at its side i beheld one of the most wondrous sights i had ever seen before us was a big shiny beautiful sea
one forty one metalene parked on the ramp the american flag and a red cross were painted high on its tail the words u s air force were printed bold beyond the fuse aloge just
behind the cockpit i cannot describe the emotion that filled me kitten imagine and you guys loaded up take off that here we go back to the book i was happy at anxious as the big
get rolled down the runway once airborne we remained silent absorbed in our thoughts we seemed to be waiting for something but none of us knew quite one it was until the pilot
came on the intercom fought you would all like to know that we have just passed beyond sam mistelling we are uppedness cheer i was overwhelmed with joy it was real we were free we
were going home nothing could stop that now ye we really even though we didn't consciously know it or talk about a weed didn't have the feeling that we were home free until that
moment when the pilot came on in said kasia urtheil couldn't shoot his own were on our honour way headnote felippo i'm going to again skipped through were almost were run in a
little long on time and but one of the things i wanted to point out in here is a go back you're going through your in hospital you're going through some of your recovery and you
get as tartar a bunch at you come talk to the crop talk back ran you say no and i want to talk to you don't i talk to him but he don't want to talk to anybody and famely you get
asked one more time and on goto the book i just want to ask you please to consider one last time this group is the button corregidor survivors association and they really want one
of the return vietnam pews to talk to them at their gathering to night you the only one still here i was blown away waitin these are few who survived the button death march of
world war two and they want to hear about me after what they've been through the course you agreed to do it and this is the part that i wanted a specially the that scalot of that
lone by giving me an opportunity i couldn't refuse they made me come out of my shell and speak publicly about what i'd been through they opened the door to wowlee the greatest
hero be possible to help me deal with all that had happened to me many of my friends who have not been able to talk about what had happened to them have not readjusted well
several still have major psychological issues haunting them a couple of days later i got an invitation i speak to high school assembly which i accepted in the weeks an months
ahead i be asked to talk to various groups and i agreed to do as many as i could i strongly believe that the opportunity shared my experience has been one of the principal reasons
i've been able to readjust and deal with life as well as i have that coupled with my faith and god love of family and my inherently of the mystic nature yes yes yes i can't that
is probably the greatest bit of advice that comes out of this book i mean i came up i identitas to anybody i didn't think anybody could understand what i what i had to say and i
think many vets have the same feeling i know just leave me alone i will get through this and plus y y you don't know what i put up experience and you can't understand if i try to
tell you about it first of all they can understand to a degree no one will ever be able to understand everything that you've been through but they can understand no degree and
they do want to lessen oaths the receiving him for you to be able to share your experience for me over the years to share my experience again and again and again and even took to
write this book as painful as that process was a is a therapeutic process it's a healing process to be able to talk about what you experience if you think you have demons in your
mind sheers demons to talk about it if it certainly is held me i i i'm doing well i've been through a lot i'm doing well and i think a huge part of that reason is is thank you
survivors of the tonic regular because i couldn't say no to you and by doing that it got me started talking about my experience totally agree i totally agree all up de yeautiful
advice and to close out the story here and saying the book that you greet your children at the time you greet your children every day with permon it's a beautiful day in you
explain why you do that in the book and i quote i chuly believe that every day god has given me all nesert since i came home from captivity is a beautiful day it doesn't matter if
it's raining or snowing windy or calm how or cold sunny or overcast every day is a gift every day is beautiful and that is certainly something that i learned in war not as vividly
as you did by any stretch but definitely something that i now to be true in it something that i talk about all the time here that when you see that dark sistit is much more
beautiful is and you know you put together in this book um some eight you got the estate to survival loarca is and those i wrote right after i go shortly after i got back on in
the book was written just the mitres with those eight steps for survival i put those to paper shortly after i returned and when i love about these years and as as i read throw
here that they're not just for survival in appealed of you camp there for life therefore life they've been tested in the absolute horses of conditions it appeared of your camp but
they can be applied to life in an it's actually things i talk about all the time and it's amazing that that there so much alinement one e sounds simple doesn't it but when you've
got a foreston nothing but plain boiled rice day after day montafon editors a difficult shore some found death easier the huts that apply to life for me he eat the right food eat
healthy food no dan i you want to stay healthy next one practised personal hygiene when you are sick and starving it hariot of eight yourself to keep your body and surroundings
clean do the best you can with what you have filled to disease and disease leads to death in again for me to apply this deliteth is about this appoint and this is about routine
and this is about pride and in maintaining those things and even you know we've talked at one of the stories of talk about on her as the the russians fighting a cash in and one of
the things that in the deep read in the post operation be rest when they lost that first pushed down there they said you know and for guy's stopchase right then they saw take care
of weapons there go everything goes down hill so what to me one of the things that this applies to a man you talked about it from a also from a pure health perspective fooly
versatile dica tatoroes number three exercise sent up a daily exercise period do something even if you aren't in stock and change you can at least flexelles and do some deep
breathing okay there is no more excuse as it ever ever for not working out for not doing something physical even if you are in stock as and changes not a recliner with the tvi had
unbelievable do not give up the fight to stay alive is in number four to nochie up this fight to stay alive no matter how sick you are how serious you wounds or how hopeless a
situation is there's always a chance you can make it take that chance with your deepest courage fight for it then he gin you applies every day look the opportunities you have i
mean the opportunity that are normal person as we don't even take advantage of those opportune that we have we don't even fight for those fight for lo number five established
communications with other prisoners use our initiative and imagination to make contact with others and then develop a chain of command alteration ships of people as to build
relationships with people number six follow the code of conduct you must know the code before you find yourself in the prison camp then you should i here to the article as
strictly as possible and that doesn't made it here perfectly seized no one could at her perfectly but at her as close as possible if you waver come back to it don't waver and
think that you've voyou failed and indicate in and give in and and that's one of the thing again we you're talking on the way over here that was one of the changes after the the
experiences that you all had his what and itated those changes in the coacoanut to give it some flexibility right so that so that people could bounce back from inside a breaster
day didn't make it i was as a new day like silani think that attitude is perfect for every day life you fall off the wagon on something okayama on it number seven keep the face
faith in your family your religion and your country may be all that keeps you alive and sane hanging there you are not forgotten then is no explanation but a number eight maintain
a sense of humour this is difficult but both possible and necessary a bitter humour helps keep away fits of total depression and remember the pression can kill so yes as i had
i've been foes for i prayed by my poor family and close friends now by my very crazy sic censeo humor but to it i do have one and i didn't throughout a give a couple of examples
of buffory dire times i would come up with the stupidest humor but a ice'll i've talked about that as well and we would be in the worst situations possible and always somewhat to
be laughing about something and that's what i like you said that's what keeps the spirit go in and and keep you on the one sane sight of things as to have fun with it it is very
strange that any points that i missed i mean again i i don't miss a lot of points anything else that that that you would recommend or you wanted wonder bring up i don't think you
missed anything jack you covered the top very thoroughly ah you know that the title is through the valley my captivity and vitam and i'm saying that because i hope that this book
will be of benefit and value to to others and that's really what drove me to finish the book i started it and i was wanting while i was writing it that i i think when the whole
thing is put together it's it's a story of hope and the power of hope and how any one can face very adverse conditions challenges in life be be a guise coming back with pete from
from from combat a bed just a single mother somewhere with with problems others with difficulties i think in reading his book you can come out of it a whit whit with hope and he
and hopeful motivation to ah to overcome those difficulties and inhale a have a full wonderful and beautiful life because it is a beautiful thing if it will just grab a hold of
that beauty and an go for it and not dwell on whatever negative aspects there might be there there's no doubt and he even though i did may have done a thorough job i i read less
than ten per cent mitimus less than ten percent there's so much more that you went through that he experienced and that the other people you talk about who went through what they
went through it's a phenomenal book it's a phenomenal book through the valley my captive in vietnam there'll be a link for it yes so you can go through coelebite and get right and
get it ordered um you guys know the deal do a quick so you teodosio add one thing to because we thought about a lot of the negative stuff in the book that does have a happy ending
a happy ending at the end of this book is melaniadae my wife and and that followest ry is in there and how we came together but she and then the two younger kids we talked about
spencer vice but also a chat and then and and chelsea have brought such a joy to my life and brought this whole journey to it to a conclusion so there is the power of hope and her
is also the power of love that comes out at the end of this i retabulating great book and i can't even begin to express how appreciative that we are for you coming here and share
in the story with us here determination in your hair ism i could literally sit here and listen to you indefinitely and sir fank you anne you have worked to attend to and i dragged
out here when you're already for in hard oh thanks to you thanks to your cousin rinsers who actually contacted us through the inter webs and linked to so tegether so thanks to
mine for doing that appreciate it and actually echo speaking of the interweb if anybody wants to support this pot cast is there any way that they could do that his will bit bacon
question well quit will part of your back was broke like your lower back yet all on to twelve l two all in their infusions with him getting all my surgery after him act but i'm
i'm all fused together and were together and like a half and i was going to ask what what did you eat the whole time but this rice in the holtenau in the wyeside bees protested
what i out what i found is the keep that diet for about three weeks running so i had nothin but bein trunion transfer three weeks then we get tompkinson cabbage soup carabi and
yeah and corroberated n't really care for since i can't ootright ashley with us partly i allogical cause i had to eat it so i eri do truly love rise to day we are hangin a
vegetarian diet that morley my alantois very moaning okay um yes inter whips so we talk about on it sometime nation roqui the pettiloons a world on it you want temper sent off on
a dot completo if you joined or killing you or if there did you know degenerating whatever crill iracema also a bunch o performance stuff which is um like a cat before supplements
aloof the time can be junk these ones you know how to present to the good you know on a documentary temperato note good way to support is the amazon click through that we always
talk about it's basically before he dear amazan shopping clickets te dis little amazon shop banner lictor than do your shopping and then you know that it supports that way real
good an ah subscribe a and i toni you have an already i think most elagu in the event of not having subscribed already tutaiei view if you're in the mood and i we have at you to
channel if you didn't know that ah i post some weak postmiocene little excerpts of the the potestate you know little lessons if it illation you know two hours or whatever they can
listen to short short little nugget if you will in even other inspirational pedals put some music to you now when you are teasing but yester e to a jocolate said scribe is heaven
or any we do have a store if you're in you he shirts rashers o the stuff owasco that stuff it's jocko stored dot com a little bit more efficient of a process now with that so
basically you get something now it gets you way quicker long story but it's it's solid though silly ye it'll be a good experience not had it wasn't a good experience before but
it'll be better experience will say quicker about that maybe not necessarily better worse the quirk in a tuckletonions if ye like an messire you don't get one of those you can
support that way as some women stuff on there is some patches rosaries you know good discipline equal freedom that's the thing i know calorifere if you're a brennan trouble if
you're gentiyo know you're trying to work out in your you know you feel the weakness against today or am having trouble waking up in the morning or dismantling discipline one day
two days whatever but to do as you go he searched i tonight psychological warfare by jocko willing get one of the gittable have any weakness you have right the jockey through it
every single time squash the everything will tie a hundred per cent of a fictive affecting this yea and yet those are the ways to support while you're clicking suraman again pick
up his buckree you pick up this book through the valley my captivity in vietnam by william reader it's ununitable book cover a cover it's an unbelievable book so get it get
yourself a copy of extreme honorship if you don't have it by it if you do have it if you don't have it by it if you do have it by one for all your subordinates your boss and your
bosses boss due to mediately and jackaway even get on i am as on you can also preordered you want way in the warrior kid order it now order now so you can get a copy of the
wincote's out of the wagon relating for it and that's not to be fun and lastly if you haven't signed up for the muster new york city may fourth and fifth do it this week prices
going up friday so so so get after it come to the muster and if you want to give us she'd back or commence or continue this conversation you can find us on the interweb twitter in
segrim that is book we are there are you in social meadal sir i am there's a why think its way and raider junior is the face book badges friend or follow william reader junior and
you connect with the colonel here echoes at eaters i am at jouilly echo give anything else to add it is it thank you so much honor sir anything else you you want to add no thank
you both for what you do with this wonderful plot cast and in indeed that was it was my honour be her and be a part of this well sir that's intervened he responded that thanks
again to rim sommers for linking a up it as been an absolute honor thank you for coming on they governing this book thank you for talking to us to day but more important thank you
for your service to this great nation thank you for stepping up and going forward into the fray over and over again thank you for your incredible determination and disciplined and
your unrelenting will not only to survive but the duse with honour and with dignity and with humility and finely thank you for giving all of us all of us an example to follow and
for reaffirming to us that despite the darkness and the evil in the world and despite the discomforts and the hardships we face and the challenges that all people must confront
the spite all that thank you for making sure that we remember without question that it doesn't matter if it's raining or snowing when do your calm sunny or overcast every day is a
gift every day is bereft every day his beautiful and we will remember that and so on till next time this is colonel william reader an echo and jocko out
