this is jackpots number sixty four with the corals and me jackwell good evening echo but even in a country that most people would struggle to find on a map in a compound that few
possess the courage to enter men from my previous life took the fight to our enemy in that compound they found men that pray five times a day for your destruction those praying
men don't know me i don't know you and they don't know america they don't understand our compassion or freedoms and our tolerance i know it may seem as if some of those things are
currently missing but they remain at our oar and always will archiater is boundless and is only dwarf by the hatred in those men hiding in that compound the hatred they have for
you those men don't care about your religious belief they don't care about your political opinions in a care if you sit on the left or the right liberal or conservative pacifist
or warrior they don't care how much you believe in diversity in quality or freedom of speech they don't care i'm sorry you have never smelled the breath of a man who wants to kill
you sorry you've never felt the alarm bells ringing in your body the combination of fear and adrenalin as you moved towards the fight instead of running from it so you've never
heard some one cry out for help or cried out for help yourself relying on the courage of others to bring you home come sure you've never tasted the salt from your own tears as you
stand that flag draped coffin bearing men you were humbled to call your friends i don't wish those experiences on you but i do wish you had them if you had them it would change
the way you act it would change the way you value it would change the way you appreciate you would become quick to open your eyes and slow to open your mouth most wenever
understand the sacrifice required to keep evil men like those from that distant compound away from our door step but it would not hurt you to try and understand he would not hurt
you to take a moment to respect the sacrifices that others may on your behalf whether they share our opinions or not they would not hurt you to take a moment to think of the
relentless drain on family friends and loved ones that are left behind sometimes for weeks sometimes from one sometimes for years sometimes forever ideas are not protected by
words paper and ink may outline the foundation and principles of this nation but it is blood only blood that protects it in that dusty compound a man you have never met gave
everything he had so that you have the freedom to think speak and act however you choose he went there for all of us whether you loved or hated what he stood for he went there to
preserve the opportunity in privileged to believe that be and to become what we want this country every single person living inside of its borders and under the banner of its flag
o that man we owe that man everything we owe him the respect that his sacrifice deserves same thank you is not enough we send a best and lose them in the fight against the worst
evil this world has to offer a few want to respect and honour their sacrifice and needs to be more than words you have to live it take a minute and look around so it in all of it
the good the bad and the ugly you have the choice every day as to which category you want to be in it in which direction you want to move you have that choice because the best
among us the best we ever had to offer thought and bled and died for it don't ever forget that now those words of war and a peace that was called a debt that cannot be repaid
which was written by a fellow seal and friend of mine named andy stump when he heard that we had lost another fromage rin owens during a daring raid on an alcieco pound him then
it was a very fitting tribute another fitting tribute yet another fitting tribute to yet another great warrior who sacrificed everything for us one of the hardest truths is is
that i know we know that this will not be the last great warrior to vane and those warriors still all the wine close ranks their fill the void left by the fallen and they
continued to march forward into the dark and into the dust looking for and hunting for evil and those warriors regardless of what they come up against they will not stop and this
evening while that punch continues and will evil lurks out there in the world i am lucky enough to have one of a good guide here with me the man that wrote those powerful words
that powerful tribute as i said friend and a former seal tea made of mine and he stopped and he stomped welcomed the show brother neshama there was um that was a good house
grampian really was and a tattered i thank god i got around and i hope more people get to hear it now and and spread it and share it about that you know another another brave
warrior down yea it ah alike we were going back and forth over tex i think took off like wild far i i was eating breakfast with my sons and had received the news from buddy before
it had broken on a main stream media in it was just one of those moments were it i couldn't get the thoughts out of my head so i cracked up on my lap top little took one stabbed
one pass and just hit the post button and walked away came back for five hours later and my tone was just exploding and ah ye i mean it it was cathartic for me to write it and i
do hope that more people can understand the message and take just two seconds out of their day to realize what's happening all around them all around the world at any given time
and he given time a tapping notetaker there and it's you know speaking of social media it's been a lot o people been requesting even asking now and esto said edison do you know
jocose yes we do know each other that is confirmed and have been asking you to come on a parasitical come in on man i know i know we haven't really see the buds eether the last
few years denying it's been like five years at pat's ridiculous and to all those people have been asking you can stop now i answer is yes i know of johnnie's got her for a while
and here we are so sogmoye but i really posideion so um let's get into a man's basalt salute give us your basic background then tell us about growing up and sang a crestian what a
great place to grow up a man sit at cruises amazing with an astracan that astro's weather not at some point time your life you leave santa cruz because it's a bubble but for me it
was awesome i have family roots there from not only my father but my grandfather they had one of the first construction companies there built the high school that my father
attended a built a lot of the imputantur ah and also had a lot of ties to like lanthorn firefighters which would help me out when i would get rides home when i would get in
trouble i know that vantages that other people didn't have but i mean i consider my men my background is very a generic i mean i played water polo baseball and high school i'd
give myself a sea as far as being an athlete like very average junior life guards so comparable in in eround the ocean which was a skilled at obviously paid off in a in training
in surface you surface and cruise i did serve quite a bit and i'm sure you've served up there i know it extremely territorial coulevain was but like when you're hundreds pounds
you know on our seventeen eighteen years old and just really was an into ah you know fighting for waves he fed sure little bit little long word stuff down by cows may be sunrise
wasn't huge and antipas wore a yatsu per casual work of my dasindo company say a cutacoo too in it in the fact that especially when you were grown up there was mad like okada's
that basically odonto you want to bolt the house to have an opotee not talkin about money were talking all like massive touggourt still exist in as day ye a in it's it's it's like
an under current not a lot of people know about santa cruz most of the people who live in san creston work there the money all comes from the socially they go over the highway
seventeen i mean the the median cost of home is in santa croce think is near eight hundred thousand dollars which is crazy because the city was kind of built around you susana
criminate her cologne can afford that stuff but in the surfing scene i may that's where a lot of the drug from my understand us were not of the drug stuff started and then it just
pushed itself out it still exist it's really bad there could be a can be arrived theuthisks santa cruz as nice beach down but i unbrought i mean you make a wrong turn he into a
trouble but men came to be true your san diego and may want to kill so when did you hear about when you hear about the de la a our an a gittin after you know ah so i come from a
military family my grandfather was in the navy my father was in the lady he was a twin fifty coloner on the mark one and vietnamese first squatter of patrol boats with the cicuye
which he said had a failure of about ninety per cent i have fontenette didn't fail at the time that you would want them to i hoonara from the dock argonaut at a middle of a fire
five you'll complex and bush see you try to get out of i ah so you can i i don't think i see now for a fact my father to try at work with tiles that's it as that on any that's how
i heard about it um my father probably didn't want me to join the military i mean i i don't want my son's necessarily too however i would never stand in their way just like my
father allowed me to pursue what i wanted to but i sort o workin for him when i was eleven and learned some of the best lessons in my life with bricks in my hand because he was a
mason and i basically moved bricks for a long time ah but it was hard work and it paid off later in life and remember we were driving back from a job when i was eleven and he
mentioned seals and with no understanding of what they are just his description of what they did how they he was is like no they were in the water they would get him on to the
boats they drop him off it was entreating to me so it led me to trying to search for as much information as i could find out about them and in the early nineties the internet was
not what it was to day so of course i found the book that almost every ten guys read the mammoth green faces all about the name but it's an awesome book so i read that and then
unfortunately stumbled across the red warrior series which as a sane for he started i made the mistake thinking that it was a non fection for an find out until a little bit later
the hat was incorrect but i was hooked her from that moment on he was every piece of information that i could find it's all i wanted to do it was like a magnetizing force ah i
don't have the vocabulary to describe it people who don't come from our world's it's very uncommon for them to hear that that you know as well as i do the sultan's as it is full
of people with the same narrative may of just always wanted to do this it was a calling a tutamen it the idea was spark from my dad and i was seventeen still in high school a
junior in high school when i went to the negocier and brought the neighbor acriter home because if my parents had to sign for me and i had my mom who was an army bread and my dad
who was like a sad served of vietnam and am sure that they were not extremely excited but they both signed for me so i had listed actually i was a junior in high school and left a
few days after a high school graduation so get a hose awesome and intensity look back now but why did i do that what i a listener early all i did was given recruiter i told her
quotations as goodness i i got a still got away till i turn eighteen a graduate for that mean the recruit with happy but i mean it i i never took the sati had no plan beat it's
botmane i wanted to do and i i never even considers wetamoe august first of ninety six awesome yet an swetenham befogs shut it for bud january of ninety seven to some winter
restore you sell seventeen i was eighteen o ye got some a custom winter class action on the adversaries not not straight yet i never really ledaean of her extended period a time
without a wet so i haalulu know what even the training was everything that i thought it was going to be i mean i was happy to be there and it hurt every single day and it was
extremely hard umbopa my give you every petty i have right now to go back if i could turn my o'clock right now i would make exactly the same choice as up until that point of my
life may be they a change a little bit later on but it celestine were still going out the same rise as those i had somebody asked me that the other day some kid that was talking
to some school kids in one of them said you know what can he get to get ready for sea training as a man silting is awesome you get had you work out you literally work out all day
long they feed you three if not four meals a day of all you can eat just get after it it's it's also bad it's so fat with the dresses a tie motivated ourly personality rounding
oliliet better as though i see the days and weeks go on and training some the people who shouldn't be there weedladen even the teams is like it's it it can be everything to you
wanted to be now so shall peculence fer the teams your new guy how's that new guy spearing in mahi don't know the statute of limitations on some of the things that were done to me
but ah i may again but it was it was awesome i'm got around it by my heroes i didn't know anything about anything a idina that at the time ah but canihe because where you
capitolare know everything about everything and indolent air borne is gone nor benny i am the nose eirale soldiery uncoilings a fifer those people that don't understand when you
get done with the buds and airborne school ennuyant i mean you know nothing you know nothing tactical you know nothing and it's pretty ridiculous than that it's got there pelotte
called buds at school and i had again you got to arqua cause you don't you don't know how to be as another one i get all the time you don't you're not a seal at the end of buds i
was tell people it stands for basic underwater demolition seal with the emphasis on the belaying ye can run and polypiaria short song that men but you don't know any thing there
is a you mean i check in a you'll prioleau they are better now i've just i have to say that for sale tairway better now i was talking to some guys to a recent graduate at it all
in the pipe light they're getting trained and i told him i said you guys arguing trained infinitely better you then what we got infinitely better now it has to do with the time
for in that you and i came in you ninety there was no there was few very few vietnam veterans left you nelatu could out of him but onorina get like now every single guy that's
teaching every single buds and shock their all combat at rome that have experienced on it's a different game now there and i don't even know we word taught infinitely better than
the people before us i'm glad to see that that cycle repeated herself and man so matter of technology and understanding and a menacing the pipe line a little bit eetaly what
happens after but sali went to team five than we did her own trianon snow and we did her own trading and then you had talked to the guys like down a team three though i got an we
didn't do any of that thought sesame than you ought isoetes no competitive nature the teams a but i mean it was i may i want to these guys who had been in seals for lake by six
seven eight years or there was like a vietnam vet walking around like her just wanted to breathe the same air westhouse people an amative even realizing credibly fast they don't
know anything and you realize that because you get taped up or you mistake here the reinforced every time that you make a mistake in his ziito dn't do anything right for like
years because i didn't know anything then biggest if he had been fighting an enemy i would have been more of a danger to the people that i unhandy that we were fighting it just
imental people it takes five to seven years even understand what it really means to be a seal and then probably at the ten year mark hurt that's top of the belcher of as far as
god you're going to be able to do operation ly but still i mean i was in heaven i was in my i was i wasn't even twenty one yet living in an apartment and coronado who ride a bike
and ranter geiste world for it one i got paid fer ye not at either horcasitas it is like for most guides are coming on high school because we in high school you know even if
you're working at windlike i did in your only made in whatever for twenty five an hour of that amounts to you know what avarabet you may get sight eighty mocks every two weeks you
show up in the teams and all of a sudden they're giving you real i git bunny i near fill your pocket of every two it you are the riches and you are a head in a world not a fear
neisser thing by any eailier as bears learn a lot of stuff and barbers and learned a lot of a man listen to a lot of history ah you want a lot about yourself he learned so keep
your mouth shut because i get shut for you for a taped up in a bar may this is the ah the ah the hazing was pretty good in team back in yes no reinforcement lesser reward of the
couple of poments couple deployments to pre nine eleven to poments ah i you gain the life is a new guys are mazing like here's a rifle it's yours and then my first a department
worked in with i was a secondary calm guyoso hasteelie appears seventy decentlie rode aretino rotary dials and whip and ten had even been to com school but it was like dis is my
staff and i got remember going getting issue my first setting year that i look back at now and a sight i couldn't sell it if i wanted to so antiquated but i was so happy to be ere
i was and we you know he tranformed depot first six but my first appointment was to japan to the cadena air force base and we experimented with how much we could drink and how
much we could work out like which rate shows best any twentythree we had tried our partner forces but i mean we just i mean we live life heart newity the brotherhood that i
thought it was beason by my best friends we all had the same drive you could a told us that go built sand castles we would have had the best sandcastle world cause we just go and
go and go and go in till we get a right surrounded by a like minded motivated people come back does not the eighteen months work up as like a condoned one o two under while he
rose one very few will again i see no about twenty per cent but she think you know about eighty the ratio is just a skew if ah wincote who work up again and then a deployed the
wan for six months and in his saint to be good australia forbid we train with the the part of forces there we go to the tulans we got a philippines and then we'd go back and they
just train and talk about how awesome we were going to be when the big man member the golden contiguities on the golden hanalei talked about that on her in ye back in the day free
especially pre night eleven we were all preparing for the one big mission it was goin to go down the feet be ye and you know how it was interesting he is because we didn't have
any combat experience at least for my perspective we trained freaking hard there fought like it was going to be even a harder than anything we could imagine we don't know how hard
to cordiers goin to be like it's not saying cowslips we were to prepare that hard do but it's real this is what were prepared for some we trained as hard as we possibly could in
every arenary arena then he ready for whatever it was going to come which we had no idea that that don't know if i talked about this before but we finally got my first point my
first appointment the boy the game you i'm ready for the big messroom i'm ready it's going down from an ante get there and we have you know we had a soul beers so you know it's
real now but you hitting issued be persists back at the day is on had beavers back then unless you i'll less some ship was not holiest beat or somewhere like ready to rock and
roll and find the action which surfing and i call me an it someone's wavin one of my buddies waving him to beachley i run up what's going on he we got a page the getafe now she
went the nine one one page a dagon like with delicate bas we get there we did in the electing there i look at his face i go mister filettino like the kind of face i had ticipate
ten out of and i've been on this my first point on two days in the camp i so i think man this is exact like well you just a fellow when us goin to be like puff course man i just
got on the payment it's going down so no canerent knows that i'm on deployment he's ready he ouendat that target so i i failed to mention was that we were like our second or third
day gate first day i am that we were there we went and sighted in our weapons so we got recall emergency recall nine one one go back into base caswell we didn't do when he clean
up a brass so i did not gating we went and cleaned up a brass athey made a they recall thus emergency recall to villiers on the range an a after that big bilers go crack of old
britain it win side was real clean for rest at the pun it but is an amazing what used to constitute an emergency as a that was a rough one a man so you end up sis you couple a pre
nine eleven the power you into timber eleventh happened ah the station at ten five still and i was living in the arched on apartments right by a ice initial valley watched the
second one go in life the a the a member it ah was living with a buddy and ah my wife we've been married for six months and watched the second one go in line a villanette the deed
no outing we thinking on the first one cause i wasn't the first one i had in hand burst on goin i turned it on just in time to see the second one i but i think i caught most
people like the first one i i go well that is bound to a moon can be a lost son one and in a second one there was no doubt on soever and i didn't know i mean looking back i didn't
have on the mental capacity to understand the difference that i would have him my life but i knew that something was going to be different i mean i think i realized that we were
passing from the conceptual phase to the practical face of what we had trained to do for a really long period of time you know we did know that served the officer to owegon a
college at the time and i called the officer detail or who is a friend of mine who in know who i'd worked for who was an outstanding guy and i called him up and as okaseri in
college get me out of college i'll finish all in line i'll yosemite haldor send me felicitate ly pleased the please and he and he says to me jacko don't worry this war is going to
last a long long time and of course i didn't believe him yet would damn was he right he he was but i mean i can only imagine being in your shoes i would have been like i don't
really care this is what my calling in life is to be i don't i don't care if i'm in line to get the nobel prize for something like well just put that on the show out in all
combating no bell what ye like sesar on all yet and so you get done with that man as shortly thereafter you ship out to the east coast drive yet go out to the east coast and ah do
devast majority of my combatants out there ah and while i mean what an eye opening experience you know it from the case going from conceptual shooting at paper targets in
entraining hart in realistic to to be in on a two a range for the first time i mean ah the first target i ever was on ah i think my helicopter had twenty seven rounds in it and
the door on ergot shot and face right in front of me and i been mop level for ye for those evangelista is a that's very fat fo chemical biological radiate radiological yet
protection that you were and frayser is your wearing your mask cure everything so it's it's horrible uncomfortable miserable thing to do and we had a four hour forty seven flight
on the way that the objective and thirty minutes out we got all of our stuff on to include our gas masks in the blowers to uracao lowest ideals we must put you weapons rap over
the home familie to go on for days about mistakes made on my life ah so ye was skirting and a great alas would not share my eye blood and breathe but a man the crisis my first
real target ever and its art or hit the number one can by a target in iraq ah right after the war kicked off and i was on the third forty seven he came in and they blew the power
grid ah but eight ten strike ah before we landed and then they landed the helicopters in between the fire bone city so we were back with so he subsequent how come they came in ah
took more rounds and by the time ours came in a sertain round is about admitted out badinot they were i'm de sitting here looking through straws you know through my gas master my
night vision goggles suffocating myself cause i weapons frappier the hose a supposed to be giving me the air ah and you know there was some sparks nobody nobody heard him but not
as soon amberbuy shot and then right before we touched down the door under his fall over and the you know the top of the head candace off and tie my goot tommy jacket round his
head and he just took off and away we went or first combat operation but the whole thing was just so real and that that leap i didn't realize how serial was told the next morning
when i woke up a slick man i hope this is survival bleat was just one of many in the target and i continued for months and then a year and you know two decades in horcasitas it it
took me a little bit of time to get up and running to be to be comfortable in that environment but i i developed a level of comfort in that environment in a unbeing totally honest
i mean i loved it i loved it it was i mean i i understand that it's high consequence in it its high risin that there's there's matters life and death and decisions that are being
made but that's right one of me i mean it that i was like yes this is what i kent do to fight for the values that i believe in and defied for people who can't five for themselves
and ah it was assumed loveit's interesting how you talk about that m transition from like form training which he had me all lived there's very few people that missus another thing
that or be taropol understand about especially about the early days of the old frost the early days this shillings as there was so few people at actually at combat experience they
and that going all they up to the leadership a lot of leashed no combat experience and so far as all a sudden in a very wick learning here you know you spend two weeks on the
ployment you had more competence than i you know than anybody else in the selams at that time you know alone the guys that were to poor reefer you proud that's how quick the
learning cure was an hands were changing and they look at it we trained and we were doing the o t b and exhaustion drag or dies and undoing river and stream crossing at niland for
a fire not kidding before my first upon the to iraq i took my seal patoon we went on board of an anfidius landing ship in san diego and went and no kidding did lead line and slate
beech reconnoissances at cantoon that was that was less than my best might have been a month and a half before the point to iraq to do operation that's how that's that's that's
the lag time in the big bureaucratic machine the notary you know we got this big of we exercise you got no participate in one of one of our one of my guys in that potion i come
down ago hey break out your led light and say so to again for losing to don't know there is the very creator type operation that was the excellent description at hesitated orecome
from god war to anteater the bowel tarlatane to war the marines went in and as they went into the beaches in their landing craft they hit reef and the they opened the gates of the
of the landing craft a renegado and unfortunately the reef ended and so he's got his raison and they went into you know ten twelve fifteen feet of water instead of two feet water
and many many marines infringer there was not buoyant was not designed for swimming the unit was meant for beach landing none for a swim and anyway that was kind of the one or
precursors to the tsad and what so what all our predecessors used to do was go in with a lead line which is a piece of string with a lad on the bottom of it and i can little ah
the marks on it alluminous on it to tell you how deep it is and you go in at a big key and you drop these lead lines and you figure a how eyan your slate is a piece of plexy glass
that's been handed down and you right with a pencil on it how deep it was in this particular location so i thine do calculus with an avocat a souse are you know like gulestan two
months from deploying to iracoson none of us an everybody in combat when not one single person is zero not one single person in my seldon and ever been in combat before including
our task in matter no one and so we say oh you don't we need to do right now is boonooog aphia constant answered to call a letitia to enter on a guy's may be to part to warn you
to bore you talk on the bow and i go o words going to heal it and he lives like so you kin be kidding me what is wrong with us but all that learning curve with fast but then i i
but i also to to kind of emphasize what you're saying and i look at it when when you said you know your first like peptonoid twenty per cent and then your second bookoo know for
me because i have four kids it's very similar to what you learn with kid this your first kid you like cloth was cotanto don't know how to do anything everything is hard you don't
you worry about everything your second kid you like i am pretty pretty much at your third to you like okay you know i i think we're comfortable your forth do you like i got this
satterangees goehausen tatutis really which really exactly what you do in the teams elaine you know you know one thus wonder go shall that new guy what's up cause you don't have
to do any more if you want them to learn the experience but that's the same thing with the comment operation that you do in and over you know a period of a couple of weeks also
now go from being you don't ottilie you another to example for my perspective my first declined to iraq when every operation we would go on like the first like let's call it five
or seven operation that it is every piece our the hatching to batter is changed to i remoove hat on her letrames exchange every thing but any the brand new battery in every one of
these pieces of gear well i was doing because that's that's when we talk about the late miss that a way would digitatis wounded for so we realized after a week if every one does
that we're not going to have any bad relenting another few weeks to we all realize i know what do you gonna have to wear a use at that are and keep track of how long you usen't
for so one fail but you're goin to get you know twelve or fifteen or twenty five uses out of this thing but that's the kind of lessons that we learned that's the kind of comfort
levett like okay if my not fail i'll stop a put a new battery in my nods and when move on to those of the kind of things that you learn a in that look steep turning cur that all
of us are old generation hotro that room clerk and you only learn that with time in the saddle like it takes experience to understand like okay i can use this lithium battery that
probably cost nine dollars for i didn't turn it on the whole time and i'm going to hockshin i can use it again i mean let me everything changed the tack exchanged the year changed
and way we train change it was amazing what happened post nine eleven all dis stuff we thought was going to be crazy effective as a work to be an am cast what doesn't work in the
desert when he ask you this when you say that you only learn it in the saddle when you were when you went to turning when i was when i was on a training do you were able to convey
lot of that information of those guys though i tried i thought i think you work and made you couldn't give me rising little anything now but what i'm saying is there was no one to
teach us that stuff yes in for me it was in two thousand to my there was no one to say hey you don't need to change a battery on the reperation you're going to eat those battles
toymaker last tho we did get we did get some fundamental knowledge back from forsure from those early times and then you still got add that experience though the peaiman like you
can you you could read a book and then go to it for real and uneeda of the two to have that confidence and then you can impart it on somebody else and you know history just like
like you said that the anomes like they were just time out we didn't have access to that an i matilda the prenomen training that we can hit it was awesome but don't give me wrong
i loved it a man that doesn't work in bagdad or yell and then that we had a tactical shift again and probably two thousand sixty thousand and seven you know it it is it's that i
think is what separates or community from a lot of other ones like were valuable but we have leadership is like listen this isn't working in real time we need the creative
solution for right now and were willing to do that where we have a just a little bit more control of the wheel a iewell part on reconsecrate we had no doctrine yet theriere as the
other service branches many of them have this beautiful a really well written doctrine on this is how you do this type of operation and we in have that so atwater as to say you
know what that didn't work yesterday were to change it to day i have the capability and they were like a this is the way we do it yes and we never really had this the way we do it
i mean they intueor trade it i was a team five red so we would go to alaska now coweater training and the teams regis were of riven deep i mean it wasn't even talking to tween the
tenner was so much skill said anne of course i mean a geritee roseton you shite you the wrong information he nonworking with ourselves but ye that like you said no doctrine and
finally we had you know that trade you know east coast west coast in the now sharing information come in together and lessons learned and all that stuff that i think largely
professionalized the force of from a paper work perspective but has impact battlefield as well to my sex in is not fun but it keeps people alive those in there no doubt about that
amount of interoperability we would do as the different training department was was awesome in awesome and bouncing was osla in the feet back lot with that we aim was definitely
far superior to tighten like you said with we had the team's going on to an area and not talking to each other i mean i got issued older wits it seemed five we they wouldn't issue
us ten beatus cause we were a southwest asia put on and i look at the guys when the chocolate shifts my cowarra you for it is woodmansterne world and but i'm actually extremely
grateful that i got to see both sides of the coin because if he never got to see that evolution ah your missing a huge piece of whom we are as a community and also as i believe it
would be easier that you would that we could let it slip back to the anadore tion if we don't like we should capture as lessons in young beale apast amon so how how many then you
got out these coast honiton this is you do out there ah a bounce back and forth for a my rack to afghanistan to for basically four years straight if the everything between to
three to four months there were shorter in the ration ah sated up in my carabeen too i rack three times and i've ganistan and at one point there you you kidogo a little set back
he ah quite so going to vegas i econachaca really long time and you could be on a great heater in the sevens gonna come up and bite you and hope you don't have a lot of chips on
the table am yeah i got ah i got shot from about fifteen feet away by guy and a window that i didn't see and i was staring at that window for ten minutes before i i was sitting on
a ladder looking into a quart yarfe they were trying to determine ah which building was the one that we were actually going to make entry on and they determined at the building
that i was looking at was the one we were going to make entry into and she had a back it up a little bit so we walked by this building originally a life were off cause i was
walking point at the time we went down an alley ah you know are not always the best mines are made a little bit o noise so guy comes out of the house we pursued him into the house
and a made additional noise while we were doing that ah securing that to make sure that a maybe wasn't the guy we weren't exactly positive of location so maybe that could have
been the guy so it wasn't an we back track to my back down at alley and to the guys who were doing the they were fixing the target a trying to determine which building it was
going to be a anytime time so i threw later upon a wall case montacute man of not being held a sea over things climbed up on the ladder missus looking at the outside of a building
and the lights were on the time which to see so lot of the ah technological advantage that i have so was coue's looking underneath my nods and i can see plainly into the window i
never saw a shadow i never saw a curtain move i never saw anything ah they finally gave me the go ahead hopped off the ladder they remember being in the corner of the court yard
by myself for a little bit before a two other guys came over with me and i almost approached the door on my own ah because i had before i have in it was dark and i had to shadows
and was kind of like an american house where there's a ah it's like an all the wonnerth elvin the garage and then there's that path that goes to the front door and in a breaks off
and in this et window right there in that was the window of looking at i was just going to go to the corner to sit security for the breach and i almost left the shadows i can know
what notanda so waited for two more guys to come up and right at that corner that i was going to post myself up on there was a window and i was n't going to ter my back on the
window without taking at least a quick peek in it and as soon as i turned my head to look in that window i heard a crack and a round hit me high up on the hip and spun me and
other than the solymaean my life the true sensation of time slowing down at really it was it was almost like the movies probably delaying i can say i was ever like to move but it
slowed down and sponge towards him and when it hit i pushed off a little bit with my right foot i think just instinctually cannakins push me down and there was a vehicle in the
driveway and i ended up stuck underneath the vehicle i had a shock on all my right hand side and the bongeor got stuck on the undercarriage i'm laying on top of my gun can't get
it staring at full otto fire from lake fifteen feet away out of a window guises up on his knees his housing and ah probably three seconds occurred by our expired and i mean
obsolete broke loose from people on our side ah engaging the window they made enterre other side and up having egnatii was eight the american service men get wounded on that
target alone ah some of it was a argus were too close to a breach amid a lot of it was that it was some fog of hartsuff from a unit that you wouldn't associate necessarily with
the foger but it you know it happened i um i associate the focaria units unfortunately they youthinasia prizes you at some lovelier than others and it was on no they were trying
they wanted to get internal they want to get the breach on the door to the breach on the door sweet put a sea six strips up which is a very large explosive charge that runs the
length of the door put on the inside when they set it off there was a unit that had entering the other side of the building out telling anybody standing about three feet from him
so there wasn't people who were shot on the inside there were some people were shot on the outside of the nevertell who were to hurt from the explosion so they had little birds
coming in grabbing people ah i end of getting thrown on the back of a bradley with a guy who gamed with a fourteen gauge needle and hadn't prepped the bag so he pulled it back out
and i told him at that point you are done with any medical treatment of this point i'll handle my own stuff from here hanoverian army medicus i shake him like your good i'm in a
live i think so just take it ye take it easy but oh i mean i didn't do it antigen that night that i hadn't done before under his times ah you know i just i was on the wrong side
of the bullet and it it ah it actually really rocked my confidence it was i was young i was my big twenties where i wanted to be operating at the level that i wanted to be
operating at and i mean i couldn't walk for most a year i had a hamletlike paralysis of one side of my leg i had dropped foot free years etait obviously hitters on it they don't
know if it they didn't mean they don't know it either hit the sciatic nerve as it went through or the shock wave short circuited either way that result was the same at frida all
the way down to ah my ankle so when i was in the back when i got to the hospital in the green might be as complaint was at my ankle felt like it was snapped and half out and by i
still have never had a surgery never broken a bone everything is still in sight of my pelts faces raps the hound with a wrap and drug me out of the compound i mean that little yet
and then they went back to business but i thought that i was like a my ankles got to be destroyed somehow so they cut my boot off like very gingerly and her look at noor ankles
tolly fine but it that was by far the worst part of it was the the nerveless for like a year and a half almost two years i felt like my a dip my leg and gas winningtonian on fire
twenty four seven and so nay i mean i had like fourteen fifteen pill bottles ah i mean i was taken two three four ambuscading awake his course now a way up that game is to combine
with captain morgan which i did in a variety of dog osages ah so how would sleep awake up exhausted i mean it was it was rough it rocked me as a person and as a as a seal i didn't
know i was ever come back from it where were you stationed at that time we still ormiston you go to athos i went to buds ah as a basically a break to re have my little ah a man
like so as even taltocan fell my wife leg from the neat out i rode my ankle all the time i'm just used to i'm used to it but not you some or compensate for the best at the
inambari don't you any like lateral stuff because if i catch my left foot to the outside let that's the rule that i can't stop if the one at the outside so i mean i still train as
hard if not harder than i used to i'm just super cautious with what it is that i do than i taller at all towards the the stuff that i do now but yet you want to talk about you
know you watch all these movies where you know god are just getting drilled in their running at it like a man to be the biggest warrior ever and like oblation my back i'm an
ousebreakin don training there's nothing i can do in under a car a needed to buddy mind to come over and pull me around in the middle of firefighter me out of other hotham's way a
maggot super lucky the ah the belt i was wearing that night has the second round that the guy shot at me it burned the belt for like two inches and in the copper jacket a still in
the ah the belt itself that's how close i got to get in it even higher up in the hip like the pelvis i i don't think i would have survived that one if that would hit me because it
is an ace from like three times the distance from me to you right now so spicy so so when you there just i mean i'm not trying to say anything super negative about the care that
you not but they're like okay take this pill take the spell take that don't take the earnestest early so i was am i got home about two days after it happened they flew me they met
a back made to landor i decided i didn't want to stay there so i checked myself out and got a delta ticket and flew into new york ah got picked up by another plane and my wife met
me at the stairs of the aircraft it in oceana the neater station there with my son in a stroller and she was pregnant with our second child and about a week after that my
arresting hartrath sitting at like a hundred and fifty a sweating profusely in a tone of pain and he take me to the hospital and i remember though into like this i think i was an
evive to is talking to low punk e to coranach ck in the inn and he's like you know what the nature of injury and mionogonett in to the head and i kitchened he he's like riding the
stuff down he stops he looks medios self inflicted a and my wife sitting there looking at it she sunlike with what's going on like she has very little understanding of the
military medical system i sat in the waiting room while they took people in with the sniffles and the flow of four hours before they took me in and my wife finally distorted
losing her mind on the men like you know they it was a train hospital as most military hospitals are they had never seen a gun shot wound cause it was relatively early ah in the
war you know given where we were at that time and they wanted to come have all the doctors all the residents come into a cake an tecum in and check out the wind but with never
seen a gun shot in and win sure if you bring it a pint of morphine with you and juice me up for some care what you do like i just couldn't sleep i was in so much pain ah the
treatment that i got from military was not awesome um it it was frustrating at the time but i eliotists or make sure it is is oh five right olive at early as it was an awesome
they weren't used to see in a lot of that stuff oh yeah i got pills and i got sent home and coarsely left to my own devices which was not a smart called to time am i i i in my
career i felt like have a race card in fifty or going round turn for then somebody dumped the training into reverse and ever sispect everywhere and i had a kind o put it back
together myself and it sought at the time a my wife still men she passed about it the the treatment that i got but i mean i the military did what they were doing at that time now
i don't hold him against it at the hold against them at all ah but it's so peter and i do know we've made vast improve levitical or one of the guys that ye the reason why there's
been soneremo cause you to gooroleman and getting the coterie that they would definitely deserve better ah you know one of the worst things about the whole thing was actually the
flight out of the lad and i see one forty one full of stretchers of people that were wounded far worse than i was just the noises that were being made on that flight from beladen
was very fortune had a docuisset to me as is like hay noceat right i can only hear the fitting more and i had the guys basically just choose me up until i fell asleep for the
whole flight but what an experience that you'll never forget just a tub full of bleeding americans you know on our way back to try to put their lives back together people miss
ankin was right next to a guy whose standing in a turret of a hunt when a suicide bomber clock himself off every inch of his body from bellini is completely tattered i mean
another guy who had his legs blown off i mean like it i'm sitting here like i my okay i thought i was injured ah you guys you guys are wait worse off but i am it was a very
sobering experience how did you so you go you go kind of pretty far down the road of a cuhsin pill smooth ioio some recipes of your inerasible of red and the bottles of captain
morgan how did you how gay well we'll take it for grant that you went pretty far down the outing that you know you've got the the team a personality you've okay i can't do this
sarmatian do this matrem some one of new signalises had elandskop how did you figure out okay you know what what what was the slap in the face that made you say you know the sites
is not to want to be i was in the car with my wife so one of the pills that they gave me was in a rotten which is a antiemetic one for children but it has a secondary or tertiary
side effect beside effect of a nerve attain control it was an attempt to try to get that burning feeling to stop in my leg and ah i kept sighing wavers for the dosages cause they
were a we were off the chart like we were making medical history with the dotages that i was on a and another side effect of it is central nervous system suppression and i
remembered going by the gas line are come gasping go by the gas station and looking at the sign for the prices of the gas line and my wife asked me a very rudimentary mathematical
problem and i couldn't i could figure it out ah and i'm starting not the smartest in the world but like i should be able to add two plus two and you know may be multiplied it out
a little bit and i i couldn't do it and i recognize that in an not myself ah so that night i stop drinking and basically started weaning myself off of the aradan cause you can't
stop it cold turkey because if you do ah you're prepensity procedures go to the roof so it you you got a graduate yourself out of it so took me like six to eight months to get
myself off of aran off all the pills ah and i just started working out like a maniac and that's how i got myself i did it i did all my own detinet on any protocol from the navy
but i remember that moment where i jist couldn't answer that question as i could get commandantship course any lot of people always outlive people ask about um bethany angered to
what they asked me you're in your duty do and i rasay he i do i can do if i got on if blown out need on the nomad one like a square light my depots was that your your attitude is
like okayannie you know that's that's how i found a cross fit was through a getting shot that's what i used to any in icould ter less be people get very excited about the term
crossed function tangley one call it to me it was really new at that time like i was on the body bolder routine it's you know chesters and back and by and he nineteen guy rottenly
a all the wise now as the echo resound on wednesdays ah but yes so like an i had never done the squaws before i so i lily held on to a pole and lowered myself down into squat and
i picked myself up and i just i just changed stuff so i could do it and ah i remember the first night of sweet that i had that was really good and my wife to probably point to an
account or because i came back from the gym like i had no responsibilities at work cause my my squadron was told to point so i mean i lily was like he come in on thursdays and
we'll give you some eastman your leg that was that was the therapy so i went into the gym and i just rush myself came home why covered and sweat and just passed out slept good and
just continued that routine on and you know they were saying it would take me a couple of years if ever to get back on a full aedui cause he did no i mean the christeners to a you
reached the end of the medical practice run star talking about nerves never had a man would go the doctors with probably a decade of medical experience the same to me i don't know
my aoidon have an end i could tell you that i don't know because i get a better answer at yatala come on bad ah but ye me i i worked myself back i wasn't done i didn't want to be
done and i worked myself back to a point where i felt confident again that i could deploy and apostole continuing what so i left and went to a buds and two thousand and six is an
instructor used that time to re have myself and then um by the time i got the team three it was sedout for four or five years after that injury where i was going through training
when you were that i see i traded in and also you became an after that portend you re goin to but i did i did i am i didn't have it not that i didn't have a choice it is the best
choice that i had at that time so when i got shot i was on my poor ah and for people who do understand military it is a man to tory go no go wicket for advancement and they
counted it as me not successfully completing it so to advance i was at etseastin and i was trying to walk a lattery for laughing or geierstein i'm not laughing go on the laughing
at the old titicaca isis the suit you want to march your way from e on to eat nine you have to hit these men to tory career wickets and the jumpetty seven for the most aguste
large jump from medmenham to the seas sweet of the enlisted realm they they judge you only by your service record unless you have these mandatory wickets or you're getting swept
off the table and so i submit to my chief package twice with a good ah assimilations i mean i was doing some some awesome stuff in my career i had good wards a kid recommendations
get em our everybody and peculiar in a row they're like no and so find a started calling people who probably should have told me he answered my kay what's going on there there i
tell you you your eliot hers getting counted against you and i impatient want to be reading in the military and i'm sitting there and like okay how what can i do here if i want to
continue on and i want to have the impact so i decided in need to the new burg so i researched ah officer programs and stumbled across the eelite duty officer program which is
traditionally for e seven he ates and enianes a and it had never been an e six candidate picked up and so i threw my package in the next year that i came up and was actually
selected first out of the whole stable people that were selected at our head of like five or six other chiefs a winded of getting picked up for eldobert was a looking at my i want
to stay in and i want to have an impact this is the only way that i can do it so that's why i suited my my officer baggage was never any burning desire of my inform like years
before that it was just that i i need to do something to keep moving and that was my that was my route to do it did you would you were so you get winded right and obviously you
could say it that point and you know what i'm done yet you know when you look at the various reasons said first i could choose from why you said like i know an i not done
causeries at you other guys that we both know that i've talked to you have you know various reasons if some of them are straight up vengeance like i'm going to go back to an i'm
going to get after it these people are going to pay some of her hay a fur myself you know conies and i i if you like it i i can't do it i and supposed to do so on a proof that i
can go back and do it would want was like the driving reason for you if he had if you had to pick one maybe it's just all those things which is perfectly acceptable answer turn i
mean than in his certainly a part of the right like a darim the only one to get to do that onybody know he autocracy a crazy thing to think like that but she can adeline you think
you're invincible right is so i needed free myself that i could still do the job that i wanted to do i was passed about it and i was at a point in my life where i was still very
tied to what the job meant i derived so much of my personality and who i was from that job because it was all that i had focused on for the vast majority of my life at that point
that i didn't i didn't know who i would be without that so it was a combination of all those things that just conocer me towards going back and ever mean there was never a
second's hesitation i like i knew i was going to not stop i just didn't know that the road the road which i was going to take to not stop you were thus and naysaid it like you and
either full on institutionalized in the military its omelike the when i was in i didn't understand other open lay any wasn't like well i could do this like right now we can sit
back on no hand you could have gotten out back then i'll gerondifs clear to see that now be about when you are in your donwell what if he can do this well then you did just
nothing else that you actually can do this is the only office in the world and it would being totally honest a lot of that is by design i i'm sure it is said military and
expecially the seal teams what will we do to where a buddist want to get out you know like i am thinking about get out i tuck you quitter cortenaeken like where we memorability
yours what my body's i should ha manalich eighteen year mark i told one of my own close friends in like madam a mirette can like with other onquiet i think it out in the training
from day once about the guide to your life and biiiiiiig from a nititae care of the team gaffers you the last thing you do is you take care of yourself so were you are be bottom
of the priority notability less why you is the bottom of the priority listengese and that has secondary and tertiary effects when it comes to understanding what you can do or
obtoose that you would have outside of the military i'm not saying they do it by design but the system that we come from naturally puts on a set of blinders which i think is his
sentia to make us as affected as we are you right i think i think it is a complete secondary effective not like there is some evil training person in the sky that's going to kay
the way we can get these guys to stay in his duds now ye the way that the sultan has evolved to be the best we can be in combat is to make distingue number one party which i said
old ago asked to tether day as a donor with a company and you'll some guy was asking me you how did you do your work life fouance when you're in the soothing this eaverson be
giving i'm not offer as the only you know with you you marian awesome girl yes and then you focus on a job at it did i married an awesome girl on a focus on my job and my wife now
she knew he wasn't like i covered up and i know no babe your minuan party looked none on a no they items and then betimes and in the teams then everything then like togeether
thing else and then you iron here that's the way tis a much into be an asshole that's the letterati of the situation and that's why he had a that's that's why another reason why
when when guys get wounded and they go you will only going to do yet so you get to teethe what what was your position avoided sideling as he to understand this eldon which by to
and if now this but it's completely gone etseastin he shot it down dear it's one of the theiotes the kit commission without a college degree right i'm real i'm working on a high
school diploma there people olisco education barely sancity showin up hadn't like to this day right at this mobeetie i had and i was coturnis the training i have no idea what your
job actually was how ostentat that is pretty also oroonoko know hiite you exactly what roads you for fillettes a leader but i don't know where you would have broken out on an
oraisons for a task you do fur the salem three in general i was you were running around with him machinator behauld have failed there are okay i mean the two count like you know
saw that essie would be like her a we fail them more are what you came out to naamath us for the orient absolutely all come out wing blanks it had like i mean for one like i i
have i never wanted to estop i i i loved best jamaicans and now this isn't a five shooter half so monahan i ate my first combat appointment my responsibility with a sledgehammer
and i moved up to hoolihan i moved to a shot gun and then i could do whatever i wanted to do it it was the best job in the world in my it that's all we wanted to do so all the i
was an officer of you by the way you get to be a master a with a light so are master with who can to a you just be come it's your life precise sodoma and so the eliaute my officer
package in the let's say like twenty per cent of me was like in a word this is just a means to an end i'm going to figure out a way to get back on the battle you'll cause elbows
are not suppose we touch calder's at all you're a line officer but i have should have never been well i should have never been by the letter of the law of the old manuel in a
tactical leadership is it which i eventually worked my way to not by any kind of design but i went to them through he training ell and you know they're getting ready to send
people to afghanistan no one's ever said foot there and you know this the skipper wanted to send me there and then the troop commander had a great relationship with and they were
short an officer here and there so i'd like a oteseonteo for a little bit now maybe i'll get on the roof and dressing canaan the window it's hard to say well but to do and so i
like this connotated going out there again then like i went out to die and when the one that the troop failed their lay more for i went out with them and tried just to try to go
and do smart stuff it not then out to release some give the leadership and diggers in space yantias even its awesome when guys that work experience we come through what like
yourself you so good to have gaslike you come in he especially because you were you were suburban really good captayne humbles like a robin like no you re like all this is also
ringing lets the oh you this he we need to do this it was just the just so good for the troop to see that type of leadership out there plus a like offense and american what i'm
telling us to move for a gone oh we can do that i yesyesyes we can do that am you should it they may just they weren't because that you know you get a junior officer in a
community full of a type and most of the people that work for them have more experience than them there has his into make a call because they when we are on because the red the
most voracious community ever so they afraid to make an offense of call when they should make an offensive called like ever heard you say before i know we have the same position
like the default move should be aggressive dreadfool not a way like put your enemy on their heels you don't need to be under heels at all like take their space and time away to
make a decision shortened their short your good lupin get in the middle of the airs and just start wreaking havoc ah but ye have again time in the saddle to be comfortable making
those calls and a lot of it i noticed was pattered recognition like asinestrians over there surely get some guys over there hey they're going to come around this building don't
ask don't soak me now just killer the fiftyfive there pleas like you can see einsamkeit on otie in the saddle and because i was exposed all some people throughout my career and i
watched him and i wrote down what they did i just have always try to be a sponge you have to be a sponge suck up knowledge and so then you you do another deportment yet you do end
up in a lurchin yet waagen good job you said it was what it is say was unintended or something like ellis relatively unintended relatively alegria ilona fight it now faces i was
going to have to call bolseno know ah so i went through the last you know the trecento from that troop was like he were you are going to come over absorps to be the optophone at a
fire base that was in between the two pulton's one of the officers was having a kid he wanted to stay back for about the first month montanan so they had no aasimine o wanted his
point fresh butter bar one of my favorite things as you are totally in the side was for my canis on with my butter bars and i'd go to the offsets over a group to and i'd let like
god he sixes and he seven little me lowered her it could always men have looked relatively young and i like you later on when she got so sim and the teevies are actually guys that
you would probably or manicata been in the team is longer than oh for surely a hanoverian i be like a hawk all demoralise and then then i catch him it on in my place and their
like airheart ears all his gathered a likeness as some think he so much for the guidance i held one day i know as much as you do and that just like ye i told it i don't know i
told the chief i seen your chief actually that was kind of called me out like butter bar at when i was a team too and i was telling him the being front of my petunias there and
they all they all know me and i go well you know you know senor you got you got a hundred stand anson's run the meanes he wishes that was given him turning red instantaneously in
the order ye and theaters you know you glissait in his intent and i said any one would you do it i'll be captain let's call it new i'll be out but to elongate yerself athos o good
yes so you know that the true commander was like he do the last month to training with a wish was the sankaty block he ah so went on there the sank many block ah the skipper was
like he over there as the office but were going to slide with his boomer having some potential leadership issues with the o is a man that i know you for a house we experience them
largely together who ah and i think i think anissme speaking for why i think he did that i think he did me he put me out there as a as a safety machinist rose i don't know i don't
think he had anything else to do ah so i went out there and ah he ended up being relieved and then ah the skipper becoming it was an old one wearing oath three a and o for one
scot was paying attention and i would just take his cowardice is often out whatever tom i came on three either so i would just put on whatever called by howe get my hands on
handing her is no colonel bar as the man was alienated i find some one general store by the inocentes can and a man it was one of the best appointments of all the stuff that i did
oh i was in i think what i was the proudest of his wild the guys at the ploy with free people that i had put through buds and anti seize them overseas on their first appointment
ah ately word forty as is afraid to do something because of the consequences you know there is there is as you know there is a lot of oversight if you pull the trigger on somebody
you had better be able to articulate why you did that a one to be able to conduct yourself over the radio had to be able to pay the picture there is a correct way to breathe
there's the ways that you know you got to play you know my mental judo not yet in and interacting with people and i see these young eyes who he had no experience and afraid to
afraid not probably the best word but hesitant to make decisions and then at the end of the deplis sharp teeth a knowing what they need to do and i can just sit back and is not in
again that it's a lot of that is then getting that experienced but i was just glad that i was able to be there to provide that buffer because i wasn't going to at anteaters of my
ability like i always picked that most dangerous place to be i always wanted to be in the position where there is going to be a decision to be made like that that's just the way
that i want to be like wheresoeer ous place to be where the most optimated to be put me in coach or going to be right here and then to try to teach other people to do that exact
same thing and then to step bag that to me is probably what i'm in the most proud of of the as the growth of the people that i was there less you know not you talk about that
mental judo thing which it again this is one this can be hard first civilian standers and how much a you know it's like a bureaucratic a force that exists in the military and
really you have to be er to be able to to navigate through that and that was that was the thing for me that i was look back and i go i wish i would have done a better job of
teaching that to gaycats i had no problem teaching them that act was i to things any and if i really was closed with someone or really spent one time with him i'd be able to get
through the rest of it and say like okay by the way this is how you have to do this as is this is how you have to walk the line tis what you have to say in these situations and
they'd be great but some guys would catch like some as would catch the ah the the surface jocosities which is like currach is which is awesome right that's absolutely part of part
of it right but guise it only can the surface joco sometimes they get caught up later because they say you know all this to was a dis guy was be risk of hers micantes such gotta
do an he got a grandfather disguise he amoes which he got to do his gotteridealen so that's something that when i had the opportunity of the time but that thing or the other thing
about it is there is no there is no training for that that's just i was not on being a sadly in that is there is no one that says and it's hard even simulate cause emmington
simulate some other human beings sporan and characteristics and personality machane half with you diplomat my change half way through your briefing you you can brief a guide's all
in a good mood and all of a sudden he turns because he saw he said something that you got a warnow to deal with that in that political side of that's what it is basically it's
political and its relationships building those things up that is so key and once you get in the leadership position i hate to say this i hate salone your in the leadership
position that is at least as important as what you're going to do tactically i mean the saltem have made their mark genetically but we get our co no go off of power point lui mean
it that i the i've had breeze come back because the helicopter was facing the wrong way on the insertion slide i almost gotten to this fight on like listen it's held that ace
twelve not no even when i come in times new roman ship now or it you had now better how even all my face of the times no roman he and so battle space commander said it's held that
ace bold sometimes only on the ex bill slide the lake i mean it's insane like me we have we can bring some of the most amazing combat power to bear but only if the leadership can
articulate and now the gate what the boulbon wants cause we don't make sense to a lot of people who don't come from our background you go learned you got to learn to read with
their same speak their language and then you just get him i never masabi est things you got him a new brand then then you can be so wildly effective in matter how good you are
tactically do you can't get outside of the wire i mean and it's truly if that old people to all the time you want to shut down the seal teams kill microsoft office work done you
are not a a the whole military is actually now linger you know it is a bureaucracy to set his kind of a groat is the biggest i mean is it's a hundred per cent birocrats i mean
it's amazing and isn't e five like it swingin image and then make him empty and here i get that's awesome i'm going to be a fit twelve hours looking for the appropriate helicopter
i come and i may get sassy and habit move in with helicopter noises eatin any on bel to brief it right cause there's a whole other skill like a arholma times you have to go and
not only present the brief at like talk to the guys goin to say yes or no one developed that relationship in your sewing your operation is senarian til you get that relationship
where there commenyon this is a this which is the best possible case i was blessed band up in that situation where it was just a total my demele whatever you guys want to do what
can you do here can you that's that's when you that's when you just a while the life it doesn't give better than that but time to tower point now tinged gigot ye i don't at troy
in the arrow it only make a wonobobo thou i just begin said i know so much about poor point that i could never forget i wanted to so horrible you so it was i that was an awesome
replete it was awesome for different means i mean don't give me wrong i was an o one it was carrying generally my throne on back and two job with this old sharon positions and
coming back with them all empty the majority of the time so i got to have a hoseason the assure her foxes so i got to have a little bit of what we'll call hoot ti had then but
again professionally developing for etolia's i didn't have any experience being in obsopoeus and you takabout relationship stuff the sometime a speeder the base that we are on i
just developed a relationship with their entry or as three and in an up i was selling myself we had a great relationship i could come to him the day before like haywire looking at
you as he's like yet no problem in me now it's one up a cure asinius it so much poetry all the stuff you got to do to get to that point is so hard and it just doesn't make the
movies because his more dear nevertell literally never be of overmaat that cap like an have a move by the seventy two hour planing cycle for an where's the three men imagery
goddam it this is five irati put tuncan ders and not lay the other to dealt of tineas telling some one and egos he goes you know some of that oh i you guys have to be at it jo i
watched jaalin rally beat his head up against a wall for every single operation that we did was like on them and now wasn't the conventional side bets being up against it as you
know is our chain a command we uns very um which came be very microposted on little things from time to time occasionally a broad spectrum of leadership and said of the team's not
all of it is good but you would ever that which ever gave you goin a play that's dounga plant and that's exact what i did and that's you know that's why we say he had the same
relationship with every boss an ever have terno matter who they were or what how crazy word how also they were they trusted me and during a given what i needed to do my job so
were you last a point that it was and then you went to trade a trade and i was gone a year that i got there in august of twenty ten yet i was while i think the last time i little
saw you before to day was in the hall way right by your own office you were walking out at now escombe back from deployment me like i have not an maneater yes so i five years ago
some elate save years ago you do there i was the obsecrating a man i disobey get to go out at all i antony thing i told meta bly pros and i'm not a died don't do good when i come
i mean i did my job that like i'm not a paper work you know neat all not in nor is there really it's not really an ob so much like that you ride guy is not the sea he is the
iseult of those positions there's redundancy there was a training warrant for you know it like there was that was a fairly repetitive so there's not left at a team with the first
time you could let this out everything he thereto or three cycle said it's like okay you could put this thing on autopilot as a sane thing every three six months wherever ness so
i got medically retired ah i was going to just get out of the military ah i came back from that appointment and he was talking to a the officer detailler about what i would eat to
do to continue my career and she said well you know since you haven't done your a is or your o i see to or working in egitto do is to back to back a wash i see that you're going
to do your you know you're disassociated to henlike we we can stop right now in my wife's not going to tolerate that like i think she's at the vast limit i was at the limit my
body like my ankle i almost had he met a boat myself out a couple of times i rolled my ankle extremely bad on a on or off set petrolite laying on target with my foot up in the air
it just i was i recognized it like my time was over ah so i research what it would take for me to stay in and continue in it was not tenable so i was just going to get out of
military and i was five days from my separation date and went to go get my physical and a dockside now on not sighing ness ride on good from ah they extended me year be man i had
to go i went out to a night out in the boasted that as far as the conte horse power for the right up got up the whole full of sessamen down and end up gidding a medically retired
which was a huge benefit to myself all thanks to that dog who was like no mo amorousness you that is also an there's plenty o team guys that you know spend their entire career
amoche doctor in mocked and that another thing that gets conditioned into you go in through basics yeelding which is don't go to medical no matter while is in the same way it
apices my medical record but stan and you know it is gone through the questionaire and the interview at the actual distantial insect like confine the documentation and then i left
nico like three hundred pages and a mavering i like this guy will never i should be in a wheel share right now with a straw like you read that saying i'm like coy gosh ah and then
ye get away to sichtbarlich said mataike to the mad board and six months later there like a gay you're out then it was it that was it no retirement ceremony i just like had i when
i talked to the oh i see as i ha am it's almost lunch time i'm no eve now and i'm i'm not verona come back a kotalese one moshiest eye as a little when it was like he it's almost
lunch am i live i'm not going to come back he's like a cool heteromeles oblike ninety days worth i just can never went back in who i think i went an got my deed to fourteen or
like my retirement i de car like a year later justiniana is crushes crazy old that time and then it's over like that it in a blanket unborn i eber i was all the night did the
retirement ceremony to that came back there all my the rest my dear was his all packed up in my drawing cage were not robbed it pulled the back towing the back of my and drive out
the gate that was it yet do warn ye age is gone that's it done never do never to be back twenty years gone yet it's bizarre so then you get into the after life indeed they i want
that be my comelier did you what year was that with it you retired i got retired the last day of june twenty thirteen o kaim coming up on this she be for years ah i had
fortunately i was condole dipping on weekends i had a a job that i was doing on the weekend so i transition to do that full time ah and i dabbled in a lot of stuff i mean i got
thirty five hundred hours of flight in i tiered in a golf stream jet a citation five twenty five jet which gets me like five other jets i could fly i did ah when did you rack upon
those islanders what i do in my weekend and half said noisiness of the navy then a i we heard i mean i was just flying a one i got my pilot's license all my own when i was in and
then all the rest of the licenses came in the two or three years after after i was in by just was craning out hours i had a company that i was working for that was paying for all
the training so i could fly as much as i want to go so i dove into the bucket both feet ah as i charter flying for a bit ah i mean as managing licensing it sponsorship deals for
organization and it just a everything commences more if i had left that organization got back into teaching a military guys a wit hit on the jump sat at the houses and have been
passionate about jumping ever since the first tumbleded coming compeer at all i just six thousand which seems like a lot o know elegy that are twenty eight out initium it got it
and eglaim and if you work in the sport for any period of time you'll be at ten fifteen twenty thousand it's not it's not a common but in a military atuetes rest to get to work so
it's an antler skill said at best so i couldn't pursue it until i got out but i ah when i got it was hard for me when i got out if i'm being honest ah i got to a point where i
couldn't watch the news any more you know twenty thirteen all is a ground in iraq that was sweat and blood and tears of a people that we know to gain with being eroded and i
describe it like washing the tide go out and inchoate until all of a sudden it's gone and i used to make the news a nouitte on a couch watching it and i had to turn it off and had
an i really struggled with finding something that i thought mattered and it's as it was tough for me i didn't think a lot about what i was going to do when i was out when i was in
for reasons that we are come already talked about it said a natural pass i take when you re in ah but it took me like your nag to really get my head on straight and figure out
what it is that i wanted to i still even know how i'm going to do it ah but i know that i want to make a difference i want to do i want to make this country a better place than
the desighn i want to take the awesome stuff that i was exposed to when i was in the teams from the people that i was fortunate to be surrounded by it and make people better with
that information how man to do that i don't know but that's kind of the circular path that i'm on like half of my ear sthride dress up in a squirrel ud jump out of my replies and
office cliffs retrenches nice it doesn't suck a man do it for ever though i am an located as something that's enriching for me an impowering for me but ah there's a there's a time
line for how long i could do it i mean i'm a bad landing away from nobbing able to jump any more and i am itaka very seriously i have a very structure training prodigal i don't
let myself get out of currency whether it be jumping or packing parachute sir i mean i treat like a military operation it doesn't make it safer for me but i try to pay ah
attention more than anybody else who is around me and my gold said never be surprised like i don't ever i want to understand what's coming and i and i don't like in it happens
occasionally you'll jump off of a cliff for your jabotiere or something will happen that surprises you and i try to avoid that at all cost cause i find that you know that's when
the catastrophe stuff can occur but it ah you got a fine the next step i mean you and i both know people who derive their entire identity from what they used to do and it's tough
to sit back and watch them not be able to depart from that because he becomes its self destructive you because it doesn't last forever he can't last forever i mean your renting
your trident it's not yours you're at best you can move the marker in the celtically in the right direction may be leave a little bit of legacy if you did you know the legacy that
you should leave his making it better than when you got there but as the best he can do and then you got to put it away even if he did twenty years the it with the average life
span of american ye agatemi levin as the military retirement check a massive so you got a neenter jail be ah but what i needed i needed a purpose and that's where i started doing
the now fundraising for the seal foundation of that to me was huge teaching the military guys cuckoopint like i had not a foot in the fight but i had some impact again and just
trying to short their learning curve a cause me the expect these guys no so much stuff for that if you can just short nor learning curve and to give him a gingall bit of space to
breathe you know it takes a stress of and that's the real be leered at stuff is real and when you win you impart that knowledge on young guys it is real when you make that
learning curve of shorter and steeper and faster that is real wet as a real impact on those amos kids to go on out there and it fills little lessons that they learned it i i mean
i still hear that from guise that come back and and they say yet yeah you we did this to come a move you know i like that like i i so happy to hear that because i know it's kind o
like the early days of giein the fact that we didn't really in the early days woiture wasn't as much knowledge as there is now and now the first three days you go to judicature
going to learn about under hook serener but body position you're going to want about hip movement i didn't learn no one taught me that stuff back back the day he won no one taught
you that stuff you just had to figure out an somebody teach it to you i like you take a cantilever and it's the same thing with you to the guys that are in the military and they
can get that a want ole just by saying oh here's a perspective leadership that it took me jack asked jocko you know fourteen years and screwing up a bunch of things to go on this
is what you need to do in the situation so to be able to say look you don't need to be the jack as i was all you need to do is not this little tidbit right here and meeting over
her to and that definitely as it has a huge impact on most guys in it if it is awesome to feel that yet when it nanette learn in the other stuff because they're less stressed out
they have a better understanding in its just and all the male ninety percent of the stuff i teach em like listen it's pattered recognition i saw this so many times that i did this
and it defeated that suggest do this just trust me and do this and you'll be better then than they do in like oh wow that was awesome like ye i know it's why i told you you bet
the ah you start with the foundation yet what do you do in the sound tells little bit about the foundation of the howl if people want sport i found as was best way get that done
ye ah so obviously there i think they're last sat i heard their forty thousand service based organizations that help people perfecto the military so there is a variety of choices
they an if you're from an army family of some god support army charity right ility have a close done tie to seal so ah a body of mine recommended a tryanite skating in the cot i v
in world to try to drive attention to fundraise for the seal foundation because just like i've never had a think unique thought in my entire life i swear that every idea that we
had came from somebody else was like this woman has ah but to me that was the link to finding a purpose again because i realized that okay my days a putting my toes on the wine or
over but there will always be people with their toes on the wine and the next best step is let's create a buffer for the families to step in cause i mean you've seen it it's a a
the knock on the door is a tornado wrapped inside of a sonoma with a hurricane at the same time and in its destructive so let's try to do something that helps the families ah and
as what the selunto does everything from educational support of legacy preservation ah and everything in between i mean you can go the navy self foundation has an awesome website
ah interest people who do go find us which is what i did or go to the foundation and donate directly because i mean that there you can look at the rating as well to its like
ninety six cents at every buck goes to what they espouse is going to go to its awesome like it's a great foundation ah yet to some research on a gittin balls and skip a lot to one
day you know and the donative or an it goes to it goes to a good he goes to a good cause ah i've been in some houses where i know kids are getting raised by a memory of a father
and a picture of her fire place and no money will ever replace that but it may be will make their life a little bit easier we loved out about that war was the what was the record
you were going after ah yes see completely arbitrary disenslave a measure met a distance in a wing suit so i that was the idea where all good ideas start which he was in the bar
over cocktail he but as i ha man you should go try to set a world record in your wing seat of my wolf had don't even own what yet what are you talking about i'll do it of course
but like you what unerected i mind me i read a what is it oh we unwhitewashed mean yelled obviously crush it but what is it exactly again and where do i get one of those ah
anyways a trying to set the ah furthest distance or farther distance sorry the farthest distance flown in a winged so ah i bought a wing sit and after jumping it for less than a
year which i don't recommend to anybody to do this ever ah i got houp with a really good man toward the guide who actually taught me how to base jump tom me how to fly the suit
and we went up to say his california and i jumped out of a caravan a thirty six thousand five hundred feet dodington a lovely spin which i had been never happened before i said
that was a great experience of his new for theron and got out of it and then just flew the suit as far as i could and then break in two well records one for the distance that you
fly before opening a pair shot at a second one as they talk on the distance ah from when you open your parachute when he touched the ground a kimono yet and i had it on heading
opening so i just opened up in that direction and i was exhausted so i jes lay there like a limp piece of meat an auger into the ground had to a farmer's field because i had no as
i my landing on was earth couldn't see the airport that i was i had some visual indicator was it life to for worth with eighteen into five miles so i got out of this bird and i
patted you really get into a spin when you came out oh yes what happened just now where i'm not really good in a wintonian didn't have the requisite if i had a very animated
tematau he was a shainsan front o me an i was like course on to do this if i had not i little had not been jumping wing sod and did the jump in august i got my first wing suit in
december of the year prior not that not recommend it for petoot in the span and i got out of it but i got out of the plan i i knew where the airport was and i knew i was going to
fly in that direction but i passed the airport at over ten thousand feet in the air and then i was just looking at field sallustius put my head down he was flying i didn't have an
altimeter an me was awesome verso many things it were just i was i bandit calibrating before i went as i came on camaca rinnin cebu i had just come back from the base shopping
trip to europe thank goodness i had some fine like this trees are looking really big habost those trees are looking really big m on a pole me moderately low opening also flew
straight into the dirt and ye people all you got this been broken since then a a marine did angelica you goin to go for it campanari trek i got into the pen because the plan the
the sestet of six the carman is not designed to be that high like it had a super charged indian a different propeller system everything was stripped out of their acceptor huge
action a bottle of just a pilot the oxygen tact and me and you know normally when your son having no pull back on the throttle to slow down at you know they called givin you a cut
a cut at the air speed well he would have done that at that also we have fan out of the sky so he's like it his fist all the throttle with his foot on the dash pontac and i opened
the door and i stuck my head out like oh no you know how men jump in like the big as the wing so on the market and there like a their combination of us promess at the straight
jacket here in i got out of the plain and itches inflated and boy here we go capitatio yes come on at a full speed but you you raise the money for the foundation yet there is i a
hundred fifty thousand bucks for the foundation and you know from that i developed a great relationship with them am the sea held the foundation is married to my first trip hither
that i had when i was at east coast to this great kin a ed any hiya identities yeut it so any time that they call me though like my defaulter as yes like of course i'll help out
anything like and do it at a mad honestly like i won't say that it saved me but it helped it helped him me back on a road that i should have been to have a purpose like that and
then i mean i i bet you i i i possessed that for you working with organizations and leader isn't seeing a light come on makes you an you mean it it gives you a purpose in life
again to have artlessness is in exactly the same thing for me so one built to the other the kinda got my feet in the in the pools interfacing with people like that and i realized
that it makes a difference and it's important to those whalen awsome to do a thing out with you yet i preciate it on enemy ever years we shall hear that he unsensitiveness may
purpose nichols we know you have one purpose and that is too kind of inform anybody that i on a port is to cast you on how they might be a potuta just declare fiore my purpose to
inform is part of the greater purpose can understaun disclosed for now i understand when you jumped out with a wing so he and you went into the spanton that thou wastest for you
now in everthing like cartier a day i was saying amantissi the other day on foot i don't know we had some one the pocasset i was saying that like when i'm flying in an aircraft
and not in a commercial airliner i think of this thing crashes unreal love teesdale i been a grabbed this cheer sea and the naturing something aminatrait in the water that can
break the air fication of a live one angry i got the men like it on i'm not saying they was goin to work out great for he ate died missing my finger nails his i'm clawing my way
to where they are like you teionihes the mind like okay i need to give up now because it's no a negation the geatman were sure you right but you still fight peridental good cause
the eye i probably be the same way in a note to my aunt and i annyway ah laborsome support not that do it miss tocano e you know on it he heard on a dyehouse he have every one as
to you good just jack don't do away this don't they pay i need it anyway i on it ah that's a more kill oil so i'm good to go base line up on its ease a whatdoyoucallhim's
supporter supporter ye so if you want a support so this patasan or yourself at the same time and you're in to supplement you work out a lot uh we recommend hon it supplements take
on its applotment solemnly wants the best inattendance off in it dot com flashed up a thegither an a he knew yet that i gonnegray the last part cast ye as people knowed yeh we had
colonel reader on her you know of hadamar in and i prieve a lie i look this guy's flying in out of a three o'clock in a morning is coming here at six o'clock at night to do a
three hour pack asses been in a conference all day when it comes to be no time to go through your stuff got through it quickly said people with sad hate to have accounted i said
we just pretty briefed were discoperto colonel time so i get the feeling right now we could be paying for that right yeah metaforally i did have a lease for sure get it out or i
inexactitudes i tell us a cool story because it's not like heyan croil and then i don't take creil you i take it and unlike whatever this doesn't work you work so during the week
to work out an i kind o talk about my experience positive or negative but in this case never negative could it actually wore his one of the only a supplement companies that you
know will work anyway i'm not going to go into any story i only worked out a few times this week and it's all right ain't story why did you never forefathers from all various am i
think oh you olga i worked out to day what okeanos make a sure soulier might peopack on a goes world very yeh an you know may be may be not a loaning if i told you to be a
redundant story orchard like my joints feel good in people know that already taking coal that's to happen he knew way if you like these supplements if you don't it actually be
don't know about a supplement get em make your only valuation on i got to listen to me any more now a solid switch over to amazon amazon click through so how that work is if you
want a sport the slight gasp be for edenton shopping go jackpot cast up come quick on t a was on banner then do you shopping supports i made the silly in the water and allege you
know i know it's like it's not just some like a taste humiliate medles i think it called you don't atwater boom big ploermel gy that clicking through eton is a small action takes
at three seconds right your baby valesian you think oh yeah i'm goin to you know clicktrance that dozen because of my action like slowton doesn't it's not a big deal but his thing
that's why action is big deal just like so dainter to beat the sodium if you want o support a silklike through do you shopping bullets good good good way to support my gas also
subscribed it he had an already on i can leave review jockeys amongst the throughout every one has her as ye always gavayas to bout some other things to sound cloud sound cloud so
i am not a hundred per cent sure of how that works o my explored sinclare em unless his like a separate thing dinapore with adadus no how did you that ye if were missing on
sanclamente sure that that should should be where we should be as well you know so that i entomostraca to whatever the one that you do in the goolay i tink whichever subscribe to
avory leave review if i feel like it oh you do ever you do gentlespoken put more pills i know before when you are watching your like hamiisa dispoges tides ain't nowise good so
you have some to cuffe do now that's the point that's the point of making so we put more video on there now just made one entwisted day yes oh that'll be in any way suscitation
haven't already ill at the line a learn there's a new set one got me out five soon heah yo daze suderlant go charles video the ads more mellow more so rebroach it it's it's cool
son i guess anyway if you if you have em the inclination to get a tea shirt as well jocatore called jocatore you are all jocatore dot com t shirts rash gards patches decrees as
well of the delivery time now from purchase to deliver his quicker enough now that a so yet one there jack tore a home like what you see good gradanigo a way to support jago ah
but psychologic horse if you don't know that he no salagur it yes ported thought from the very girl seeing how can not really see i mean that's the rhetorical pinefore right at
that so yeah if you don't know it you know when you have moments of weakness if you're what giddily in the morning hard tired on a press news or whatever are you in you know your
about to work out but you'll skip the work out cause you're not feeling my kit moonshine you get to all whom he can down mud each individual track or of the whole wotever jack
gets you through it like a spot makes you go on to do the work at one to wake up early anyway i do in cyclonic warfare search psychological warfare jacklin were actually being
some request now for other moments of weakness yet he be like hay this moment of weakness when he attracts this moan of weakness need a track so like what a logging those down
some one was sayin of when i get tired oh rather words in ten o'clock at night i getting tired i soon worked to do it i think i'm just going to blow off the work and just go to
sleep began rangoon yeah maybe we need a track for things like that is possible and cause you do the whole thing by a logically when you hit the wall red that's your body really
in a way saying like hay you're you're going too far but now a days in our environment going to far as beneficial because you have this like other gold that your body in a way
doesn't really know about so psychotic war for we help you get past that beaurain check exactly right to your mind oconostota maideston that's supporting herself fully anyway it
has been number one since the day was released straight up desperately cool i have no man at that at all now why that is what cause you folk before supporting a poast in that year
that's pretty cool to thank you for the enoughness people sleeping work out way more people waking up early obviously jill and so are the leg also while you're clicking through a
mason you can pick up the books that we review on the poast right we just did my captivity in the name through the valley my captive tivitivas and it's a great book but there's
all the other books that we were one on there or on their on here are on their so picked those up extreme ownership there's a little book it's about combat and it's about
leadership it's about come aliosha well what else is there what else would you want to read up about jack a white tea a couple of things jock awhile tea some people call a
jackwees people call it the eight thousand pound dead lift solution on alanson people call it came mority because apparently you're hitting came eraser said yea i did in you
cartoon also i've heard it called problem solver tea because the problems that you have little bit ockey altero tioffe so you can do that and and by the way it sounds like all
this is in just being you know exaggerating or whatever in factual yeah hundred forty seven per cent for it ordinance also pre order way the warrior kid and when people read this
book it sort of like one people taste the tea wirinake a supply issue untell you so agistor der it if you order now that way you get a copy in that way you won't be wondering why
all these kids are out there gave a adrian you're going without a no you million why they're getting after a way to work it and lastly also if you haven't signed up to come to the
master number three muster in new york city may fourth and fifth do it as a p i been seen a bunch of folks on social media there saying that they are then abe there so look
forward to see every one is going to be awesome obviously i'm going to be there lay is going to be there j p is going to be there dave burke is going to be the midday verites
coming i hear good thing oh ye unhorse relentings rodenberg and if none of that really motivates you and get you in the game cause not hard coronopifolius will guess what the word
we got you covered cause chocilaicus got in in there come on down there's not in to be any hiding behind the curtain hers no back stage davos at this gig we're goin to be out
front with everybody interacting solvent promise findelin in basically to skinning after it so come on down to the master and if you want to give us feed back or comments or
continued this little conversation that we're having right here you can find us on the inter webs that means basically were talking about teterree talking about insures well sure
and then again we also packetboat face bore so andy would you on those a man ah in the instrument's my name and he stamped two on two very reloading teeter and stump seventy seven
as loriena ain't you insane book the book of face as he contract allooed to be on their atonian fact go is that echoed charles i motacilla echo is dave anything that even that you
and a had to disportest men that's it you know usually have some expounding like some expanding question on put many nell you very articulate ye are used the words i understand
too so bowser lest he dangled van thank thank god ameneraient one they de venelin frogtown through out there ah no i'll consent infer having me ol man mesentery twenty four will
do the end then i yaaaaaaih great to be you i cleansed back and i love what you guys have going on so just keep driving ahead man assume people need to hear it do appreciate the
feet back you've been given me all the fog asked an obviously thanks all come in all sorry took so long careron it looks a long ditch on any at bocheton twenty twenty four we will
get you back on her and well we'll do this again like twenty twenty another you know obviously an penury service and it was my pleasure and you are and your continued contribution
to the teams and to and to our country sotanes ing you've done and you know we started out to my talking about that debt that cannot be repaid and that is very true we cannot we
cannot repay that debt we owe too much to those the fallen for our freedom but you know what we can do and what we must do is try try try to live every day with that thought in my
that thought of the service and of the sacrifice of those that gave their last full measure for as for our freedom freedom this nebulous concept that can be so hard for some
people to grasp of i will tell you it is a real thing than the thing that's hard to recognise until i detain from you and the chains of a pression control your body and your mind
and then when your freedom is taken away that is when you realise that freedom is the most important thing the singular thing that gives each of us be devine opportunity that only
freedom can give the think and the speak and to do as we were then to do all of those things be all in to no man and yet while with that fredom we are beholden to no one let us
choose let us consciously and deliberately chose to be beholden for ever behold to those men and women who have relinquished their lives so selflessly upon the altar of freedom
for them beyond into them let us live with purpose then with passion let us live live lives worthy of their solemn sacrifice but as live lives worthy of the price that has been
paid or the of the freedom we are blessed with and wordy of those heroes we are for ever be oldt let us live for them epithets collocation ight and so until next time missus andy
an echo and jocko out
