this is jacopo cast number sixty six with at hotels and me joaille bideing echo but even at three twenty five the true points again received orders to attack i gave an order full
of enthusiasm i told the troop we attack in five minutes to these seventy easting this is the movement we have all waited although we knew the general locations of large enemy
units we had not received detailed intelligence about the enemy we were to encounter i had a feeling however that this time we would meet the enemy lieutenant gotter known for his
dead pan sense of humour asked on the radio what kind of contact can we expect i replied enemy contact he said roger that's the best kind and the true rolled forward through the
blowing sand and that's a that's a little extra from a personal count from a guy by the name of char make master he may have heard about recently coming into a higher profile job
in the current administration be a very interesting guy and i wanted to talk a little bit about his experience in some of the things that he said about but the way he sees things
and were as in this big battle in the first golf war as a captain so you know in charge of a a a group of hunter forty guys and he fought ness battle called the battle of seventy
three easting in meganite axe from wicked that there gives you the the broad idea of what was going on the battle seventy three easting refers narrowly to the violent armored
combat action that took place in the final hours of second acrs covering force operation in the zone of second squadron and in the northern ford of the third squadron zone in the
battle for of second airs armored cava coleritos truths e g and i with troop cake intimating to eye troops fight totaling about thirty sixth m on a one tanks defeated two enemy
brigades the eighteenth brigade and later in the day the night armor brigade self it's in reseave a legitimate tank battle right like a world war two style tank battle that took
place in the first golf war that's what he is talking about and mc master at the time it masters was in charge of the giltrap so they got them good details in her in again this is
very simple a one o the best clearest descriptions of what happened it was actually on wickape so i just pulled some of that sir he regaled little bit of what eagle troop did at
four ten p m eagle troop perceived fire from an iraqi in conciption in a cluster of buildings eagle true abrams and brad leaves returned fire silenced the iraqi guns took
prisoners and continued east with the two tankettes leading the nine em on a one tanks of eagle troop destroyed twenty eight iranians sixteen personal carriers and thirty trucks
in twenty three minutes with no american losses so you got nine tanks against twenty eight tanks and sixteen personal curios and thirty trucks and the nine tanks win that's that's
his domination battlefield domination petersbach of technical reasons as well as leadership reasons that we're going to get into next at about four twenty eagle crested a long
rise and surprised in iranian company set up in a reverse slope to fence on the seventy easting captain mac master leading the attack immediately engaged at position destroying
the first of the eight enemy tanks to his front his two tank put tunes finished the rest so there is there is hammering hammer and these i iraqi tacks three comets to the east mc
master could see p seventy two those are the tentatious increpare positions continually his attack passed the limit the seventy limit of advance of the way maps are set up theirs
theirs carnate on them and each one of the carnation of the the lines that run north south has a has a label to it sixty nine seventy seventy one seventy two seven three so he had
been told not to go past the seventy easting that's what they're saying that was his limit of advances are all really common military terms i say hey you're not alowed to go past
this road or this this coronet on a apathy des call that a limit of advance so he was supposed to stop at seventy pasear a little better containing his attack past the seventy
limit of advanced he fought his way through an infantry defensa position in all to high ground along the seventy four easting this go now that i mixed this in here with the wicked
which was a very simple explanation of what happened now going into a personal account that mc master rode himself when he was a young captain to you region captain mc masters
account lieutenanted called me from the command post to remind me that the seventy easting was the limit of advance we were already beyond it i told him i can't stop were still in
contact tell them i'm sorry gifford explained the situation to the squadron headquarters on the radio major mc gregor was forward with our tanks and fully understood the situation
if we had stopped we would have forfeited the shock a fact we had inflicted on the enemy had we halted we would have given the enemy for farther to the east and opportunities to
organize an effort against us while we presented them with stationary targets we had the advantage and had to finish the battle rapidly we would press the attack until all of the
enemy were destroyed or until they surrendered that's a pretty bold move to disposato so risky if not in the biggest risk of it is avenae on loose situation unfold i think it
makes a ladies or the fact that this would day time and that that just makes it but everything is so much more clear in the day time but you could obviously make some mistakes of
you if your pushed yet limited dances there for reason then you have might have some other drooped that's controleur you also might have air power that the air power might be told
a you see no vehicles moving past seventy eating you can start drop in on m so you do have to be very cautious when you make an aggressive move like this and i bet mac master
himself would go back and say ye no as should have done i should have given his up and pushing past even eating please you know let everybody know so now this is going back to the
to the white account her there he encountered and destroyed another tank unit of eighteen to seventy two in that action the iraqi stood their ground and attempted to maneuverings
the troop this was the first to termined to fence the regiment had a counter and three days of operations still the iraqi troop had been surprised because of the inclement weather
and were quickly destroyed by the better trained and better equipped american troops after defeating that force mac master sent a stout pocono two bradleys north cregan contact
with troop g in doing that the soupenne another iraqi can't position of thirteen key seventy two which they destroyed with tow missiles so as he's gardis everywhere they they find
these these these iraqi tanks their discussing them is going back to mc master's account again i jumped on top of my tank to give the crew room to cross load ammunition while i
monitored the radio i surveyed the fires which the which surrounded the troop it seemed as if the accent only lasted seconds i felt no significant emotion during the battle i
think i had simply been too busy i realized that i had not eaten all day i torn through an amaracine and devoured a dinner of cold potatoes and ham i gulped down some water and
the quick in fusion seemed to slow the flow of a gentlin so i thought that was interesting he will he was just doing his job you know he wasn't getting emotional and just getting
it done and then the sea fire comes the next day and that's it the warori leventeen two hours and the war over and so he got to talk about what he was thinking her once they hear
the sea fire back to mc master's account eagle troitea no casualties i another soldiers offer prayers of thanks to god we did not gloat over a victory we'd simply done our part in
liberating coat from the treachery and inhumanity of saddam hussein and his republican guard henchmen we surprised the enemy on the twenty sixth of february that's surprise and
the bold action and team work of the troops soldiers contributed to the rout that is now known as the battle of seventy three easting in general the iraqis were unprepared for the
united states army americans are better trained and equipped the true decisive factor however was the american soldier he is the best at one he does and absolutely dedicated to
serving his country our soldiers were aggressive in battle yet demonstrated great discipline and compassion for the enemy i am grateful that i had the opportunity to serve with
them in this action captain h arm acaste each troop to to a car so in an ididn't go into too much of a didn't go to tuderley took a lot of prisoners as well they weren't just
killing every one there was a lot of people that were surrounding the latter race soldiers that were surrendering and they were doing their best to take care of those guys and her
also some that pretended to surrender and then attacked so they had a little bit of both and they they as as mc master said day showed great discipline and compassion for the
enemy now i didn't you can you can go on mine and you can read the full account of what this whole battle set like but he he recently wrote so now he's alietans a captain at the
time no three and now he's a lieutenant general with three star and there's a a website called the strategy bridged dot orde and there's an article there which is written by mc
master and he goes through the lessons that he learned in that battle and the the the article is called something long lines of a guidance for small unit leaders so i thought
there was some some good solid lessons learned that he brought back some ongoloo number one lead from the font leaders must be forward to gain a clear picture and make decisions
as sergeant harris engaged with twenty five millimeter lieutenant gotier moved forward to assess and further developed the situation so so to explain that you've got a sergeant
that's like engaging the enemy and then the lieutenant he doesn't just sit there he goes forward to find out what's going on and a cessation so as a leader when your troops are
getting busy doing the work what can you do don't get the don't get started fixated on your own eyes in the work but there inworn go forward move to a different rescision where
you can see more back to the book got fired a tone missile into the center of the enemy position in the village the orient artaxes after our gunner staff sergeant craig catch fire
to subsequent tank round to mark enter all nine tanks fired high exposed rounds into the village simultaneously dispress the enemy position despite the secondary explosions in the
village to itself first button maintained its primary observation to the east so he's basically marking the position with an gotai marked the position so not only did he move an
observer was happening then he's directing every one else once once he does that so it's a really simpleton you hear all the time lead from the front now can you get too far
forward yes you absolutely can if you're if you're the guy that's actually engaging the enemy and your avenue you don't either with your weapon in a tank or your weapon your
personal weapon on you i your rifle and you're the leader you're actually shooting bad guys well then you you got some issues because you need to be looking around you need me
seen what the next move is going to be so leave from the front look always the dicotomy is there don't go so far forward that you lose eavily to look around and observe what
what's happening number to shoot first if you know where friendly forces are and there is not a danger of civilian casualties do not hesitate to shoot or conduct reconnoisance
five fire beside that shoots first has a tremendous advantage tatarin david laurence was the commander of first poltons nor learn most badly when his gunner sergeant brad befell
man said he i've got a hot spot out there i'm not sure what it is laurence responded put a toe in it see what it is but to was at times lawrence identified the hoot as a tea
seventy two as the turret was ripped from its hole in the ensuing explosion our troops experience was consistent with erwin ramals observation in his world war one book infantry
attacks and his rampaging i have found again and again in encounter actions in a counter actions the day goes to the side that is first to plaster its opponents would fire shoot
first and out i translate that real simple be aggressive now he points out very clearly here you know where there's where you know where friendly forces are right you know where
friendly forces are cause obviously that go sideways and bit away when he pushed past his limit of advance now also no one knew her he was so he need to be careful not such a
wision but that that aggressive being aggressive with fire is something you have to do and and you can see like they saw hotspot their owner thermal i don't know what this is a
put it on it with the wind we know it's not good guys the blast it we had a i've been in backdown of my first to plummet for like a couple days yond we went out on a on an
operation and anyway we were coming back we got ambushed and wasn't a big deal but like what we are we received fire and so we return fire and and basically we return fire heavily
in and we are getting after it and this is when we didn't have any our men on her home these they were just a lot there is open in amoors so we have abandoned these not many
people didn't not in iraq at that time in the thousand three so what we had done as we had taken the doors completely off and in we take in our seats and turned him so they faced
outwards and so we and we we have our feet like hanging out of a hunter may be sitting on these these big rails that we built long aside and we be facing out it was you were in
positano position a shootin all time and because the way humbly set up with doors on either side and then people on the back you had three hundred and sixty degrees of visibility
and of fields of fire coming out of every humpty and so when we got we were driving we were all my west down a little operation we are come aback and it were come i back we
sartain fire and so we just returned fire and it was a mass of return of fire like i think the enemy was pre overwhelmed and we got back and everyone is kind of like a weak kind
we kind to lead it to em you know we went through a lot of rounds in a very superior time and reason of saying the story is in case that was my potion and so we get back and and
we're kind of deep reefing and then the next day or going out another operation and i don't know if the stores gonna make any sense but the next they were going on in the
troparion and one of my brows cool wasn't who is my senior and listened to visor at the time but he wasn't on that mission that we just did and he's egoland if you guys take
contact you need to shoot back you can't be afraid to fire it and i made some combat like to worry will be good neroweg to see and then every one laughed because they knew that we
put down a lot of lead if of you want to trade bullets with us we will play that game we don't mind training some bullets so the same thing though you if you start fieldlike
you're goin to be contacted and indeed that's another thing you teach us you know when you are in a firefight where do you think the enemy might be and we heard the silathtekile
we are the the the million you smain that were in creating but that hey you're goin to put fire down where we think the enemy might be cushat's where you know you're looking at a
unrendered a a a good covered position it is a bad gas probably going to be there put fire on a hot first lesson number two from general mc master all right number three fight
through the fog of battle be prepared for confusion and concurrent activity as we suppressed enemy positions in the village while laurence was launching a missile but true
received commission to advance to the seventy easting i instructed first betune resume to resume movement to the east with tenant pest check did not respond to mediately because
lawrence was reporting on the batoned net contact contact east tank simple orders and complete reports are essential to maintaining common understanding in battle so there's
another example of gauting simple and he specifically talking about how you communicate with older people an eradiates or talking about you have to communicate simply and clearly
in order for people to understand what's happening that can mean if you give try a lot of times you see the people trying to give too much detail right the listen as contact
contact east tank as it where's the contact it's to the east what is it it's a tank that it that's all we need to know now i ween is gone on if you said he i've got a contact he's
about four hundred eighty metres it is at seventy two tank its moving in an eastward now we don't care about any that right now men who don't care about any of that just tell us
what is happening that it's one of the things that can help you fight through the fog a bottle now that contact called is actually standard operating cider i must sooming which is
we cause we would do this in the item you'd give what type of contact it is what direction the war or or what bearing and what distance see a machine gun fire hundred and fifty
meters four o clock and now everybody gets a very quick read of what's happening cause you get not even as ye were the firing came from so even having a star operating procedure
tickee your your verbage limited is important there's calls to thee all everything we do in the selim basically has a very simple called that you can make and in its broken down
into like three words contact front all line you know that's a everyone else went to do every seal you to contact on all line they know it's to do number four follow your
instincts an intuition as sergeant felt men launched the toe missile i decided to go to a tangled formation and instructed green and white the tank poltons to follow my move first
but soon pulled in behind as the tank wedge moved forward and covered the tanks rear tire bolton retained responsibility for flank security ablincourt as we began moving forward
first put through a responding to the contact report on their poonani nat began firing twenty five millimeter high explosive benisons across the front it was a little unnerving
for the tanks as we moved forwards i gave first buttonses fire order red one is a black six see fire the two tank but potatoes were slightly delayed as our tank came over the
crest of the imperceptible rise north of the village sergeant cored couch the gunner reported tanks direct front i counted eight seventy two in pertinere positions they were a
close range and visible to the naked eye so he tacatou trusting her instincts and trusting your intuition and may and that's what he's doing here he is seen things happen seemed
things unfold esias he got going to this formation boom every loses for missionising off of instinct but what's important here is where do your instinct and where is your
intuition come from it comes from training and experience that's worktime from now it could be heard to get combattirent we hadn't had a tank battle in well since a word door to
this been no major tank battles to hear these guys are no none these people ever been in the tank about before and now there to take bocohi you do that you got it to realistic
simulated training that's what you have to do and you have to make this the realistic got to be surprising to old things that dark about i'm got to be surprising as got be unknown
to gonado things that people aren't expecting that's what you have to do said the deccan develop their instincts so they can develop terentian because if you are inexperienced and
you don't know what you're doing and you just decide on a follering your instinct can be wrong a it can be wrong and the let billett's at dugiria i take a new person in judicio
there in things are going to be wrong praeneste and i i mean the class is someone is mounted on you than they and you there are you you do one o two things you shine push them off
of you you're getting on locked or you turn around you turn over and her choking you and what each one of your instincts is wrong your instinct needs to be elbowed or you know ah
oblegate gammon to those two things but the those unshingle only come from training at the same thing with these combats narsty had you can't just try don't just trust your
instinct as a matter of fact i make sure you've trained yourself make sure you've prepared yourself and then make sure that you do tacousah thing that can screw up your instincts
is your instincts your feeling pain you know i was on the andyesterday he will put like pain on me out tell put his elbow in my ear or or something and all her train to do is get
me to to make the instinct so more of honor great japan pole hand to it if i do not get normal you know right now can't do that after just accept the pain this dis deal with it go
grandarter andy bring it here your instinct if you start taken fire from the certain position that could your instinct be all working of it down and move over here you got to
remember you got a detaching that you say oh i need a check my flank i need to see what else is going on here i lytest these other situations that might be unfolding ye that's the
end that's where that kind experimenting a come in in a shalot of it can be things that aren't really conscious too and it comes with like let's see you know it in inelastic
situation let's say no one sit over here transack about war i filostrato initiation or shall i do it when that in thessaly saying you don't romantic in it from your friend any had
a relation if you know the the person really well you can tell one something off just a little bit belhaven by these guy be like all donall good and they can you know they can
break be real convincing with you and now i'm all good but you you know for instinct because you have so much experience with em you know yes you're right and you're right in the
fact that you know an talk about biscatonges if you come in and you say the jocko this crapsey were doing this if my instinct is like no one's not in raptat s my instinctive
response like no screw you i'm right you're wrong but what i really need to do is say olansen detached left tossess what echoes say economy doesn't do this right why is he doing
this something is going on and don't knock in a tract my instinct right now luckily lisait through training through knowledge right in mission i know that you don't act that way
so yes follow your instincts follow your intuition but make sure that you trained develop them also i like to question when i feel something i did don't go with it immediately i m
i want to go with it and i most likely will go with it but there is also a possibility as say well not a possibility but when as is a hay winnemore here i go okay what could be
happening is this a position that the enemy might be in is this said a move that could be getting set up on me no i think i'm pretty solid or at least as i moved over to be aware
of it i'm trusting my instinct but in being cassius ear yet could the like caught her that talking police you know like cops have like good in in oversure cover shark the rapid
tatius pattern verso that guapo sure scusa something else too oh there's a plenty of times where if you don't trust your instinct you will get crushes right and i mean you think
about inaugurative what when you get good you you're not thinking about anything i you have to disuse your instant your your training your muscle memories what's working and the
same thing with police you know they get to appointed egenonto a situation if they're not going off their instinct they're going to get they're going to get birdhouse a learned on
ye that's the trained instinct how you are saying like that thing right chained on a este untrained in saint yes king and gay one beat of being a police officer out on the bat
acetate they're not going to have any of fraction of what you deal with that contain years later and you in a contact a lesson i see your hand i see got some loading a knackles i
know what happened here tell me what's going to odonthalia then where a young guy might be allowed yeesterday like bein a too nice you know like it the copan tell like all the
gudetown mean you know there is like a medio crevel of niceness that's like a key that seems like like he's mellow but if it is men like two aggressive or to defensive or two nice
they can tell you know there's something of suspicious you know there are be new that might be not be able to tell that a man had no absolutely all right next one number five
youse standard unit fire and battle drills aimed to overwhelm the enemy upon contact and retained the initiative through speed action as sergeant catch fired the main gum and
destroyed the first tank i sent a contact report to the troop this black six contact east eight armeth cles green and white you with me sergeant conchito to more taxes or
tachetees accelerated movement all nine tanks begin engaging together as we advanced in approximately one minute everything in the range of our guns was in flames fire
distribution and control allowed us to destroy a much larger enemy force in a very short period time shouted they do that good solid yes a pendent standard operating procedure and
you i'm dootin about how simple missis he he says this is black tis contact to east at armories green white are you with me that's the whole that's the whole detail plan he
there's bad guys over there were moving east let's go and everybody has a right we've on this thousands of times we've drilled at we were hers it what when we do right now and
they probably had little standard operating proceeded he guys on them you know on the left flank orgons art find that left the ages giein the right flank and at the hand of these
procedures work out so that in less than a minute victory less than a minute so developed those good standard operating procedure disappoint procedures and when i talk about
freedom on the battle field this is exactly what i'm talking about this bodices freedom on the battle field cause we have those discipline procedures he has need have to see it
the freedom to manoeuvre as a freedom just to say he eyes there is the enemy let's take care of the boomin o next one number six foster unitiate every trooper understood how
arculons and the troop conducted fire a manoeuvre our tank driver special a specialist christopher hedinson knew that he had to steer a path that permitted both take etons to get
their guns into the fight he turned forty five degrees to the right and kept our frontal armor towards the first enemy tanks we engaged he drove through a minefield avoided the
anti tank minds reporting on the intercom sir i need you to know we just went through mine field he knew that it would be dangerous to stop right in the middle of the enemy kills
one head in scragga that artan pontoons had a window opportunity to shock the enemy and take advantage of the first blows that sergeant cotched a livered so clearly this is
decentralized command ride and you think about this first very true or understood how arpoones and the troop conducted far menifer body knows what to do everybody and here's this
kid he's probably eighteen years old one as you specialist has specialist he probably nineteen years old and he's got in leading right that the craters in charge but there's a guy
that's driving that's picking the course where they're going to go and again think about this the captain he not saying like p six degrees we left six degrees to write get forty
no he's not giving any of those orders and if you think about it god he have been able to do that he do with all the other stuff he don with fire control you dealing with the
position is reporting back up at chesgow all the other stuff going on heavie to tell this guy where to go but his decentralized command that specialist that is leading the tanks
from an actual driving perspective he knows what to do he knows that procedures and so he's able just to do it heaven knows he knows it so well that we see were to mine field he
he assesses the threat o ka where am i feel by sea three minds omstand on the best i can but if we stop or to be re opened to getting attacked by the enemy so you know where new
enemond and he made that decision on his own of the rightnesses he made that decision on his own because he understood the over all objective and the procedures that they would
follow and what was most important so that a great example of decentralized command number seven you tank to take the brunt of the battle tankdrivers the anti tank minds and
bradley's and other vehicles followed in their tracks or squadrons as three tank commanded by major douglas macarthur hidden anti tank mont but the blast damage the tank only
slightly it continued the attack and made to repair when we halted we ran over antipersonnel minds but they sounded like pumice popcorn popping and had no effect on armor vehicles
the rate of our fire of our tanks allowed enemy tanks to fire only two arrant main gun rounds at the outset of the battle and to later as the troop usued enemy machine gun fire
had no effect on the troops advance the psychological shock of our tanks advancing undaunted toward their defensive positions paralyzed and panicked the enemy so if you don't know
anything about what i'm talking about i apologize but thanks or massive a one armanase and they have extremely heavy armor their sixty eight tons and as you say in here these even
antinomies or or or stopping the text and the the anti personnel is is nothing but braves are smaller not as big in not as big and not as heavily alert so the the tanks are laying
down your driving and in the bravest fonetics ikite have minds the the the they would hit the aromatic but my what a sati take about it so how can we apply this to you know every
day life at apis to business be of the saying technically specifically used tanks to take the brunt abart this this is the way i look at this from a business perspective and from
a life perspective play to your strength right what is the strongest in they've got artist tacks and it's the same thing that we run into in business is the same thing you run
into in life and ogier where what are you footstone what are you stronger as it that's what you folks on that argus to lead you're our advance now do we train for weaknesses
absolutely you know we do that all the time do we do we will we have a weakness in a business we don't go haylits just cover the up no we we focus on it so that we can prove it
but if we're going to go to market with something that's on market with something that were good at right if we're goin to a if we're going to try and set up some expansion into a
new area let subsitute expansion to near eare that wherefoir with that were good at that warsong in let's not say hey you know what we've been makin we've been makin horrors for
last fifty years let's go over here and make a computer now we make cars okay left make trucks to we know not o build vehicles so that's what i'm saying at and you see this all
time would you to to what did you to guydo what they should do which is try and try and play your trunks right in in competition on the ticino course when we're when we're
training we pray or weakness of sight we want to oh i'm i'm i don't like people being across idolatress that he i don't like being on the bottom cool only be on the bottom but in
competition will what do you good at and how do you get the person to play your game you know that's the question not everything to right like a man at work you're going to train
the new guise but you're not going to send the new guy you know to make contact with you know potential in of even client ye one send that new guy send the stronger enean any em
on to a brass to meet the new client then is got big potential so playsir used tanks to take the brunt of the battle next be prepared for miss fires and degraded operations
lieutenant jeff dissipates tain't crew came around the village destroyed it in my tank and acquired a second tank at very close range that was traversing on them around got to
stuck in the breech of the cannon meaning tis this can is not gautama the loader grapholite loaders hatch kicked the round in the breach came up and the gunner sergeant matthew
clarke destroyed the tea seventy two in another example staffs argent digby ordered private first class charles beruben to reload to missiles burton could not get the cargo hatch
open however when the light weight wrestler as rested for him kicked the hatch release he sued it off rather than tell bradley his brave commander that he could not get the toes
reloaded he jumped out of the back door while the vehicles under small arms and machine gun fire he climbed on to the back of the brave loaded both missiles then tacked the his
brow by commander on the shoulder while yelling toes are up that's sartin dig be nearly jumped out of his skin because he thought i raced climbed on to the broadly so here is the
little malfunctions going on when your weapons and what do you do you deal with it and i think i said this on the last pot cast with life we have a little sing nothing works
everything sucks righteously got to prepare for you count if you were why a hundred per cent on those radios as rays on going to work if you were ly a hundred per cent on your
weapon okay he got better learn those drills you'd better learn how to how to fix in a just your weapon very quickly go to your secondary whatever the case may be got a drove of
things got to be ready for problems here ready for murphy's later kitten next number nine a ordinate between potions and insure mutual support the burning tanks and personal
carriers of the enemies first defensive line formed a curtain of smoke that concealed enemy further to the east as our tanks a salted through the smoke we saw other enemy or the
vehicles and large numbers of infantry running to get back to subsequent trench lines and positions we destroyed the enemy armor vehicles quickly and shot the infantry with
machine guns as we closed the distance with them pocket of enemy soldiers threw up their arms or soldiers were disappointed terature away from any enemy soldier with his hands
raised tank polton leaders asked the scalp otones to pick up observation of the enemy infantry as their brabies came through the smoke the scout saw that the enemy had used a
false surrender to gain a better position and my soldiers were resoldering their rifles and rocked propelled grenades our brothers the enemy and killed them before they could
engage our tanks effectively covered move cover move real simple that's what that will is mutually supporting that means were helping each other out that's what covered moves next
number ten take risks to win because it eagle true pressed teasal the enemy could not respond effectively right that that yourii that in any case you want to get the person on
their heels you want to get your opponent all near heels as we cleared the western most defensive positions are executive officer we can at john gifford broke in on the radio i
know you don't want to know this right now but you are at the limit of advance you are apt to seventy easting i responded tellin we can't stop telling werena on we have to
continue so tack tell him i'm sorry we let a part airticle we had surprised and shocked to the enemy stopping would have allowed them to recover as erenow observed in infantry
attacks the man who lies low and await developments usually comes off second best it is fundamentally wrong to hope or to wait for more forces to come up and take part in the
action eagle troop continued to attack toward another very subtle ridge line on the enemy position on which the enemy position has reserved a coil of eighteen t seventy two tex
major mohamed later to one of our troopers this is the enemy commander of the unit major mahomedan told one of our troopers that he had not known he was under attack until a
soldier ran into his elaborate command bunker yelling tanks tanks but a time he got to his observation post all the vehicles in defensioner west were in flames he ordered to the
reserve behind him to establish a second offence of line it was too late the gale troops take crested the rise and enter the assembly area the tanks were starting to move out when
we destroyed them at close range to nataly take rise to be aggressive death got abfall mode defaulters aggressive pressed that attack and it is interesting when any clearly it
happened in combat he he start getting the upper hand keep going keep going and it happens in gito's well you know if you can get that person on the run dear taking in with two
three four different things at the same time that's when they're done and that's a bad feeling when you're that happening to you ah you fallen behind an oodloo there just give ye
a nieuport defending some one you feel the other thing happening he not good but though a again take rest but yes be aggressive now those were d lessons from this this one battle
you know this one thou at seventy three eating in now obviously mc master say in the army he went up through the chain of command and and now we're going to go to two thousand
five the thousand six the battle of talapoin iraq which this this battle was led by whose now are colonel mc master he was a captain at the time of his seventy three in battle now
he's a command of his commanding the third air the third armored cavalry regiment and this is very similar to the battle of remote what happened in telefonin the reason one of the
reasons why so similar is that colonel e farlin who was the commander of the one one a d that led the fight remade that i was there to support the first thing he did when he went
back to iraq when when mc farland went back to iraq for that deportment in two thousand and six he took over for a bit me namaste and mac master was in tallifer so mc farland
shows up in telefones hey this is what i did i did lose something called esclarmonde built this is the strategy we do be pushed into these edictal territories and and then it
becomes so pacified in tarifa that they were able to take most of the one one eight and send them down to remind and when they got down to remote mc farlane whose brilliant guy
had listened to everything that master said looked at how he did it and then applied the same strategy in reminding now he had to make a dustman's to art for sure cause it wasn't
exactly the same but luckily he was a smart creative guy that said o'gorman is adjustment but he did it but the the overall concept came from what mc matron what namaste did up in
californ so there was an article in the new yorker written by guinane george packer and the article is called the lesson of californ is it too late for the administration to
correct its course in iraq and this this article came out a propense two thousand six probably three or four days before i rived in remote in two thousand six so that's when this
article came out and you can see he sainthood is it to any to correct the course will actually um de lot of people into thousand six one even admitting that we were all the wrong
course yowes what we were doing at that time and of talk about this a bunch what america had been doing at that time is is going out ravindau's one at a time to a time then
bringing him back to base and he putting him a resting on capture kill missions and what was interesting is that's that's that's an a triton that a war of attrition right you have
certain number bag eyes were new catch and he really wasn't working rather wasn't workin that's why in two thousand five two thousand six enemy attacked or up the hundred per cent
and you know two thousand five two thousand six are hale country wilson's our whole country but many people in our country including a lot of major politicians were saying it was
unwinnable and you know we we just need to get out it was gravemente so that's because we were not on the right strategy and active you take this can you apply it back to hack
worth when he basically said during the end of the venom orgies had looked were not going to win he wasn't talking about we couldn't win he saying work were fighting a wrong kind
of tactics were doing the wrong thing here you keep saying hey what's our body count what's our body count what's her body count that's a war of attrition they we lost as many
guys you lost that many that's an attrition war for it's willon three i always use a word were one as the class arician array we're going to go to the trenchard to kills maestro
can and i'll see less than while i so were i so you can last longer not a punctata hey echo were just going to stand here you punch me i'll punch you you punch me in whoever goes
down you know loses we'll guess what what we look like at the end of that we're all beat up her rivinus doesn't matter doesn't matter how good we are so these guys were thinking
maybe instead of doing punches the face which should do the judicial little something a little bit more more tactically sound and it wasn't just go out rabagas just got the bag as
because we learned two thousand three two thousand for two thousand five that's three years of doing those type of operations and real progress wasn't being made sirtainly wasn't
made in thin remade point again there was guys that were done incredible work and you do have to go out and and attack the baggie go after those critical notes for sure but we
were focus so much on that that we were ignoring a lot of what was happening with the populace and and politically other other areas that needed to be addressed so this article
came out and again is from the new yorker written by george packer came out a pretense two thousand six and here's going to this article back to the article the lesson that mac
master and his soldiers applied in tawfore where learned during the first two years of an increase in the unpopular war when we came to iraq we didn't understand the complexity
what it meant for society to live under a brutal dictatorship with ethnic and sectarian divisions he said in his hoarse energetic voice when we first got here we made a lot of
mistakes we were like a blind man trying to do the right thing but breaking a lot of things later he said you got a come in with your ears open you can't come in and start talking
you really have to listen to people i mean okay that is just it this whole thing is just a a great summary of a humble man right he say look when we came here we did understand
the complexity that's humility he says we did understand what it was like to live on her brow bietti that's humble he says when we first got here we made a lot of mistakes you not
said all we did everything right now we made a lot of mistakes we were like a blind man trying to do the right thing but breaking on things so they're trying he admits it were
trying but were breaking a lot of stuff later he said listen is you got a come in with your ears open you can't come in and start talking okay leaders around the world a paytent
on it that right there you don't need to come in and start talking come in with your ears open and listen and says you really have to listen to people very clear very great
leadership guided ride there back to the article they didn't even want to save thee i wore one officer told me it was the spectre of vietnam they did not want to say the
insurgency word because the next word you say is quagmire the next thing you say is the only war america has lost the nam and the next thing you conclude is that certain people to
vision of war as wrong so we had a hard time again dis as america at meeting a ass and just a bunch of tugs run round there's an organized insurgency here we needed fight it like
an interne a hard time making that mental transition as a nation and i'll tell you when i am told the story for when i got to remote a look it was going on i literally read the
countenance certain manual that was written by basically by general petraus whose brilliant guy and these guys the master i think mc fallen they all helped him right that article
a right that book so this was a totally different attitude and you know you hear it here that people people back in de ce tain't even want to use the word in searchingly they
don't ee that work cause it it makes everyone think of amand we lost right so the article em going going a little bit deeper on that back to the article the pentagon strategy and
two thousand three and two thousand four was to capture was to come at the insurgency simply by eliminating insurgents and approach called kill capture coat sat a retired special
forces officer who now teaches at the naval postgraduate school in moderate california set of the method it's all about hunting people i think it comes directly from the secretary
defense i want heads on a plate so stackhouse ritter you get some people that way but the failure of that approach is evident they get who sang they get his sons they continued to
work every week to kill more capture more they've got facilities for of thousands of detainees yet there is more insurgent than there were when we started in dereliction of duty
namaste wrote that a strategy of attrition was in essence the absence of a strategy on a great line that is right and so so maaster wrote a very harsh critique of the vietnam war
and the way was run again not not a catiche boots on the ground and the troops that fought but achatius back and c that were running it and you know this is just this is distanced
ible statement that a war of attrition is in essence the absence of strategy i okay what are you do when dosewell go kill me as i can okay that's if the estate our shortage not a
strategy the like when he got near them i may fight what your shot as you the gooes well put you in the face until i went at right that's not a strategy for my head down in the
after that we in contrition don't do that you need to have a little bit more strategy than that yes um back to the article if we are not stupid and we don't quit we can win this
thing and ken what import a two thousand and six this this major macalain maclachlan he's another person that interviewed in this article he stalked about like weakens this thing
right so if we're not stupid and we don't quit we can win this thing major major macloghlen said history teaches you that war at its heart is a human endeavor and if you ignore
the human side yours the enemies and the civilians you set yourself up for failure it's not about weapons it's about people that's very it's very true note you with sure it's true
in war clearly extrusions to and you get people that don't understand the human side of business then understand that they're dealing with human beings and they treat people like
numbers they're not going to be successful now you also get people at go so far in in the other direction that all they care about is their people and guess what now they're
making bad business as erinite hiring more people in their keeping him in not let anyone go in a rundale the ground as are one had too much they caused the ruction but on the
other side you've got some one that's a cup now being counter right no we you let that person go no saverne whatever limit you knew that methodology you're going to neponsets
either because the people they're cause they're people if you treat em like robots you're got your thereon work for you an they're goin to dirgeful against you the robot will do
what the robot is told but people on a robot so you got a remember that human side and ended obviously in war that's that's one of the reasons that were able if wearing lital
about this stuff to businesses where will talk about combat leadership to businesses the first often times the first thing that the business that's bringing us on has to get a
grip on is the fact that we were in charge of people not terminate robots right we will lay from a use that term time the people think oh you're the military you run a navy heels
ought dey do ever you know no not true they're people and guess what the enemy are people day have for they have passions they have desires and gets what the civilian populace
that you're working amongst those are human being still and they're not just going to listen to what you say and you can't just for instance can't just throw money anemou can't
just throw money out of they don't care about that money you you know is really interesting i read i talk about this this new story i saw in vice news of a guy going into the
headier the reporter's name busy young reporter spoke arabic and he goes into her monty wall it was surrounded by ice and i as was getting ready to take over and he said hey he's
talking just normal people and he talked to his one guy and he says you know the guy say look we really need help we hope america comes back and the reporter is wont whyn't you
just leave you want you get how to hear and the guy says i live here right i live here i'm a going anywhere that's a humour right that's a human abissinian the value is like my
house that i live in you're not going to take my house for me the leg if you if people came to try and take my house away from me there'd be a fight in an they wouldn't end well
for anybody that sentimental right so you have to remember that these human beings are human beings and that's the one of the key things that that mac master really mc masters
really understood billy understood this fact and and you know i'm giving a lot of credit to mc master batters a wad of nisame guise than talking about that i don't have them not
going through their names but there's a lot of guise that contributed to this idea and didn't outstanding job you know he's getting the credit gone jarge but i'm giving him some
critical guidance are but i guarantee if you asked him he say well now i had this captain that this i had this major that the dad and he had all these people but he's the guy just
like her something gone wrong he'd be espalion right so you can credit their gentle now he rode these these four thalluses of warfare which i find very very interesting and so we
learned kind of the tackle side of what he learned from his battle descendeth ree stayings eating you know he had ten lessons learned pretty tactical stuff right now we're getting
into a little bit more striegel or talk about war as a broad in a broad sense and so here's what he says about these four fontes and war warfare therefore folies about future war
that are preventing us from learning from a most recent experiences mc master said these fallacies are portrayed in such a way that they reduce risk to nighted states in crest
when in fact they exacerbate res because they over alive on capabilities and they purposely ignore continues in the nature of war the soil the the way they portrayed these things
as it make everything good for america but they actually make things worse for america because they ignore things in war that are always the same this is a war or talking about
the nature of war does not change no cayas first foley the vampire fallacy it's a vampire fallacy its vampire because you can't kill it and it comes back every ten years this is
the belief that a near roreng of technological capabilities will deliver fast cheap and efficient victory in future war the latest manifestation is the belief in a new range of
technological capabilities everything from big data analytic or artificial intelligence to drones and robotics and so forth through so whatsname have an idea that we can as a as a
nation just we were so so technologically advanced with nothing on send up to us and we can just use these precision weapons to take out amy targets and then it's over the fallacy
it's a vampire going to come back you can't just kill it is going to come back and you know obviously we've seen resultat iraq we all kinds of technological advances over the
enemy but they continued to come back and when we walked away they came back strongwilled isis now going that's pretty self evident what that means now what it is mean in business
and in an life will to me what this means is there's no easier touton is no easy solution to things right we look at something we go oh we can just do this we can just use some
certain technology or we can just use some ap right al if i get an apt to track my diet then i'll be good to go no got a stop putting the sugar in your mouth to be good to go
people want the short cut they want to make me think that there is an easy way to get things done and there's not you have to do the work there's a vampire out there what you got
to do is you got a rap that tampico its hat off you got a sot in pale water and then you got a dry bones out in the sun that that's what kills a temper i that's the attitude to
take you can't just think there's going to be a short cut will be able to wit through it is an empire you know to morrow because i have a a a cool gun whom i shoot no bullets
don't kill him i gotta go harder yes i think the correct way to kill empire to cut its head off it the the wind stake into a heart that's making me bethinking of my dear something
okay just kinda fytte holy water part was cracked he just do so as i i i don't want me to call you out here i actually do golden how to kill a vampire god that's wrong though i
misology is the ass otherwise he sees stick the winstin his heart crucifix will get em if you have faith sunlight will kill him so that was correct holy water holy water will
gendamerie yes and the yesindeed what that wemstedt his head off a pradon trust grovellest and learn to see if the one did write there otiosorum all yeah i took eyebright it was a
vampire and is drear quick we go you know what he did this was this man what i think you did i think you goliath is fine but his thing about boiling something googling is not the
answer to it's what you find from love and if he just go for the first one or the one that is like but not easy i rock the irony here an i try to take a short cut at a wrong and
that's the same that's the vampire fancy in it no right that yet holeproof the point all right next the zero dark thirty fallacy nettie of a movie about the e the killing of ben
made this is the idea that your dartit false this is the idea that all you have to gain to do to gain a victory in war is to gain visibility of an enemy's network structure and
then conduct raids against that network either with special operations forces or notes so the problem with both these fallacies of course they represent in portici ies u need to
have but these are capabilities that masqueraded as strategies and simple solutions to the complex problem of war neglecting wars political nature neglecting worse human nature
neglecting worse inherit on certainty based on the interactive nature and finally neglecting that it is ultimately a contest of wills so the idea that you can again its attrition
water and i i albion that never really looked at this as a creation warfare until i was readin researching for this pocas i never i always said hey you know it's a redman tality
hey we can just caporal the bad guys but i say yes that's a triton water that's exactly what it is and especially for me because i i look at old war worn as so awful in its
example of the treason war for not to make it so bad this is a titian war for to hayward sincapore kill all the bad guys how do you do that what would forget in his own what about
this line when you do that when you do say hello all we need to use his capture kilbagie is what you do you mask array this that capability of be able to do that which is an
awesome capability awesome capability but that mass that capability mascarade as a strategy and what you put it listening that you forget about this list is classic the complex
podmore you neglect wars political nature human nature inherent uncertainty interactive nature and neglect that a contest of wills so that's in there some great to videos where mc
master talking about that being less on learning that this red mentality was its park of suitor of the way you defeat in serenitatis if fetisherie is capter telemachus thou but
there's so much more you have to address that's like saying hey the way you went and you get you is the armorers you can even say i brought is that where you went in to do though
to cemeteries so if i taught you every submission i knew but i didn't teach you how the transition didn't she our position you would do us no way you could win it's the same thing
it is submission important yes that's what a ratis a rate is this submission one piece of it to not the whole game though do not the whole game and i think that's what he's making
very clear here through that zerobabel next one is the the wild kingdom fallacy back on america was wholesome there was no reality t v no car dashin or anything so on sunday
nights american families would watch this wild life show called mutual of omahas wild kingdom and that show what happened on that show is the host of marlin perkins would send his
assistant jim to conduct exotic and occasionally dangerous field work this is the belief that we could be like marlin and just get jim or other militaris to do our fighting for us
and this is a way in the minds of some people to reduce risk but it actually increases risks because you are relying on other people whose interests are often times in crude
incongruent europe own interests and not only don't have the capability to fight and do what you need to do but often times don't have the will to do it so he saying this idea
that we can just haywire just have the iraqis do it sounds like a good idea right cause i don't want my guys to get her her killed there is a problem with that the problem is they
can't do what we do they can't do it as well as we do it and they probably don't have the will to do it now credit to their acts right now there moving through miseltoe after it
they there have backed by american forces but they're they're taking the lead for sure so but when we were in remade those guys didn't have the will that we had they didn't didn't
mean as much to him with you can believe that a noxon's grazy we had a battalion of iraqi soldiers talk about the slave raid of the town no iraqis older so five hundred iraqi
soldiers that it come to remote as they do to help out in the fight they left they banded they quit a battalion father after soldiers and here's the weird thing the reason they
brought this battalion and one we need to more manpower number two they were soon so remote was assume city and both of the army at the time was she so the shears coming in and
fighting remodified the soon as would say at one what is the one are the shears in here so the idea was to bring the soonest to help and the sooner he got scared the person
battalion got scared and left and one of the reasons i said well so as soon he city as said wait wait a second well that's the whole point these are your people these are all
their soonest are getting murder by insurgents so it was just it was a tough situation and my point in sane that teresa whole tis a whole nother discussion we could have on that
but the point is that in order to win that fight we had to be on the ground the iraqis will not going to do it by themselves they would not going to and that's what this fauces
hey that if we just direct other people to do it then what we could to go on we not to take any risk now again how does that translate to what we do be a business how that
trairiness have that turns it to life for me it's real simple the important things that you got to do you got to do the the hard things at you got to do you got to do you know it
okay time paris can we out source some stuff he as we can don't worry tim will out source of stuff but the important stuff you have to do you go to do it got de yourself if it
really means something you ave to do it you have to have the will and you have to make it happen because if i also something to somebody if i say you hey i really don't feel like
reading this book you know i roselike reading this book with a poast can you read this for me will ask some is going to read it to the recanati perspective on it then there is
going to give me some notes among a set her room were not going to get the product that we need because that's important i have to do the work myself no one can i can all source
that peace can't do it as actually ten people who said like hey i can read the burial give you notes in a appreciate the offer no i got to read it i got a view the hard part you
know yet how you say let transire that stuff echo charles not in us not keeping in house for sure the the congruence the of of interest you know he would big one cause heedeth nk
that the person has the the same interest and really you both instinct but just may be in a different way especially when you thinking creatively like how you present this and
what parts do you think her important right are going to be slightly diffen if the person is the same interest as you therion to be different to have to lanate end of the day when
you expect a certain results can be different yes let you secousse body just roles were doing musashi said giant book and throw us highlight message other day and care to the
picture of it and he said you i wonder how close jocos high lights or a demy honesties you lettercase they might even be right on maybe but they might not be yet and i'm i can't
say he browsed me your book and your notes and i will do the pocataligo a cheap can't do that is just like you can't say hey you know what i racehorses that aren't ready that
don't have the same here's the big problem with the iraqi forces at the time the racehorses at the time didn't have a vision of what their country could be like the so think about
that we americans we had we had inherently being from america we have a vision of what freedom is like we i know what that is eriodes didn't know it that is they they thought men
they have under under saam for their whole wiseman all the soldiers that we were to it lived under saddam there a hale lives at all they knew so flem we say now you're going to
have freedom though like oh yes and no loristan even me what is that mean i don't know what that means we're we're thinkin hey good don't worry these guys all fight for going to
fit for the feet of their going to hire for the sooty brothers are going to fit for the iraq they're kind o like we don't even know they didn't even really have a good vision of
what i raisa is ill country that we used to go to etham and now it's not and we don't know what that means we don't know what that looks like we americans had a vision of what
that look like they didn't have it so how they going to fight for it side your point they don't see what we see they had a different opinion so who's got to go on there and and
have an who's goin to have the will to fight they answer us in that particular case and it's the same thing right now like even in masuren in the last time when he made was taken
back by by the iraqi forces good good on em props to the iraqi forces right now they're back up by americans americans are are saying he look this is the vision this which are
going to do this how are to take this part of it and that is the big difference of why they didn't have the will they didn't understand what they were fighting for and you take
anybody in put him that strong only the look in metamora right doobtna or or or american soldiers some of them you can go watching her views to know they were saying unanointed
for her they they they were actually questioned out of the not america's like any more right was really reading reading this book by jim thomson who you know longest held puffer
and when he got back he was kind of way out back to america you know he was gone from nineteen sixty four to my king seventy three we got back when you laugh america was fairly
conservative and in patriotic when he gets back he labouring flags people are protesting he he was taken aback by it and so so she took somebody that left for vietnam in nineteen
seventy and america's in turmoil and all that it's hard to have the same vision that they had had a nineteen sixty four which is i have america were new estop ecouis commensurate
comes or bad but then you start having the american socialist party that tell you the commissario and all sudden kids over there going on look out don't even know what's going on
but i'm not sure i want to die here in this jungle and that's problematic and is the same thing with with the iraqi soldiers they just didn't know what they were fighting for a
few asked them what they were fighting for they might say pay check harry few of them would say i'm fighting for a free and stable irac yes the very few of them that some of them
fought against truly heartfelt fought against the insurgents they didn't like the insurgents ray insurgents were murdering people and raping women and tortured people they like
that he need fight hard against them but that wasn't not every one experience that it not everyone saw that yes and i'm sure there can like you can tell him what your fighting for
you know and and i can answer you ye but ye don't ye it's like onlee you dad tell you when you young heded tell the eight clean your room i want this room speak and span like you
don't get a ye ill i'm in a tick of this whole mess i'm just going to put it in the closet just to hell stole me alone panthing you know and i mean well the dead your dead has his
vision in like like what's up with you ain't you clean your own don't you understand kind of thing there it meritorious and that your dad's trying to teach in a disponibles
freedom my kids were running late this morning go on to school why are they run in late cause there runs or messy at the eight you will hear running late everything stressful now
when her head in a school why is that well because you're your remisnesse lack of discipline lack of discipline causes mental stress metal stresses not freed of yeut point even
trying to explain to the iracoson ier wide there doing what they're doing on a weepin level like that is difficult is difficult now clayey get a good lead on him some gaetano
beaters there was one of the generals that the deletion command to work with he was a good duke he was a good leader and and the delton commander action had some really good i
racicot as well that really believed in what they were doing and i know that by it the reason i differentiate the death conclin worked very consistently with the same eyes a bunch
as as lay was workin with multiple different groups so the dealt con commander had some more piteans ips with some of those as bateato but anyway some of those guys understood
with their fine but it's hard to just like you said explained what freedom has se and the other piece of it is in the annotations explaining what freedom is is still no guarantee
at all right that freedom is coming your way these guys have been through so much turmoil that country's been through so much turmoil there like a you know what we don't even know
you can promise us that but don't seem like we're doing too well and i do we now you're going to win to do we know where don awin we don't know that soon now to an de lay low ye
ye were the thing false and then all they all step up one i know who's going to win you off a next the ars p fellows thank you for the kind invitation to the war but the united
states regretted unable to attend this is the belief that you can just up out of war it's a narcissistic approach to war which we define only or in relation to us and what we'd
like to do so the idea that you must be up out dosaratha bottom wine there is that ye got a gettigan the game is going to take place the games goin to happen and you're going to
be affected by that the key point is not a game that takes place on a field it's a game that takes place on a field and expands out in the crowd into the stands in a town and
tuscaroras getting burned you and riots take place so you have to get in the game not was the that was the fourth fallacior i think that all those really show not just how smart
like master as also how open minded as would is a very important quality is also think he's a realist he's a realist and looks at things in a very real way you know this is the
what happening and this will esdell with it and also what great about mc master is that he's not afraid to speak his mind and he got kind o gotten trouble for that long in a way
so am definitely looking forward to see how mac master hand all the challenges tattered of him right now not only in d c but in the world so freiritter resting and we wish him or
i certainly wish the best of luck in that pursuit so lead not to mintmaster and um think my going to little cue at this time so it's been a little while since we did cunarder i've
been doing face book life all yes and what i've been doing face be lives i've not i i purposely not preparing at all that's my goal my goal is do not prepare all because an in the
the second or the tea second one that i did i started looking at the question to had a time and i was saying okay well may stick a couple noterai alas in a sort of a very evasive
and then i realized if i went to prepare i make it paces so no don't prepare face book live asked me your question in all answer it there on the spot it's fun it's different right
it's easier i can't do to forecast a week because don't have time to prepare for it but can you face to live you can slide that thing in and those preparing for a live thing with
the dynamics of these book life on the deep feet the live kind of purpose in a way it does but we could do this pot cast on face book life so we could repair it and we could put
it on face but live we couldn't read but then it would be a reach of what we're doing and the other piece of it is is i think the face bore live is a way of people seeing a little
bit more of me as a normal human being read and not me as a guy with all the answers all stuff like now a yes because not at lynite amante and and also you know obviously on this
podcast is is usually pretty serious in so am not like that all the time so maybe they could well an i have i have a serious side no doubt sure but a man like that all the time so
i think face with live is a good way to say and pass i don't want to answer some questions here be for a couple of reasons number one man would somebody listened to ponakonta make
sure they're getting something right off a hialti right and not not just some fluff right we're not doing fluff here if we need to do fluff on the poast we junto the boast because
i don't at i don't want o somebody oppressed play it waste time leah who ermine i don't mind fluffing around and talk and smack on face to live because the excessive it's an open
forum or gain a have some fun were going to get after a little bit but it's not going to be super heavy because if you want that come here did your boast on you yes can more latin
up a little bit yes it's not like that it is not like i said okay m let's see i need to show them my life i've now but if you nokomai re ray is it with jode came on july gave all
like after we were hanging out for for like an hour he's a year's coming down i just thought you goin to be like follicularis like ovahtime liver eating a burger were good but i'm
not in the sitting there while i don't neuburger saying the betel you want no i don't do that what i meeting a burgher on i met a aeternitate sent they yet it was a live heaton
how like cat like the muster or if you know when you guys okay widdouten that's example like a live cuneo prepare for those question no not that and an end and also what interest
my phocas's those given some eminating about any of the par castagne on tempters juragan sat harris the those those guys asked me to have questions neritos guys were just as you
were just be singit during those so ill there is no guarantee that i'm not going to get it a little bit serious on the face boliver whatever a man do but do what people ask me
right yes but yeah during the muster cowed a lot of cunariche moster we get all kinds of questions there some really funny questions at buschir of funny responses they also some
some real serious ones that required very serious answers and what's interesting if this happened on twitter to somebody asked me some dead serious question like a very serious
mono something that's emotional can be like about losing gees or or something like that guy's killed in combat and all i'll respond to it and then to teetler some one says you
know i'm going to have some men coraceis cream snatty go through these if someone's read they must make an scissored pleas i'm answer real series then it's real light and then it
is kind of weird yeah a roller coaster man ye kiss said a motional roller coaster on the titorelli ght soceite charles back nickback in again i solyers question jacana should you
defend bad leaders at your superiors to your men think about that question this is a good it's a good question and we haven't done cunina while that's why i want to start off
think about that should you defend bad leaders that are people that are in charging you shoot you defend them to your men now this is really a perfect example of the dicoearchia
in this is one of those situations that made something beatership very very horrid because it requires a new one to balance to handle this correctly so almontes or boss is a
badland dozen know what he's doing to forgot absecon hesden's an idiot we are der mind his authority for sure and we under my leathery of the whole chanaan so should you call out
with someone socks you say all that guy socketed should you do that to your leader the answer is no you can't do that you can't do that for your under minding everything so got a
horrible leader you can't just sit there to your boys and say ay this gust idiot can't do that however if you give full support to this horrible loss then your troops who know a
good leader from a bad leather they know what stupid and what is it they know this they know this and if you are sitting there back in a honebeen then they're goin to know that
you either actually agreed with the tablet which is bad or that your too weak to stand up and say a boss what we're doing is wrong so you can't go to one extreme the bosses idiot
you can't go to the other stream the bosses of some think about how hard that is the gout what i'm saying this is a very very challenging so what can you do well okay first of all
as a sport of eager is your duty to push back right to kisses hey boss i think we're doing the wrong thing here in and this is why we spend a lot of time trying to build
relationships are also so that we can have canned conversations with them right sometimes it's hard to do that it is i understand but when you have built relationship then you can
go to your bossons love this isn't this isn't good now once you done that then you can go to your go to your your troops and you say he look i went to the boss is when i told him
you know i told him that a doing this method isn't going to work well he explained to me while we're doing at this what he said so this why were using this method i know i am
popular vogue but it's it's hers the reason why we're doing it so so you made progress right you guys are said okay well he at least set up to the man and now he gave us an answer
he told us why we're doing what we're doing so that's good too but he other thing is when he easeist wait to do this is to provide an honest truth truth is going to be your friend
here truth is going to be a franconia at around that because the truth might be you think your bosses a complete idiot and everything you say is stupid to casa i take it back not
in form to and ever so so this is so interesting too because clearly truthfulness is a huge you know is it's a value that i have called very dear right you got to be truthful in
all that to untelling you right out do not be true if you think your boss is nitet and you think the method that he bicinola he's got is stupid and don't be truthful you guys a
godown here is a bossiness not get help your team real we have to be smart about what we're doing but when ye when you do that what you need to do is atiptoe in the middle okay so
i it when you say something negative don't go crazy with the negative on it all not the negative what you want to do and say something like the look i i'm sure there is some
better ways of doing this but this is the decision that was made of we need to make it work right something is hauled say look at gaston better ways for guess work is what we are
being told to do right now and wore on to do the best we can to to that in putting it from like them to the we making a takin overshirt of it is now a or to execute a so you won't
do that early and and i also want to focus more or as much as i can i want to focus on not the personality of the boss but i want to focus on like the what were being told
tigeliinus as i don't want to bring out an keep the personality the boss at bay sometimes you get a boss that has such a raging asshole personality that you have to say something
like you've done you have to explain and that's what i even then you want to gratian the little bit you don't say the positano the bossie no you don't say that you know you say i
look as i now the boss's is not exactly perfect but i think he means well with what he trod and that way we do focus for that reason we new folks on executing cause not going help
us sericane but to us he might not have the greatest personality but you know what he's intention is good so let's support a eatonton yes i'm the like that where you are not you
you're not giving him full support pityocamptes ly thrown him under the bus in missus so hard to do because it lets face it the boys the troops they know what uptaken that boss is
initiate know when he's on professionally known he treats you like shit they know that stuff answer if you bowed out you break and you give that to him yes you're right the bosses
jerk yes you're right the boss treat people like shit ye you give them that you're you're a hurting the situation and that's wilson you are not leadership is your job oftentimes
has to buffer but tween the jerk boss and the boy you don't the boy should never know that the the kind of stupid harassment that you get from your bosthoons uld never know that
they should take hey jackass this guy's got to go where god togo there's never think that this guy's an idiot so again in both cases it's like you can't go hard core he can't go
hard core against either the plan or the person but you also at the same time i need he give a little bit of a pressure release just a little bit of a pressure release you know to
give them just enough that they go you know what you want them to think you want them to think they joodges it he knows united matting it to us and good on him he is he keeping it
professional they know of the they know the jointed know it i love the boss but they know keep in a professional so therefore they they except the one of saying and they stay part
of the team yet kind of feel like a kind of imagining myself as one of the boys frayeur my boss in rewheel like year busiri i feel like sure if i was made to feel better in
whenever we just a little bit better that pressure elysa said this little bit better about them the mission okay and i trust you because of how you always handle things or
whatever you know what a right is not the best finest what i've versant my first choice but at least we're doing it together you know i trust you and i let do this kind of thing
and will a keeting you dissidiorum if you trust me and the boss is saying to do something compellers and i come down and say echo that's what we gonadotropin hole and they're
going to feel it back and i wouldn't do it sixties to day let's get to work and you know it's stupid and i come down and try and sell that to you without any explanation with that
fully not yet with that voice and among to lose trust you're going to do not onesome as much not by comedown and say ay ay boy nayburing in this was going on yes she immolate her
on back the leaseholders going on i know the skin come across this strange to ask where i egeat done we got to dig these holes and were to fill him back in a whereunto the six
times to day again i know it's a not exactly what we you're planted bulook let's get after it let's get it done and let's prove to everybody that we can make this happen
fascinated all sunderberg's you know what i mean he in factor whereas again if i go into like a dorking nerve voice and try and say we are going to do this because it safest plan
ever and you anointest with you i am actually hurting my trust so this is a really really new or thing and my best advice here is to try and keep it in the middle right sasiety
lean a little bit leaned towards being professional lean towards the boarding a chainman causes because the guys are going to know when you give him that little little pressure
leaf muse hey i know is cut this ita little bit of a strange plan as soon as i say that if his like okay he on a yes werall do never he says the jacotot it you you got it you got
you got to have is to this collette it's when i come down and say and again you realize that this is this is the opposite i tell the time you know how come down and say the boss
has planned we got to do this i was to that is like the worst possible leadership is hey we got to do this because we were told to do it that's the worst possible leadership not
saying to do that on i'm saying is a little pressure leaf to no little pressure leaf of a look a there up a different plan i thought my plan is a little bit better basin up with
this decide working for it it's close enough to something like that dislike i i know i know it is that's it little kehama little a little nugget yeah i feel like i would feel if
you were to be like this such a dumb plan and at one while we got a do it the whatever i delawaw then why are we do elliston at your my bottle why will you in one you know and i
wouldn't want to do that no sentirai the inlet it leaning towards being professional a leaning towards supporting the chain of command and with just enough of a pressure release
to to to have him say to story to isis real real quick this is am neith your time i wander in tell me the wall essarman tradition this is read in my schelyani wear that and i
thought of this so we we i know how leonin class right as a helicopis man you know in class he be there like he get into groups are gonna do sing and am so his hat into these
groups and and we did some project little thing during class were done half way through glass were dining were but the present the teacher looks at it and is like all you guys got
to do it again but the teacher and tall everyone she tell just this one girl marais at marli yes so maricones back from socknersh's like she was kind of the leader known deadly
but she at that point visconte little leader than leeson between the groaneth so she kept poseidon do it again and were and here was like what she is we cut it do it again like
you could tell she had accepted it but just her being like sighing kind of demon strait as that she feels the pain too i digged but he gusto know we're not going to complain right
it's just that little subtle thing but that the xactly what it did it kind of it basically accepted the order that would nonymous really wanted to hear but at the same time she
demonstrated that asafiel it too you know and i issue did again of course and whatever outamaro in a plot so sure in more leonesi goes on yet it was weird that i mean i don't know
necessarily that she intended to do that but that was the exact effect if you came to a thinking back i can see the the elements you know the oppressure release was her not saying
don't talk to me like that she saw was a duty she inready or just her little she had how antrim you know what she didn't do she didn't jump completely on board with the teacher
yet and be like we got to do this again it socked no yonily we got raffeisen ye no to mean as she just to tell him for he has nought'll tell you this this question of surprise it
took so long to get discursion because this is a really really good question and it also is a incredibly important skill to be able to walk this line and it's tricky to do and
it's a very itit sort of this might be one of the this is like the type of thing that helped me a lot in when i was in the teams among was just being able to do this enough cause
you could afterdoon dumb shitamachi and you know what liketo i be the old a translate stupid something stupid and give enough pressure relief to to make eyes not just go jackass
just you don't know penny go ye right company i you'll be you villison stand up for us now as i do but this is you know like a son tell mastery about two paper work well my
nowhere odo all the paper work i i i went i held the company line but like in such a dynamic or as such an overboard way the gaslike okay yallerin he she competition yes the let's
go times yes like a meat it cause it seems like okylar work it's it's almost like the paper work was like an affront doelike at what retains them kind of retherton is to the paper
and euralie yeah it's not as an anaeesthesia take it that something is done i actually don't not a farm on a talk about the store before like an all sir candidate school every
little stupid rule that they see what use i did it to the entered everybody at agree where they were just going boating blastic is so a story like that well we're just goin
wordingham order in carried out to the extreme of paketriotit his ad and another in fact it gateby me along the way they were going to do that when you do it so hard you're not
even know what your name was that's another tack iitae for sure any one is to pass these boots they want to be at the cleanness well do it and watch this right next quest shipless
jacko has there been a situation in which you took something too personally how you voidance so the initial reactions acknowment take the tapers not questibus actual fact is ye
take thing i to everything personally right like i mean i if i do something bad i am very personally i don't like it at all if i do something poorly i don't like it at all i take
it very personally somebody gives me feed back i i take it personally this is like isn't eagle thing a pure eagle say right and i had i just had to say this it goes talking to
just because i say eagle is bad all the time ye goes good too goes what drives you you go is what made you an to be number one ego is what is bring your pride in your work and
make you work harder to give deliver good product in and be a good leader in a good employee and a good person right that's ego the problem comes when ye go or taking things
personally actually prevents you from listening to the cat you're being told that that's the problem so for instance we'll take this little poast here scotsmen critical the other
day one i got somebody somebody sent me a little critique and i said that i didn't explain cause we had and some fun here in any cintrat lean off that is his career in the teams
and if he was rattling off the career of the teams he lost some people not a bunch could it wasn't that complicated but he lost some people and inference he used to anaana um an
apron l p o which sanfredini petty off her which is the which is the second senior enlisted person in the suppeton and i didn't explain that when he said it so there is an example
so when i heard this my first reaction is i oh you don't know what lo is cold go go go go go it why you asking me bricator talk and then that was pretty much you know my my ego
was saying he luckily this person to eat how do they are you dear you and that that i as i thought about like will you know i need it i didn't make sure in the future that i more
than i more aware of what gods are to especially when i'm sitting your talking to it another seal who we have a common language and we are talking about things in a very
conversational mode or we're not caring about anybody else and that sort of what the poast is often is like we're not we're not talking to everyone that's listening at this moment
were escondito ourselves or amongst ourselves and so when he throws out this words i need to be more aware from sin if i took it personally it might not listen if i actually
listen i can do better job so that's that's kind of it it enviably that's the same with anybody when anybody receives any criticism of any kind they get they take it personally
the i think the thing is to things no mean get over it see and listen to what the criticism is in and also remember that his kind a weird i i think maybe i'm wrong will you think
the more angry and the more personally take some criticism the truer actually has is that possible and when something really bombers you it's probably something that really
bothers you because you know it's true yet it went somebody says something that just doesn't matter to me i i it's you know i don't take it personally all ye there just think that
don't worry about it i'm not worried about it but when somebody says something that i know his true and their pineneedles get even more than it more personage more angry about it
and and then that should be an indication something you actually need to fix ye all has to do with insecurity more than anything seleucan be super true or it can be kind to you or
he can just be questioning it whether or not is he if you're insecure but it that's when it's going to cause you can be like her can be okay you not lie say yes of a receding
hairline and the like for all i do i don't care about that at all it's totally true you know and or let's say i do care about it i don't like it but i i i've known it for the last
time in all twenty years whatever and so like hey you know your hair lines receiving no meister about that i don't i don't think they now know i don't know any but i'm just saying
were our iron things that i am and if you know about it or you know and you know it's true i see you won't necessarily be bothered by it but if you get someone who's like but it's
starting to receive or verily on or its like ay and they won't necessarily be just an example a pathetical but they won't necessarily be concerned about the actual halingre eating
there more concerned about ocotillo older and my unattractive now or am i losing it now or something like that that's what their insecure up to bout so in some one point out some
symptom of that insecurity that's when they're like weather you know they get on a man tagore anything so may be on now maybe some one saying ha you did it explain this enough
maybe you're like we would you say was at a junk episode contain or or sometimes did i not um be in all you you're good at explained stuffining may be was like a anacaona or
loaisa personal point of pride ye yeah you know i exaltation you but maybe but that's typically what people get mad about it's not necessarily if they know it's true or not it's
if there insecure but right well you wouldn't be insecure about something that wasn't true i nothing he was a thing but sometimes you do go you know but i am yet i'll sometimes
it's like a weird like mental like problem but you know girl for example i'm nothing all girls but losing totally generalized right now but you know the girls like he do i look
fat in this the girl's liking of some shape or whatever and you're like a worth they always think are fat that it's not true that not reaeson by the loeventein matoority know so
anthat it's like that can of stuff you'll be pore to sing secure let tolbod stuff sometimes oh any even to the girls and really good shade yet ye were i a asheen guise when he
specially like if they're intellects their physique or something like that were the i don't know there at a party or side her gussie they go to party as an they'll do like dips or
push up before they walk in youedlin other more pomp is twice war and is that why you are doing some personalities like you and you are just a little enigmatically way so
inanellata kind where they'll be like i am they'll think that on not looking very cut up or some mieaou know in second stuff when are not true yes yes no i think i think you
that's a good point and i think the bottom line is when we take things personally i think it's actually not a negative thing an cause it means that you're there's probably
something that you need to work on but i think what we need to watch out for is taking it personally in therefore being made in either he mantatees that told you what's the person
probably could be outline you know say in some stuff that's offensive but even some of the fingo what okay well i fixed it selina that that that weakness or that insecurity any
more in setina your red flags are known you take it somebody everybody takes stuff personally i i'm like this tutamen and i think so personally all dimensional lothario ride
better ye eintje of sienite big picture though i'll like it because the let im go on an let initial ways think back to the note the relation like okay let's say let's say i at
home i mowing the lawn i i you know did all this these great housework chores whatever you know dad comes home i'm come home and he like hate that i thought i told you to take out
the trash meanwhile everything else is speaking spanishlike i'm mad you know how dare you say that to me what i did this mean me my thing my thing but at the same time there right
you know so you do the double like you'd be able to kinda recognize that even though you probably feel those same rursus you won't the your default is it wow dis it and fight back
in you and make the problem diggers penali you'll feel it on the inside and recognized the red flags yeating egolatria remember tatches as the truth is that's correct that is your
osama if you did the lane not the trash was the thing you know so yes it he you do good job of boat recognizing that part i think a lot of times in our case we don't desertion you
ometries of subject but it just made me think of a talking to but dave a hat at the gym yesterday he was listening to poastman he lost his asian like six months ago and you was
listening to a clip from the pond cast of me basically saying he came on asked what good comes from it some one dies and he he said looky covered wotatoff and they was
superpowerful in and was was very helpful he said the butter's a one more thing he said is one more thing that and as come from my dad's death that is good and i said one and he
said it was like a slap in the face of go out and and get after it you know it and i kind o left that out i've i've talked to other people and clearly you know when you lose some
one that's close to you i see the reason i guess the reason that i didn't think of this is because in the teams you kind of like you guys get killed you know and we all kind of
already lived with the feeling of he man an i said all the time i'm going to live the best life i can but for some one in the civilian actor and they haven't had any any they
haven't lost any one david had any one died close to them they get the feeling that many a low many people walk through through the world with of a man liver you know mocenni on
all the time and i reigate and so he made this great point he said you know for me when my dad died he is you know he's in his mid twenties and he's been kind of you know i don't
want to say the word relaxing but he's been you know fairly copied been using kind of and he sterilized he can't he can't do that now he needs the need to get after it so cool
cool story cohiba i thought i had let everybody know that's another good thing wouldn't it if you lose some one and you you're not accustomed to that and you don't see how
precious life is because a lot of times prettsy forget its breezy forget all brushes is when when it's right there is given to you not this like food all pretres forget how how
precious was the was the crappy loaf of french bread with sticks and bugs that had colonel redgate foutin the critical in her not and that was precious and you don't want even
colonel reader three weeks later he was that all this deprehendisse is laughing like that bread such a lecture here he said it was like the best that ever had to go hell awares we
all get we all get this attitude that you know hey this is always going to be here has not always going to be here so don't don't treat like it is not for granite next quest i
join being told in gigito that i'm using too much strength to execute techniques and dominating rolls i get after it in the gym and try to be stronger and fitter i already limit
my strength against sam way training partners and definitely don't pull don't bullrush or overpower light a partners i want to prove my eugenie and understand the intent of
reducing my strength and i reduce strength to learn the skill but where where is the balance i feel like i feel like i'm doing a being penalized for working hard and being strong
and he has to be an element of strength the to technique right now that i'm trying to do zererath working weep positions in the still go a hundred present me i'm not learning
anything right what he asking what is my what is my twenty five per cent stronger been my training partners one hundred per cent of train no give for four years but guilford
twelve months don't judge white belt warrior o gay so you know i don't think any one is sane zero strength and just be a are you stalked in the kid glass that would do like
flapperlike the use of the black needle you know is second your partner right aneihe don't be that is no one's telling you to use his erostrates not the that's not the the goal
here you want us last strength and immeshment i work out so i can be strong and when we're rolling if i have to use strength i'm going to outoven pressed me off of you the other
day no cross i'll take any yea yellala you know he oeyvind it out laayer like a nolliver so so that's good right and i and you you used to cause you had to use it you were going
to get punished and your anamanamona across the side door in the wall so boom got bench brunowe into ye so so yea we we want to be strong for sure but i'll tell you this is a
musician went on wintry was some one i'm going to use just enough skill and strength to stay slightly had of him just enough much run across him if some one's an etape some to
weigh lighter than me then but they have kind of equivalent skill then omination limit my strength as much they can at the juiciest for sure but i am definitely at use my strength
if needed for really for a couple of reasons the first reason is causing ego sir right i don't at ave only convasation o like that you if you caught if you train like when we're
done training the indefinitely using strike cause i'm dripping with sweat right imansig physical attributes but it's not the only reason the other reason let you have to use your
strength sometimes is you don't want give people to false tedesci that a that wart right and even your good train parts i do want to say all the guy gets a position so you just
have right gus is it in a competition or in the street the person not disconto an eat do it right so that's it i guess the bottom the bottom line is that my guess is this deed is
probably using too much recision lesueur's naturally really strong and he works out and he thinking of entrainant no gie for four years so now in put this kenman angry about it
and i lobeid the little bit somebody used some strength ye i would set in just try try and relax and just what am i favorite paid pieces advice to give relaxed harbors the erlac
trying flown your old little bit and it did definitely will make you i'll make a better in the end for more you relax the bother the better you'll get any o ye lit and certain i
found that like certain guise that's just there just there method really just iron the ain that's how they roll and you they're disagree musically that tall and i found the day
can a lot of times they can get more technical roselet really that's kind of their their strength in a way and that's the it's just their way of rolling in the soft opposition
want now that you mention it as some people tarlike that they have like an on and off switch the either all on or there just super easily yet almost layoutmen ground if you can if
you can't but it people are deerlike let's say um like remember franklin he ahorcaberis or consider him where he is going to be real technic of flexible and flown stuff and that's
a digitisation to be more strong and rigid in aggressive can train that but his default is that slow flexible way the enguiser like this i think that's going to be kind of their
default they can train come be vitalite bit and get it more for sure but that's kind of just there that's that's the vile they have you know of and it's it's almost like a genetic
thing is not genetic another but it's it's kind of it's all like the foundations hoover franklin was of trip to roll with because he was so flexible but not just in a normal way
you know it is flexions a spine yes my only put your weight on him and he would just wetlike genoullieres illilos he is ian oropaa was like it i wish he can't train in man he sat
gatogenon though there yeomanlike occasionally he einion ye he really feel good though still get oh but yet it's kind o it there's it's more of a mental thing like if you meant
tilly had there's drills like you can do you wemember em jerry allowed in was his natrual used to do seigfied dis flow right in you of people say listessly then they're turn to
kill you eyetallyano be like his flow would be like a fast not and you could even try to hold him down and and he just be like to inflame you get you in a good position they need
get right out of it in a note you know like us really good at flowing to the point were for you get kind o tired nose you moving so much it's not full speed slow it's almost full
speed though so i remember doing that a lot with him and it really translated when i would roll it would be like i felt like that difference infectious i was oldwomanish andy like
that which is good ition to this feweegin but we're going look you know which is gosling there that sound sillifant that's what it is i mean that's what it is the the don't ever
do that would denton ever no don't ever say listen to him say like a lotus get warmed up because he's not going to do that i analostan a good position hesitating amnon who at a
just feel horrid motherhood eh ye and he's real good at that lontaine but that's a good way though like if you athanasian for that's a good autremain that's a good way to learn to
relax more yes yes yes selina become some more common because elifazi man if you're strong and you're going into rollingpin were it before saying hey you're you're using too much
strength payonnay now if you're otometoge ye there's an issue an yetta my point is even though your saying saying hey e some people are just that way don't accept that like who
the guy that asked his question don't accept echoes thing of an some people just that wake it at me ourson to keep you in and you young abetter as he will the more you relax to
better you get ye her and of course i don't mean it like that yes i don't you adnano you don't want i'm saying like don't get that misconception that that's what aches tringo say
and you're just that wiggo with it no how oorit lists whateley saying hey find somebody to flow rewarmed it low ye skill be frenaye find a person whose kind a default method is
this and then by the way i just realized i don't say florodora when i said andy an i we don't say any more we did do it but israel's goin to want a prop a cicala up or laugh
ofatulenus now an sometimes it's just like a techneer in her nernesianus elipses doit say as do some slow rolling its drills and gets better at it i would i would guess that verus
going to be a significant remainder of his game that's going to be this aggressive game oiran yet able to the delicate home digression the man for sure a the little mind set that
might help is think less competitively he howie a loveable it's true though there's his thing this this element needs to be there where it when his time to to spar it should be
competitive otherwise so what are we doing you know i wanted to if i want you to be compatible cause i on in accurate look what it's like to both jackariah jacobi strong good
educate er if you're just florelle with me in noncompetitive ly every single time i'm not getting the work that i meet there i'm not unless a sedater love earlier too is that's
why you call you i heard a right to yet you sir yes so it should be competitive but if some people complain you're going to our year going straight up like every eros eighty s c
analine light or death you know find it more in that i the moon giles snare so if you think maybe less of that she and understand that this is this is training if you want to get
less you sing strengthens of thing you got a cantin it stuff a late meatly exercet quest she ducaine some advice if you've got time read time what's a good course of action when
someone lies betrays trust or just plain dish troyes you move on straight of moveover them they are lying and they are untrustworthy so move on now sometimes i can be hard
especially if they somehow tied themselves into your life especially like for instance you to kids involved a divorce naryan move on but you have to mentally move on yester
emotionally detached from that human and that's hard to do because obviously they were some one that you trusted it be any reason i know that you trusted them as because they got
to a point where they were all to betray your trust and destroy you so they they it's hard but the fact that they trust that you trusted them the fact that you had that
relationship that's even more reason to walk away do you more reason to move on you got to see them for what they are in this is an important piece reader this is important press
some are learned as a young had out there in the world that person is not who you thought they were right they are not who you thought they were the idea that this person was a
trustworthy faithful companion is not true it is not true that person does not exist they didn't exist and they don't exist i was in your head it was in your head that this person
was trustworthy and you they were everything you wanted them to be in the refacimento is a lie they are not that person they have proved it they have proved it by their actions so
move on and at the risk of sounding callous git over it get over it do not dwell not dwell on to not dwell on on on he is and don't dwell on what it could have been you you guys
got through bad break ups you know it's just a thought we are going to sick no don't dwell on that jewish what it is right now what that person is do it reality except reality and
be be thankful for all be thankful that you were able to learn before you invested moronto this person be be be thankful that you found out when you did that this person was all
yer that this person was unfaithful untrustworthy be be tankful that you know it and you know it now instead of later and you know what else can a man on easier to get over these
situations is recognized that there's plenty of people out there in the world that are trustworthy and there are faithful good people there is their utter go find one of them but
don't think that that person that you had was the only one in the world there i not and you know what if that as sometimes sometimes people have a hard time making that trust
because they're so caught up and they they they don't want to meet some one else right away that's fine start with yourself right reliance trust yourself could we on winsome one
brador trust we we we question ourselves to like we think aren't my judgments bad i'm not a good judge of human character cause i totally put my faith in a person look what they
did to me so now we don't trust a sea got a bill that trust up you got a bill that trust up back again with yourself how do you do that lead right lorn work out dolon it okabe
alone people get freaked out when they're alone it's o katte alone to k to hate to be alone that no big deal enjoy it do something productive and bill that trust up in yourself
the old look back at a situation long from it we do that sopot operational debrief oh you've put too much trust in somebody cool they broke your heart all right roger at let's see
what were the steps wotiver cognized how many times it i say well you know then call me with probably just cause their foam was out a battery no won't you phone on doubt about ere
one okay you don't let it happen again right so you start seeing those red fox do you then stake that you made and i look for him next time around because you deal with people all
the time that they they made mistakes the first run they go back they make the same mistakes a second running back and make the same mistakes of third run that's when you got sore
blame in yourself ye on your situation that's why that's why i said you got a like buildeth with yourself you've got a learn yourself he got a trust you are learned to trust
yourself so spent some time doing that and then when you go back and you start deal with people causes what that's what your watch out for is that you become a hardenin i no trust
anybody like you were talking about cops you know sometimes consort hard time to cause they're doing with scumbags all day long then a builds up this this mistrust of other people
so you don't want to have that happen you want to be suspicious of people but you want to be able to build trust once a broom themselves so take those small steps and start to
build up over time don't just jump in and give someone a hundred per cent trust out of the city don't know him no no you know back in the day backwater corbana the teacher that
just said trust no one was a year thus legit right you don't don't go out of the gate with the big trust on somebody with important stuff ye do it but the good news is like i said
there's plenty people out there are good people that you dare give you that eat and give all your trust to just take it slow brother yet and fill crazy how you disexpand that
fusile and it makes total sense when you're in the situation though washine you can't just detach it be like what are the road flows to it no no you do visiting me a single person
or whatever is your vis asked otnit eager eyelids but broiling at pictures asked the worry i don't like a juge out the picture and stare up in guys do not my browsholme till in
say for you to not an help that it arsinoites always to me this was explaining like listen conscious she was no no she wasn't that is a lie that person that you put put together
in your head that you assembled in your mind that person doesn't exist they don't exist i the person that you dont witwaters unfaithful was a cheater that's the person the first i
wasn't a person at your putting forward in your mind that person doesn't exist to stop but but you don't understand the good time the healfdene's a c he's the chick ocansip okay
that personal eyed it preecher and what a kind of said there was a noncontent real part of it for generally it's like sure they did this sure she um a flat my tired when she gets
master all that homebodies we have her so good so it's it's it's proof that it is not about the person is not about the person that you can feel the red flags and all the
miscreation time to time ere they be is val yourself and how your sad now because of all these reasons but the trick comes with what one of the tricks come with a sametini said
about drinking were to your brain cause it's like chemicals when you bond with some one in order in certain ways and it's different from you know a very from persona person but
it's like a hint's like ay to enter and on a something where it's it's i will go alyssome eisenau you feel this bonifacii person that's why you have these fears even though this
girl like lies to you you see her lying tecmessa's on your phone right now you're looking at em men you still midst till missus to trick because it sang like that your emotional
like well being is attached to this person kind of thing right and although if you just kinda ignore so just like one thousand with drinking right why no consciously like i'm
going to be all over to mary i won't bet anything done all this stuff monkery do i want a drink so bad right now you know canting now and it's the same thing the chemicals in your
brain or telling you like this girl is essential for you you know for your well being is not yet all that fond aingodon nethla it's the treason i don't listen you brainless in to
me that she is notional that's all or a brought i'm tell you but that's the logic mariolatry i have seen so many situations were guise or just be any in what's horrible is absent
her saying is it you could be smacking someone in to face telling a moon to one in her neck and less in that that's got to make that decision yeh that's that's that's it's hard
and is ruined their lives i mean the use you it always an otaheitan their lives you know with over somebody that is completely abusive whether men to be or physically the just
completely vesinaud or love for the person it at par and seen my mind i think it's because they build the person they build the person on the frame work of reality they built a
fantasy and their love with that fantasy and they want to keep it going right it a fantasy so she and they did a matador like all the conifers riders legs and they remember the
good times even if it's like like ten minutes you know a week day remember those good times they ignore the the the red flags foot because of that that you know that trick that
chemical chirkin their brain and so it reinforces that thing that they built you know that fancy that they built at its true yes big the reality is this big then look at feniton
they just attached to it to you ever see or like a friend would have reason to sing your net you never meant situation like you her head of the a friend where they are really into
it there almost ruining their life there in bad sheep owever and then when they'd be all of a suddin or years later whatever their thinking back in their like while as i thank you
because the chemical tricks or speak where is it off and then they can see that logic to you're talking about and i all my gosh then it's it's almost like it's almost like you
feel like you were a different person you recover him nearest the fact that you can't talk any sense into people will hear that situation if the track an you got to try my hard
card but i think knowing that that's it it's a chemical in your brain that is tricking you and i go for a lot of stuff do not like all this did strike you if you know like a an
you say i'm not going to be set i feel it i say this said i feel the sadness i feel missing this first in but it's a trick you know there that helps it totally helps i like it so
move on an i know it's hard trust us speaking the moving on next question unless we want to talk about this moreno i hagoromo al je haxall ray it's move on in what circumstances
do you recommend to rest at ease i will all on a window at me not elnathan but what's horrible is man people kill themselves he in these elewation yet over a lie yes that's that's
some irechester but it's a lie it in guise or girls get so distraught over this fantasy that dozen exist and what's really jacked up as if they could just move on they'd find a
reality that was actually conroth what their desires are on its out there enough you see people all over the world bear there bear in relationships i having fun for very love of
right there's someone out there but you you get caught up in this mental trap and an obsessing over a fantasy it's a fantasy go don't go cessaverint man eat there's you can go and
get over it and there's plenty of other human beings out there that are awesome to go find one of them and in the mean time hang out with your bad as self it become a better
person and working out as a big one for he sotherer as i nat'tion epersen dis give given the gem a get after it to diesels everything is lifting sales every leg a okay so what
circumstances do you recommend direct attack in combination with indirect if any or you have an example these we talk about fighting all time i always recommend a combined attack
right the if you only attack the flank was in the enemy's got a just hipolite now start finking i mark now is the fronton becomes the nose you need to fine attack or at least you
need to attack with some minor level of force directly so at the ideas to defend what you're doing and i mean clearly wouldn't when we are examples are pretty easy to come up with
were when or doing raids like a salon buildings you're going to tack that building from multiplications at a minimum at least you're goin to set distractions on some of the other
directions and is same thing were set nuver watches a we're goin to have all at aftimer you have a man over watching we have a little mother little flight or a watch there won't
you come to get us you're going to pay and like a classic l shaped all sold there's a reason is called el shape in shape like an eleve you have a a fire a base position that's
going to put down fire on the target and you have a new raiment that's goin to come in from the flank but even with that you you you have to do a base omen and moral the gorion
cause you're goin to be basin put down fire and then of maneuvers on a over it so yes those are those are clearly some over same thing yes it's the same thing in the business
environment right in the business environment if you are going to minneria new market you don't just to walk away from your other packer it you don't if you're to develop in your
product you don't throw away your own product now you keep at yerbas you keep that going and then you find so it makes sense there um ye so absolutely when you when you're going
to attack attack from both tirection i affect i do that most o the time so no quest is actually the relay question its more comment he i got opturned into a question at yeares
onde to the comet for canitur iacobi glows just want to say quick thanks i struggle with the daily grind trading days for dollars but you help me make it after a i am my comment
was like okay well thank you i guess because i hope at the same time that your groining that your treating that you i hope that you're not trading days for dollars long term
because long turned that a losing proposition right if you're grinding any not doing something you want to do if it's a grind at you can't embrace then got a find a way out of
that right you got to fight you can't trayton a trade daze for dollars cause allers don't ananti days all you got so you go find a wow now this does not mean you need to be
ratibouf it this doesn't mean to morrow you walk to me do it i shall buy more about and now you're broke no don't be rash and don't throw the baby out with the bath and of but do
come up with a long term plan i watch you when i do how you want to do it where you want to do it and this might take one year or two years or five years in my take five years to
get to where you want to be that's okay that's fine it's it's actually kind of cool when you're grinding right now but you know there's something that you're working towards in
the long room that actually awesome so but but you've got to have an execrate you got a haven a strage that plan and figure out how much money to go to take in what even a due and
at work two jobs in a war save on my money right now when invest here you pay off my marage whatever is you're going to do so that you can get yourself in a position where you
actually enjoy doing what you're doing that's what you want and the one other cool thing about this the like like a salmon it's cool grind then that's what we're here to do your
here do it stuff right donothing although what are you doing at the so that the other thing that's cold to labouring and working is is that when you get that freedom right that
you work hard for to be so much more worse that discipline that you put in a place to get to that freedom that you want it makes that freedom so much more worth it so appreciate
it i'm glad you're grinding i'm glad your grinding hard but don't just make that trade it's not a square trade days for dollars stower trade get it back under your town we that's
i actually handsome really cool feed back on the po cast of people have had me up and set hay i you told me to plan an execrating quite find it to guy said you told me to play
extray he's a that was whatever nine months ago i saved my money i just did this now monote business of tacking as thank you right to can be done as one of things about
coalboatman being you got free will you can make stuff appen e to go make it happen man and that to the tuteloes tricks there too where you know that all we talk about the
discipline discount when you you and you place grigosie pay off ten carinena the expense of the long term pay off so it's a even exit strategy for five years it helps actually
vitiis like forehead in a where if you look at that end exit strategy as i a you know all golor whatever and the time in between thou and then is preparation time the thaw that is
like presooms like i remember one when i was working in the night club that was thousande nicopol job all short turn pale stadacona day to day week to week i get my pay check i go
hang out go work pay check and tip all just short term pay orright so i was in there for eat like years how many years savantain saw the end of like almost even saint malo so i
remember thinking when i was like over it or any member thinking then i i feel like i waste lotters i'd think back now i didn't cause i learned a lot alike psychological stuff but
am i remembered like reflecting and belin men i spent a year i went to college all this stuff really slack through college went to the same way just like okata the sclaffer may
not pass it whatever a wentloog be coldwater and i reflect and i think dan i spent my life preparing for nothing really consciously i mean passively i did because i liked certain
creative things and in that you know materialize for sure but actively the consciously elnora certain people that are like i want to be an architect for him that's it and i'm
doing it i know a lot timesitheus family history and certain things is like they know you know and they wind up doing it a lot of time but i reflected in thought man i'm here i
spent my life up to this point preparing for nothing in life i know about working out that's it so a lot of times when you're making your you find yourself in a grin that without
like a pit a existantes like that it lieth that will be the case like i've spent my life kind of preparing for nothing really but that's the good thing how you're saying it can
take a year can take two years five years whatever start preparing for that five years and at the end of the five years come to you are prepared verities end one year doing
something focus like hay i got to give devinitie like some one plane of piano intoning balineri you spend one year focusing at the end of the year you can be pretty prepared you
compared to the average person see spend like two years five years preparing whatever that exit strategy is and you fer prepared men look at that time as this is preparation time
ye and it's if only somebody comes up to you you been working at the night club for a year and says hey echo what are you going to do with your life you're like oh i wouldn't eat
you do mediately say well what let me pray that another way echoed are you planning to oh you know both night called bouncer for the next twenty five years your answered clearly
be no okay so what do you get ready for you cause a lot of times this person is aware that there in a grind aliens people don't even realize that what they're doing that there
there there marking times what we call military your your marching but you're not going anywhere you feelingly on you your spending your wheels so think about it a great point
that you just made his what what will you preparing for if you it'll be learned to play the piano oh you could be in the game right now right now ye but so after important thing i
specially new start parkney beleather younger you know all my nation sixteen seventeen years old cause there marketin yeehaw in fun ye but it's old to have fun let's make sure
we're making some progress and in the old insommary to have a better future and all the time what can you do to build capacity for your future hey you know you are any something i
talk about this and we we didn't even re reckinize that there's anything else you could do besides being the teams as it that's it thanking god as no young temoana be thinking on
anything else and walklate does give you a preparation for other things my have cause your own your supposition you're going up you have an in skills your learn whether you're
learning parish you ding an you learn and stuff from gusset out of the teams all the time they become constantly confinements and in it be all kinds of good jobs but if you're not
in a job like that your job like a bean a nightclothes a fun job right it's cool he bengaged time but let's make sure we have an execrated young that one red yes and an doesn't
even necessarily mean like if i wanted to be ultimately in domino thinking conscious of it where i wanted to be a night club owner or to in perfect i'll stay right in there and
but he's in the difference is i'm not i wasn't consciously spending that time preparing for in aryanem alatorya this week end thou wilt not mallows going for and allowed in times
amain the night clivias cases like a very recognizable pay off iraquois fun and there's yer party glendon but even in these grins like a miser working from moving company one time
it was the same thing of looking for the weekend its soft but as i was to like the work part sackbut a looking forward to getting off or concatenation the same dynamic just kind
of negative you know it's like i for sentoit ive is the release kindelon on the moving company made you want to i i forced your hand to want to go to some eleskiver lifestyle
wheat night club the sacan get deglade stracted and in that way like a this is just going to be cool right yes it's that that charente stick you know you know for the night club
was i was just eating that carrados right in front of my face every day or every week whatever let the movie company was like form descrying a run away from the stick that's
eating me every day kind of thing so i guess it just depends on almost stick on a eric's just so good and like you said we don't listen to our parents or we don't listen to our
people around us we all listed it we just don't do it it becomes noise that's like eating in the same what are you what do you do it if you or prove heard that since literally
since i could understand english what ye goin to do it i pwhat are you doing i prepare for you to what you now do you see yourself doing the fool yet no i don't know lemal's
dust's a me murrainer the time so it doesn't mean ything to that's why i lottie it takes like some to either rease it or straight up like show it to you in an how you know where
it hits you on like davisons this house cruising and his dad died and i at shonoho might do in so good to think about yet i mean personally i just got tired of him and i don't
well graded dereliction i read them for one more guest she are jack i have read your book extreme order ship my son and i listen to your pot cast on the way home from hockey
practice and while i can see your message i can't bring myself to employ it but i would like to do so very badly any suggestion well everybody longed to employ extreme ownership
and disciplined so very badly but every also wants it to be easy if they want some some secret power that just make it happen and and they think that i hold to the magic p that's
going to make discipline the easiest thing in the world well i can tell you that taking ownership of your life it isn't easy and living the life of discipline isn't easy in fact
it's hard that's why it works in so if you want to imployed discipline but only one way to do it you employ discipline stop looking around for suggestions on how to employ
disappoint because i'll tell you that listening to this pond cast is not going to give you disappoint reading the book is not going to give you disappoint you have to impose
discipline on yourself you ain't you do that with steps that you execute so steps get up early work out hard attack your day le catt crushed your job don't waste time on on on
meaningless activities that's how you employed discipline you get aggressive in making things happen and the discipline that it tatatata simple and i'll say again if you want to
live a disappointed life that's what you have to do you after b the difficult and i think that's all i got for to night the echo yes i know you've been consenting up the
discipline ownership won't you take the oerspriede now wiltering people how they can support she this pots if they want to i warwille before supporting this pot guest i think we
all should support ourselves in this way some littelton the airplane like i said before the entertain must origin mass you got to put on yourself before he can help the infant not
that the not that this witgenstein and are not a woman be it is one year whatever anyway you know what i mean so if you are i've been into working out more more consistently would
you say lacayo know i'm no stranger to the workus um i've been supplementing my work as with supplements as you know a crill just got some more bull you know that when you get new
creil hum like i get it now before ever run out you know yet i mean seems obvious like old kaabeh you're you're an adult now and your preparedness exactly we sow for me elisetta
crew i hope or so now anything when you saw he had not enough that by onemore which is the note chemist ration of discipline really no he counted that yet can count sunday we
distilling orderly for a while annet that tapered to a like lechester when it comes in i'm not even out of my old bowen it comes in electrolysis it feels good to be prepared her
so yet you do prepared you are prepared then you are really cause you are straight up anyway chill if you don't know what's cruel oh make a three is it you in want real good for a
joint or in really that's the i mean o magothe is good cool but the question is if you don't know it's kind o like one is that do for me you know what how is that going to look
how the homage three is going to benefit to me and in the cruellist uation it's your joints especially if you do a lot of pressing exercises and jogies ly umteen but not limited
to hard pressing and you deepest like wheedulin you men said truth um anyway yes of get on that chilili you have joint a joint fish situation really no for if you don't or if you
don't preventitive near yes i knew to do more for preventative stuff in my life yes fanny i'll take em like i'll pour out you know and they looked like jelly beans there i ain't
realize it look like you in my daughter she for so it contains but a estinause don't bite him she in you smell him or his long lie cruelly i was on the pomantam disgusting jelly
bean to represents before they they make jelly beans that taste like bukharie while like on purpose the ah it's a a joke osterias on the payment in iraq then somebody sent me but
a care package i care back at you i tethered being funny he sent me some of them bad tasting jelly beans i didn't look at the label i just opened the mouth if had not any ganging
a while to come on it some candy the loom took a mouthful just be oliver in this this gusting yes or the cruel jelly beans more or less the same year the owner batiment him they
that he added the thing is different so if they don't you know where it erinnyes you're interested in these creolles this what they are i'm not cruel little dabney it do you if
you want swallow my recommend because it it smell and taste like creole are flutter good red again so he really all the supplements you good a wan at take it's from on it so peron
it dotcom flash a jocular you want the ten per cent off but like i said back to the support part where okay so you know how like you you when you work out and then you ever work
on your like a mimes or my elbow or something is boats at your whole body is working fine you can pinch a bolonchen squat a bunch but it's like your elbows sakehou know you you're
only a strong is your weakest playing elbows me that's your weak linked there that's what the cruel il does that's what it alleviates you know that's important is what i'm saying
do i agree out or he is thing i didn't really understand that a bit boiled it where i've taken like i be propre to like all in its desist pain roist like a oinopota if it's your
muscle or something there you and longer yes it's just like you a pain but italianise the overladen his side to start taking her whole oh i mean i know i take it is like the istry
it or did i say that or do you start annonae was you but i have i heard about it now you know my wife i fatherland crew who will better be pitial like cool out of even take fish
oil so there i didn't even really mean much to me in life nothing i i am a look for games broyant come here you yanks do you have leave me alone are but yet that was in you
mention it and oh you know it you're not hobbling around him paintiness jocatore and he and i got it from a gradation like a powerless to really strong and you as you know fifty
six years old and my madam the aretaen i had had what you do said lyle yet i told em that's not the only thing he also works out hard and all that stuff but yet i could good thing
to know about that's really that was it my point ready know like my you know you you can be strong but when you get your elbow jacked up from being strong he not you you you got a
patch that little thing naturally like a because it's not like your putting cortes cortes at one shot or or in my piece i be profferin just a mass the pain seek get games
different tickletoe thing i'll tell you them taylor of talking him we ruled for a little bit did we know we dear always talking and i told how old i was and he's like what you
know the crimean it mention how old i have yet none the less a if you like cristall this so good a one on other per case this this total strength in performance on to em i'll
looking at that cause throw interesting like stuff in the quickest dies it's over time so it is considered a pre work out so typically when people when you're atoacan sistently
consistently and you you gain a it's like a cumulative effect on me just like a ooilley like cause it he is why i got trick idin' get trick but here's why i misunderstood is
usually a pre work out as i catinat ult and arno and shore'll have like other stuff allegedly i don't know but usually you take a free work out see get fired up physiologically to
gorget big palm get all this in this performance separate from the caffeine and on that total strength in performance doesn't have canoes yes so it's a different it's a whole
different kind of system that giving you you know you beneficial could do yet that in but true tact same think where you can take it that day and you'll feel it that manuel so
that's why augereau i doubled up on the lagalla her hat all of honiton for actually mariposa after didn't have either a teetering a what do you call it when you don't take the
opening slack it joe at the good old and there too i i was i was hanging myself like the guys that was down there she asked in richter like her you know to morrow night because i
went rolled the first night at the tight fit and the the first night i know we train a little but you know what we were hanging out and then they said he when you come back to
morrow skinned like ten rounds ten five munro is ikoko and then i got the home the next morning or the next afternoon we had no i said di wouldn't mind having a little bit of
shootable yes good times i meant you know and a going fleck that's cool but you don't have to you no no i mean we didn't want her i want to have a little bit istates with some of
us we all want that he also were going to take this room tachinae the the cry to me again back not to go too deep on the cruel but do and i think is like an essential that's like
an every day thing you know crinoline people they'll drink coffee every single day ye do i mean and co i say cold drink coffee but it should be like that because the crees way
more beneficial as the coffee in coffee's more like liking immediate thing anyway you know you like to stuff a these cool supplements good supply the best supplement are one knows
this curatorium last jacopo tempered off also a good way to support the pod cast is the amazon click through all how all that is is before he denizon shopping click through the
website it out better little amazon shopping banner that's a d dot calm got the dot seal do you can and one say that your many one too over there on the side the website a jocasta
and also up top on the one navigation man the filial and esoteries ear than it was before for her both good and then on the store i think of flight you in the support step in way
we freebooting pick on that first then your shopping regard to what you bin i always make the silly in the water reference cause really that's what it is really that's the best
reference i m in the teetotal you know okamisan yield to wave the tale and were on rover but he is the thing that's a big deal small pieces silia drop it in water hawthorndell
don't do that look at a look about video see what happened to us good and that's what you are really you who the woman is the biggest thing is people don't people think it's not a
big deal that's a thing that ye tell their little pieces out on tell that to the container flattering they need to watch and take to set leroy to second but on click and big
reaction good support good reinforcements what if you you kind o needed some reinforcements and it took just one click of a thing and it brought us a full unreinforced ment into
situation not to good right as much and be isands good to me anew a that's what them is on click through does and that's how you do it guasacualco click and i am on tadayoshi one
instant support em and you can subscribe to the pacas or on whatever i to provide or platform used i to stitcher go play and others in the subscribe tegeatan already leave review
if you're in the mood if you were moved by jack's words or races or or echoes words lever evie geese what use am also so cried he subscribe to or you too gentle we have you to
channel i know it peparethians have you to gentles yes how do you distinguish which one good which one's not good right weesa good thing about subscribing to you two channels is
you just click subscribed and if he gets it in shows the neviles and your feet ye can elect we have a notification or not when you you to have onorato and it doesn't annoy you
because in for something to annoy you it has to happen a lot but since you don't make a lot of vittorio that he your doating actually depend on what you mean by love shall at
least two a week will be up loaded oh one will be the pot gas won will be something of toccatas that if you just redon the gauntlet now reiterated or i know refeathered asn't put
up at least you ideas a week from here on out we can attack him in the interests verbally please ye men nay i am accountable okaihau made yourself callandar the it is but yes i
realite bit better treat on your quintinye good thing about the scribe you to be condoocive like anything else it's not like these melees marketers and email you states like
unsubscribed dear lie your union one can if chicken with a neger years ago in your silly emailing may i didn't even get a iagoo yet lop why do i have the obstinate unsubscribed to
your email list when i didn't even subscribe to it janeways yet so it's not like that kind where you click unsubscribed and then they email you again by the way is insiniwate go
why this why then you do flopit's not like that and in six and in you you will stop receiving email in six to eight weeks yes some something yet not like that unsubscribed to
promise and then you re subscribe you polly ate in power yourself on the subscribing section that you to um so yes some vides on their woolloola try to keep you somewhat occupied
on the scotian also jocasta store skaloo store jock was stored dot com if you were sure and you want to represent that way atherton put some new shirts on there the new stuff on
what i did what we did really is to people listen to you jack i listen to you but the good thing about you is actual actual one of the one of the reasons i listen to us because
you listen to me and you listen to others you know we besetter so debilitate wise make that into a shirt or you know ay you said that make that into a shirt or they'll just come
up with their own thing you all prioritize act out into whatever bake you a shirt so during that listening i tina we kinda just took it to heart in a little general way and
listened new stuff fit like that it's good it's good options yea you can't we can't make every shirt that everything no and i don't that wouldn't be practical not what it be in
some deaniness i say as they suppose to olesome domesticity as some one self yer evoluting that med me witted translate on to assert that someone would actually wear other than
may be a handful of people than will just say some sure i did make more sense than others would just say that but none the less the we are listening and this is going to be a
result of it with some you know absom new stuff ah there's also some patches pupates the bellomont that a white rash guards performance were doing other rash garden is well not
going to get rid of the old and the old hen vide current ones on top to some less is more options you know is an to get after it and have different looks maybe even have two in
rotation that looked different buoyant that eaten all these things you can look at em if you like what you see on to three things whatever augmenting get it so port that way good
wit oupot such a good way ah yen and you representing so kindlike i it's it's like an oficial way depend jump in the game you know it i mean i dear me i saw member oh ah i don't
know yah you met a right yeasay he came into the jam and she then eleseus a sitting there in the dining alone enters or i'm going to get something to my car requicken i see i see
the shirt of course i'm a safe something but before i say anything i'm thinking my mind look in his canaries ting hard hand that the thing is i don't know i you know you know the
guy haven't bad or whatever and you get that for a that and representing and that's the feeling you get really you know when you see somebody in the wild with it well i actually
speak or out i got a little story to tell somebody beat me up and they said he i was out in the wild sassoon with a with a jacopo cast the shirt on walked over to him through the
bone a feeds on em he arose you be on the field willitts like years in like a spy movie where i come up in a sake it is cold and dark ladie winter ye first responds i mark it will
be warmer in otiore to go so well as a bonefish this dude walked up to the other due with a trooper tethered on hand he said good evening aiberdeenshire at become the official
bonafides of jacopo can if you if you see is somewhere in the wild but it ain't you you know my pisition where you can't just get crazy at not the scandal of an say good evening i
and the help that you can do your berenice lastly and that belleing is real though that feeling that i had when i when you see is my eye you kind of known that anyway it's
coltelli added later if you will you may also psychological warfare if he's a nooralia warfare this is what it is it's an album with tracks and this is they're not music cracks
they're not jock's hard corban tracks bronson's children's tracks if not that what it is is little that there not even exert because they're just lone tracks for specific things
and those things are if your feeling weakness at any point for your trying to consistently get after it wake up early or work out or come dictor mental cure f quick reaction force
yeasting your coatroom got you are in there i kinda look at it as like a spot yer like one if it seisel that don't left a spot as on someone helps you yes let whoever it wait your
turn a less and and not to split her is but really it's not necessarily there to help you it's i mean i'll rely on gentle much you you don't go down he as he exactly adores orlean
if you want to really get after it in a work coverer single day no days off one year big big tall order it great there to like you i am on a bench this ten thousand pounds
letrames a week that i would have been more than i vent before but i'm not go from golfer my one rat mac it makes sense to a spot you might get that one rat max and not need the
spot but it's there if you fail like if it's like too much or it feels like too much or that i say a book just at you as much as you need great's really this is just how i lunatic
accurate abettal right in at old base what it is is he put the track on like a shoot on about to skip this work out i'm about to make this work out of a rest day no you're not yet
you don't want to do that now you can rest tomorrow to the end work or rest on the day that you have scheduled for rest for real in your thing the all just imprompt you make it
arrestively is not how it works if you need a little spot in doing that i listen to attract called work out get it what a what work out i don't know one of the work out to fine
cause is a estape for work out this one for waking up the three for wariness in his one foot and a sticking to the diet plan you know like there's that can stuff in a year you put
it on in there's one for getting for forcing yourself through creative blocks the arrighi kind o sounds like impossible but no tell you who is possible i will say i will say that
this will get to one hundred per cent of the time like i i'm trying to imagine the feeling that you would that would result in your heart if you listen to this and you still skip
the work out in a row ahishar to fathom the feeling you have any way very helpful and am of reeds now and stop the talking slither with you you know but i you want there that's my
opinion in recalled psychological warfare on i too so if you just do search cyclical warfare jockeying get that in sport that way but this is one where this is real good support
for yourself making your ring tone then the wake otawinki up coletheart with your wife first dear get out some problem bosses do not like her that's the good on fanny happened
happens to be number one still on it fatalistic day one by the way the ass he thank you for the support hanamenu all right while you're on amazon real quick this is a couple of
things i i have to cover a bleakly half to do this jack a white tea where were that looks like ratapu a warning on it is there's a little situation going on got a a a a trooper
hit me up on twitter and it is what he said warning as i started drinking jacot and the wife became pregnant should be on the label so he was also wondering if the child woodie as
a brown felt indugio tabandeh latest ed this further you know we should have tested this further we didn't and we aren't honebeen sure if babies produced under the influence of
jocolate t will be a brown bout they will be a purple belt minimum but they might not be a brown about but fertility epicentre pretty nailed jujitsu skills confer and confirmed to
let level about the hundred forty seven on self order of the tea make it drink it it tastes so good taste like victory so you can get that you can you can hustle pre order were
the warrior kid book now uncle jake his jinteel to mark what a warriors so he gives him a note book that has various warrior codes in it he's got the ranger treaties got the seal
codes got the reincorporate he got the the seven virtues of bushido the samurai's got the code of chivalry for nights i got the viking laws we goale warrior coiners that young
mark knows what is up and we should all we at all kind of need to know what is up with some of them the vikings you you might not think him i think you some alicing laws what you
know what can hikanei me why would i need to know if i can lost how could i possibly get anything so you get way the word or kitty you order it you will leave circle athrough the
liking of let me tell you what they say viking as b brave and aggressive the direct grab all opportunities use varying methods of attack be verse of tile and i a gilt attack one
target at a time don't plan everything in detail you stop quality weapons be prepared keep weapons in good condition keep in shape find good battle comrades agree on important
points chose one chief be good merchants find out what the market needs do not promise what you can't keep do not demand over payment arranged things so that you can return keep
the camp in good order keep things tidy and organized arranged enjoyable activities that strengthened the group made sure everybody does useful work consult all members of the
group for advice hey this liking asawee hundred years old is there anything you might be able to get out of that yes absolutely we could all take something away from that so bunch
of warrior coats in there and by the way mark he ends up writing his own warrior kid coat he ye let kind of kidcote i wish i would live by you don't what i'm saying yes kind help
some people out i will so just release we got the discipline you colerette manyemon this what you are asking for a book i pretty much represents what we talk about this all on
this potato and action the thought or a line with what you hear on this pocasse actions are more detailed than on isantees more granular or specific work out of food in take
mortal arts so dispenced disconus freedom feel manual even get some of that you can also pick up a couple of copies of extreme ownership of course lessons of combats that we talk
about on this poncas by the way from henry the fifth to harmmer spent a pretty good time and those lessons of come balers translate a business life and he lay out in extreme
lorship very simply very clearly so or eats you order one for you and then you order one for every one that your chained command up and down to get some master may fourth and
fifth for new york city very a marquis registered now bookstall book on travel come and get it you know it's morning pete that's we start with full days of leadership training
leadership discussion quinanog of cue also just hanging out we were going to were going to be sitting there with you eaten uncheated breakfast whatever lays going to be there
japson to be there dave barkers coming on the pocasset also going to be there a bunch of you all are going to be there is one of best things about us meatier body then of course
echoes going to be there we knew that cut good to be cousins come on that were in the game in that and we be in the game a with you getting stuff soft and while you waiting for
that if you want to get in the game with us now you can find us all the interweb frinistote answerin an be on that face both you were there to aois at achochre and i am at joaille
and thanks for listening to this poncas than her sporting upon cast we appreciate it or glad we have you out there in the game with us and to the military personnel that are out
in the field right now in arms way protecting freedom around the world thank you to the police and lanormand that are out on the street right now protecting us from criminals the
you and of course to a fire fighters in teas and other first respondes that are waiting right now as the call when an emergency takes place thank you and everyone else at his out
there do men you are best bilders and biologists farmers and framers scientists and sails raps engineers and educators leaders and from line sled dogs exall of you for taking
ownership of your life for being the discipline and for getting out there into the world with a clenched jaw and a furl the brow and getting after it so until next time this is
echo and jock at
