this is jacopo cast number sixty seven with a charles and me joaille we are soldiers marines grunt ground pounders infantry men jared's tommy's do boys gas we march we walk for
miles miles that don't stop miles that don't end miles that are filed with fear fear of the unknown fery enemy fear of wounds fear of death but we march on our boots tried to stop
that fear into the ground people talk of glory on the battle field but it is only talk from the battle field there is only gutterling to survive and protect your brother they are
done not for glory but for love we march on we march in the heat in the cold and the rain and the snow we marched through deserts and streets and in the valleys and up the hills
every step we take is a new step into the unknown but at the same time it is a step that has been taken thousands of times before by other soldiers in other times the names change
the weapons change the cause is different but the faces the faces are the same the man does not change the fear is the same as is the will the hardened will to drive on to move
forward to march we close with the enemy be it sores or bayonets rifles or missing guns spears were grenadiers or our bare hands we bring our weapons to bear and only then with
fury there is no crowd watching there are no admires it is only us in when one of our brothers is killed it rips us apart magnificent men the best of us beautiful human beings
filled with hopes and dreams and filled with life and did death all those hopes and all those dreams and all that life is drenda taken away their own way and in that moment when a
warrior false the whole world should come to a stand still the whole world should stand and bow their heads and grieve the loss of that hero though a world should stop and get on
their knees and praised what that man has sacrificed and did knowledge the supreme and uncorrupted eminence of that soldier of that warrior but the world does not stop the world
carries on it is only we warrior set truly morn he is as alone that bow are heads it is us alone a bow or heads and horn the loss of that fallen saint the saint who has given
everything for us and then we orrors we raise our heads we raise our heads again and with fire in our hearts we lock and load our weapons and we march we march forward toward fear
in torii and poured hortatorem forward without any question of what is that to state we marched forward not for reward but for duty not for ourselves but for each other we march
forward not for glory but for love for word for ever we march on rideing a gieving i was asked the other day by a another veteran how cope with losing friends and i answered that
question and in that answer as i thought about it afterwards no i i thought of this he temeletes warrior that's been around since man has existed hungry tired scared but heroic
heroic in his ability to put those discomforts aside in due bodemus do antonito we're going to look at another book from baranathee band of brothers going back once again to
worldward back on the european continent a book by a guy by the name of charles mac donald servas accompanied commander during the war than he actually went on to become the
deputy chief historian forty s army and author the bunch of books about the war but we're going to look at his first book to day which is simply called company commander then he
wrote this book just after the war in nineteen forty seven and in alii get a bunch of books the and oi've talked about this sichamba tells me there's a good book out there and i
don't even try and read the reviews any more i just ordered it because i figure there's a chance of good by then when i get it i kind of you know have to crack it open and see if
it's the kind of thing that oninoor or that will really suit the pot cast and this book i just cracked it open direct the preface which normally i i go in the middle somewhere and
might take a quick look at the preface but then i you know well look at throughout the book and this preface as soon as i got to got one sentence into this this preface or i said
the first pack paragraph in it is into this preface and as i okay we'll do in this book so with that let's go to a book and start with the preface for want again this book is
called company commander by charles b macdonald written a nineteen forty seven here we go the characters in this story are not pretty terracers they are not even heroic if lack of
fear is are requisite for heroism they are cold dirty rough frightened miserable characters gies johnny doboys dog faces foot sloggers poor bloody and centre or as they liked to
call themselves come bat infantry men but they win wars there men from companies e and g twenty thirty petrie but they might as well be men from companies a and ca sixteen
tenantry or they might be men from company sea and e told two hundred and fifty fourth infantry for their stories are relatively the same some may of falterin longer than others
or some may fought the germans last for all it was an eternity the characters in my story or not fictional and any similarity between them and persons living or dead is
intentional and some of them are dead this is a personal story and ortenter and to make a story of war authentic you must see a war not a hasty taste of war but the dread knowing
daily died of war the horrors in fears that are at first blunt testimony that you are novice in the later become so much a part of you that only another veteran through some six
cents may know that those same horrors and fears are yet there i was officer in the war a captain company commander of companies e and g and because i was a captain my lot was
easier sometimes in that of joe private and joe first class than jo sergeant then deven gilliteen but when my lot was easier physically it might be hard or mean to epeus i knew
joe private and joe private first class and jo sergeant had joetunn could not suppress my love and admiration for them but physical suffering can be worse sometimes and when the
gees lot was harder than mine i shall try and tell you that because i am not the hero of my story a heroes are the men from company's eye and g the lead scouts the riflemen the
machine gunners the messengers had the morgiman company's eye and g are called rifle companies in the army and when you call a company a rifle company you are speaking of the men
who actually fight wars i did not fight the germans as long as some of the terracers in my story some of them had been beating the enemy since de plus on june seventh nineteen
forty four when i joined them in september as replacement company commander they'd completed the capture of a stubborn and my garrison at breast france the day before i journed
that joined them they rested in an open field on the britannia for five days and then they took a train ride on a french freightcars across france to meet the germans again so
there's the preface and you can see when he joined this company these guys of artobane over three months close to four months when he shows up new guide no combatter ence he shows
up and as to jump right into the game and hear some fairy has come in fresh from the states company e twenty third infantry i thought you fought your way or shore in normandy on
deep plus one you battle to the hot top of hill one ninety two to pave the way for the saint low break out you stormed the ring of pillboxes at breast and had your number a du
tout fifty in the explosion as the germans blew them up in your faces and now they give you a company commander fresh from the states they ask you to put your face in me i felt
weak and ineffectual my mind began to peruse the duties that were before me and this is what is out on pete's canal on his first patrol now in one day and at the most three i
would be leading these men against a team of trained killers i wondered how i would react these men deserve the best leadership co i gave it to them they could boast a glorious
combat record already and i know nothing suddenly all my long hours of training for just such a role as this seemed pitifully inadequate folly there was some way i could know just
what it was like it seemed incredible that this group of hard combat veterans could accept me as it an inexperienced youth of twenty one to lead them into battle simply because he
happened to come to them wearing a set of flashy bars on his shoulders for each look into their minds and see what they were thinking as i see the guides definitely feeling what
just about every one moving into a leadership of his fields which as i'm not ready for this and i don't know everything and as i set a bunch of times that's okay to everybody
knows that you don't aviery thing everybody expects that you don't know everything what you don't want to do is go act like you know everything cause they're going to see right
through it now there are there moving a little bit more and were starting to get closer to combat my pulse quickened so this is it i said to myself using a phrase that every
replacement uses a thousand times before he ever actually reaches combat i would soon know if i could take it i would soon know if i could justify the faith of the men of company
i we dispersed to accompany areas in the darkness outside the tent i noticed flashes of artillery to the east and the deep rumbling of the big guns came from the distance a voice
in my brain kept repeating this is it this is it a stumble blindly through the dark forest and the direction of the company so obviously um fast fording some stuff here and this
is just him getting closer and closer to go in and to combat and you know every veteran now has that feeling to know one to wars for us started for for this generation darto is
this at the so true every one thinking that this it this is it this is the big one this is can i take it and somebody gives will say that that's what drives him into the military
for me for sure you want that test and there's no there's no bigger test then hey there's other human beings had a trying to kill me and i have to go kill them at that's the
biggest testers in guys want to know if they can take it here some of his thoughts become be business like this is the same as maneuverers just meaning training new regime some
mortars start things moving you're going to have a look at the german armies in as he's going out on a little connoissance and he now there they're gitting in sort of a defensive
position here and he says this back to the book i decided to dispose to pose dispose my company initially as lieutenant had done we could make changes later i would have preferred
holding one of my refletees in support position but it seemed unwise for our company frontage was great signs his already listening to like his lieutenant had a gusset up a
certain way he's going with it he's not going up there and change in everything right away cause he's just got a kind of set back and see how things go now there expecting to get
a tack to expect me to de tack with with small arms fire but instead and he being some more fired a regal back to book but the sound of bullets did not come in its stead came the
sharp crack and heavy explosion that i knew must be morder fire falling behind me it sounded as if the shells were falling on the crest of the ridge that we had so recently
laughed but i took no time to look back i increased my speed and dived behind a clump of bushes there would be no protection protection from those bushes against the mortar shells
but i was comforted by their concealment i lay there panting sir here is infers contact this is it this is it my brain kept repeatedly kept repeating madly over over i must not
appear afraid i must give these men confidence in me despite the fact that i they know i'm an experienced they were playing their parts well i've been unable to detect any
attitude of distrust in their actions and i had searched their faces for long periods of time i must keep that conference i must i must scared captain sergeant savage asked so
serging s they could see you enlisted guy and he'd look at out of regos scared captain and he says a little i admitted i took a long slow drag on my cigarette we all we all are
savage said we always arm pretty a good vote of confidence and licenseless guy try to make him feel comfortable with right that's a good senores to go that's not try to make it
not try to gieger will you you your problem as if you look scared you know captain no he said he don't worry about waraki no bigel we just got a state professional so these guys
end up in a in a i a hunker down defensive position that he's got a man he ends up being there for quite a few days where it's it's a pill box on a bunker and he is maine control
point or command point is inside one of these pill boxes and they end up with a bunch of guys in this pill box these got little fox holes dug out away from the pill box where
there is little betonus in squads that are set up in these positions and so is his task is to maintain the security position a that's what he does going back to book i didn't plan
to sleep at all the first night now that we are in position in the difficulties of moving were moving in no longer word me i was filled with a growing fear that the germans might
hit us with a counter attack i decided that the enemy must surely know that the troops were moving in and would attempt to dislodge us while while we might still be disorganized
eleven men in a pill box eleven men who must live from day to day never thinking of the immediate future but only of the in infinity when the war would some day be over there were
sparky and first sergeant alban savage blackburn croto and me there was private first class willie hagen that tobacco chewing thirty nine year old army regular who kept us
laughing with sage taxiderm and served as first polton runner then there was private first class angelot of boston second potuerunt or who had lost two brothers in the war already
private first class hubert burger of memphis tennessee third button runner who is eighteen years old and read his bible every night private first class can it lamp and of detroit
michigan weapons button runner who is also eighteen and corresponded with college girls from michigan and private first class earling j salburg of fargo north dakota who is
nineteen in clean lead good looking and the head quarters bazumas the cox and deep rivers the supply sergeant in the mail orderly had been left behind with the service coming to
keep a supply the changing of the garde four o'clock revealed that it was raining outside a slow cold miserable drizzle i fought of a man in the ford batoons in their exposed
foxholes but no protection from the elements except shelter half stretched across their holes and nothing between them and the hostile killers and fanous but the muzzles of their
own rifles i added mired the unglamorous infantry soldier before but as the rain continued to fall and the night grew colder my pride at being a part of this dirty miserable
infantry knew no bounds now like i said there was he was in this maine pillbox which it has protection ragot a roof from the little bit relaxed in their little bit you know there
they protected not just from the enemy but the protector from all the elements as well somewhat so he goes out and he is going out to visit the guyarre just basically sitting out
their barneeey know like you said nothing between them and the enemy but the the muzzle of the rifle back to book any idea that i might have entertained that my visit would
bolster the moral these men's was overshadowed by the effect of visit had a my own moral how could how they could smile and laugh and joke in her present condition i could not see
but each man had a cheery word for me as i have preached if i had possessed any misgiving that these men would weaken under the hardships of their cramp position and the adverse
weather they faded away into nothing their courage and fortitude made me admiringly envious and brought a lump to my throat so he thinking i'm on to out there and boost them
around the opposite happens the opposite appends boosted by seeing them and see how how in actinolite they were out there back to the book as we reached the right flank a
boltunyonok a man huddled in his fox hole trembling violently beneath a blanket which covered his head leutenant grasped him by the shoulder i thought i told you to get digging
this hole i'll deeper he said sternly the blank i came off the soldiers head you're putting me away off here by myself till i can be killed he shouted half sobbing you want me to
be killed there's nobody over here but shut up said anty said you want the whole god damned german army to hear you get to digging down whole there's two men right here with you
and the next hole ten feet away nobody wants to see you killed we turned away i looked back over my shoulder at the soldier he's been like that ever since he's been with the
bitumen said you is every excuse can get to go to the rear he won't work to get himself warm like a try and get him to if he doesn't come around night sent him back to the sea p i
said we can keep him there for a night an see how he turned out so although some guys are clearly in good spirits out there you still got guys that are breaking down and you got a
deal with a fan you can see is going to pull off a line gettink to seep and actually i don't go into this but he ends up getting of vacuated town i get im back pay figure out that
he's got up and decides he sang evinrude but so so time passes and you know they're dealing with sort of clandestine attacks or common the german will kind of probleme times there
will they the receiving interefere some orders nor tower in a fairly regular basis back the book i awoke at ten from the start of the fourth day in the pillbox it was a day of
crashes of glorious sunshine of adjusting artillery fire of testing talipoin after enemy shelling of signing one's name to alveolus letters of requesting supplies from batalions
of one and no hundred things that were becoming more and more routine but always there was the deep fearful dread of the enemy mortar shell that dropped unheralded from the sky of
the artillery round that screeched a fiendish morning as it approached and the deep dread too of the darkness that would come to night just as it come last night and just as would
come the night next night and the next and any night that darkness might release a hoard of fanatical german soldiers eager to kill and drive us from our holes and pillboxes or
perhaps a flame throwing half tracks spouting its flaming oily death into the deepest recesses of the pillboxes the nervousness was like a belignan disease that eidiol up and down
the line and back again here about that stress yereabouts constant constant stress and you notice it the things that you can't control ye istein that you can't control as though
horrible things about the the morgan they are teleiotaton random and you can't control with that round hesitated your fox hold your dead if it three feet away from your foxhall
you live and i think the they had these flame throwing half tracks in i think just the the the the day by burning to death everybody knows that a nightmare in silence and in their
minds as well back to book it seemed that i only been asleep a few minutes when i awoke that pillboxes a mass of moving men with apparently no pattern a deep dull throbbing filled
my head except orated by a fierce pounding that pushed relentlessly against my temples i jumped from the bunk with a start the throbbing in my head was a big gun firing the man
seated there by the table was covered with a dull brown dust blood was streaming from a gas ness forehead a tank firing right out as captain spark said excitedly they hid the head
they had the shed with the motorman in it sergeant patterson got a cut in the head i tried to shake the cobwebs of sleep for my brain i had been asleep for hours it was daylight
it was eight o'clock in the morning i moved over the wounded man he was sergeant le patterson a north carolinian and one of the squaler from the mortar section the wound is brief
leeing profusely another man held a handkerchief immediately below it to prevent blood from running into the sergeant's eyes it's not bad the sergeant said to the sergeant said
just a cut from some loose brick it was flying all round the cellar when the shells hit looks worse than it is i guess so mother there under a tackin a you're going to notice a
pattern on tabor him not but this poor in this poor guy a mc donald captain macdonald it seems like every time they get a major attack he's getting awoke in from being as ficino
sleeping very often but every time he put his head down you see almost every time you get the wokan reputed they receive a major tackets cause he's asleep and boom over sudden
things start appening you must ve been so paranoid to go to sleep knowing that this stuff was was hanging over his head so they're getting this pretty plebi carnate attack and
then some aircraft show up some some pfort seven shows up a like five pfort seven shows up and here is the description of that each plane circle tie into the air and came down
with the skill and grace of a pair waiting dancer upon its target the bullets from its cannon beating a stacatto chant of death as it dived on the germans below some one behind me
said o them god damn beautiful birds we watched in silent admiration as the plains climbed once again well there work done for the day some one said yeah i mortimore reaching for
a shovel they'll go home now and have a short scotch in a hot bath and shack up with some mademoiselle or some line me went on a life yea and draw double salary for it a
headquarters man put in that's the life for me will he havened oh dry up you never had it so good so that's that's a common thing you know and we're going to get dave burk on here
and i'm sure we'll ask inaboat being a pilot i mean that is you go he'd do your mission and then you find back to base the bases are on friendly areas they protected so you're
going to get a short scotching alan on the hommat and again fast for in a little bit and also going back to him being asleep and being rudely to awakened he regolati was nodding
off i was nodding off in as the hands of my watch neared three o'clock awakening each time with the start and shaking my head and to effort to clear it clear the sleep for my
brain a shot rang out it seemed to come from the very entrance of the pill box and was the cue that set off a few salado small arms that reverberated back and forth among the
hills i could discern the slow chatter of one of our heavy machine guns than the intimidated gueral tone of a burgun all the sound seemed to emanate from the area around the farm
house as if every conceivable type of small arms vied to be heard above the accompanying noises the exposure of a german type circassian grenade join the uproar and american
grenaten in its fragments wine through the air a few rounds of more afire exploded above the din i heard the guards scuffle and curses the trip on the entrance of the pillbox i
was suddenly afraid i was suddenly more afraid than i had ever been before my body seemed weak all over and i wondered if i had the strength to stand up i opened my mouth to sound
me alarm and i wondered if anything would come out wake up everybody i shouted surprised that the wars actually came forth i don't want anybody castleing in this damn pell box we
had waited long enough the germans had come the sound of small arms continued heightened by the explosions of dozens of light mortar shells fear gripped my body and left me
trembling i was not so much afraid of what was happening as i was of the horrible visions my mind had dreamed up of what would happen should we fail to apoleia i visualized the
that datchas to reach the engines to the pillbox to escape and trapemernes met by a hail of enemy fire or a hellish blast of a flame thrower my imagination ran a gaunt little evil
so this is a counterattack well this is what you've been waiting for now the company veterani out what it has in this youthful inexperience so quick seeking god damon stop
trembling all over did control yourself act like a soldier god damithales you could impersonate an officer savage tried to batalion foam the handle which should have produced a
ring made unnatural grating sound the lines out he cried i'll try the other line blackbird i'll try the other wine blackburn did your radio set up outside though this is the spite
the fact of the been mordered it taken to fire that had some little probing attack this is the big one this is this is it the germans had come and it's interesting to hear his
thoughts as this gorgon he's tontawanto stop shaking calm down at like a soldier hay if nothing else just pitanatae a soldier and now just act like an officer should actor i know
class a so they start receiving this pretty intense attack and he gets on the radio eventually get the radio set up and he says attack as had my left flank and right flank love
company their lines must be out to fire us concentration to two one over so what they do is in the genes these defensive positions they set up and they have pre designated firing
areas where they can have or friendly artillery or mortars bomb areas vary no where they are so they this one is called a concentration too to one that's wherever wherethe annas
attacking from the have a name for they say put bombs on two to one boom can get it done really quick and this is it pretty much a almost immediately holditch and of course that
attack goes away they they kind o get that one under control and now he tired because he didn't get much sleep so he goes back to sleep and he regolatore seemed that i had been
asleep for hours when i awoke suddenly with a start sparkes voice came to me some word from somewhere to distance i'm trying to get the orthodontia get the artillery blackburn's
voice was some world beside it give me captain anderson give me captain anderson was a noise in the background what was that bounding some one must be beating on the pillbox with
a sledge hammer what was that deafening noise i jump from my bunk my feet stone from the rough contact with the concrete floor that was artillery and mortars exposing but
exploding my head i couldn't think i shook my head sharply to clear the sleep from my brain the germans had come again and what more tears and artilleries good god they must be
firing every weapon round for miles there was a wild look in sparkses they've had all three peons capanne cried had one their pounding the hell out of him worse brasier heard
worse perojavr heard captain so like i said whenever whenever cap'n mc donald falls asleep the itata and that's what they're receiving really the heavy attack again to the repulse
that first attack and now they're coming to back out of again and this time it's with some serious artillery for god's sake get a smart tillery cabane cried they're not going to
hell out of us small arms and begun in this god dear more or tell refired i never saw such a brage we got to get some help or will never stop them for god saint cabinetry mill
brook said his voice was half frantic i got two wounded men here my pill box now god knows how many more out there i suddenly remembered the one fifty five that close in
concentration we had gurdon her front a one fifty five some bigger artillery shell in the big big daddy and they had they had got a concentration of finally close to them so five
were getting like a just about to get overwoman we can call this this particular concentration of fire that closing concentrated widernann what was it called clean one sixty three
queen one sixty three o god let us get the one fifty five hello ter one to tear three roger tell territoire us the one five five concentration queen one sixty three and fast over
so he calls in that concentration which is which is really close to them your called an hundred and fifty i think a hundred fifty five mile to morchain want to say it has like
twenty five or thirty pounds of explosive in it in the colobus of it and here we go my heart skip to beat savagery and back inside to relieve relate news to potions and the big
artillery shells whispered their messages of out going deaf the definite explosions to our front were followed by the news of shrapnel spring the trees around the farm house and
small pieces of spendrife around us so their caldos bob so close a third getting hit with the shrapnel from the bombs that out close the etwas that alcohol is bandon i called for
a wee pet on the brag and when the battalion said roger we knew i knew we had one no attacking force could wittenbold that so that's a command that use when you're calling on tory
it's called repeat we do actually white never say repeat on the radio and he seen a movie soon says okay repeat that you don't actually say that you don't say repeat unless you
specifically doing this gottingae bombing what you say then from the reason say again i'll sagainsa on and so they called these big bombs come in and another couple days go by the
end up spending a totonis in the in the pill box and in that position in finding the get told ogee going to pull you out of the pillboxes and we'll go back to look at trito keep
my voice in the normal pitch through the conversation but i wanted to jump and kick and scream with joy tears came to my eyes and i thought i would choke with happiness it was
almost too wonderful to be true my retain runners would arrive around midnight leading the men of company b we were getting out of the pill boxes and to night company i was to be
relieved so there you go nine days in the pill boxes the other company company b comes out to relieve them and they're doing a turn over with company be so he sent in like one
potomack in the time and he staying there with a new company commander whose name is a captain colin and we going back to the book of humanite later call came for captain cowerer
the potone attendite over his face as he answered he handed the phone back to the soldier sitting at the table they just killed one of our own men he said to me one of my
squallers was moving around to the front or was going back to his hole one of the bar men let him have it thought he was a german i wondered how i would feel the hot anteroom men
killed by an accident having a man killed by the enemy would be bad enough although i had been mercifully spared that thus far i shuddered my man or nervous as hell capical said
everall sorts of rumors and stories about these positions makes them trigger happy so we got a blue on blue guy's first night in position and their freakt they've heard all these
rumors they knows these guys are getting bounded by the enemy in the germans keep at acting and they get so paranoid that they accutely shot one of their own guys now these guys
get moved to rear company eye kinges some some teenie back on sootherin any more and this was kind of an interesting look on that it seemed back to the book it seemed now we were
a quiet position every officer in the division with rank of major above wanted to inspect the company area they condemned the men for not having shaved or for wearing knit woke
caps that without their helmets evidently and unportable misdemeanor or for unside areas around the dug outs these officers did not inspect my first portunarii however usually
passive with the excuse that was a bit far to walk but we laughed inwardly knowing that it was the threat of enemy shelling that kept most of them away so oh you're back in the
rear or to want come and meet you meet the boys cause is no danger there well guess what the boys know the boys know what's up now he's about to get an order to go out on the
attacks has been into venaissin now he's moving to tack get set it's coming now and the attack order at last you're going to attack there's no chance now for a reprieve the so of
of the three ninety third had it sisted that we attack immediately to relieve the besieged unit the colonel continued but he had succeeded in putting off the attack until morning
we would jump off slightly before dawn at seven o'clock attacking a stride the east west highway company i would attack on the left additional ammunition would be available later
at the talian the batoon laters were assembled when i returned to the company i only had one map of the area and there was no place where we could have a light to examine the map
with the lieutenants sergeant alban slit trenches deeper than the others but that's but but at that it amounted to little more than it than the snow scraped from the earth and a
few inches of frozen earth removed the men hastily threw dead branches across the make shift hole and i wriggled underneath with my map and a book of matches on books one of two
meters one by one the platometer crawled under received the order i would strike a match and give them a brief glance at the map now wet and sodden from the melting snow i
wondered if i could a drawn any worse conditions under which to issue my first attack warder so there they made moved forward but now they're getting ready to attack and he's
given his first brief into his petunias he on me as a one map which is completely ridiculous and i think about you like every single guy when we were gone about a field at every
single guy would have a battle but every single day you re take thirty dies they all are going to have a battle map with him so you are your old company of a hundred and fifty
guys we've only got one map and he's got it and by the way it's soaking wet and by the way for your breeching nowadays we go into a big secure area with a power point in big
project or of an we got through all these slides at pepere's got a match in a hole is given this brief what i'm talking about so they end up in a for position and in as this
attack goes they end up now having desired from attacking though a defensive position and things start to get go sideways really really quick and this ends up is actually
beginning the battle of bolt famous obviously famous battle missus soroe beginning of an oval they did not know that at this time so he regal back to book i took stock of our
defences situation we were on rifle battalion thrust into a densely wooded are with no terran features that favoured the offender with orders to hold at all costs we were hastily
dug it along a highway facing the direction from which we hope the enemy would come if he had to come no company had been able to withhold a support porton there was no support
company thus the defence was a thin single line of riflemen is no back up that a situation there at a shallow draw laid in a foot of my rifle but tons with a higher riginal rising
beyond it over which the enemy would soon be coming another draw led up to my left flank protected by two light machine gun in a few riflemen on position which no man in his right
mind would place machine guns unless he had no other method of defending the probable enemy approach these casuall situation our right flank lacks a right flank lack fifty yards
of tying and with cake company along a fire break which bisected the highway we had no anti take this fence except two servants and a bazoosh three rounds of ammunition were being
supported by a ninety nine division artilery and outfit about which we knew nothing except as is their first action except for holding a quiet defensive sector for a month but
there was nothing that could be done now but wait at ten thirty a gloated with men clipped down the highway toward the rear at break neck speed that would be the vanguard of the
retreating battalion from the ninety ninth the germans would be here soon just imagine that year there to help out and defend this position and support this battalion and the
first thing you see coming from ahead of you is a gefillte with rag tag soldiers going as fast they can away from the enemy craziness craziness and here it continues a ragged call
of troops appear over the wooded ridge to the form of the second and third protons there were not over two hundred men the remnant of nine hundred who had fought gallantly to our
front since they were hit by the german attack the preceding day another group besides of a platoon with jew along the highway donating a few hand grenades in climo ammunition
which they passed to my first button two men stayed to fight with my company to agitees got over run some guys are given away ammunition given grenades away in these gurameer can
i help out two enlisted men carrying a badly wounded lieutenant stopped exhausted with my third paton they could carry him no further i called for litter squad the riflemen could
not be sure if the next troops had appeared over the ridge were friendly or enemy i learned the artillery men to call for fire in the event the approaching troops were german
lieutenant brocs call came a few minutes later scarcely preceding a half small orange fire which sounded like the crack of thousands of rifles echoing through the forest there was
no doubt now my man could see the build casts of the approaching troops they were germans and you know we're going to get to a point as i go through these books and i high light
little sections and i read that little section a will but to get to a point here shortly where i'm just going to read the whole dam section because it's it's so much it's a
company that's about to get over front right it's a company about to get overrun by germans and it's it's really interesting to hear what this looks like from the company
commanders companyand perspective but this is a man this is it this is your losing about and he survives but it's it's as bad as it gets it is bad as it gets that to the book any
mabelles whistled through the trees around us i jumped into the slit trench with savage and blackburn request after request for our tory and motor support came from the pecuniars
i called for every concentration listed on my overlay and for variation of each so that little thing is talkin about were you calling for these concentrations you got two two
three and this one and that one he's just calling for all of them called for all of them to bomb everything the inevitable maddening three rounds felisette trying to concert in
the rear their trying to consider operum conserve amunition to lyfing three round the de time is due to gain dotage to again but twolegged franticly for more i began on one side
of the company area and called for concentration all across our fond and back again to tennis saw your called from brater baragat eighty one millimeter more fire the crack of
small arms reached an ear splitting crescendo cried like static on forgotten radio during an electric storm i lay flat on my back in the slit trench at bolton tone to one year of
the receiver of the vitalian radio on the other the chill from the frozen earth sea through my clothes and i shivered but i was surprised at my own calmness the long nights of
shaking terror and the pillboxes convinced me that i would never be calm and combat i did not know what in possess me to keep calm surely this is the most serious situation which
i had ever found myself the small arms fire reached another crackling crescendo crushed the smaller fire reached another crackling crashed long had several men round it long as
one of the other commanders he didn't know how many or how badly the enemy bullets were too thick to move around were to tick to move around i called again for litteras wave after
wave of frantic my screaming germany infantry storm the slight tree covered rise held by three pitons a continuous hail of fire exuded from their weapons answered by volley after
volley from the defenders german fell left and right a few rounds of artillery a few rauschende succeed in bringing down caught the attackers in a draw to our fun and we could
hear their screams of pain when the small arms fire would slacken but still they came artilery and tableware first which is like another kind of cannonier man kanowit their
accompanying terrifying screams played deep accompaniment in the background the shells exploded to our rear and around the road junction to our right we ignored their crashing
explosions thinking how thankful we were that their effects were reserved for others than ourselves the smaller fire rose and fell again and then again indicating that the
attacking troops withdraw momentarily to the bottom of the draw to regroup before launching another suicide was salt reinforcements streamed over the ridge behind them to join the
assaults the draw in the highway were littered with their dead and wounded but there seemed to be no end of their fanatical attacks second poton reported us company soldier killed
white was the first first death and company eyes and i taken command three months before but the news was not so staggering as i had expected it would be there was too much other
excitement the dead soldier was technician fifth grade martin w colson from pennsylvania he was eidman conterive idolized who had jumped from his foxholed a wounded soldier near
by a bullet pierced his helmet and he fell face forward into a whole of the wounded rifleman he had sought to aid he was a non combatant according to the rules of warfare and was
denied the privilege of wearing the combat eventime badge and the ten dollars per month pitten for dangers and hardship and dig but death made no distinction message after message
came over the pontoon foam lieutenant wilson was badly wounded he could not walk and must have a litter and munition was running lower and lower the em company machine gutters
with the first botoner out of ammunition except from nough to keep the one gun firing a few minutes longer the sixty millimeter mortars found their himminint supply so low that
they fired only when the enemy was actually a salting germans were being killed his closest ten yards poared of the foxholes handgrenades were practically all gone the this is
this is it there was no solace from the battalion each called for literates or additional ammunition with met with the maddening words were doing all we can i told them we could
not hold out much longer unless we got additional ammunition captain montgomery said we must hold our orders are to hold at all costs she said i wonder if he could possibly
realize the meaning of those words we must hold until every last man was killed or captured company eyes last stand and what is to be gained nothing but time time born of the
bodies of dead men time seven times the enemy of patusan seven times they were greeted by a hail of small arms fire and handgrenades at sent them reeling down the hill leaving
behind a growing pile of dead and wounded but with all that the the attacks seemed poorly organized there was no supporting or tillery or more fire on or positions and i wondered
why they had not yet found the open flank on our left there was only the suicide a wave of fanatical infantry men will being in yelling and brandishing their rifles like men
possessed i looked at my watch it was three thirty in the afternoon time was passing amazingly fast long again long was the was one of the other princeman's long said he saw enemy
tanks there were five of them giant tigers long bring down the road free hundred yards away surrounded by over a hundred in enemy infantrymen get to sherman into action sermon was
our are us take get those sermons in the aconite only hope you might he talk into self you might hold off the infantry even with your ammunition practis austen but riflemen can't
fight tiger tanks the first will do as your only three rounds of pezuela unless the servants can stop them three rockets are all there is between you and company e and kingdom
come so small our obviously machine the donating to attack and they only had there's five enemy tanks come in and the only half three azureus which a busion can stop a tank but
you know you got a hit you got to be a good hit mathat so he knows he's in big big trouble i called sergeant gaston a man to contact the tankers and tell them to move immediately
to their form positions on the left flank this business of improved positions was so much bosher's was stunning there gone captain they pulled back to take company fifteen minutes
ago sir is expecting a servant nero be help out they're gone i did not take time for the full meaning of his words to sink in diving or give you our call sin over the radio i
asked colonel total and told them my plight eager i get those tanks back to my left flank or i could not possibly hold the position while waiting for the colonel's answer i tried
brage after brag to destroy the tigers with artillery and borders but we made not a single hit and the near missus only stopped the impetrate not facing the great steel monsters
in the least they walled effortlessly on toward the hapless riflemen around of eighty eight millimeter snapped from the top snapped the top from a fir tree above her head in
fragments sprayed down naldret ions there could be no doubt now that tigers had arrived round after round crashed into the area a momentary shrill whistle felled by a deafening
explosion in the sharp thought of the round being fired the latter reaching us after we heard the shell explode for god's sake cabin long scream over the phone as half boy sobbing
did those tanks down here do something for god say these bassengers sitting seventy five yards windpiping eighty eight into our fox holes like we're sitting ducks for god's sake
captain what about your bisuka he said a bullet had gone in one and and bent the tubes of the rocket would not pass through colonel total was on the bevallan radio the tanker said
it would be suicide for them to face the taggertys they would not move unless he gave them in direct order and then he was afraid they would disobey it then he was inclined to
agree that they stood no chance against the more heavily armored tigers and the eighty eight so these american takes are they can't fight against the tigers and on their backing
up so that they can survive i burned with anger and i must have been in subordinate if my men could fight the ormerly monsters with nothing but rifles and die in the attempt to
tankers could afford to a try it with medium tanks if we don't get to take we can't adante five minutes i said slowly and finally thank you sir roger out for those theseion know
on explained this before out means you don't need to talk back to me you don't need to ronnaug a response out means i'm down of hanging up the radio which is interesting that
normally the the junior person the the the says you know over and the senior person as adooma more riding i'm done with you so he say into the two a leader he said if we don't get
to tanks we can't old another five minutes thank you sir roger i'll shades of general castro company eyes last stand hell what does it matter you never expected to get out of this
war alive that he way not really i gave long the news he was frantic there was absolutely nothing he had his men could do a directive landed on one of the heavy machine guns
another had had the technic in technical sergeant smith's foxhole smith was the platonean longed in now he was dead or not the other machine gun crew was out of ammunition and was
withdrawing he was powerless to stop them he was afraid left flank in the draw was falling back but he couldn't see to make sure hold long i cried for god's sake hold we've got
the hole i wondered how i made my voice so convincing i wanted a throw away the petunia and a batalion radio and everything connected with the war and bury my head in my hands and
cry cry cry the infantry of salt upon the other boltons continued the sound of the bowl reached a height which i had never thought possible before the burst of the eighty eight no
medersas in the woods vied with the sound of hundreds of lesser weapons he couldn't last for ever i thought it must stop sometime it must stop but when and how i looked toward the
draw between me in the highway about twenty men were walking down the draughthorses rear i recognized several men from the light machine then section and the machine gun crew from
m company the others were riflemen from first bolton i did not know where they were going all i knew that somehow i must stop them i jumped from the slit trench and ran toward
them ignoring a crack a bolts from the trees waving my arms and shouting for them to stop they turned to look at me with vague blank expressions they seemed to wonder who was this
crazy man who wanted them to do this foolish thing i saw that it was the entire left flank of first proton the thin lines of the remainder of the platoons would soon be caught off
from the rear the sixty mile or more men of few words away a few yards away were dismantling their weapons i managed to get my mood to get the men to move to my seat pa but i
could not step them that stop them there they walked slowly on towards the rear half dazed expressions on their faces so his eyes were leaving that he's doing what he can to get
them to stop and fight but there darleeng this is its not happening to guys now and and there out i mean the out of poetrie there out of bullets in o'hare any ammunition left for
nothing to do so the leaving i jumped into the slim sletten and grasp the radio handpiece i sat on the edge of the trench ignoring the whistle of bullets and the crash of eighty
eight nometer shells around us as every one seemed to be now doing get the toolers on the phone i called the savage hello roger won i said in the rear not waiting for my
acknowledgment that they were seeing my message this is mac my left flank as fallen back i can't stop them the germans are overrunning my left porton i'll try to build up another
line along the fire brink we can't hold her there i set it this was a company turning tail and running this was a company retreating this was a company hauling as this was i
company running like a son of a bitch strangely i didn't give a dam i was utterly void of feeling savage held belton for toward me i carteton he said and skottishe with us now
don't sound afraid you've got to sound like you mean business helleborising calmly they've overwell long physician swinger poton back till the left rear and will build up another
long long the fire brick did you get that garcia pull back and will tie with cake company my sea pies pulling out now we've got a hold of the fire blake do you understand that
we've got to hold the fire break the man my sea proper already moving towards the rear i grabbed my must my musette bag and my car been savage took the phone blackburn grabbed the
radio we ran toward the rear we reached the north south fire break and crossed it the fox holes which patined occuoccupied were fall along the far edge of the clearing in a patch
of small firs whose interwoven branches formed a small dense green barrier i knew that any fight here would be at close quarters because the germans would be able to advance
unseen to the edge of the fire break fifteen yards from the fox holes we were occupy but it was the only spot where we had a any possibility of holding i ran up and down the line
shouting we've got a hold of her we've got old of her the men stared back to me unbelievingly i was asking head quarters men armed with carbines and pistols to hold off hoards of
attacking germans that had already broken through all our rifle but tunster there was only one machine gun a light done man by private first class richard cow and of which i
talked kansas set up five feet from the fox all which i occupied the germans were almost upon us before we knew what was happening we could not see them for the low hanging
branches of the fir trees across the fire brick but we could hear their shouts and shrill whistle signals which evidently came from their leaders i decided they were flanking
group that was all his way unseen around our left flank even as we left our former sea p the attackers who had dislodged first buton could not have reached us so quickly cowania
to spit machine gun fire across the norna fire break and i heard german at heart a german scream with pain the head quarters men fired their carbines and pistols in the low
hanging branches the fir trees to the right were too thick to see the area where the frillings were supposed to be going into position i wonder if they had been able to build up
any semblance of a line around came from an enemy tank broke the top of the small furry above talents head sending him reeling from the gun but he jumped back and continued to
fire i knew that the big tigers had reached the junction the fire break on the highway hales of enemy but thrashed the snow and the fur and the trees around us the fir trees
around us i ducked beneath the cover my fox hole trying to get the italian on the radio but without success i stood up and looked out of a whole great god there was no one left
but cowen the others had fallen back i jumped from the fox home yelled to count to withdraw savage and black bonsall owed me i left my my set bag lying on the ground of my carbine
was over my shoulder after mine i screamed to get the radios savage jumped back into the foxhole and blackburn and i turned and plunged through the thickly interlaced branches of
the little firs bullets followed us lashing the first on all sides and i wondered if maybe i had been hit i felt no pain but i could not tell any human being could endure those
hails of bullets and not be wounded i stumbled blindly through the brush unheedful of the branches scratching at my face and hands my overshoes were slick and i tripped and fell
face downward in the snow i rose again and stumbled on blindly as we plunged to the first i was separated from blackburn in the group that had held held briefly at the fire brick
and did not worry that savage or the others were not with me they were at some place elf in the fir thicket i came across sergeant albin and sergeant walter eldrick of cincinnati
ohio machine gun squabber we ploughed through the first together until we came unexpectedly upon kate take company s p a series of half completed fox holes dug in the frozen red
earth captain howard see wilson of houston texas the cake company commander was talking frantically over streenge radio he turned his eyebrowed damned by m glad to see you he said
petiolata with you and i haven't heard anything about how your company's coming ye see more relieved him perturbat seeing me and i wondered what he thought brought me to his sea p
perhaps it was the way i stood looking at him blankly there must have been nothing in my face to tell him that my company was no more and that even now or of germans were rushing
toward us unchecked through my mind raised only one thought i had failed and failed miserably my orders had been to hold at all costs and i personally had failed and because of my
failure the entire the entire battalion would be rounded or annihilated and all from a local german counter attack i company d fallen back but i could not blame the men they had
given in because i had some way not led them correctly it was i who was responsible i would turn in my captain's bars if i ever reached the rear or perhaps they were courtmartial
i did not care there's nobody on your left flank i told captain wilson in a matter of fact voice that i hardly recognized as my own they just knocked the hell out of us and the
whole company's fallen back i couldn't tell you where any of i company's right now except these two sergeants and myself good god what can i do mac i don't know i said you can't
hold here there's nothing on our left and then it continues my pocoon has fallen back he cried in those god damned tanks ye said i had three rounds pouemo and then knocked the
bazooka out i be sick round six round captain wilson said to men grabbed as you can disappear into the underbrush in the direction the enemy i thought how foolish it was to think
of stopping ten tiger potans with one pauca the two soldiers returned a moment later panting for breath good god cap'n one of them said the woods just a few yards away from her a
full of the bastarnae get the hell out that settles it tell your other prunes to withdraw into creek out in rococo notify the italian tell them we're getting a helot we plunged
again through the thick fir trees towards the rear i heard cap i heard battalion on captain wilson's radio telling all company to withdrawn two rashers before the full force of
the enemy's flanking drive could hit them we reached the edge of the patch of small firs to our left lady exploded a highway leading up the hill into rocherath to a right the
corner of the firth thicket joined the corner of a patch of larger trees which extended out two hundred yards up the hill we chose the loudoun without hesitation we ran half way
through the patchwood before we came upon a group of abandoned fox holes captain wilson yelled the group to the whole will hold up here shouted we may be able to hold them up for
a while while some of the others get out i could not see what good we could do from this physician but i was taking commands now and i took cover alone in a foxhole edge of the
woods facing the highway it was good to let someone else do the thinking for a while even if i disagreed with the decision i was not afraid instead i was strangely apathetic to
the whole affair the germans were hot on our tails so what they had been hot on my tail for almost as long as i cumber now and they had cut my company to ribbons they might as
well get me to german in petrement emerged from the thicket we had left such a short time before and millerand to us abandon you as tanks part in the open beside the forest a
company and machine gutter private first class whose and lopez of brownsville texas set up his gun beside a hole five feet to my rear he opened up on the german in tree with the
blast of muzzle the blastopore me to sink to the bottom my whole for cover the germans wasted no time in returning fire riddling the area around the machine gun in my foxhole with
a burgundii a tiger take appeared at the road junction where the where the italian had been shelled the night before and fired point blank at lopezites position but long barrel
eighty eight on the tank seemed to reach half the distance from the whole to my foxhole lopez continued to fire an american deep would cadman their red genevois painted on the
helmets tore down the highway from the direction of rasheral the road junction i held my breath the tiger tank would surely blast them from the road couldn't see the germans were
here now they did with the deep spinning on two wheels they turned round and torbat the road the tank did not fire over the noise of lopezes machine gun i could hear the captain
wilson shouting to withdraw to rocherath i wanted to obey but i was caught in the cross fire of the heavy machine gun and the attackers i grinned my teeth and waited for a loon
the firing none came i jumped from the hole and ran blindly towards the rear bullet snipped at my heels the tank saw that we were running again and open with renewed vigour the
big shell snapping the tops from the trees around us as if they were matched ex but i saw no one fall dusk was approaching and it was difficult to see for any great distance i
could not make out the town of rocherath that i knew was high on the hill to our left front but we ponged blindly up the hill falling a thin hedgerow that would be scampton
against the germans should the germans elector follow us with fire i slipped and fell down the fell face down in the snow i cursed my slick overshoes i rose and fell again i found
myself not caring if the germans dead fire snow at got inside my shoes and my feet were soaked my clothes were drenched her perspiration covered my body and my mouth was dry i
wanted a cigarette i felt like we were helpless little bugs scurrying blindly about now that some man monster had lifted the law under which we had been hiding i wondered if it
would not be better to be killed and perhaps that would be unendeavoring and that's the that's the section right there that like a sediment can't i couldn't skip anything in their
just too much stuff going on and hear what it's like from his perspective of being overrun and they continued fall back as fast as they can and there the basically it an every man
from the fryers situation at this point they finally do get back and he ends up in sortiamo and he tries to find the his potion and so he does going back the book we walked across
the courtyard and down the dark steps of the house into the basement a group of enlisted men were eating carathis colonel tuttle was quietly talking to a group of officers a dim
candle lit the room nice work mack colonel totland i couldn't control myself i could control myself no longer the choking sensation in my throat became racking sobs and i could
not hold back the colonel tried to come for me and i felt foolish and childish but i could not stop some one gave me a cigarette i held it with trembling fingers i was suddenly
conscious that colonel tuttle was saying something to me but at first i could not make any sense of what he was saying this had been no local german attack the enemy had already
broken through and taken belligand catching the division quartermaster and the engineering troops unaware in the undefended town the main supply route for crinkett through the
rear through burgin had thus been severed the two other battalions of our regiment had been thrown in the battle and the division was abandoning all it gains in the offensive to
hold this critical area or italian had held long enough for the nine and thirty eighth regiments to withdraw past the vital cross roads guarded by two stone farm houses that i
remembered from the trip forward the night was setting up a line along our present location and the thirty eighth of taken over the defence of cringel there were unconfirmed
rumors that this was a big german ports all along the first army front the new stunned me i stammered you mean you mean i mean you did a good job mack the colonel said the germans
are throwing everything they've got you held out much longer than i expected after i learned the true situation so i had not failed and i company had not failed i was almost happy
that the german offensive was a large scale one my men had done an excellent job against heavy odds and those who had died were not dead because of some personal failing of mine
the realization made me want to cry again i still did not know what had happened to my company so like i said this was the this was the massive massinger man counterattack that he
happened to bear the brunt of the beginning of the battle a bulge and look you know you can hear clearly he just thought i just we just it was a local little german attack and we
fold it but it was a mass of german attack and they put up in a credible resistance so now he starts he links up with savage serenitatis is searles a guy he sees him back to the
book savage and i ran frachther like two college drudgery reunited smiles wreathed dar faces we both tried to talk her once he heard that i'd been killed i had not known one to
become of him i jumped back to a fox hole after you said get the radio he explained at length first thing i knew there were germans all over the place they made me come out and
took my watch and and move me over to the highway where they had two other gees then one of our tory brogard falling the crowd set the dirt i grabbed one their birth counts and
started sprang and we ran like hell all three of us got away so that that's out savage got out of there then the little more time passes i began to evaluate our losses in the
fierce opening day fight in the kink in the print colter vault initially a proxy eighty men will listen his missing but each day brought a newest of names from the rear hospitals
of men who had been wounded in evacuated or victims of trench foot belisent the list of missing an action finally narrowed down to do oneor men so even though you know the lost
control that he did know who we nowhere where from was entered whose the only guiding us alone we came back oidores with one or two edges that out of a hundred and fifty guys so
eventually they realized or he comes to this only twenty four guys that they don't know what happened to the rest of rest of got out of there and this is what i look like over all
back to the book orbitalis a word that distinguished unition for its defence in the crinomenon ter walled and a number of men in the company were wardepon and silver stars for
gallantry including silverstar for lieutenant gassing gun and me others were postumus awards private first class cowan the light machine gunner who had performed his duty so
faithfully in fearlessly at the fire break was killed in action the next day but he received the distinguished service cross that was later changed to the medal of honor and
private first class lopez the encompassing gunderach to cake company also received the nations highest soldier honour the medal of honour so in that one defense these guys you
know two metal amonar given out unbelievable now this is also kandagro go through that right go through that you you lose a bunch of guys you barely make it out your companies
overrun will get what is not over he's not over he gasar right back at it again and the next thing they're at is they are they get past with doante tax of they do recover a little
bit but they're gentle again you got etching got a embleton of hay we got more work for you one of the men a woke me at six o'clock i blink my eyes several times and tried to
realize where i was the realization came and with it a feeling a revulsion that the war still went on and to day we would attack i wanted to turn my face back toward the wall and
sleep on in there planning the attack i was too busy with the various details of the movement to think much about fear i tried to recall the various phases of an attack that i had
learned a training but i was fully conscious of my lack of experience so even after all this he still doesn't feel like hesperian enough i looked at my watch it was fifteen
minutes until four o'clock the artibonite five minutes all company was moving into position now the time was drawing near oh god be with us on the attack so the nerves don't go
away when we reached the railroad track the first and second paton's jockeys tion in the open field they moved quickly into an approach march formation small explosion that sent
the snow cascading in all directions and little black puffs of powder and noise appeared unpatterned the field the men fell face downward in the snow and rose again with a broad
lifted the germans were firing light mortars one man from the second bolton laying a crumpled heap and did not rise his face was buried impassively in the snow i looked at him as
i passed he was a new man a replacement received a week before he was the first man from the company whom i had seen killed and a mixed feeling of honour and pity swept over me
and a mixed feeling of horror and pity swept over me but there was no time to stop and think i didn't even know the man's name how strange is warm some of us can go for days and
weeks and months in war and never be killed wounded but another man as killed in his first taste of war so as they are doing is attacks little tactical advice here from from
sergeant savage god damian savage said you got to stay further back at least get some scouts out front his admonition reminded me that i was foolish for me to lead the column the
foolish days of leading on troops in the battle were passed even though correspondence persisted in telling of daring general who preciated their troops firing from the hip or
brandishing a bayonet i had no feeling of bravado but it seemed obvious that the woods were undefended i dropped back to the rear of first petite wearies tion back to le fear too
far forward number one is like a killed nor to you might just end up in the fire fight were not you can't move an you can't make direction you can't even talk on the radio because
you're you're in the fire fight fast for no little bit and there in a it a big fire fight a per gun stuttered a flood of fiery tracer boats blazed along the trees we failed self
face bout downward into the snow the bull stray to a fiery path perfet above the ground my men did not richer in fire and i was glad the confusion would be terrific if they opened
up the night was quiet again i rose and motioned for savage solberg and charles to follow we had taken only a few steps when the burp gun opened up again i may at captain i heard
charles scream and he dropped into the snow i'm hit i was conscious of a sudden pain in the call my right leg as if somewhere in hit me with a giant club swung by powerful arms i
realized that i too was hit and a sudden flood of fearing golf to me we were two hundred yards forward of any friendly truths in eight hundred yards inside the woods a momentary
vision of a night spent bleeding in the frozen forest to a through my mind a warm liquid float over my leg and into my boat that would be blood i thought i'll hit to charles i
said my leg felt numb and i dropped the ground the firing ceased charlestowne through the right hippicus not walk savage took the italian radio and i designated two men to carry
charles we have to get back the third button not i believe that could walk i stood and put weight on my wounded leg a noseing pain swept over me and i thought i was going to faint
but i tried coming the leg stiff and found that i could walk the men around us lay flat on the snow and little bunches as if gained some solace through sharing their fears with
each other my brain was warning should we continue the attack how badly was a hurt had we hided german patrol or now pustota stumbled upon a main line to fence i hastily decided
to continue to the rear our velino fire of direct attack upon the german position from a less respect it restricted spot we moved toward the rear two men supporting charles of his
arms about his with his arms about their shoulders a sudden burst of small arms fire came from our right rear and the woods echoed to the crack of machine gun rifles the fire was
coming from the direction of the offensive position at the junction of the fire breaks which we had left bullets whined low over our heads and buried themselves into the trees and
snow around us my first thought there was was that kate companied contacted our rear elements and thinking they were german head open fire we heard vitalian talking on the radio
asking cake company what they what time they wanted to pick up their bed rolls for the night we've got no use for bedding rolls take company answered it was the tenant flame we
are in a firefight savage turned the butterfly which on the radio and broke the conversation with distress voice lieutenant frame he cried the enflame is as eye company your
firing at us this is item company this is item company god demand i said where in a fire fight we can't use me betting rolls now woudent flame savage continued this is savage your
firing and i company make your men quit firing your firing at eye company your shooting the hall out of itama the radio a silent for a moment the hell we are if we're firing an
eye company then wine the held don't you quit firing back i was frightened with the realization of what he had said we were receiving fire from cacophany but they were not firing
at us the enemy had slipped behind us for on for some unexplainable reason my medeno open fire to either directions from which the bullets came i thank god that they had not
started shooting the confusion would have been trebled and i could visualize gies firing at one another in the darkness as the worst case naryett bad guys in between you and other
good guys to it it's just a horrible situation and i maybe maybe torporen to understand this well you're a fire fight you're not hitting on inortet your shooting suppressing fire
and so if i am shooting in one direction that the bullets are not stopping where the enemy is there on to keep going indefinitely you know so if there's friendly behind the enemy
you can't you basically can't shoot if you basically can't shoot so he'd mcdonald gets they continue on the he continues on for while trying to get them in a secure situation but
eventually he has to get extracted cause of because of his wound and he gets back when he gets his now like under warm blankets and stuff their beaten the the age station i
shuddered at the folloman where were they now did broxbourne get out had i done right thing in withdrawing her should i have stayed and fought it out it seemed that i was always
running perhaps it was all my fault there been a brief moment of exclaining the aid station when someone had reminded me that now i could nice rest than the hospital but now a
nosotros the welfare of the company enveloped me i felt somehow like a deserter ye here you we've heard plaetoria guides looking for the million dollar wound a energein back to
the states and the million dollar woods get for about three minutes and then then then mc donald says he i feel i feel all he eventually recovers from the wound that you think you
know the guy's totabu ch of fighting he recovered from his wound when he got wounded but allison the rear and so you know he's probably get whatever extracted may be moved to
state may be you know give a nice cushy job no not happening they don't get me eye company back cause i companied owes a new company commander a beginnin g so now he in company g
and what are they doing here they in the rear somewhere blacking no if attacked time they're going forward so here we go we will back to the book we were to take the next morning
at four forty five somewhat awakened me at three thirty the next morning it was cold in the room and i shivered as i climbed from my sleeping bag my mind was dulled with sleep and
in one to climb back into the warm seeing bag and sleep on and on i wanted to scream to hell with the war and go back to sleep the sun jolt of awakening was like a merging
emerging from a wonderful peaceful world into a world of forbidding reality there will be men of her to day perhaps killed men from my own company the could be mean that seemed
remote and impossible but it did not remove by fear for the others there were many responsibilities had i given the boltonias all the information they would need how is my attack
plan was there some important detail i had forgotten when him back be defended when or tact be discovered as we crossed the flat open field towards the town o god if we could but
rush from the house into the attack without thinking again it was the waiting and the thinking and the wondering that got talked about that before that fear that your feeling if
the waiting is esitation that he sayhani house that of sitting ranui into the attack that's what he preferred it to but he can't and now there moving to attack is is is for now
the last men in the fort positions crossed the crest small hill they should be almost inside the first houses a bend dornat i hope the sea p grew in a sonanti running across the
crest the hill and told junior to ask for a portrait assault to to suddenly a tank fired from somewhere to afore big show a shell whereover low over her head a machine gun
chattered around of tank fire ripped from the limb from the tree above her head a bit gun said bert burke there was no question now we had had their defences the germans too had
tanks i was trembling slightly from the excitement but i was not as deathly afraid as i had once been in the pill box positions the opinion often expressed among some gas that if
after any man was wounded once he was never any good and combatant did not hold true in my case i was more calm than ever before but i was also more cautious now they proceed with
that attack in it again obviously there did this book is just filled with tact asittin after tackles it tuition after lesson learn after lessener after taxes tuition and in not
reading the entire book right now ah but that is why you get the book said that you can get all this information from it i can't give it all to you anapota you have to read it but
fast forwarding through that soul back to the book i stopped longer at the house where the men from the squad of the sergeant who had been killed were preparing for the night i
not known the sergeant personally but the these men he was an important character in the little war that ronald around themselves there was undertone of sadness as they talked but
there was no bitterness the sergeant had died like any one of them might die at any time there was a war on you know and what i like about that as he points out that you know from
his perspective all the stuff is going on he realizes that these guys that's the whole world to them right that sergeant that was killed back there die and there war is everything
to them and it's a seclet people you know if you're the business and you got meet someone of the frontlines like they don't care i must say they don't care but they've got their
home world in what they're doing so you've got to be caressed that you got understand that and you've got to keep that perspective when you go out and talk to people can't be like
all you know hey there's a lot of people that i killed at i know doesn't matter to these guys the only one guy that matter sneezes now like i said this book is conversana
different combats and they go while he's in charge of gcopo through all these different counting through the town of hum breasts and in across the vesterbotten go through alehouse
in a negoto far lassendale go through varmint go through mangerons and give more and they're going just from from city to city a gondrau and the fighting it's becoming a little
easier as their going tentoes you know the germans are running out of out of people there running out of um enouie as well to the fighting there still meeting some hard core some
hard core defenders and one the things that happened that really horrible is they the the germans now are using anticant weapons against the ground troops so antiradiation make
flacherie explode and the now using nose against the ground troops and there is a just dewatas browns are coming in exploding above them it's it's a nightmare and it's really hard
for them to fight so i got the good efforts going on to go and take out these these anticrotalus and one of the one of the antient the groups of anti craft weapons that they take
out they finally did they find he take out these anticapatory assault and when they get donysa mc donald comes up on the position and her woo back to look sergeant pat and said
the germans manning that position in the field which held them up were mastered the had two a gun he said some of them wanted to surrender but every time a crow would jump out of
his hole to surrender some other crowd as so be which shoot em right in the back counting a one they killed and the one week out two there's nineteen dead panned one man slightly
wounded in the arm but he had already walked back to guise mar that to the age station my weapons but too and puttoo heavy machine guns from h company arrived from there are
supporting position outside guys mart sergeant martial was killed one the sergeant from the heavy machine gun told me i could not think of for a moment who serjameses then i
remembered he was a pleasant prenticeless command a pecune who was to receive his commission as a second lieutenant in a few days and antigrav gun fired from the woods to the
south the sergeant continued and sergeant mitchett hit he was unconscious and the aid man took him back to one of the tdtink attanets takanori but there specifically meant to
fight other tanks the aircraft fire again in the god damped backed up ran right over sergeant mitchell so let a another itting that you have to train for isotropic armour we were
ontake don't know what's going on around them they don't have like rearers and so you get in a way of a tank it's going to run you over and so that's something that we we we were
lucky when we before we went on a play we'd go work with takes all that nat's words or that lesson because you might think all take cover behind the tank i take a move at any
moment so you got to be a very careful that young troopers out there if you don't work with tanks often stay out of their way here is a as the continuing to press through and
press through and pressed through forbiger to village from town to town again their moving pretty rapidly now back to the book colonel smith rolled up beside me beside my tank in
his jeep nice going back he said you're doing a really swell job just keep them moving the faster the better don't take me colonel i said meaning it and disgusted that it sounded
melodramatic thank lieutenant bagby and the first baton i'm just tagging along so you got a leader there that's not looking to grabble the credit himself but give it to his troops
now like i said to the fighting continues to get easier and easier in the start nescio know people surrender there all start see like the young kids because you start to see the
heather youth fettering recruited their thirteen years old fourteen years old kids at are surrendering they fight through corbet and low pitside and they apologized for my lack of
german um speaking capability but they get they get into one town and one of the tenants of tenant went men kind of pushes into the town with a small team and he's in there these
in one of the buildings and all of a sudden like a mass of group of of german soldiers come in and their kind o stuck ter so he rioba the book be ended women called suddenly over
the radio and i knew by the excitement in his voice that something had either happened or was about to happen you'd better get somebody else up here to help us out sounds like a
regiment of crowds coming on common this way up the highway so this he's trying to figure out what's happening and then the radio sputtered hello g g six this is wit sir g sixes
the call side for from macdonald's haloge's wit for god's sake get some one up here to help there's germans all over the god damn place i grasped the speaker from west millers
outstretched hand went this is mac i said they caught us half way across an open field the men of taken off i'll have to go back and get them to come up over for god's sake git us
out some help quick were completely surrounded roger ow said all whitman's and on these buildings completely surrounded this continued on the thibetian ready was silent a called
foitenant whitman and his voice came through weakly as though he were speaking in a stage whisper back on the left side of the highway he said in a house of got nine men with me
germans are running all round all over the place i lost track of all the other men heard some of them surrendering get us somehow quicker though find out where we are when they
start searching the houses so mcdonald tries to okay called the taloned some help when he's helper no you don't get any help and so he tells whitman or women hearson radio that
he's not going to get a heath is not getting any support and this what whitman says there's only one thing to do then he continued if we have to wait that long the sure to find us
we'll go down to the cellar and you start plastering us with artillery fire were inside in the cross or out in the open we'll help you direct fire from here i knew it to sisina
for genderman of for i to even though he would be partially protected in the cellar beteaed set up his artillery radio and are to re gave us a priority mission sergeant barns
arrived with his baton and the machine gun section i sent them into position along with the heavy opportune of heavy machine gun for h company to hell with the ammunition i said
will get more from somewhere spray the hell out of the whole area the machine guns opened up and artillery whistled overhead thundering into the open field dangerously close to
the paling fence at the end of the garden three hundred short lieutenant read yelled into his radio three hundred short the artillery whistled overhead again employment is the
houses beyond us with a terrific roar orange flames lit the darkness like flashes of lightning that's right on top of us whitman cried delighted let her go again we can hear
germans running all over the place outside lieutenant read called for baragat bragin the big shells roared into the objective the germans made feeble efforts at retaliation with
their machine guns but the shots died away in the explosion of the big artillery shells a direct hit transformed the house into a mass of roaring fades is at your house i asked
whitman half fearfully no seems to be on our left he answered give us another volley in the same place sounds like a tanker some kind of armoured car pulled up but at a reed
called for a wee pet volley that had just right women said his voice scarcely audible over the radio i wondered what had happened to his radio and was afraid that perhaps the
batteries were going dead and we would lose our only means communication i can't talk loud esad i've got fifteen crowd prisoners down here in the stellar with me in some german of
come in upstairs we can hear them walking around if one of these prisoners so much as opens his mouth i'll plug him so there's another situation where your callinan artillery to
your position you happen to be in the cellar for house and grisi here there they're doing a little salt and it set up like a frontlet he wants to make a little juster the obvious
solution to being unable to advance funnily against the unseen enemy was to send a flanking potuerunt to the right having them enter the woods and come out o come in on the
defenders from the flank and rear but i balked at the thought of sending one pelton such a great distance when for all i knew the woods beyond the canals might be sick with enemy
i decided to cover our front with our tillery and after peones tried to advance funnily and notified second an third potency ready moved forward on the cover of our tillery brag
but the enemy came suddenly to life when the riflemen rose to go forward and repulsed three efforts to advance so he wants to flank but he's waying it in his head the the flanking
sition strew the woods in order to flank etes put his guy's shroods through nardos know does know how else to fend it so he says you know what instead of dunallan with what i want
to do i'm just going to put down so martiniere going to do frontage shut down and eventually he does make the decision you know what the bet that the decision now becomes okay
funnel salt is not got work now but have to flank and goes back to that plank i sent whitman with the spare three hundred radio and order across the canal he moved out quickly and
far to the right i could see his men emerge from the woods and waycross the first canal the water coming to the necks of the shorter men my fear of a larger enemy force no woods
overcame my fear for safety of our left flank and at ordering bees pelton to follow the flanking force we could see the little dots that were wimmen's men emerge from the wood
bine and double time towards the garden who had a read stop the artillery fire the third patoon to my front began to advance and i knew his only a matter of minutes until the
objective would be ours i singled to see pegro and we moved to the railroad tracks all no and on toward the bridge past three wide germans lying helplessly in the gully beside the
tracks were born men in every shot them earlier in the day the automatic the enemy automatic weapon suddenly opened up again at the third button but the men were close enough now
to pick up the bush from which it was firing they fired round after round in the compasses and the weapon was silent so eventually he gets it flagon and that's what that's what
wins the day now again a wat is covered as they do this city by city some of the villages some of the towns that they enter there is no resistance some of them there is mass of
resistance they porthray fight through it lots of lessons warned lots of incredible heroics and eventually they pushed through and i make it all the way in to check as the lace
and were now approaching the end not only four mcdonald but the end for the war as they go in to liberate checks the lockian going back to the book or column continued forward
then my company shifted to the lead position on the tank i rode behind the lead tank in the artillery geep the little country towns changed into industrial small industrial towns
and we began to notice a scattering of red white and blue checks of a queen flags in towns in place of the usual white flags of surrender civilians waved at us guardedly from
behind closed windows the scattering of check flags should have warned us but we were totally unprepared for the mad celebration which greeted us in the next town we had suddenly
crossed from the sedate land in a check as the rocky proper the houses were a riot of color with red white and blue jackets of aquin flags civilians lined the streets ten deep
cheering and waving their flags as if their lives depended on it our column was forced to slow down and the happy civilians pushed into the street and showed us were flowers and
cakes and cookies one old woman thrust a big chicken to our deep another old woman stood behind the road beside the road waving both hands in the air tears streaming down her
wrinkled cheeks little children were wild with joy some of them had never known anything but six years of note occupation the young men wore red white blue arm bands and carried
german weapons a part of the underground movement that was now there was even now struggle you gain superior german forces in the capital city of prague every one screaming the
check words now dar now dar and we wondered what they meant i looked up and down the column at the soldiers in the company brilliant smiles lead their faces and they waved
cheerfully at the shouting crowd as if they had just won an election campaign and this was a personal triumph hardened stubble face to bed rooms had unshamed tears in their eyes
the unmeant joy of these oppressed people knew no bounds and it was too much for us suddenly i began to realize what no one thus far had been able in the war to put into words
what we were fighting for and i found a lump in my throat which i could not swallow freedom freedom something we take for granted back to the book the news came by radio not the
war was over there was no defining our joy sergeant quin brought out a treasured cage of coma the next day may eighth would be the day the towns people held the dance for us the
next night in the town guesthouse one of the artillery men was escorting a young girl whom he had met the night before and she told him that her friend lead when like very much to
attend with the captain the small guest house was crowded with dancers and the older men and women sat with the young children at tables around the sides of the room male dancers
the male dancers were pomali gas but a few chuck check young men were present the orchestra minded me of the circus bands in the u s as they played the waltzes the polka the
checks would join in often to sing the songs enthusiastically even as they danced at the insistence of the band leader lead a grand to agreed to sing and the net notes came forth
in a clear sparkling soprano when she had finished she made a brief speech which the slave speaking soldier told me said that the people would now sing their national anthem they
would be the first time they had sung it in public and six years the people rose as one and every boy girl man and woman joined in the singing with clear lusty voices that made
goose pimples rise on my orbs some of the older people cried and was all i cud do to keep the tears from my eyes when it was over the soldiers began to cry speech speech and the
civilians called on and applauded i stood up on a chair in the center of the room trying to think of something to say i ambled a few words of sincere gratitude for the wonderful
reception these wonderful people had given us and the soldier translated for leave and she told the people what i had said they applauded warmly lead and i walked outside into the
cool night air in the distance we could see fire works ixposing in the air above pillson and we knew that they too were celebrating the day i looked around me and saw light
streaming from the windows and army vehicles driving on the highway with their head by son and i heard the game music and laughter from the dance in the background i suddenly
realized that i could light a cigarette once again in the open and not be afraid of drawing any fire then i did it was a simple thing but it gave me a wonderful feeling that life
was worth living again i put my arm or about meads waste and she pointed to the multicolored fireworks to splay in laughed dobriner i learned that dobree was good and i said don't
breath don't break i looked away in the distance and i seemed to see the faces of the men from companies eye and g who could not see distracted because they had died to a pain it
and then their faces were gone and i saw the mud and i in snow of the secret secret line than the exploding fireworks became bursting artillery shells in the ardens and bursting
flack at leaped but then the terror was gone and i saw two companies of men marching by and there was a company and giacopone tired dirty weary but with smiling faces and somehow
the faces of the men who had been killed or in the background smiling and waving bravely to those who marched on a lebe looked up at me as if to ask what i was thinking and i said
don't breath dobry then lead squeezed my hand and laughed yes do bryant's the end of my story a perhaps you would like to know that my company moved on five miles north of pilson
to tremont and there we met another group of dirty tired in fatima who called themselves russians a month later we were loaded on a big boat at the havana july twentieth nineteen
forty five we sailed into new york harbor and received the cheers of a grateful america and saw tall lady with a torch that brought tears to our eyes but characters in my story
were destined be sent to help to finish another war in another part of the world where another group of american inforcement were fighting a dirty miserable war but a miracle
happened and the other war came to an end most of my characters are wearing civilian clothes again now but i know that wherever they are they will have a hollow place in their
hearts for those who will not be changing into civilian clothes again ever those gi who that others may live or cut down in a harvest for the devil and that is how this book wrap
up and credible book again it's called company commander by charles b make donald and although that is the end of this book let it not be the end of our memory a manono forget
these lessons and let us not forget that curry and the oppression that was forced on to millions and millions of people and let us not forget the millions and marries and millions
of innocent people murdered butchered frozen starved wasted wasted human lives to satisfy the twisted ego of a few and let us never forget these men that fought hunger in the keg
and fear to face and to fight evil and let us not forget those that sacrificed their youth and their health for the youth and the health of others then finely let us never ever
forget those men and women who were cut down in this harvest for the devil to give other human beings the most precious gift in the world freedom led us never forget them or this
gift freedom and i think that's all i've got fortnight ago charles few went to a maybe take a minute here and explain give me a chance to dig compress over here and maybe you can
explain in the mean time somebody wants to support this particular pond cast sure how they could do that it's crazy these books don't like the effect of an obvious enarea the
whole book but just what you realise the way it affects you you know it takes you there and just even like at the end when it's like the war was over you feel all your loom i
guess thank god that's over cinating you have that feeling and it just never wears off his crazy ye oh i upset before you know when we when we started and i wasn't sure if i would
have enough books right all but we're going to have enough books on it every single one of these stories is is its own incredible story any and in become one of the west talked
about how you get this this war world war two for this guy with this here but you know what an get some one that's in the pacific and you take one at if you wor to take one of his
polonies it would be that war fyles little tiny human experiences that are so incredible and each one of them is as just as incredible as the next one is just as credible as the
previous one and that's why you just i i just don't know forever git to em all and the other thing is that we have to remember is a tiny tiny tiny miniscule percentage of these
people actually rode a book here most of these stories they just they just happened to inane don't know about him yet so crazy and each one is like insolence in their little
perspective but at the same time in as so many similarities you know and it all sort o like as you gather you on one storiettes all these roisters to tell this over all tail you
know vetasta of of humans it's an if human nature to tail of and it's a tail of overcoming right er i mean just the things that these guys are comitate all these things you know
i've been i've been in some miserable place is right in my dontrien every basically everybody has he been in some hard places in your life and then these kistayetak and they live
that way and then they get attacked and then they lose guides and they get wounded as i this go right back out right by going to the front the limits of human nature are the
limits of human decompose of human beings to overcome obstacles is is is unbelievable and if there's nothing else i i know not every one goes to war and not have whulshale go to
war i don't want any one to go to war can help it but if at least we learned that whenever we're coming up against man we can be led with it we can do so much more and be so much
more comfortable pushee some much harder you know that was one thing and i didn't i didn't do a good job to day of betraying it but he's getting putoin lotions i mean even kind
her what is getting long every time he wakes up his isn't this reaction is isn't cool i get to go fight now though isn't it a reaction every single time is like i want to go back
to bed i went to war to be over i want to hide i want it that's his reaction every single time and yet every single time he gets up a does his job he does his duty he doesn't be
asked to do that that's the human spirit right that's a thing that we should all capture i mean we have a hard time getting out a bed because it's going to go to for a cow or
cause we'll get to have a hard day at the abuna the same we're where we're pathetic were pathetic compared to these guys oats you know it waken you up more fire in the machine gun
fire people screaming that there being overrun that's your wake up call to initial get out of bed in the morning because we you know cos we got it a facing a tough work out or a
hard day were going to get up early for travel in whatever situation you're in you can do it i can do it we can do it look at what these guys went up against day after day after
day after day after day after day after day just doesn't stop it just doesn't stop and old time by the way there's the threat of death by the way the whole time freezo don't i
just thought out this like this is what book where you don't even talk about like his family yea he isn't talk about as long as a not the know he's there he's just like detached
from everything else he's got a warder he's got a waterfit so thankfully we'd get these incredible men was this one here if you're looking at on you to but holding up the cover i
got the old school verses illustrations in a gottingen drawings of it's all of weapons just to kind of let you know it these things look like but credible stuff an so ye support
an you're in the mood dear like for instance how much effort does it take to click through amazonian a lot of a youenne support she yet youngster that lay actually dialplate that
them as one thing is cold so he do you ever an shopping like we always do daily some oh i said going to straight to amazon just go to jock poetophone little amazon banner on the
side you can get a scroll down if you want to hit the banner sometime but i put it up in the top manuas well bolt clicked on the amazon better dan do your shopping good way to
support like jocosa just mollie act we that if you are in if that's what you're doing you're supporting ohaeawae we asking them to i'll solve a tortitas in them to flank an enemy
or we are asking them to come up again pansette tanks with one boucaned now no no aseitas attornies good way to really good way it's the i was going to make the comparison to the
plain that comes in and and the least you know but meanwhile huge support but that's true lida said to the little pilot that's it that's a lot of wornerstrasse don't know if
that's the fair comparest on the last fellatah podestaship yes ye ye it's like hurump you know will be so hot in the fish can you do what we should actually do that yes we need to
do it actually we need to face to live when you do get to sodom and put it in a walckenaer in we can give visual the good in the situation that you're dorabelle do it your house
wartenberg it may have you pretty get so dim or know like seed yer telestic guido get some soda look into them any way set is a star more fair analogy you're the sodium big
reinforcement of facts but the amazon clicked a situation also if you're into supplementation which amager commend it now get me three years ago on nothing hear me recommending
any supplements maybe a pretty work out maybe and even then it's like catheaded i'll think it you don't care on it right that's the supplements were talking about if you didn't
know if you did know this is altamalia to you but the pre work out that we talk about called total strength and performance in a wait lifting and let not pretty work out it's not
its stimulant free or i'd see you know what house thinking of the casement free pre work out his kind o different than what i used to be in or what it's like i don't but i shot a
few of them in a long ride woolrich movies and but the good guy like i don't know cleated there broke lililies he's all calm he's like he's not wired an he's all commiseriat one
it goes down broekites you know kasana's what this free work out his kit a life like when you take it you're like oh i'm i'm calm but on the insight so much meteor and then when
you get the work going it's like form so that they do studies on on it that's the actually the good one of the good parts about it is like they do real littlecotes ed like a study
trombine mossroses ed as of like that that sounds good but it is cool so it is pre work out one is like over a thing as a four week period sikesey six per cent improvement on like
on robotry and am thinking all you six per cents i get cool single digit per cent sometimes it can mean lot some like thinking okay what's six per cent what does that look like i
know sought nita that to your bench press number or whatever i'll be at your dead lift in unbelief subtract it to this is this is how i really i you had to be negative to i know
radeaus i'm trying to prove for out religion gay so let's say i'm some dunelin i might can't rely do said his hand on an arm nothing me in to see any one and in the use the
hundred pound o melanditae currents will do it how is his will do you a bebarbered and one week i do you know said i ten boom solid right and then whatever if i work up the next
week if i can do six per cent less like that's my limit you know i'm i'm i'm feeling six percent weaker i can't do those hundred ten times now i got a good to the ninety five from
no act at iselton if you don't take this ere work out over a month period to time it's just an average if you don't take this pre work out year the iodide the ninety five if you
do you're the guy who did the units actually it's less than any five really it's like mine fours really on average dang see so that's what if you're not taking a pre work out
which i do now why the way if you're not taking it to your that guy no famine's cool but i'm just saying it ingoings galore you know and i see safehaven stuff is just mean making
it up this is like proveth do they did for seeing niversity again you will not yourself yet a part is thought to you i mean it's it's up to you to get after it you know have you
personally i'm i'm all of the fall upon it i didn't measure i might result in nothing like that i and to do a book ollandy yet the pot remember oh that's rehaired how they hit is
you know you know even that the word double blind plaidorie situation right whatever my lot of people levinathan is what it is is they get a punch or a group of people who were
going to work out hard going for gain straight up they're gonna give em all the supplements all of them all the people they gonna give this up home it but half of those people
it's actually not the supplement it's like nothing but they don't know that everyone thinks they're taking us up and further all get in after it they're all emmeran then they say
okay who's goin to who whose gains are better and the monitor and all the people with the supplements there gamester you know on average and it's all these desireless barnstuff
for one providing that much i can actually attest or does i'll think it right i test that it may now i i can't i i haven't done a double blind posibel meanin to because it after
like mix you up a fake myself out on your heart to traceries you like i said i what i when i feel the need i take not only shooter but also the preten't get after it yes if i know
that the boys are waiting for me for the situtunga an i know it's going down i i will if i'm not if i'm feeling any sort of hesitation i'll get after that dealt a grass it ran in
doubt yes yes and it makes sense too because obviously judicaverunt you're going hard that's a work up gofredo need to recover from any bet you know so you'll get better results
from recovering from even a judicatory know i just worry about performer man i'm not dutertre cover to be honest with you yea with a digitaline it or not that's what you gafooly
fully as oh but yes so good yet you say tagaste good you was weird because on the first free work out school like if you get a regular cut and quote reglar peekout the trainman it
taste like candy and let in no man aid and all this stuff and i'm not mad at it it tastes good or whatever i hewitt ye manet's face it i understanding good so when i took this one
it was kind o it had more of like a um you know like if you take like natural greens oorakin of haste the earth he it's a earthy earthers a earthy flavour to it rises like all
this is different it's not like candy and i like okay and then after while you can age you doant and then you have that a fine that association a certain taste from like vinework
on he got the pop and it's like and part of the routine so it's like dick's all good now i may literation good ye wait doesn't taste like crill like if your chopping thumping
cruel oil town livia you got to to swallow those don't talk ostentatious so then good and so cruel while speaking of which it is the go too in my opinion it's the go to all
talking a great train about this what's it ay it was de yesterday of lockman of course like okay if you're working out in your like in my joint ceres sore that's good of course
but you know when you do notice it and in my experience even more if you pay attention is like for i like feisting down on the lizinanina the kids in a recent worse having there
for a long time same position like for forty five minutes usually after forty five intenseism get up whatever i do something you get up an you like you know you get up you know
you you may had no mean no but if it didn't i curll i probably would have that and i have had that especially a few worked out that day or something like that in a few just
stiffen up i'm just saying then you feel it for the curliest like your always warm you know not warm sisily but you know like you already warmed up is kind of way i feel like it's
good almost supporter he something given the creole yes like ershi i i had injuries and coil that was a long time ago that mister tangling in stopped in my going to yes yes i even
like like you say injuries with yes with coarse legitimate but i never i'm in a had injuries but it more helps like the grey injury you know i am preparing a senorita a year
something that's just kind of just nagging you you stuff you that like battle through or something like that you notation that name or you do you that old man a three cut next
time i'll go into the hands lie fishel or culls better than fish off because we talk visitations kinetotele like manister back on the tiny way clippety worked up stove everything
on on it is good actually just depends on what kind of worked out program will canonlike style you know but they have something for everybody like regard do even the crieden if
you not dat active it's just good for your joint you know and like cause over time ye degenerator well read in rate also no the way to support is subscribed on i tonoro various
pieces platforms stitcher gollan all these things if you subscribe he has it already you know that's a good support you know get up dates when dame knew episodes come up also on
you to whatever you do channel exerts on there along with a video version of this potassic helps an you need to know what echo looks like because apparently echoes not look like
what he sounds like yer fontinale actually how this is it so paul new friend paul came in from arizona visited came to the victory looked into some juicoot you ration yes to bed
so he goes he says when i walk these like a iconstase came in a watson he goes oh you're i for some reason i thought you would be bigger he said oh i was like all interesting i
was akasic people well if they haven't seen me or whatever they think i'm smaller and you think i'm bigger so it's kind of a was just different yooooooo reading on social media
that apes jack perry maybe five echoes jack or me or may be prudent may be thought i was just tall like super tall or some to yeah well maybe but you would you find eleven
sicilian snipers are all a normal height on on now either way omwenteling there i'll yes you want to watch you to yes of of jack yet less not me i think those me a little bit ye
so either of us eh and you won't watch him bearing go ahead watch that man good is on you too and also we ah i'll put some exerts on there till in if you got a watch the whole
case to citronaloes and watch like for two hours three hours sometimes ominous kind of unrealistic bestow you need be eye well now what what an i've done this before to you just
put it on like your tver a somewhat to see what is going on as in the port cast i want to see the look all my own face round your face when i say something or in washakie ye ye
and let me sent because you when you figure i mean no i feel like a lot of people who watch less t v but that could be just my little bubble but in no one washes the v we only a
don't want at an no but it seems only aboutation for sure but let's say you watch out an no doctor fill not that i watched doctor i but if you watch the that's all they're doing
this sitting this gunstock of this person and you're just watching her and now you can listen to that your saying i i'm tisander in the doctor filled the the difference between
looking and and watching it and just listening to it like you understand the people actually do watch to people talk about stuff o make sense it you kind of feel like you'd be
more locomotion in a way either way i oseto's the that's the point there if you if you want to watch this potator just the excerpts and you don't want us the whole pot cast this
little exercuit le less in say uh i kind of separate from potestate sharable but nugget also we have a store joculator come if he liked shirts some what not nooyawk next week we
have i think near designs yeats cool yet penalising to the crowd a little bit you know people drops a gestion's all the time which it you know listen too for sure and um and of
the the ones that what he hate you one word that percolate to go omai like the word perculate better than resin on the that resenteth my soul in now that fine that's what the few
in it get on her jenisa it when other people say to some school i dessay the ones that are good yet that my hat to for sure i yet do one always thought a good old poetaster to
develop more and more designs and i have so he had to start up come and anne you don't win the stuff is on there some patches some shirts of course brassard suitcase she i'm not
good at recognizing like hay we should make more stuff frances i it's hard for me directoriatis good and what's bad because my mind is different than some people yes so but what's
coolies when i do see something and i do think it's good pretty good sir yet i youribean almost so was a echo charles t shirt designed by the way ah which i think poplarlike in
anither goin to like it as you designed it well yeah but in but that's not why they're going like it because it's not just straightforward realities but the oisomai ones there to
wanyana believe breythin al lair creator a antico down to a no think that is going what is just bears that day that echo asked me what font it was that i used to write junketings
and i was i yet oisted ard in in the nicanope and i said it's because it's a machine can read it in you know this is a parmachenee noussaie in thevenot in there the eteinte
lateral and i respect a votsoever it is jocular am also oh yes this sorry braises or on there alleged nineteen per cent straight on ninety per cent boonchretien prove made
performance a result all that stuff hodson their to and you know like i said more stuff that we have a trial mancomingo des going to be good let you know on that thought a little
less syphilitic warfare i feel like i should talk about that right now i feel like we can't stop now series you so you orondates sight god achora on i too is it albert with tracks
and this is what it's for some music no is what it's for the triclinia ly it's considered spoken word this what is if you're feeling a moment of weakness in your discourse that i
use that word right discourse is not rowing yes so in your course aeneae closer on your jernington goals to stay on the program in whatever capacity reawake up early get the work
out in hard work out in um you know greinert dear bullock your blog you're anything you're doing right more or less than you feel in moments a weakness slipping from the path take
it a break when you should it be taken a break scheduling unscheduled rest days yet when you feel anglicising from the war path yeah you listen to what of these designated checks
and it'll help me keep pass that weakness and that moment i would say and i've said this before it is this my guest one hundred persecute that he had gittha your weakness
hungereth and this is why i say that and am said the afore but i think it's worse aningait because if you lie say you know lifts do tho the wake though the work out one not the
most common in to me and michael camorak working up and i sakyamuni work out a track let ever with the dawn i listen to it and after him donning to it like two minutes on and i
still skipped the work out that's like a shame not in untuneable shame and it's all personal so that man not a hundred per cent if you still get the rod out i'm just trying to
imagine it a hour of have it it is not remembered diaetetica my unbearable shame is show on bearable that it is simply would happen you know so that that's why i say under present
if i don't think i can't imagine a person that would actually let that happen not in the less the whatever you we think your weakness is we can of early all the stuff if you do
the wake up early one and you set it as your alarm which is a good idea by the idea it's actually a deserve idea just clear it with your erastou significant other nificent other
yea if there sleeping in the same bed or whatever and they have the potential to hear it there is some due on the bed royaute all of a sudden settling in his jocelini spot in a
skin psychological werper if jackonets all soon ems on musing and on these other things so ye you there is a good way to support an we breceliande support yourself sitters sire i
am any actually what's cool now right now well getting request for psychological warfare to what topics need to be covered head i didn't cover on the first one yes there's more
weaknesses out there in the world weaknesses that creeping around and her tertio get people but yeah weguelin some of them we missus eminah so ye if you got him more suggestion
just hit it up you know tepelini smoking halidon or not to go to one o two people still smoke boyton's watrous thinking about her a wee oven california that's one of the thing yet
we fitterner in california the lot of people don't smoke any more yet not repopulate any more yes well just like em perlitely we live in a bobouton being in california but just
think about the people you hainteroh you know everything all his usances doggish at the very least have like some level of healthy litters are exactly so yes it's weird i saw die
smoking in his car in a six day as the same thing as a tangi didn't know really beautor relied realized it when i go to another state yes and you go into a restaurant some ghee
you class moan restatement of our here an you can't do it to intolerably you eagles so the as you go to another state and you and you smell cigarette you're all i remember that
packmule good on anything ye don't care well we'll think about that one ring ye an i don't know if i could legally do it though because i didn't smoke and i don't know what it
takes i don't know if it's proper for me to do that raciness i could just get not of coleta i mean it's a bar offling that kills you isn't be doing it man there's actually no
benefit from it right there's no i mean if you're doing steroids there's some benefit to it out your giagong er if you doing ye caffine you're going to be more awake for there's
certain benefits are attention will now kepen the way i mean but ganderlike i've never even tried a puff of the cigarette before you from holy well that's not the reason havelok
is the thing a thing with my dad he he he literally referred to it as the devil aleutian and it was it was a shame thing too so the way he would talk about smoking not necesarily
the people that small footed mocking as yet just so i i just to me in my mind according to his little hat coomassie and let a good job there ma ya ye never try yet anyway he
should told you sleep with the devil to dare howanever donatello i know but yet a smut hetiti it's um there is benefit though he bent only on my bene depends on what you mean by
benefits though how beneficiary kind it gives you like this this like buzz and a latin but here in the thing about to its weird cause you if you say smoking smoking cigarettes
there is nicotine in it and there's benefits in nicotine but smoking also has all the continencie like tar all these like a carcinogen and stuff like that yes so smoking may be
not so much benefit nicotine there are benefits recur well let's just say no my saying no very no met so i ate benefit no the native martian um let's see also speak of net benefit
you can get to net benefit if you want to try something called jacobite tea you're wery if you're not a teacher in a don't work because it doesn't taste like to taste like victory
share and you know i don't take my word for it i i got some refuse we got some re got a bunch of reviews on amazon and you know what they're all olesome they're all twelve star
right you know so there's one after drinking one come of this balance and delicious tea i was able to execute a flying tangle in my black belt editor and struck er while
discovering the mystery behind dark matter in the universe and actually isn't dark mater it's a combination of jacko's chin an echo charles's bisects altering the gravitational
field of the from random celestial bodies can so you know there's some good stuff here i can't speak to dead left performance more i can't come on iasian increase in production
while performing far more most noticeably i can dig post holes in hard southern clay and half the momie while under the influence of jocolate tea taster awhile be recommended for
farmers landscapers construction warders orders or any one who wants to get after it so i didn't you know i wasn't familiar with that well you do notice right now let the
economies improving a lot will look you know everything's getting better i think that laubepin jock like dear working harbor yeeldeth our seeing corleone sarily saying i not save
as a factor resentful land you know this guy here bought this for my wife she's five two hundred and twenty pounds she was dead lifting two hundred and fifty pounds by the way
that's double boy weight already impressive after a week of an by being this fine product her dead left sullen creased to one thousand two hundred and fifty pounds now that might
seem like a lot it but it's it happened right it's right there on teisuke ted on amazon reviews and lintot ah we started throwing jack awhile tea bags in five hundred gallon water
tank on the fire truck little known fact jack white head three times a wetter than i in her now extonishing fire three times faster and in the process any one an seen who could
spray to me at least start getting after it said the little side effect to his positive out of active respecting at the fire some one see he is it with some water by accident the
orinoco lain her stardom beriah got a warning here two aggressive do not drink of work littery lift then ripped the door trim off the wall after consuming this victory in a glass
luckily since getting after it is my new defamed i was able to repair the damage before the boss noticed replaced pathetic missus my best part however the best part of this one
replaced pathetic screws with lag but steele lag bolts are and their like instead of a screw which is like a little tiny pencil think alagoas a big bull that you like serialist
your mighty fall if now i mentioned this before and i don't know if i should necessarily do this but i kind of think i should go on there's a poem that someone wrote about jackie
tea and it's based on the poem infantry calms by kipling this one is talking about jackaway tea probably worth talking about here is so we'll go here rego jocolate t im hot brew
brew brebian up some jocote hot hot hot hot brewin up some jocko te drink drink drink drink drink it down and began there's no tea leaves in the poor three two four five tasty cup
of de day seven three five nine come day before drink drink drink drink drink it down and broaden there's no ties in the poor do do do do cross wadis in front of you drink drink
drink drink drink it down and bein good good good good will answer everything as no tales in the poor i've drank whole bacon getting after i press lift squat row then ride back to
it again drink drink drink drink drink it down and brogan and there's no t leaves in the poor so just when some one writes review like that i think that might be the best in
effect let us face it that's the best review to send to him is not so good on you that's the best of you in a very impressive as arbres and so that's that also if you want to
produite becoming on called way the war in your kid and you i cannot bordered and tell you why this book you might be wondering what this book is about us this book is about
everything so i wondered a little accerto young mark remember the beginning above he could do zero polyps do not do any pulse was strong enough now he works through the summer his
uncle jake is shown him look on going to work out programs and finally he is not up over the summer goes through some plates gets through them getting after a train hard finely
towards the announced his first day of doing ten pups right answer here's what happens we'll go and back to the book and that was it i was now officially a kid who can do ten pups
no more hiding from the pullet baron school no more being a barrister about being weak this was real as i thought about this i looked at uncle jake and said thanks no problem mark
and i want you to remember something this isn't just about pull up you know what else is is about right i wasn't quite sure i don't know uncle jake grab me by both shoulders and
looked me straight in the eyes and said gravely this is about everything everything just think to months ago you couldn't do any pope at all is zero now you can do ten all the
took was a good plan and the discipline to execute that plan to do it that's what it takes and you can apply that to just about anything if you were willing to do the work you can
make things happen and like i told you no one else is going to do the work for you sure you might get some help along the way but you might not who knows what we do know is this
hardwork and discipline or how you achieve things you have to make things happen and that is exactly what you did hear and you could do that with almost anything in life remember
that uncle jake's put now to more to young mark so there's all kinds of good lessons for you know i love to say it's tidbits kids about basically i'm an tell you what you might
want to order or yourself he everybody can't everybody backing they just it's everybody back to that that check out that book also just released this point calfed om feeled manual
sometimes we need to refer to the manono to do things right we the manual i we're going to refer to it manuals common you can preordain too it's about everything you know that
one's more in't adenaden yet it is a dull yet do not that there's like bad words in it writing like that there's no obscene topics de unless you think don't not are a bad word he
inherit about them a little bit and there there evilness so ye you can uncage that one too of course did get extreme ownership said bat leadership in combat and business and it's
about life and you know from what we learn in combat the lessons that we learn in combat would they will help you he had your business and they will hope you in life so get a copy
get a copy for your team and you know potanon the chain come and up and down the chinamen they needed also i want to mattison front right visit a company lay father or i who wrote
the book tree moonship with me this or company leashing to consulting it's what we do we've also got a jap the new on board we got dave burk on board and we were with companies
help them a line near leadership around the principles from the book extreme onestep with things we earcobar if you need this and this is the reason saying that right now no man
don't talk about the war i haven't talked up as much but people sometimes have a hard time figurat how to get information as landfront dot com that's the business website if you
want to bring us on board info an echelon front dot com you can email no that address and then people cannot get the you don't need to go to a speakers bureau if you want to hear
me speak of you in your lives to speak of you on a year causeuses buris um they their companies that that facilitate spear lion alaike an aged so few now were at ocotal you an to
hear jacotot you an have jackonet company you type speaker jackall there's a good chance ashalorn will come up and say oh yeah you can call this number you can keep male here and
eat and what now hook it up or there'll be someone else i says you know bill speakers i and there advertising me her advertising everybody you'll rent and is a hay if you want to
then they contact south you got em begettors l a middle man and that's nero yes actually that's good cause i like people still email me dear like you know and but you don't get on
come and talk it all company no foxite or lethington iotete no i think a yeah yeah i why you you are an you forward those those things to me you yearned know the implied all and
emilio something oh yeah yeah yeah that's a that's but oh so that's what you do is in funeral in front a come and you know between me between life j p d park and we do we do
program like full programs at your company he staged everybody alien on the same pidge so let what we do if you want to get some of that and also you can come the master in new
york city new york city right can't be made new york city an that's the place were going to be made forth on may fifth doing at the mariarann marquis now a couple of things about
the muster okay this is this is different oasthouses feel cold salmon are the like pump you up that is not what's happened to it as a master you are that don't come ye i'm a sayin
you won't be pumped up i'm not saying you won't be motivated but don't come if that's what you're looking for there's not going to be any chancing okay there is not going to be
any like communal promises and that kind of stuff that's not happening there you're not goin to fill out um um a dream board okay the not happening don't come to the muster if
that's what you want that's not with the mister is this is practical tactics tactics and strategies practical things that will help you lead your team and will help you lead
yourself so if that's what you want then come the muster if you want to chance and promise since nuff like this don't come because that's not what it is you are to learn on lead
come ye yet there i mean at domesticus going on the last one but like you learn like senario unelect the cuman apart is straight up gold in preciseness like hay i had the scenario
that's been basically plagam for a year and it's just causing problem here in you know and everyone has their own one and while they're all unique be all kind of over late with
each other and and you get like okay this we do as we do is the answer in this like dan we not leave in answer we go back to the work in it like a lot of times i little just
solved like this one problem that are exall this other stuff and it's so effective it is it is and when people come and they hear the questions get asingan there at there's always
an overlap on the question right and and there's overlate principals as well to government prior is next cart excidemend those the explanations can stand alone on themselves but
you sir getting into real world application there's going to be augur there they're going over lap you you need all four of em right you need all four of them to solve your
problem you can't just save the probe of decentralized man because if you try you that you make something you complex you got to keep you copley the way they're going memorative
that you on trinavindu decentralising a pertinent it so that's the way it is for every every problem that yours dear suffering and then there is you know there's obviously other
other principles that we build upon that aren't just the fore was of combat so you gotta get you gotta what's good as when people care the way that you you lies these tools they
learned the uisteans right at that auroit i turn o tea some one to take pictures right you don't just you tamsin that cause you know i been talking about cameras you don't just
say okay here point is on point is set the setting to this set the light over here set this up presses button there a peter that's cool they work at one time what what happens
when i sat outside as is a lighting what happens when the subject is no you got a tea to me how to do the job you got th mete intricate ess interposed of it you got to show me all
things i got a lernonas that too and that's we do at the muster you get these various tools you don't just read about em and see what they are in say okay i understand what this
toitoi sharp i can cut with it we'll get what else you can do this there's a lot of things you can do with these tools that we put out a amuser we take it to the next level so if
that's what you're looking for come to the master come the master and we got great feed back cross the board so ye come and get that in the mean time also if there is something
that you want to ask or you have a question or you wanter give some feed back or comment about what we're doing her order to new you just on a cruise with hiawatha go tres
primarily his kind of primary cruiser here ah where on the interweb right now to day yesterday buviere to morrow twiter inster and you know that we all so when konovaloff and you
can get us there aco is at cocheres and i am an jarawena to close this out for the day then first of all to all the people in uniform that are out there holding the line against
terror against extremism against criminals against fire and disaster against accidents and against the unexpected all of you thank you for keeping us safe and everyone else out
there thank you for listening and i would also ask that you be thankful you be sinkful for your freedom you are precious and altered because sometimes when something has given to
us just given to us we forget what the cost was we forget the price that was paid then there was a pat a price paid for our freedom a massive price there are those that paid
everything they had for our freedom so don't waste it don't abuse it don't sounder it our time here is limited he your time here is limited and you have this freedom you have this
gift so what are you going to do with it what are you going to do with it the day right now ask yourself that rastanak then then go out fidget after it so until next time this is
echo and jocko i'le
