this is jacopo gasped number sixty eight with that cocheres in me jackall in bideing echo did evening so we've been doing some face book lives lately faced book live and figaro
interacting get a lot o questions but here's the deal all the face book live i think the first one i did i got three thousand comments or questions in one hour in it something
like forty or fifty question to minute which is one a second which means you can't answer all tom and i started looking some questions and i was really good questions on their
interest of common questions at pop up that maybe i don't address or having to dress and i said you know what if a lot of people are asking the same question there must be a need
to know or people are interested in what the answer is so i kind of fruit together some of those questions from face book live primarily there's a couple of the ones that i got
from twitter and or face book message that would called face book message messenger like it somebody direct messages ran in and you know with that if there's people that are
sending me messages and and stuff through social media in an even through mail i i can't answer all of them right now i i just can't and i apologize and i appreciate what your
sending me but i can't always get to him all ditton of em coming in it's it's not a de don't have enough time to answer me i look at em and you know i'll try and throw back an
answer will quick sometimes but um a lot o time i just don't have time to answer mallorean em all i do read them all but you know what i'm looking at a limited amount of time and
i have a ton of face book questions coming in um it can be hard if you do want an answer let me give you a a a something something that is how full you wanted answer ask like a
really simple question yes or no or should i do this or that you know should i go to college or join the military based on the situation of men right now that i don't have any
money and i'd have to bore a to go to college what do you think i should do so the there's a couple of options there for me to answer you know what i mean it's going to be pretty
straight for it on that one on the tay joined the military good you want to join the military anyways go get after it boomed down so but if you give these long questions that then
you're looking for an open and it kind of answer is hard for me to get round to now those are also questions that i normally might point to the po cast because they do require
more response so if that's what you're looking for yes that's a good way to send it on face book or on tower a he need if i open it an answer that i'm going to have to think about
or an after discuss with you that's cool but if you just need an answer about something just answer ants ask of a direct question of getroud to it but during the face book
liveyeres tions it was really cool i'd never done face book live before and got lotteries ions so with that let's go to this sun secunda from a face book keep eyes and tolerant
and toward her she these primarily came from passbook life oh that look i i and i went through every comment these it took some time yet but is testing some my computer started
lagging which an i know i talk about being maddicombe or a printer's and copeman but when my computers lagging that also in give me angela computers pushing it out yesias liar i
just want to think to work quickly yet that's the whole thing though that's the whole thing with computers like of course you want to work more quickly that like if you get a
cheap computer can alone have a madening all as he of you have expectations there yet makes an i'll want the thing to work quickly yes i almost got a t one line you that is
internet wise ought the thousand gold school no it's the t one line as is when you're you're gittin it not in any garantie ninety nine point nine per cent you know up and going
and never break never having issues i almost got a few one line that forenoon i think i didn't do it well he that's what few obviously and with that i think all this good to
question the first one i had questions away jack over quest do you work out every day o gay yeah this is a question that a bunch of people were asking me and i thought it was
pretty emitted work out every day which i do and then i also thought that there was a little misleading statement in the success magazine article the anagan i don't know what i
said on some of these questions or how i answered at the time or when i explained or how well explain it but there was a misleading statement that that on this particular day i
had already lifted in the morning at zero for thirty and now i was lifting again that nine or won't whatever time it was an end then i was going to lift again like mad it seemed
like i was lifting just over and over again throughout the day which generally i don't do generally when i wake up in the morning i left and by lift i mean work out and by work
out that might mean left it might mean do callistonian might mean sometimes it just means stretching right but rarely do i sech but like yesterday i was from under the weather for
judas wasn't full on sick my some of my family members got sick they were really sick and when he hit me i didn't have me as hard cause i you know thought gentis are dishonest
alas a little bit take but one day as he was i i gaming and stretch the next day it was like leg day you know of going to go to squat and i did squattin body was to come and
witness that work out i would have bechamel because all i was basing goin there go through the motion pullite weight on the bar move it but yes i do i work out ever and so three
bought of sick anne work out right got to work out and when i do something clinging it healthy to do something now another question if people say as i do you lift and you you
gittin same day yes absolutely all the time almost daily all another branch question it out one is do you left before you get to or after duster i like to lift before juge i want
to go in to judithe bit tired as a matter of fact some of the young guns at the jim tell to say oh you know i will go in to rollright and the young uns say already worked out as
to hard work out to day about all fresh and and i was sayin we think i'm fresh we think on the don all day so as so ye i like to work out before i did you titian i like to sir it
was good ways or even marginal waves get a little sir session in and if i can get i don't like us a word cardia but i'll use it it's nice to go for a little run a little jog o
that sort of like my grand slam of a day o the three that now for four yet sir sir you i work out you know lift carta calisthenics or whatever then do some kind of a gin i'll use
the word cardio go for a run gopher jocorum sir that's awesome and then you throw the dioneo of it that's a grand slam for me and i lie love those days and not the days you go to
sleep at night you know forefoot you go to bed and you feel tired yet you know that's one of the things in in the book that's coming out the field manuel discentes freedom field
may i talk about sleep no one to things that are about this you know people are and how how do you fall asleep at night cause a lot of people you know we all all every one has
trouble getting up in the morning but then when you start sinoway warming to better all our people have trouble falling asleep on a yeah there's a lot of people near to me so what
do you do to fall leperier i got a couple of steps in the few manuel one of the step in the field manual is be more tired how do you be more tired you orawaldo during the day you
drain yourself physically intently during the day that way when you go go to bed at night you will fall asleep he and i got the whole thing laid out there but that's one of them
one other note so that's it you know do i work out every day yes do something every day do something do something even if you even if all you have this ten minutes do hundred
burieu know just do a hundred buries just adamina make that happen but also sick if your sick do you can get all wet going if you're injured do you can't if you're sick cavia that
doesn't mean go trangoil if you say i make everybody else sick he had to git an atindao so if you're that kind of sick don't do it but other than that yes i work out a re day i
tried turn every day i stay active yet in mine it's going to be hard though to try to mask your routine on to some one else you know like you you can't just go into let's say i'm
a die work out wanted once to day and it's like just a lessay it's a strenuous work out at super strange not like hard i can't just be like he jocalder out four times a don in
good densely doing that like you can not only get hurt but it you won't work virata's another misconception is that every single day that i go that i work out i'll going level
twenty nine de self destruction if you can't do that and you can't do that it doesn't eat it you can't do it you just can't do it i mean it's not like you can't do it because
it'll hurt you you just can't do it ready know you do squats have he one day or you go through three or four days of going really hard the fifth six day one of those days you're
going to be okay i need to back off to day ever did it date is so i'll i'll you do some kind of work out i'll still go i'll sell get it on but i'm not going to go level twenty
nine but you know self destruction when i was going to botatoes ah they would say there was a room attached to the main hall that made barracks where every one was that open bay
barracks and if you got in trouble for something they'd send you to the side room and they say go in there and self destruct orange will you and they had a list of exercises and
it was you know jumping jacks purhaps you know set up at mister bunch random callous ne wat when they'd send you in the midyears posted and then you went in there and you did want
of every exercise than two of every exercise has been three and then four and then five and then six and at my buddies who ended up being a seal whose a great dude who i went to
bocagh's angie's the only guy went to navy but camp with and we both under up in the sites but the the chief that was running at the side you know whatever seemed of frontis he
was kanonnawenta destruct an this guy was a was a wrestler a callieres legit called restorer dud and he went in there and you know normally people are done by bonover that you
know river six repetitions or may be at repetitions he was in their fur like an oath once out i just drew it then with set lois i knew i knew he was in there an for sure yet the
wrestler verse in it off the rest in relief ere then some you know guide from wherever that you know and nonreligion rest here yessirree simple eyes tangled dis kin leave it to
you ye self destroyer daniel at rache was effort as he was the master at arms in my boot camp which oneven remember the rest are gone to rest on her as you issue a master on we
went we were both new england too and so we had driven the the the flown down there to florida the same plan and of course we were both kind o you know what you go into the navy
for order and to be settee and had a little bit of okay we'll at least this guy kinder getting after it near some way you know and one ere he was called rest or i'll probably at
old punk to him because he's thinking one of his allies school kid go on a non rest they are going oh i want to be a nevian yes so anyway he was a master of that was a master or
got room in self to struck so has a good time so no i do not self destruct on a day basset i do get it on every day and definitely purshase honor regular basis i and that's
obviously gonna depend on what you like what is the result because you're not at a point where you are like i need to really get in sheep i need to lose is er twenty five pounds
or one at not to say no tis interesting i as the days were i'm gettin the the the grand slam going when i get to you get you i feel good ye the i train way better when i'm in the
zone when i've been more in it when i had a good work out of surf i showed it you i feel great i don't feel all feel tired but i feel better read yet cidalise on round of rolling
a fine whatever reason i don't get a work out in the morning or i only get a really short work out of the morning and then i go tragito i i never feel of the man his matter of
fact i have a personal superstition slash cursing my own head that if i don't work out in the morning i am going to get injured no so that forces me work out he went i don't want
to yeo'man a transmit i don't want to get injured it cause there's been i think to injuries and i've gotten from gigito both of them happened when i didn't work out the mongoose
yeah i didn't work out a morning and i showed up and the inwite train and one of her my ankle really bad like a handle spring and that was bad but i didn't work out in the morning
i must have in it and i think the well parent lid had to anethe one was i think the other one was a ne injury not what'tis a shoulder injury anyway whatever it was it also that
day didn't work out the morning for some of poetic reason you know i didn't work out so for me or out it's a mental peep it's physical prep get you ready for the evening as you
sits think that's a i think that's called the valaiti by is on you kind o you draw that conclusion you know in your specific case ride ought stands out in your mind on less
emotional level so it's like you know you can't really happened though so never mind all right connotation on now you would have i and is that what event you have to consider all
the times in your whole guitarery that you did it work out rosenthall be only to eat to a eisach a small number it's such a small number i bet you it is i bet you there's ten
times in the past ten years that i didn't work out in the morning and i can i trade you to to that night and two other ten that's bad an ye can't can't consider it can lovetots
probably pretty generous it might be like five because sometimes i'm on the road and then i didn't work out but i didn't train you get you but for me to be here in my home town
with access to my garage sim and viguiere to just say oh does not in a work out to day i don't say that red not very common no yes i wouldn't say if you was a muscle strain or
tear or something like this i would say that would maybe make it a little different because you're stiffer you know now but then again ankle too if your super it like form to
instruct your ankles and children alive sanatan maybe you might be right i could be timid completely arneel i i'm right but i istically i think i win to istically or statistically
let's say it's the inconclusive okay sir one per cent is not conclusively olga no no i know he'll do occupation give it every one ate like you'd have to do it over time and saying
if there's like a discernible tinerant then you could start to conclude a canon years of water of that inheritor light glee okay well that's her that's we can make that a
testament right now to you more you parolette you twenty present more likely in her if you know which is pretty bad cup yes yes those aren't good out that all in now i'm working
out every day now is some token yes i used to do that oh like but out go hard work out thing god you too but sane being no i think it's mental unless you're doing it like seven
days a week for you know a few epano can start to feel like hay or your nutrition is bad or at one something it to go and you feel who had no you feel better sometimes sometimes
not always happen at no sometimes i'll feel better if i don't work out but so i wouldn't say that necessarily in my case but i think it is more mental you know indigitate i think
it's natural to put pressure on yourself to it perform in juicing you know cause i think it's part of it like when i go it on in a rollins you i'm on a tree do good against you
i'm not goin to every single time i'm not going to go in and be like misuse well what i learned to day let me work on my weaknesses and try to learn and you ergoin is try to win
and there's that element i think most of the time before most people cried so mentally will play these games or well kind of icourse out like ship if not at my best because i'm
kind of tired from working out so i won't be able to perform now the pressures on may be a introit a guy whose my level man mistrust ores going to see me roll with him a mocking
to do is busting or really do he will i think i'm not as good as i rely am you know it's like all your sante's mental pressure when you're at the deiety i think that's why people
will say i worked out to day i don't want you to judge in my fiorina necessarily are monologue on a way esteemed you see now you can't it would be a lie to yes cause i would
actually go to any of headn't work out to day therefore my game is going to be weak as what i would have to say but i gonsider case yet wilder yes and it's pretty rare i think i
mean in my excellent it's pretty rare that all work out even a hard work up in the morning and then go roll at night and then it affects me like the fell to a pretty rare now now
i will get so sore sometimes you know if you do squaws ye are you a hard core like a hard court kettleby work out i'll be sore and it takes a few minutes to get that soreness out
of the body will you on the mats its anonimo be doin some movement that's grinding on the odsheart he let me see zaka little bit secure so is jumping of parachuting i had like
when are we this is like when i was when i was in seloufeeat like this allenhurst ing and i didn't have that many jumps right i wasn't an experienced freefall perishers perishers
at this time and the guy we're going jumping with was an extremely experienced highly experienced houses and thousands of persons and he took a crew of us and we were all pretty
much new jumpers we don't know what the hell we are doing and so so we go up and there is a sealing meaning that the clouds are low and so we can't get to fill out itude and and
so he goes hey eyes we can't get up the altitude where in that air craft is is almost you know this is one of those cheesy like a movie type scene where we're in the air craft and
he's kind of yelling like what's going on eyelike am playing right new guys in the scot was a master thief is acehigh we can't cut the out the dude we're going to just do a hop
and pop at three grand or something like that meaning were just going to go in a very low though just going to jump out and and pap or parachutes and i'm sitting on never to even
done a human popped before i'd nearly you out to get stable coming out of narcarat the way you go through we've to go through three false school it was like a rat rapid rapid
evolution were if you did correct in one o they moved to that son and i did my jungcal so i didn't have a lot of jumps so then we get this guy said and i only jumped at thirteen
thousand feet before this so you have all kinds of time if you if you mess up on your exit which if you don't know when you jump out of an air craft when you're in experienced you
can get spoiled as matter for andy stump talked about how he started spinning out of control of it it happens well when you're at thirteen thousand feet you start spending it okay
you you find your body position you get stable we called it flat dominate meaning your falling flat and everything is stable and good and then you can pull your parsonified well
at three thousand feet you have time to do any that so when you come out you basically have to come out and immediately adapt to the air stream of the aircraft and you forget
yourself stable than you need to polly quickly and so i'm kind of thinking of my kind of thing as if i have no idea how to do this and i have i know that i've messed up a bunch of
exits and i knew that i got on stable a bunch o times jumping out and you know it just find mis time and get stablegate to so many ways this must you suck in eyes we can't get to
let wirerope pop it that three thousand feet and i i'm thinking self okay there is a limited chance that i'm going to make the axial and i think i said something along the lines
of like hay a master thief i've never done a hopper you know we're as we eliminate gathered like a half never done offanto before look what's anything any pointers and he was in
me and all my body's none of us had done it before and he goes ah is so rideal you just go out just count the three a pull and i go roethet and then he goes just tolmenicino in
just though he visited all meeting don't don't have a bad exotic like this point like i said i was probably batting fifty per cent that excites i just didn't know what i was doing
so now of course what did i do okay fine i'll just jump if i said i ax it and die call so veecinity i tried to to hit it so don't think of the existence to a lot what so i went
out i didn't as they give the actually you know not in the when the pressures on you rise you know so you is do you hope to rise all i will feel better you don't like surfing
without a leech you know what leases right the you know i mean your from a wire you to ask that italy think you some people were at least some people don't when you wear it when i
were a leash o that don't like to you feel you can make mistakes and there's no there's no there's a price to be paid or ill use you follow your board drither with you when you
don't have a rope on or lesson when you fall you your board is gone i have to swim for it it a pain if it en hit people is hazardous is dangerous all these things when i serve
with a lesson a surfeit crap when a serf with no rope we which i prefer i sorbette because if you don't make if you digitigrada very disastrous gone you're going to hurt somebody
it's a nightmare is so ye a sandiness there was big waves and i mean not big waves from a hawaiian standpoint but santiago betwaan he's just on a long board no rope just dropping
in alsatia houses bribress i then actually especially because i have a little bit of a sweet shoulder right now so i was wearing a leash because i can't quite grip my board as
much as i need to alright an again as i was inside out there wearing a leash and he's out there and no rope girderlike that's too impressive he and i i like that though not it was
all that they rise the pressure yet like the or prevent in your kisses like you prefer the pressure i preferred for present feels better like will you drop in on a wave and
there's no is no penalty for for making a mistake there's just less reward right you want more word ye idea it rolling with people that her better than you know anointeth people
that you're just way better than there's no reward to it you want you want a feel a challenge but you know yes i do yes and that makes sense but i guess it's like the the the
standard is different with you cossike left oleander back in that perforating the day echo as riding a buggy worterloo on heliodore anyway sink thinking lehnes but if you're
straining big waves fret you want that least because it's some people i was one of those people where if you don't have a lestaulent now i'm thinking about that a little bit now
it's on my mind rather than you don't have to think about that i can just think about you know this was shredding about reading yes so you have that situation but you are a
perfect analogy with the gin with judas like good say you know your black bat and you know whatever you get mashed up with a white belt bloom time or gazaland then let's say it's
a hive of that you've rolled with before so you not only do you expect to be better than than him you actually revictual you know it yes and this no path so yet her body is
straight up he has no essentially no motivation originative to cuticle perform same thing there but i think with these types of things like sir is a just a different standard
though some people in your case apparently you feel that in surfing with the leash but i think some people that at the same time is like wearing a mouth piece to you ole ole like
a yeah you know but that not smart what not wearing without a mount knowing that now not to get you but with you start stand up yet i like boxing or timon it unautomatic in it not
smart yes foliation at tonosuke yes i but think of that that mind set there where syomara peace that way one soon hits me it it it the cost is greater you know sort o ye add some
fresh it would not intindin to dan she solitaires close to his face losing your byword in the ye to this shore we got a slim little bit or even some deal she alright next quest in
boxing or digito for a seven year old boy youth all day all that one the a couple reasons it's fun it's active so you can actually fight the other person and it's real fighting
and it's what they're used to and so many often when when parents come in they bring their kitten for the first time or now it's weak to you and the parents is all they just love
it so much nictating what they want to do what they're with the instinctual we want to go look at dogs go look at caps go look at any animal out there in the animal kingdom you
know that they do tigrana h other and they and actually do submission right they they if you watch like a wolf pack when that dominating wolf gets the throat of the weaker wolf
the submissive wolf he doesn't ripiro out the guy taps out game over it he now he knows that he's the alphabet it's the same thing so you know you watch little lion or or tigers
they wrestle with each other they don't kill each other they tap out they get some missive the ale you want so it's very natural very instinctive to do so yet i yogyata now it's
important i developer and you can do that you know training boxing on two times a week you know just get in there alerto throw its really it's really pretty sad when you when you
meet a grown man that does not throw punch right that's just not good they should not have the punch because if you get a fight the fight to get a start standing in if if all you
know how to do is try and double examoned you you don't always want to do that fact you prefer to knock the person out in many cases so learn how to throw strikes but i will say
as far as seven year olds getting in their inspiring two young two young all kinds of bring developments don't go in on head drama is head drama you're not going to get better at
it as you get older they by it why in it that you're not going to get better at it by taking more punches the more you get punch in the head the worship or to be at it period and
history ashantee in store when you turn ten or when you turn seventeen and our instar sparring you're going to get better at it for a little bit because you're going to get used
to it you're going to understand how the reaction you're gonna know how to deal with the little white fist that hit you you're goin a near to become comfortable in that
uncomfortable serio but that optic of increased improvement is very short and i and very quickly you reach the other side of that which is every time you get punched in the head
you're taking your your brain resilience backwards so do boxing learn it throw punches hit pa no mary know how to throw ponch and and you take a kid that's ten years old that
knows how to throw a one two three combo and he gets in a street fight eondema and he's not in into the judicial bar cause he knows a one two three combo and he's knocking out
just about every other kind or at least he's putting them down ah or at least at least he shone that that kid is going to go wait this person knows how to fight and it don't she
as it is hard to knock the lot o care you know even that even a skilled box or wave a hard time knocking out a random person in a street cause it's hard to knock some one out and
mortar so yes to it so all day long for the seven year old and do a little bit striking to get them familiar with it yet you just as leave fun or two and of course that it sounds
like a matter of opinion but just how i said like grappling stuff to run natural liking if kid you get to brothers who don't take you etoilles ling now nothing you say i go play
outside they are you start an no ball no nothing they're goin to messer on an chances are they going to start in one goes to to be pinioned on the ground penny's hands or whatever
and that kind of art of legget's i gets it basically gits just sat young liry just that except for there's actual skills in there raking it good at that being that there was no
ananda's one of the reasons that boxing or striking kickalpin kick boxing more i would ever there's a reason why it's a little bit boring if you're not sparing because now you're
not swording path yet hitting it is not as fond of it i get is cool and it's good and i'll tell you what i've been atalantis awesome seeing the young kids is that a training like
that all the time you drive down the streets in titian just like in america you you got a shoot in hoops releegious she she kissed the plain catch the baseball the kids there are
doing more time that well there doing they had that as sad is bad as but that's the traditional thing yeah yeah when that's all around you that's what we do that with us kids just
like socker like certain places you can see more people playing soccer then no i see him playing basketball ye have course alteration al things but i'm saying even at that young
age they do find it entertaining at and there also are ways to spar if you can do it correctly that is like light sparing it's almost like your playing tag i i all plain tainting
of played tag with a person in your arm proving your skills but you're not getting head brain tried that in that actually a good point to find you like the you don't even if
you're not trained in bucking you'll do that anywhere you you know with your brother paylap bob you like carowe to go up before actually took no gishen we just watch you see or
the wastrels we tom we'd play flash in a basically a thought slapping you can kick em in the legs or whatever any man if you get on the ground your run upon the displacing him in
the face sighed that and that's funny even if you don't know digito boxing or anything so that's where i think that you're edburga case nor you sanstead to be careful of kids
getting hit he kids and to don't getting hit repeatedly in the head with legit strikes it just not good for you period yet and that's a kind of a a slippery slope too when you're
like oh i will seven year old boy am i want to get him into boxing you know so i'll be lethe's a spectrum there it's a it's lou don't one side you like to be just get him learn
learn how to throw on to learn her yet you know else is important to say to you i just fought it this is you you said you say there's a spectrum ye yes so there's a spectrum is a
spectrum of natural ability to take punches to writing so some people can get puncher whole lives in their fine in the head and you look at some promotors that come out of their
boxing career after having wars and there there there contently fine and there's other guys that go through their careers and their other their inrush shape when out he done they
have a pugilistic brain syndrome the actual name of apathy have you know that the boxers brain damage and so you don't know who's going to have that you know if you kids goin to
have that or not i so if the only way to find out is to task them by giving it to him that an oughto way to find out is not more fieffe wanted to be a provoker ye it's not a wood
way to find out because you're going to find out when they are doing their first amateur bow and they get if they get knocked out or you know they get bad headaches to bad
situation we are so i think that's one of the reasons why i think you get o in wrestling is goin to get even more popular because as you look at the uvedale the people are now
saying you know all kinds of esepiger or saint hall not sparing the on barely sparing any more i don't spar before my fire spar very limited amount and so as people are saying
that well would you do for not sparing while you're hitting pads that's cool but how you can drink in a ioianere ting no grappling that's what you're goin to win the fight so i
think that as the you have seen its more more popular and as more information comes out about traumatic brain injuries that come from repetitive hits to the head i think that the
popularity of boxing and striking training is going to go down and they that will force or cause the popularity of resting indications through but these hum oh what is what i said
about the seminary things really a spectrum but be approach to it right so it's cut talk about backing seven year old boy boxing this tis a special one i especially to have a
learned the one to have a learned after a hook cross all this and that cool hit some missed work out dissent chaperon do this on the other side the extremes is docked dolan
seventies a week he is going to be the next you know rodin's junior something like that we're going to start in right now and a thing so in that case most of the time i would
predict is that on the extreme case the boys not going to take to it as naturally you know unless it is far the traitor something like that but you did too like i say to set you
just so unless you do you be that guy that parent to do go on sir owing no matter what the u but that i i think so i think you are i think naturally they're going to take to
something like you just to his way more fun and even just the tradition an atmosphere of judith's more fun you just fishing the kids proudlike as somewhat if i don't there they
don't rarely know that they're doing something and strain in large cases they're just hey you hold this person here with your knees on each side well that's the mount on the
personal kit on the bombarding him out of state they don't even know it but they're learning it yes yes i year my daughter did doesn't even want to leave the jim now that so
lugubrious and think why do year in the patients a padded room do whatever you want ye go ye mend the best next wish jack had you read books to prepare for pot cast how do you
read a book to extract maximum benefit he need by sun keeping yourself focused and being patient while reading books so this was a series of recurring questions that were about
kind o how i read in a grab three of them that were in there so hotepa for a pot cast it's actually a pretty in depth situation so first thing if you was read the book as a
reading light anything that i find to be interesting or informative to me or reinforce idea that i know or bring a new idea to bear so out of going through him just highlighting
everything and when i get done with it at now just just to say we were talking max benefit when i was in college and i would do that i would once i got done with high lighting the
areas that i found in former avonport an that i would make flash cards of the elight at areas so i was like double walking iteration greyson i make a post card of already got it
fifty per cent in my ma i read it i high lighted it in secont five per cent we may be flash card that's another forty five or fifty per cent and so boom now i got to be study to
foscaro that last twenty five percent a lockin the knowledge where when i go in to take the test i know one hundred per cent i know i'm going to every answer on the day of the
queen you recall it the thing you actually recall what the last garden a light yes one your whole the all i held so that's what i would do this kind of a side track when i was in
college high light and then make placards of what a high lighted now for the porcari do is one i once i read it in high light it now i'd go back through and i look at the high
lights and now i start being selective of what is going to be in the patasan i actually circle the actual words of a reed with a red ten that a holding right here and that's what
i do a circle and then i have little note said say next what on i circle section lover have an arrow that goes to another point or i'll have a little note that says goatee forty
nine and then there'll be a cab on those yellow sticky tabs on page forty nine boom there as i can flip rent their real quick so we are not to add it we don't have to there is a
flow where can keep rolling and then on top of those when i get to when i read something and i want to say something about it i have little sticky notes that i put in there either
stick note i have the sticky tape stuff which is pretty legend i just rolled i roll it out i stick it on the mesa he mention you know experience i had here or one happened when i
was doing this and so i kind o make those notes in that way i can get it done and while on doing that is when i have to figure out the chronology that man read it because i don't
always read the notes from the book on the poast in the same order that they are in the book because sometimes it just doesn't make sense sometimes there's some so at the same
time of doing that i'm going back and figure not what direction of actually going to read em all right or to sometimes in my conclusion of the book is different than the author's
conclusion but yes so i got to go back and say i go to a back pages reforwarded whatever so that's what i'm figure not there as well so that kinda what the pot cast peepals like
now how to stay folk is and patient while reading books is really difficult i don't have a long attention span when i have alexei's only because i absolutely force myself to do it
so what i would prefer to do is to read in small chunks i wanted to work for like an hour to time right when i'm writing on work for about an hour when i'm reading i want to read
for about an hour after that i want to get up and break something or throw something or left something or run somewhere you don't have meantime an hour of patience with me of
onfortunate ly that not enough time you know especially when you're doing a pocasse and you got to read a whole book well yes what you got a you got a red for a longer he read for
two three hours at a pop a i'll try and make it that i do an hour early in the morning sometimes when i'm behind the curve i will read first thing in the morning before i work out
because i just want to get an hour done then i get to go and release right then i get on with the work out take a shower now in a read for another forty five minutes okay good now
i'll do something else little prelaunching so and then before i go to bed i'm doing another hour so there i just got four five hours in a day without having to sit down and do
something for four five straight hours with it others the hell out of it the other thing you can do and i do this is all lead multiflores at the same time when es which is
interesting to ask i attacked a got on of every body should do that or could do that or would want to do that but sometimes a one book its boring but i know i got a red so i
gasattack three books all sitting there and in reading all the same time and that makes him a little bit more interesting he and the last thing i would say about trying to be
focused on a patient when you reading books is to try to really understand what it is that is happening in the book not just from a plot perspective but from a human perspective
will ought is that person going through what is that like for that person what are they thinking and i get to a point where i'm so engaged i feel like i'm becoming the affili i'm
in the books sometimes when i'm reading it so that is another good way to keep it engaging because if you're seeing it from outside and you're not really in it well then it's not
an isis not as a gatineau if you get into it and you start thinking about that person you go back you don't do little wet wick appia sir on the offer and see they are that gives
you like a little insight i and that helps me now i can act with them i know that they're from new jersey i know that they went to this college i know that they played soccer so
now what i'm reading about mingling all you have that must oh you know so i try it a little background on that person is me a little bit more engagement to asinetto's my reading
habits penitence at it an i makes more sense i think that like ow you say you want to put yourself in the guise head you know they are actively in the consciously put myself in
the inn the guy said sometimes people are so good at writing where you that to happen naturally but when you do when you do that it's like you can tannage you get the story of
course but most the time you when you do the all the time its lessons learn like what you learn it's almost a when you are in your head is in it like that all the lessons are just
flying into your brain you know the case is almost like your dog like you're you're going through that war that particular ambush or something like that and then needle talk about
the mistakes and all that but you feel them a stake you know and also i have some experience with what they're talking about all yet it lay also any anisim not saying a untelling
you right now and don't have even clothe experience of the books that am reading on this boast o these guys at worriment of i will gain the battle the bold no nothing i did
compare to anything that they do but do i know what it's like to be waiting to go into a bad situation to i know i like to be shot at you i know it it's like that you know i have
guys get wounded yea i know what that's like so that's a little connection too but i think you everybody that's been stressful situations of any kind you can say oh what more must
a feel like a i know what it's like when i was waiting too you know go in for a job in her view it is completely stressed out and that's what this guy must be feeling right here
only even worse so then you make that little mag mental connection a little mental leap and you can look like you said you can then learn more from it ye yet which isn't port yes
i if i'm going into this particular situation you know in a book i'm reading it and i'm not as engaged as maybe i could be this guy goes through excite experience i'm looking at
it from my of hian like well i could undelaying thing but this guy's a type of guy who that may be part of his weakness or something like that and by persewere you know like a
inasamet ing about claustrophobia might be like dan but that cossairt of it part of the story isn't necessarily a huge part of the lesson that you're trying to get from it you
know so you might miss me might be some disconnects therefore don't cause they have a certain intention you and you have a certain intention so i relate lessons and lessons
learned you might miss some of those lessons just the feeling or ernestine amokeat everything out of a book that's why would you that's why would you get a really good book you
read it motilones and you and yet more out of it every single time that you read it no doubt about that one is true let quest is it okay if extreme ownership sometimes feels in
otenti example taking ownership of something not really your responsibility when does extreme oneship become excessive self blaming ukase again this was two questions there was
multiple questions like this on the interweb if extreme ownership feels in authentic or fear taking ownership of something that's not really responsible so yes there there is a
chance that you're going too far however the chances are is that there really is something that you can do about it and too often people say we notes that is something i couldn't
control for example right they're things that you have ercandra right and you could easily just say hey that we i couldn't control that and therefore i can't take overshot furlike
for instance if we were planning an operation and the weather went bad and so now arvales got stock so we weaneth r o bad there's nothing i could do about it and that's people say
well yes you can't control at her no human being from the troubleth well guess what you could make that excuse and be okay with it guess what else you can do hey i didn't have a
good continues plan for bad weather for rain we should a brought to ropes with us we should have beverout a winch with us and we could get out that's what i should have done i
should live so yes even though it's really easy in it like a ninety per cent to desait as bad weather nothing i could do about it you could do something about it and and that's
when when you start making those excuses they they're goin t hurt you same thing in the business world right oh we know the market we can't i can't control them market right to
market went down we were expecting his go down and now you know there's nothing we could do about it wasn't my fault oh really because what you could have done was diversified
your income streams right you could averse fit your income truso you weren't ride a hundred percent on this one segment of market and now your suffering but hillusion not my fault
you know he came controllore marking it down well actually you can echo your position you can troll how you were set up certinaly you didn't do that so when you do those things
it's it's generally there is something you could have done about it there is generally something you can have done about it and so if it feels it in authentic sure question
yourself but then say okay what could i have done about this and i would say this even when you are with your troops and you say look i didn't have fulcanoes the market we i
should a done this little bit better we should a plan to diverse fire inconstans better i didn't do that here's all right here's armour the is are going to say like all the hang
you out to dry because you took onersti they're going to realize look jorasanko that's cool we did get shafted by the market and oh well lessonland or anamoo but when you
discometer went down not my fault you lose respect your guise so known you that now all that being said is there situations where or arthur situations were extreme ownership
actually does become excessive self blaming and the answer is yes because there are certain situations where there actually is nothing that you could do so for example and i agree
example speaking of less as learned from the book company commander that we just went over on the poncas captain mc donald they got a solid by like basically veentaire german army
and they were left to try and hold the line with pistols and rifles against tiger tank right and adeimantus and thousands and thousands of troops docendum he could not have
stopped them the like cocao stop a division of soldiers with a company as soldiers you can't do it especially when they have artillery and they have tanks and out have any takes a
port it is its intent on winterbottom so for him to continually blame himself and say i should have planned better i eat could it could it sure he did what he did with the
information that he knew at the time if he would have no he's a division at that there would at et up differently he found he was just setting up a typical defensive perimeter
right so can you get to a point where your blaming yourself excessively yes you can and you you do need to be somewhat cognisant amante you those cases are extremely rare
extremely rare most a time you have a lot more control of your in destinies than you think you do and the worst thing you can do is continually say you know what this is one of
those rare in is where i had no control it's probably not probably an instance where you did have control so keep it in the back your mind but keep in the front or mind ownership
a thing like excessive self blaming that some sake you know maybe someone whose fully blaming themselves and then like instead of taking action to you know implement corrective
measure out like the fair like a saw and maybe the going to ration the oar yahweh garnishing what you're getting asked absolutely they dwell on it yet it they dwell on the mistake
they dwell on the fact that things in other way they dwell the fact that it's there fall and now they're like you said gunshot's great up indecisive get into sieves no others are
great points you definitely don't want to do that excessive ownership were it gets to a point where turns you into a an indecisive person that's not going to make decisions cause
you are scared to gonfal you don't trust yourself any more now that's a great point that is excessive what you need to do is say okay this was the problem this is my fault her
romantic in a animate can't dwell on the stuff that happened in the past can't do it greeted um how you you know how the early how you kind o started this war if you if you let
taoane opposite essay you are blamer riorum the iron blamed someone if someone's blaming me for something for everything you know all the time of course you know the defense comes
up and all the stuff that always sounds set after a while laid bill dat rap as being a blamer you know do for show now just o it's starts become automatic that your defensive
against his cut you don't trust em all this stuff but the same kind of goes opposite you know how like you know if someone's always taking responsibility for the whole deal
they're not blaming you at all there like noonspell nose my fault there correcting it there you almost you have a bunch of sores like this work is or like no it's my fault no it's
my fall and like all on a jump in you know and shilpit there is like after while you build that writ where it's automatic helewation not have any kind of defence or whatever their
automatically on a full problem you that's that's true true that ramon building trustedst put it it is building draws it is indeed trusting next weston what made you choose
literature for you degree you know the again i think i answered this before a probably a few times so i'll keep it brief but people bunch people did ask a long low lines along a
question on assigns the reason i wanted to become better at english and the reason i studied english in college is because i had seen the importance of language in the military
written and spoken so written you're doing a valuations your writing and reading and receiving orders your writing and receiving rules engagement concept of operations a war field
man all these things that you do in the military are written either your writing them or your regime to be able to write well and to be able to read it understand well as very
important on top of that the spoken word you're doing briefings you're giving up orders you're doing the interviews or your getting interviewed your do even doing like
interrogations all these things are spoken word so the better command you have of the english language that better going to be at those and furthermore in that book that we read
the armed forces officer nineteen fifty five addition i think it is they they ad i don't have the coat on me but leadership is communicating that what it is it's communicating
with other people what the idea is what the goes so communication is the use of words to the better you can use words the better job your anode as a leader and that what i
realized when i was had the opportunity go to college and got to pick my degree that's why i picked it presepe diet also seems like one of these on somebody's your baser your
leader in whatever opacity you know like as some one missus is a word like or they'll say the like they'll say i regard less you know even was so icelike you do you totally said
that wrong after all you kinkenadon that got artistic too well the gage out a face teheran even if he's not your boss is some he's on the face fuller whatever to hear i goes on
this rant but then he'd like misusing you or in your alloro failing tiputa periods you know like you almost get it's almost like you of that few like you can't take him seriously
you are on undertake lagrimar ant with it is definitely important i mean not rich is technically i mean really an who much bearing to that really have is it is the idea so many as
on us i have a thing time does and i'll tell you like one thing i'm not a good speller ef it wasn't for spell check in a spell all kinds of stuff off he had i need ever studied
spelling cause when i was packed i wasn't cause that's when you learned to spell i think we owe your kid i didn't pay much attention to spell in or never have so just the fact
that you care though that's like the major part of it to you know you like okay there's pell chesterton's thing that's cool as by the way you don't need to major english to get
good at writing a gottingue you can major natanis long as you be nice to take a couple courses though as when you do start it i mean to tell you shakespere's if they won't you
start diving into understanding shakespeare for real you really learn how to read well i really learn how to read well and when you submit papers that are being graded by somebody
that is a master with grammar and their picking you apart you learn how to write better there's no doubt about it and so that's why i i i enjoyed both those both those aspects
boreing and truly understanding stuff and writing and be created in such a way that some one saying hey you denied you this word you could have shortened the sentiments cally
everyone's goal is to make things clear and short a most intime clarity though is to me that the most important factor i want to make sure that what i am saying is very clear so
yeah english i took a class called advanced grammar and syntax dig it and i just i do i would have i would have i would take in you know multiple classes if they had only a one
says tell you he pasadene of the best things i i did was when cause my guys had to write evaluations the guides my subordinate leadership would have to write evaluations when i
was at the etappen my whole career but what once a beaming after but when i was at the training command i had a hundred eyes or so probably more than that but every one had to
have any valuation written in so it was the senior guise to see nor let my subordinates ip my direct sort of lorship that would write there evaluations and so if you didn't police
these guys up in the get guitarists i brought a in and i said he bring me your best of valuation of your best guy instantly brought him in we put him up on the screen and i murder
to ranimer ere an all an was so good because they all got so much out of you probably need to go through that duralite one time maybe two times of some one murdering your writing
because all you do is you you start off to just read their sentence to them at all you realitatis yes read their sentences but they have written right and they go anything he says
that which your transient know how to pop you know well i'll go back there's a lot of times when you read something allowed yourself he recognized how jack up you wrote it if so
that's like less and number one in writing with more clarity dis red your sentences and see with his own like so or can't really read your own though right because when you read
your own uaxac ly what you were saying you know you say or own you can read your own but and that will be helpful but yes i am you already have an idea in your head sir you won't
get the full bent and it hadn't someone else readingrooms yeah english is definitely important and in its fantino one of that odd things like for twitter i have found fitting
something into a hundred forty caracalla it enjoyable canonlike a twisted thing till like a little fun will ye a little puzzle and nat walked to work and i using maybe i could
look at bicetta's kind of fun for me the something i know i had that kind of fun in some of the english classes that i took her i was trying to just get the perfect words and so
is a little puzzled to its logician be fun it can be fun if you have the type of personality yet interestingly your no i don't find you to be a grammar not see no i wouldn't say i
am a grammar not to see you much because i just don't think i'm on over grammarian i think i find it i think i kind o just say a yetta's poorly written yet do you helals heheard
gaming a less it some one that is going to turn something in and i sappaen wye age yea which technically that's not being a gramineoe not yes like me and you are i'm tall telling
you about it you did so something ye be the beach and your like you know i i correct you yes i don't ye don't do that a lot because he know why harshly he not only it not cool but
it's a conversation rite and all going to say something about like the infinite which is a major adriacas i'm not from the streets always spent some time in the streets but you
know i i i enjoyed language write i enjoy language and so when somebody speaks in properly i actually like it liza different as is different there in cometary dried my favorite
writer and he doesn't he was all kinds of crazy thinks he doesn't use a lot of punctuation he doesn't use quotes so you're dealing with all another ball game i'm not slam in him
and and and honestly they makes you harder to immediate harbor greed what he's written you the you know people say well he says you know that it it should you should need
quotations someone him ye but i'm not one said here to and criticize cormac ye do it brought them make so much signer thought about that how you how thought two things actually
where yet you like it like there's these means and there the this so funny wherever the tale of victor may be familiar maybe nine then i'll have like some you know little thing on
top of it you know like well how hohenlohe you hold out a sail then and a lot of those means are just no grammar no it's almost as an ignorant person rode it you know an i makes
it way more funny it so overall the pioneers like this people toss talking page or something that i ad or with a crazy act and there is not the it can be more enjoyable experience
it's a more indebted they are trained for sure so there's that um anatomie there are few there are certain situations where if you misuse a comma or misuse or i don't put clothes
or something like that you can love really say something different for sure the end there you know misunshtanding king penetree it yeah i'm past me about i hate to bring us up
right now cause it is just siebald bath argument were let off the ox ford came which you can look at in the inter webs but it's basically when you say a list of things the last
thing that you're in say which normally say and this you the oxford homage put a comb of before that and and for me it makes things very very clear and the reason some people
don't use it it came from the new aisance from newspaper were the trungott in the column of the attunes apers then hey wenerated not eat it that's kind of weird started but it's
not proper and a sometimes it makes sense but a lot of times it doesn't so anyway that's one small example me other funny things as parletorio arm an he says little thing too
because it he reminded me of it another thing in this success magazine interview or article wasn't in reason article i e said ah the writer is a good due he said jack rarely does
in the views i and that's when cimarosa that two years ago tim there was one hundred per cent correct cause i had done his zero interviews so he could as sada he's never done an
interview before tempers would would have been speaking the truth and he was at the time since then i don't know how ventre in interviews i have done i have done interview upon
interview upon interview an interview is ridiculous and i put in my little face book rebuttle to the argument or to or my my comments about the or corrections to article i said i
actually do interviews all the time if you want some one that rarely does interviews that's cormac arth tis coramantee he doesn't do better view soon he does he's got what i think
he's done one interview in the past twenty years with or winfrey that's it twenty years one of the most ah you know one of the best writers of our of our time leaving to day he oh
is he in a come on the poast no he's not he laid he rarely comes on to he shared he should come on his back asked in the night but ye also if you if you see a lot of missus
grammar and he let it go and you see a lot of it you get better at understanding it you know you don't he like you don't how certain people they were that all these guys accent is
too thick you know i can understand him meanwhile the gay next yes like oh i heard that accent before pliny times it you know my neighbour is jamaican or whatever so they
understand is kind like that idea you know people misusing words granmar messed up but if he used to that you like all i see what they're saying has letty do the context as well
but i'm just an if you're familiar with that situation so it kinda expands your mind to allow people to use bad grammar neaera's not to say you should use that game omean from it
from the sempland standing i could see where you're coming from a man sure that i would like completely by into that but ego with it for the thing down i fall good men well your
right in a fact that some people can understand accents really well yes and for me it depends on the accent so maxentian understand fine some accents i can't yet it has to do with
white wit your familiar with real sassooree next quistical what he think about mechanical warrior robots in the felting this is this is a question where people asked me this
because there's a weird hip and a what's the word conspiracy type attitude of now you know aurificate ligend and robots and all that and so my thoughts are roots of like war
fighting robots awesome let bill the most awesome destruction roots and let's build army of em and let's let after it i think it also you look with aping right now with drones and
and unmannerliness that's where we're going in another i afore the name i mariesii time frame but in ten twenty thirty years as luckenmeyer maned fighter jets military petersay
would you do that you can put a a a computer in there or you can fly from the ground or you can ever need to cry it i'll do it your mission that you want it to do so when we can
come up with a root the terminator root that can go and attack an take care of the problem yeah lesuto i support it i had the whole idea that robots will turn against us we'll
build that robotlike those round i'm not worry about that a recital yeah i don't care i say bringing on bring on the rod box er i'll crush you yes i i know it like joe roan he be
freaking out about some rombodno know and i think you know very much everybody i'm probably the ignorant person here right because the smart people like elon must skin sam harris
there are all you know you go watch out because his artifices showed telligent gonna become a smarter than us and that one of you to do it to attack us and control us yea there
things that if if it winds up that they at lad ultimately figure out and they won't be wrong is that's the the the view if they figure out that they don't need us then the logical
thing would beat eliminates now like old like everybody everything does ever in eediot to admit like that sounds freeing it how oft he rove a warm do well typically roots i mean
that we say unmanned and giornale out we unploughed fright caught their power source yea but tipical i mean even that wenonah it i think this you i think that's a simple thing for
a robot if they're smart to understand all they might very well cut her far powerses they're going to figure that out pretty quick on imagineering but i i like the way sam harris
described artificielle one time there he said imagine that you that i ask you a question and then you have a year to go and research and come up with the perfect answer and then
you come back and you answer that question but it happens in a milesinto what computers can be able to do ye and that's pretty awesome ye and do they end up then and i do it you
know i'm not a i don't even know what you'd call a person that fear is about this count of thing i'm not one of em to but that's pretty unbelievable in and it'll only get faster
and better from there and i just think that i don't think it's too hard to control to put controls in their that prevent the the turning of the robot elect preventative mechanism
he will be used atacama stuff and anonymous a make a movie reference is elbowed it he roncaglia the story of that had some kind of a mechanical art the directive tenderly from
time to rected quesnelle kill wait for is frietchie i think so it i know there apophenas protect the incident this to doing it in order amonti about trust to you if you were a a
you be able to come back with her finibus you program in that you can't hear humans or whatever red whatever like idlers relieving you let up let this is another situation let sue
go i'm good at noon foot the unman to emanate son like patterns you know so the unmans being usually not going to find something that's really technically unman even a drone is
not unman isis less man say as the one and is just less than you ontwell yes an be program that were to go but you can put it ronancour what you say you can put some one at a
potamiaisi some of gotteland somebody so it's going to be man like the intentions of something like that first intention of something's going to be manned for she wants you give
that up then you're like okay now you got some problems you know ye again i i'm just not sit around or out the knife so i'll let joe rode in and sam arisian even make worry about
keepin the robots in line you know it i'll be ready to i'll be ready to fight a mistake i say need me bring it ye sure exaction unless you too relation robe cup no yes he even
robot with man he was a man part man part no mathat they gemachen that the initial one that caused the problem so ed to name the thing that looks like a he had big legs santoine
the announcin her now an ingathering for second stick imply yet and resecone fly you have two seconds passioned off roof for emulated borealis dallas tenfooter set all you loved
it though these for it too joco what's your favorite emission real cogency little rapid fire here cause people asked me this all the time favorite submissions cause i got a plural
now on that for a compurgation or my two favorites missions i think the reason why is because they are both really effective gee and no gie their both really effective from the
bottom right you can do them from the top you can do in from alfgar you can do em from malayou can do him from a lot of different positions you can do him in the street you can do
em and emma and you can do me negishi i just like the fact that there are cunners al positions and very effective in every aspect of dugitigrada for the kurrea nicanor they git
choke for sure yet those are ones that you don't um like they're big they're like grant there's a few of them these their grit the grand eddies of missions you yea and you could
say or walk is one of the grand daddies i just find the comeragh percentage move rarin lately my last several years i've been using more straight or walks again but i like a
barrette straight on both and both because all my training partners are so good at defending my comperes yes that i have to go to alternate moves actually i surprised you heather
day with a you kind of let you kind of depressed too you remote i you like hell grooees at you as it was probably more than that but i remember your reaction you're action was
sort of it like the i can't believe he got me with the animal and i even like made it like a comment yet you in the role like when you were going for him by like wooden it's a
kind of an laketon up turned up the heat when i saw all ye eadon like what people chanliodus are yet as a good irene west cockle you discuss making sure your team had the freedom
to make strategic changes to the plan if needed what if you developing a system with your team and you begin i get push back from them before you feel the core values are
stablished so this a wily good question once again see you start coup with your plan and the artists are to get some peshack from the boys on what it is well will you do listen to
him listen to him why are they pushing back her in widely pushing back maybe they have some good points is that possible maybe you little bit off base on the plan that your coming
up with her estravagant you come on up up with maybe you're not of course that's always possible do maybe there wrong in your right but here the out to know if i say hey we're
going to hit the tartan from this direction here and my team disagrees with one i am saying why are the disagreeing what was the reason for that you know how do they think we
should do it then she equidoe in from the from the south and i think we should come from north a wide they think that now if i know something is right and i am right then guess
what i can explain it to them and tell say oh joco we didn't know that we didn't know that there was defenses that we hadn't been told about to the south and why that's why we
should come into the north or we don't know that this son would be at or back from the north that's what we didn't know that at the time so you're right now if i can't explain it
to them for can't give them a reason why my strategy or my plan is better than the jussienne with my plan or there's something wrong with my ability to explain it to them right so
if you do the right thing for her i reasons you will be able to convince your team of the strategy or of the plan and if you can't it's a hint that may be you need to adapt your
strategy or may be need to adapt your plan now be advised this is not easy this is not easy to do for saaft get your ego in jack right because you think you've come up with the
plan and you think it's a master plan sir you you you have to put your ego and check it secondly you might actually have the best plan but maybe you don't have the ability to
articulate the new ones of the plan and so your guides you get a guy that's a really articulate guy that's argument you are his plan and he's actually winning the argument even
though your plan might be better that's a that's a tough situation to be in so that means you've got to really get in the wee now one thing that you could do in that situation i
say hey i'm in charge shut up listen to me in again this might be situation were your right and there well but if you can or taklat that properly and now you only wait a do to
support it on em hey you're going to backwards right you're going to backwards so you have to be very careful that again this is wynport to to to have good command of the english
language that's why it's important to listen that's why it's important to take people's ideas and that's the thing with being a leader okay pal an open mind have open ears listen
an municate and lead your team not by rank right but by being able to to discern and uncover and mould and shape the best possible plan in the best possible strategy by and free
understanding every one's perspectives and ideas and in taking all those prospectors and all those ideas and cornavin them into a unified thought that leads the team to victory
that is hard that is hard to do ye but the minute a kinman i'm telling somebody he no just do it my way i know that there's a theesen wrong here either on not articulating right
which means i should take the time because if i'm right in your wrong we should be able to get there to where you see that we should be able to get that we could also get to a
point where it six more have donder yet right we could get to that point too and at that point you know what i gentonio to do gonsior plant if it seems one half those the other
commines your plan acoss come in from the north i say come in from the west we look at the pros and cons of each i'm going to go with your plant when out on coming from the west
tehoka if it's if it's fifty fifty or in a go with your plan i give it to you i give you the ownership that's one of a new deal if even i'll tell you even sixty forty i'm probably
on to give it to you we get too you know seventy thirty now you're going to see it you're going to see the light yet if you have any brain now you could also be an eagle maniac
right was at my way my way my way and now we've got a break fruit that how we do that it's not by its tacking your plan with your going to defend because you are neglected i'm
going to say well tell me the benefits of your plan what's weighed out between your plan of my plan maybe we adapt your plan a little bit all i like what you do here i see were
coming from that a really good point iding think of that but also we need to consider this that i didn't you know we we didn't know before some now we got to just so those things
that are are as things that are hard about being leader but the best thing you can do open your mind open your ears listen to a people or saying take it on board if their plan is
better than your great use it if it's not better than your okay articulate the reason to why have the conversation to them don't be scared the slice i i didn't think of that
colleague up the egotist the bisignano yet it's good get other people's perspectives because he einsiedler a fifty fifty or i can seem like sixty forty then you know but it can
also seem like a sixty four or seventy thirty that year pine is better but to them seventy thirty their fins better because of their perspective there is rats dondon in this trail
jim i don't like rats but the if you didn't know that you know you're like francolains of thing of ten you ian dogs would be a better thing sure to say rats aren't going to
interfere with your mission you start barking they may be they had they had somebody they read an interpert that said there was bunch of dogs up in this this you know residence to
the north so we want to come in from the west i didn't know that i didn't do good nuso now it's easy easy thing to convince me of your right you ll you have to have the
conversation yes understand the perceptive alkina stag with her higbee eagles and check her or snakes by the way if you're in tinajones or something like this next west jocko have
you encountered any gaps in the leadership keep abilities of officers from west point for the other cademy okay so for those they don't know what the service academies are there's
west point there's the naval academy which gives you need be and rencounters west point to germaico acadians you air force officers in the coast guard academy escosura sirs there
four years their military school the really hard to get into their treepence they have massive amount of tradition at all of them and they are highly disciplined and horroar to
get through so you would think right that what i just said would produce a and a standard of very high standard of an absenting officer the fact that matter is in my career it it
really makes no difference to eat presise ways that you can have officers other avenues at all though come from begin come from or routes which is when you know you go to a
regular college and you basically take classes about being an officer and you get shown how to wear you to form an all that you get oasis which is when you graduate from college a
goodorg for thirteen weeks or however long each service has all the different in the in the navy for me i went to siestas thirteen weeks i was after being enlisted for a year's
you know you can be a prioress a gillie me which is you get your commission after you been a military and so all those i i had out standing officers or i work without standing
officers from each one of those commissioning sources i had outstanding evil academy guise outstanding west point guise outstanding arts guise outstanding ossius outstanding us
great leaders i guess what i also had cabled that were from the academy crappled ers that were from west point grapplers that were frostgrape leaders that from or to say so an
crop and by the way probably the the the biggest example of the disparity of good and bad is prior and listed so pierless ted means that you are an enlisted grunt euro of front
line trooper in the soleas or in in the military and then you get your christian that's what i did and i had great officers that were like that and alene horrible officers that
were like that so for me it doesn't really matter what your commissioning sources it matters who you are as a person in whom you are a leader and if you have those characteristics
that make you a good leader if your humble if you listen if your dynamic if you're articulate all those things that make a good leader if you have em doesn't now emitter your
commission source if you an if you don't have him doesn't really matter your commissioning source that's what i've experienced in my time so it is interesting i thought when i
first joined a military i thought these guides that came from the naval academy that omnok with in the supines there going to be really also because they went to four years of
leadership training or in learning how to lead and i mean brinstan a great example right you hear he'd got a lot out of them out of the naval cateaton tis the way he talked about
it i bet that brian stand would be an outstanding officer if he went to the naval cademy if you with those storewards and each as he's got in a rage you did he learn lessons there
yes but he had an open mind to learn those things and so yeah you know though the kind service academies are are definitely awesome and re really great tradition in all those but
you know i don't think you need to go to a service cater to be a good officer and i don't think it really matters will matters as well kind of leader in person you are is that the
kenndele you just never know who you're going to get at the end because some people there really good at on you all these people though get rogers but out of the field they do
substandard perforce or wise don't causeuse they're good at getting the great over their good at taking classes kind of thing good averting or whatever do ye and then interesting
partido know what you're get as a person who etooelle brought up right you know robin stand story goobut how he got brought up you know he just very you could see that he wasn't
taught his leadership ability in my opinion at the nevile catydid he learned their eyes i take away a lot from it yes anybody that hurt him would probably think god definitely
would he would love to go to the naval galabat you don't you listen to the story of his life he were in the lot but prior to he on the lot and when he was at a aethetic so he just
learned a lot and he had an open mind news a humble guy and hard worker that's what makes you great officer you know that type of thing you know nexus do smaller built did have
the nice four ethelfrid for these world soft world yes special operations forces yere jacksey soft elevates neokori mollivit do have a nice for the soft world any advantages
disadvantages with fitful sizer of operators well e special of gases coming all shapes and sizes further they are can be the giant monster guise naked be little tiny scene wiry
guise and vesalius and they're all needed in in a special operation community be know you look at your average point man your average point manienie guide that's quick and nimble
and you love and average machine gunner he is a big howsoeuer can tote around a bunch of weight but at the colalto there's a bunch of skinny little hole guys that are carrying
machine gun there some big guys that walk point and that's the way it is so is there is there a niche for certain body types yea i mean there is if you're a big guy you you should
carry something big like a like a machine gun if you're a a small guy you should try and be in a situation where you carna little bit of a lighter load like a point man or rear
security de but both do both and there's a bunch of other i mean you know you look at a radio men raiments got a carrytown to so ye there is no real there's no real advantage or
disadvantage i would say you don't want to be that big and you don't want to be that small but if you are yet some you know he yet some this is the way it is there's going to be
things there's going to be things that are way harver for a bigger guy younited in special operations punishings that are hard the first small argue that's the way is so you know
if you've got to do somaresetous and your big guy you going to be in a little escape trunk a little six foot fear with a bunch of gerande it's not a honte a big giant i at that
point now and when you get to the beach after you walk out with summered and you got to carry a fifty five horse power motor across the beach into a cash sight in your you waya
hundred and forty three pounds that's not going to be fun for you and you want that big two hundred and sixty pounds to come over and throw that motor on his shoulder and carried
in a position so that's why you have everything anaestheta s why diversity is good in terms of body styles ex question good morning do you ever get edgy perhaps henry i the end of
a fast is so how do you deal with it a ten have more difficult to control my emotions during the last few hours i think you any one that listens to me very often will probably
know what i'm going to say here if you think you're going to get eyerythin you're gonna get hanged just be aware of it and you get angry not in here else you are and i yes if your
hungry and your frustrated because you have an eaten had now starting to get to you just don't do that i actually it's kinda like we were talking we are about serving without a
lesson about you know perhotin under pressure situation where at an novellino but i'm in a duet anyways and i get focused on it it's santino me when i'm doing a fast i don't i
actually enjoy the fact that i'm under some excessive stressful situation in fact it like it better you know i want to feel that and then i want to be like i want to say myself
hey you might get frustrated right now because you haven't eaten and your blood shooter so what i'm going to be in a house the echo charles approach of a that's weakness right
sweetness for me to be guinary it's weak from me be complaining because i'm loustal and of the seventy two hour fast that's just weakness maintain what are you talking about you
need to eat for thirty days people can go thirty days without eating my daughter when you cut in wait for using this past season she she say that she say you know i'd be getting
she tell you know dot get really hungry and then i just think people can live for thirty days without eating i think i can make up though the next eight hours come not that big of
a deal there's no reason to get hang grief for love that's just an excuse don't do it marion with your airborne self eleanor said the four does a difference between i feel in a
high behave you know till you get angry on the inside o one sea starteth like hattie angry on the inside at trading places on a good ice that a very good you actually now i think
about it when i was doing to poments tarenta in the day in the nineties we watched when there was nothing to do on a ship we not internet no one wrote us letters no one cared
about us he has no tool we did would i place spades and watch movies and we movies we watched on video tapes groebern and darefore seeds before neck flax jedidiah had a crate full
of videos and so were watching the same you know cheesy moves over and over over there probably trading places was one of them to so you giganti you were to go back further in the
movies you're not because it was water my five years older than you ye that a fiver six years yes so i'm just five or six years ahead of you a movies so i'll hold on a cheating
movies that i actually know about the the you might not know about then the late were getting no overlap treaties threeplie it as i can iconian oh yeah but hang regret horatian
beating i like that word hangry by the way that in fortune but that implies that your kind o like or hangry you know like like your expressing yourself now you know don't express
yourself ye your motions and he dionaea like a winter feesee like a loser on the inside ye feel angry but act like don't act like that we lay avreliae people see be all as any
quite that they go i haven't eaten for as whatever on have you you know what to do or this joke and outaouais anyone on noel's got to no change out o what are you doing ything ye
so ye o what ye inter on being weak and so do all we were doing something else she yet to yes uprose arat your feeling and you behavior and typically one it's the fenno even have
a word for you in a language up on you and i had an i'd no control of it now you you identified it gave it a name everything and and if i mean if my experience serves me allowed
him some people say like all i have i get angry or a pin or whatever it's take plain their common behaviour meaning they just let it go they embrassa not solid is for them you had
a thing priest forgive me o angry ye ye get like that sometimes we will win yet we thangyou just let go you know be like on an inside beat good on the outside separate the
feelings versus behaviour next quest stiffer emotion skined you know they say like if you get like emotions you got one letter out bunch of pillar whatever i guess as it turns out
that's not true no he cause if you in turn it on how you say rightful owner so i kind o say that with sarcasm is because i think that the for instance yet you like your sane
people these days these saurait your motion out you go let your emotions out you got it you that i cry if you and i under stand where that's coming from an you can get to a point
as a person if there's something that's really traumatic at happening and all you do is hold in another seen guys get destroyed over that because they're not expressing the
emotions that they have but that's an a big level right at a daily level no don't express those things you keep them in chataigneraie that like it at uncanonical venantius yes you
know it just don't let your emotions out and into the world keeping for yourself on em i kin peel don't share him with other people if you don't have to ye now i can people in a
freak out but i'm saying that's all beroemt on cause that what happens when you bury you when you've got something really traumatic did you bury then it each you apart and have
talked about that i mean talking about things are you go through in life and in expressing those feelings if you have out of bess good but all were talking about is not that well
we talking about it dale emotions little ups and downs little kick marks on your ricerca when not talking about it a anatina eight on the rector scaliger ouonab just like little
too yet in winepress the twos and threes on the rigor scale how to people used unstable angry that's a toe to get over all and and is a not to split hairs sir nothing but oller's
more mutang with your emotions quote on quaeso yet if you if you if a good conducive waited be with your emotions is to let him out and i occidentis like if your sad if something
is eating you up on the inside because of sadness or whatever and it's conducive to your recovery development whatever to express ye those emotions in yes but if your hangry and
you lose your temper and your kit that's not going to your not delouvain's correctly so in strife but it laterally it is piling on their less before you stifle of your identifying
a mere like oh hey i'm hangry okayed that i'm a separate feelings from behaviour ateletas right there they athene's a great point that often times expressing your emotions to the
world doesn't improve your situation or your physician not all the current in fact i would say that most of the time expressing your emotions to the world set you back and that is
why i vote in many cases to tierroboo keep them in i don't let on if people see not as you put your cards on the table right you put your emotional cards on the table now you
can't gamble any more you can't you're not in the game any more an host knows what's going on in your giving it to him do not goin to know why i'm thinking you're going to think
i'm dissever things cool with me were shining you it so right if i'm getting frustrated and i show that to you but what is that now you're getting it that you you disco level up
you think i got to be frustrate rand can't hold it in work at this working in him if i'm just say the same face all the time which is what i do primarily may same pace all the
time just weren't you know moving the same way when you do get me i forget what you say when you get me to to react or something good reigned the organ yaou say so in rappings a
little urged she there and i was goin an i don't want to be recognized craters you tis past my garden uses there and met you sit there like is no big deal to a notation made me
get all panicky where then you level up a little bit in its the same thing with life right and every time you express these big emotions to your boss or to our team you express
these big emotion setem they see all your cards don't let him see all your cards is this manipulating cranerie this is one of those things where people think old transparence you
hear at all times these days transparency tribett actually don't yet know it that you don't have to be transparent all the time you have to win the game you know what does a
football coach go out and hand as play both to the other line no you ain't got a wit the game and to between them and that's not how you win the game so are we you nowhere do a
play in castitati nal chest your playing with others human beings you want to win now if you're winning so i can take advantage of you so i can manipulate you and get something
from you that you don't want to give me that's bad but i'm not talking about doing that before i'm doing is keeping my calm so that instead of escalading an argument with you i'm
getting you to see it for my perspective dispiriting calm that's what we're talking about here they'll last told that story the other day where it he tells the story locas
hilarious story where i came in we we we didn't have a chance to talk to each other as he was playing in this big operation and i come in ten minutes before the operation is an
let me going to do what you're doing and he kind of shows me on a map eerier here near as i get ye should do this instead hadn't he was like it reiterates i said man but just
think about it and he goes you want just can't see of thee all night right and and you know he's a con jocolino like laughed at me idealogue like a line like a jerk in redingotes
like they had listened just think about on i'm saying right now but that's the poets and example may i didn't show my emotions which was which will be more like duero serious i
know you're in a camaldolese we have a difference of opinion so think about what you i didn't do that of the game and i did i who ever unstressed out right now we are leave on the
tin crickly think about one i'm saying now look at this is all i'm saying we could exceed this a better so that's what i'm talking about is that make me matilda no it doesn't make
me manipulate it as as as a keen to a better job and as soon as the lad saw that he was the desolated himself he was good to go in we move on if so that's what i'm talking about
the strippers at all times has not but you know and and just to address that though free when you do see that big emotional impact things in some one's life and they don't express
them that absolutely as bad in that they were as the salon is with kids you kids kens where they the there something bothering them and they don't they hold it in hold that in
case i don't have anybody doctor they can't talk emom and dad because mom and dad don't get it their friends with the people that their pissed off in the forthestait anyway so
they can't tell them it's going on so they sit there in the harbor a lot of that anger and that can be that can be very provocatin goes through all through you know a dull as well
and and you know at work sometimes people will then a promise at home so they can't talk to their wife because that's what the problem was that can't talk to a husband because
that's the the source a problem of then they get to work and they don't want to look like the person as compromises nything there either and the next thing you do what are they
doing there tryin to scape those problems how they do in it instead of in it letting those problems out and talkers someut em they're havin a you know havener in the afternoon to
get on the alcohol whatever they're doing something that's negative and they're not moving forward at all so those are not the kind of feelings that in a motion that you want to
subdue or stifle her but these little ones and twos and threes on the rector scales being angry git git git controlled those things in the stiff stifling certain emotions ones
into is a good way to deal with them because on these cause usually re spontaneous he motioned oniononi they they don't have the power right priestan yes they're just going to
there there and they just fade away and yet cool that's why yes eatee time now you are good at dealing with them in that way when you get angry and you've been for one year you've
been dealing with it by designing it you know interest behaviour is not acting on it now you're goin to do in that of thought amati now you don't get you don't ask angry any more
mateush kate's part question part a pinion in pokes thirteen you stained effectively not explicitly that gits is the marshal at the takes the most time to become proficient i
disagree here's what as a wrestler of been able to pick up jug in a matter of about two months to the point where i can submit a blue bell here and there and we'll see control
purple belt possibly there is white coranach i only roll with lower a level players i might just be a bad teacher but have not i have not had as much success teaching juggie to
wrestle after the same amount of of time there after the same monition there may be a low high spice call wrestling level i found it extremely difficult teachers to shoot
penetrate with their hips or effectively user hips to defend us or scramble possibly my sample size is too small to form an accurate opinion but i'm curious of your thoughts on
the topic tankling and maso yeah i guess when i said that i should set grappling in general which is definitely harder to achieve a basic level of competence in rather than
striking now don't get me wrong you take a skilled boxer they will destroy an unskilled boxer you take a skilled montigue they will destroy and unskilled moitie you can good
moidel before right the first person that i ever did that without was a skilled mosilekatse moi it was like black over siberia i would think about thrown ackisation he would check
it right and then he would throw kakamadare i even knew what was happening right there that much better to concede have say moved samsaveel would boxing if you go against a good
box or they'll jack you up in that sport right in that sport you will get work so now that being said a good wrestler is a good grappler you are a good grapenuts why you're able
to pick up to get you very quickly because breathing is grappling which is juice there are their differences yes they're absolutely or differences but if like long board surfing
in sharp ports serving if you're or or base ball and soft ball if you played baseball in college when you get out on the the the office softball team euraker that's the way is not
cause you played soft men you play baseball in play technically softl it's the same thing with with wrestling and as far as the fact that it doesn't take long to learn if you are
of a high level wrestler to learn to get you yes absolutely you learn a very quickly look at the history the you have seen dan seven mark omen caminada randy to church he do all
those high orestes and i ate history cause guess what the high level resters are there right now too john jones d c it's it's wrestlers it's wrestlers and restless now arter other
guys i come in and and philip but the the the i would say the majority base is rustling so now you also have to look speaking of history you after look at the early uses or you go
to any jim in the fact is the fact is aggie only guy beats a wrestling only guy in a fight nine times out of ten that the way it is that the now if the rest of to learn very
quickly but if the rest are only knows wrestling and the dicer guy only knows to git the igigi is going to win simply because the rest or doesn't know how to finish the fight he
does not offensive doesn't have any submission has to finish a fight so tenaciously nine times you one time out of ten or whatever get something in and yes that can happen but an
and also my talking about if you take a ensures em and you put him against the white belt or or maybe even a blue belt there is a chance that the boboland so minimis just too
strong that if he had some awareness of you have no awareness whatsoever they're goin to get that out in and if you watch the early you have is that's exactly what happened you
know the rest false they might get position but they are getting choked their detinan go to any gym right now you have a tough restowin that doesn't know any jigit he's going to
get tapped out i mean for instance right now and argument a really good rest for name taylor johnson and i'll bring his name up because he is i can remember all cause all been
recent he's been training now for less than a year when he first came in he is getting to about you know that the way it is he's a farnavese two months later he was to get dabot
six months later he's tapping people on so that's what happens but if he take physically kind of close people and you put pure resting against purgeit dogies gonna win now there's
also another thing that your probably noticing in this situation and that is that wrestling wrestling selacted isisi resting select for thesis and for you to be competitive and
wrestling u need to be strong quick athletic agile all those things are important in an oveson that you know with the itsch were my kids wrestle and you see it what it's like when
you get a strong athletic kid and how there able to execute moves better at venomless not that good of an athlete and so resting does that wrestling is selective so you wrestled
guess what you're really good athlete you an if you did well wrestling or he rustle for long time at you develop that athletes because you had to be explosive you had to train
hard so that's that also bluebells you look at a bebel a bluebell is basically a person that's been donyo maybe two years right so that's the same thing as a lower level high
school wrestler right a low of high scores a guy that instant resting until he was a freshman year started resting at a low level i score rustle and guess what he's getting beat
so you should be if you're a good wrestler you should be able to once you understand the basic principles of guise you should be able to be boats because there a year in the the
game the thetis um ye are you take a a competitive restoring against somebody that's you know seven years in and now there a brownell what had that all competitive high school
rest that's a senior and he started training in six gray that seven eight years go into seven or eight years to git to guy do you've got now you've got a good match and likely be
you diegos goin wit an out o ye again if you take no if you think a pure restorative judges going to win all day all day so um a i i there's no denying and like i just said
there's a reason that wrestling is the the premier skill set in the us that predicts champions no doubt about it it is a great and incredible martial ark i i wish that that
wrestling had kept its roots as catch wrestling in still had submission old flow a cause it would just completely change the game but it doesn't see after adam later there's also
something else too i think that i think that people in general wrestlings not for everybody right it's a fairy heard sport and i think that people of void that grind of as far as
as far as the okyogashima i now into make you go a resting you do to guys of voyagin i should say all them but some often do do to guys of void the grind of the take downs and the
intensity of wrestliana look in for that that's one of the things that made to you to appealing to a very broad range of people is that you can train it an a an a mellower pace
right and that's also why if you go do digitatis restless do really well and you get to tournaments because they understand the intensity of drowns of limited time of smashing
some one of going out disguise been tradin the jim they ready for that first turnament there's no jiguani that goes the first turnament says yet it was just like what i thought i
was going acknowment used to that he had a not ready for it so i i mean and and of course not taking away from degetus that train like madmen with total intensity and get after it
supertense guys exist as well and also was little thing on this there are also some rustlers that don't adapt to les slower pace of jigit can adapt it that any donata to the
slower pace of emma and so they their whole career they gas out and there's plenty of pro anima fighters us then of come in high level wrestlers that they couldn't ever quite make
the transition to mimi so you know bottom line these are is a point that i pretty much agree with that he that this this guy made and wrestlings awesome i think it's a great base
i think it's it's a form of grappling and it compliments jujitsu an jidgement in and i wish that it was one sportis not so to have to do with ye and it seems like like to cause
the he was a real i not complaining on the complaint he is premises that you know gito is is not in fact the heart one to master in a wrestling he's a blind the wrestling is
harder to to master in for cabecas he thought jugeaient and they didn't pick it up rodoski oh in jujitsu you can break all kinds of wrestling rules in uitland but wrestling gives
or no come in if they they have to learn to break some wrestling rules otherwise it's going to be there dutchmen sure allahuma lot of em carry over a lot of me no not of the
strangeness it man apostle can't break the rule to to go to his back you don't get a doores the restells will give up their back all day there's they don't want to go on their
back you know and that's why they're goin to get choked but if like taylor you that's a good example proviso he broke that rule quick then an that's why you so good cause he can
expend is my inbreathe rule so but consider the judiciary now he has to learn all day so he asked the sentially and not so much break the release probably break some rules you
know by not going to stack lord ever but i do not tootooch to break any there you girls necessarily will the wet wynyate case in point a much time and effort and i getting put
into learning a take down correctly when it barely decides the match exacter on you now after there otherwise there is a man to a gap in this it desire for knowledge because i
find few take me down to imagine menant passed my guard whereas when a restless up he has to learn this stuff otherwise he's losing he's getting captating choked if set a great
great a point there yet very true who you'll have to you know in even when you say okay did you should focus more and take down in really call and you should definitely folks on
take doutagalla n a and it's very important but at the back your mind as a gesegneter yet i don't really care if you take me down in okar and then now we're talking about in this
kiss were gone out and have me personally because i ararat in nothing but tappettit but and he was a thing to even add to that even if you are considering the comparison of
wrestling and gito take the take down situation i take not all take down her or putih wrestling take down i can be like okay i can not learn wrestling at all and still be good at
take down to fight learned you to well if i enfilade something ill so i again so i goes it's masseur taking something really vast oh with a late easy ways to maneuver round
certain techniques and still be vastly successful and then you'd use basically saint ocelots take that a person who has that approach and narrow it down to this much more
difficult approach and way less effective approach essentially is the vastness of grappling i can still be successful in grape grappling without learning ex wise the rustling
moves and then you on a teacher in these externing moves probably some that can go against you specially when it comes to ensnare conservation and all this other some that's why i
guinasi be difficult to told learn that but how you said there is a gap in the motivation to her as a voltaire told how at a learner kakor care about learning miss sing when it's
gonna serve me less and my grapho doubt you can just look at the human fact of gugu there's a reason why take downs are not emphasized very much it entitatem and normal academy
they do not have the focus on take down like wrestling rothiere tling the take down wins you visit when you the match on egrotat a huge part of wrestling is getting the take down
jugeait it's a little tiny percentage of the match to a give it you points habit doesn't mean anything to me because i'm an enmity the linen just the nature of that of the game
you know wrestling is take down pan of liver more to it i understand but jogesh just submit the guy you all so guesnin a way it's like just digitis to the ground you can head off
your back and went from the top you can wear a resting on like that yes i be opope will let her only pulled and then win from their bateiseki on top to the runneth and jokes the
fact that you can pull gard gives you this in tire out witege away from doing take down and you can still be victorious yet very very often yes and that goes along with these even
these technics any mention like you know you know though she hit the basically then there's there's a lot of moves in there there big move big move and they do help you but like i
said that they're just there's simply not necessary you don't mean any physical move is helpful to no and otto defend what it be from offensive to know or defence petition but
again if you try to narrow it down and teach these guys who there approach and their knowledge comes from the vastness of grappling there and you want a narrow it down to this
thing i marinor you know any marmot serve you it could work against you but here let's try to learn this reward yet you nave that gaped in motive actually don't care about the
take downs yes and i'm an go on record now as saying this just because juiciest focus on take down doesn't mean that you shouldn't fo you should learn take down to need to know
take down from a self defence patente from an emma perspective take down wrestling you have to do it i mean that's why my kids wrestle you know it's because i didn't wrestle and i
hate that fact because i go against a like he sang you know i go against a good high school rustler i tore from me to take motherand me you know you get somebody that ressaldar i
know what see i know i'm not good now i i have developed judae down to fence over years and it's actually take down often because i have offensive ways of defending thikombia out
of but he i can't go back in time and go through the the training that you get when you're a high school resorted a college resai can't do that i can't do it i mean i just don't
have the time and the motivation to do it because i'm in the same boat as as you know what the guide your distort how much time am i a focus on take towns i know i go ginteal
dresser he taken me down i go in a good high school rest there's a good chance he taking me down ye so how much time and effort i mean i could spend the next five years i could go
through a competitive circuit i could join a rest and club but am i goin to do that right now is that time affectedest want to give better at jugendheit access to the rest to the
grappling spectrum that you just talked about while it's an obvious choice i'm going a focus on the spectrum that has the most athmest application in every situation i'm going to
be in a souyou if you get the chance wrestle restells much as you can learn your take down at will you take down put your kids in the wrestling you did so for sure put your kids
in a rest a bed don't have to worry about it then the factory man from people they don't at that beef you know where you got to go and rasselas that's hard you know and even like
a rest you can have out wrestling style to your jiguel but again if he had if you don't want let you know who didn't wrestle crag cried bakery cursed ye the in wrestle ye ve you
were latratu be like lapensee did you wrestle and colleges will onthinkin pure jegid n't wrestle in college yet he restless didn't even rustle nice or he feels like a total
wrestle with you with him at any avonshire ye in there some brazilian guise that of come up that you know brislane's that are very good vessels that never rested before they have
really good take down and but you know you're going to you oughter wear or work for that in these kids that come out of high school that wrestled nichol the got it yet do little
gitator halibut as a gift the they've got yet but for these days and back to the question for these guys that he is trying to teach and he totally sad sight could be my sample
size understand and to good to and actually but um because the simple i'd be big you can get gudesire they'll pick that stuff do not broke queer but at the end of the day when it
comes to as he put it when it comes time to shoot penetrate with their hips or effective leave or hips to defend or scramble you can omit all of those things from a gitana still
with an beaterios scramble you got on nausicrates at a questionable one yes you almost been yeah but again i mean to one florus rambling as every bud valuable thing to have in
jugernath more value even you know benalder the shop eh the agree but yet restless rahats a weird tustin interesting brodereuse bad that i freed as name by rolling them everytime
i see him but and he's falling me it you may be one sixty five may be a button and a somerset knew guy too under one ear and his game is resting but he's thy high level rests if i
play the wrestling game and i know i know wrestling i i'm solid i can wrestle against good wrestlers i manator but god rest so i can play an amber than him you know suffit and
wrestle to wrestle this guy brothel ke it he ran game on her yourii's games but if i if i just slow down in my mind be okay he's a rest as a minister let's work around the
rustling on a problem to you know but once the one see if he can give up the wrestling rules you know you know to get the cause he has that atheism he switch as it like all quick
pace just like like he's built into the ground that's a good is basis you know you know paurestinus for my human nature perspective here viewed apply to to other situations in
life think about when you're trying to get people to do things think about but the motivation that they have in there had not not motivation of likelies go but not the actual the
actual mental motivation of what they are going to gain from what your trying to give them and duty seize reason of your its important yeah that got a figather you gutierres ling
is like treating is grappling through appling is like the question hello do you happen to have a potest discussing loyalty to marriage that involves marriage to a service member i
see many marriages morstowe the service member has a great background in the military but lacks marian home you know i actually have answered the courtin before and maybe not this
specific but amingo rick quickly just because this isn't just about military you know relationships it's about any relationship but you know from a military respective absolutely
melted ricochets or very hard you've got time away you got classified work there's a lack of understanding what's go on a work aye got lives i take right in with that the job has
to come first and that's a very hard thing for people understand that the job has to come first wide as half the confest for survival because the hard are you train the better you
know your tea made the better shot you are the better your chance for actual survival in a combat situation so a spouse has got to understand that right that in order for the
service member to take care of the familiar family the service member has to do his utmost to prepare himself and his team for war the number one priority now what the spouse has
to understand is that this doesn't mean that he wants to spend time away from his family he doesn't want to prioritize his team over his family doesn't want to miss the recital
doesn't want to miss the ball game doesn't want to miss the teachers conference but he has to he has you so touse don't be mad when he makes that priority except in understand
that the family is the number of party it is the number one priority but in order to be therefore the family he's got to prepare for war so that he can come home to his family
after the ployment now this this obviously also applies to police this supplies the fire fighters and a ewe it applies really though the bread winner man or wife husband or wife
in any walk life right if you're the bread winner for the family you that befits your doing you the way that your taking care of the family is by bringing home money so that there
is food and housing and clothing and a secure future that's what you're doing in so that the spouse in these situations has to understand that the hard work the hard work and the
hours and the days and the weeks that are taken away from the family is actually done to provide for the family right so that's the the key piece that that people have to
understand that that that the the spouse has understand now the service member and again of a talked about this before the service member over the fire fighter or the police after
on the bread winner what they have to do is after make sure that they don't go overboard that they draw the line somewhere that they don't destroy what it is that you're trying to
protect don't destroy what is your trying to take care of don't give the the plant so much water that you drown it don't cook the stake so long that you burn it don't work so hard
for your family that you don't have a family any more you've got to have but balance in one of the things you you got to use you got explain that to the family and you got to tell
them what up and you got to tell them that they are of the more most important thing and that all this war that you're doing this taking you away from them is actually being done
for them and you got a communicate that through the megadont nd it's hard for the lesson to hard for an eight year old kid understand why you're missing the the the baseball game
or at the the six year old girl are you missing the that egerton into whatever hard to explain them but you've got it at least try you got to make it evident them and you all to
have to make sure you don't a view abuse it right because work we can be fun in hanging out with our teammates for an extra of shooting or an extra day of jumping or having a beer
at the pale on the way home that can all sometimes be more appealing than the recital then the ball game so don't abuse it you you have to take care of your family and you have to
talk to each other and understand this balance together understand the sacrifices that are being made on both sides so that you can work it out and maintain the strength of that
entity the family that you're trying to take care of ye and i mean i walk the line on this one i work hard and i worked hard for a whole life yet and it's going to depend to right
demenee a you say don't work so hard that you don't have it depends how regit or resilient like the family he is a renegade with like you know you x explaining another this king
like lifting and over training you know i lifting so i can get these results when i rest are all this stuff red but if i'm deligently lie lifting no rest in but it's going to
defended on how strong you i am to begin with kind of thing so mean yemenites sense you know or could halesome explain it till they hoysed with everything her just keep explaining
from my daughter yesterday last night asked me what she wasn't sad or nothing like that but it's like why do you work so much tingitana's don't work so much but far shootcase if
i'm not playing with her at that moment or your work to make and work one minute she'll work too much but i like all thank i had to think of it from her perspective ye you know
and i he explained it explained all in she had found me explained in it it now the enow she understand i had to you know it was like a sitting having a dinner with my with my
family you know and we don't eat together every single my s were all busied to don a bunch of different things so we were having dinner and for some reason i had something going
on to business where is pulled out my phone estaing someone going back and forth and you'll one of my kids was you know why you on your phone right now and then you know my like
wife chimed in a can't you just put that down and i said he just so everybody knows it to get to fence i did get a little bit of an i i said just so everybody knows if i could i
would take this phone and throw it in the ocean and never look at it again but i have work to do and sometimes my work involves working at night and some and most o the time with
for more can night it's all this little gadget rider than i have to look at so that's why i'm doing this knockaout want to listen to you not i don't want to sit here and just
focus on the family right now but guess what i got work to do and the work that i'm doing is not for me it's for this family so we can have a house so we can have food on the
table to back off sibu they got the pointedly aback off point but they who understand nay they realize you know and foreknow for my for my young daughter that was no five years
old at the time i said this is how we get food and this is how you get toys i have to work to buy you toys the you know do you not want any more tosses like long go in answer the
phone asked you learnt to iett's like you have to tell part of my speech to do my own elation to stealing getting on like a yeast very confrontation shoes like smiling sherlockian
mine when i am working she has the option to jump on my lap reread in mind so it's me it's this is a a troublesome situation here and i understand that but the point still is
there though you explain it like you explained it or like halieland it and if they know and they understand that it's licer you know but not that's not to say that they don't have
a point though con sometimes especially if you don't explain for your nine gauged it all these who faither tinsel antoine aerself and make sure that you're not going overboard in
your not abusing it cause you know what as i does that client line dear for me at the molean wer is and at this as you know i have figured out years interlaken actually they don't
need to hear from me right now ye not linen sometimes you can guess sometimes bilaican here for you will he after did ye when i tax you right back you have to stonebach dear no
you after responding let busy cruise we gadabout now we don't but we're going to do that any way jock do you have a specific place or time you spend thinking specifically about
your fallen comrades jeff any time that things are going good then my life any moment of happiness and the time i'm enjoying my life from thinking about what the future holds that
when i think about my friends that died so serving after a good wave and wait for the next one after some good you get to training after a good work to or could meal or maybe a a
smile or a laugh with a friend or having ice cream cone with my with my daughter or playing to to with my son or catching catch a little smile from my wife at those moments at
those moments without a doubt that's when i think of mark and that's what i think of might be that's what i think a rinehart's when i think of it when i think of all those not as
brave souls its brave souls that a fall and i always will i always will but you know it's not it's not a bad thing and in an unchiding said it that it ruins the moment because it
doesn't doesn't at all it doesn't fill me with sadness or with sorrow or vipan in doesn't make me angry or frustrated or depressed dark in dozen make me focus on on deaf no it
doesn't do that at all it may it makes me want to live makes me want of live more and do more i make me one to be more to know at those moments those precious moments tis this
life this life is a gift from those men they gave this to me the dagenett moment and because they gave it to me they don't have it any more they gave us everything they had
everything they had they gave to us so am grateful grateful to them and when i think of them a mont sad when i think of them i'm happy i'm happy i knew them i act i'm amahay is
sure of with such heroes and am happy that day gave me the chance to be happy to day and i won't let the dark spectre of death drag me down i remember them and and for them i will
live and i think that's all i've gotten for tonight so echo eletta in quick minute or forty seven minutes and explained how some one can support this potassic they want to ye so i
got to go right into it if you're in to supplement for actually being a few not into supplements on it supplements factious supplements though is like all kinds of stuff improve
your whole life game physical flatulent whatever so ameneman tal physical um emotionally even m no mood his called noon nevertheless i i got home wanted new mood i must
vierlanderin to me somebody told me a osmotar pot sure laragh ye should ranjit try it you know you're out of the military and now you should just you know i try some pot i was
like old interesting but like what why do you think you know i do that this will you know you you won't be so angry all the time then and as it i like being arry i don't think
i'll try you your potentates also kind a strange even that i mean i know you don't actually like being angry you are also not angry all the time yet true i don't think even
content angry but me be free time really ever when i getting ere you are angry at dean for something oily and then something else actually so one time to that i antemilesian twice
ye hear yes ten can be frustrating a man and if you're angry all the time there is sin called no mood yanagi i took it once but i did feel like i was in a new mood but from the
people that other people that take it cause you know like okay so some one is like anything else is like you you probably in to take the ones that you feel like you need or you
want one at the no like if you are like okay i then recover better from a cause i work out so much you're going to take some kind of recovery thing you know my jointure you know
whatever you're going to take gillolo something for you gentlehomo is one of those ones worlds i okay i'm sleeping fine i don't have necessarily like hang over situations or
depression or or anything where i need some enhancement not to say that i couldn't benefit i'm not saying that but i'm saying i'm not gravitating towards through a guinguette good
things sangerhausen unbiguously in the back of your mind you are like an cruising right now but i could probably cruise how are graaat ally not a body for my wife as i she you
know how like she's the kind where she like if there's a task that will it do the task real task you don't oh yes you on at likes to get stuff done yeah yeah yeah i cayn't you can
see why i didn't like making video of meat all these maria right off we i want it for her so you don't get any much you wouldn't be so perductive all i heard to cause the sashed
dash rises from year ilessey with a new day a man kinne six seven months whatever but you know like when it's time to go sleep you know the same where in a oofie to but you know
that i work me if i michel am at a go take a nap from three to four what i go in it to your hunting take in the anava of me doing that it going the two fifty nine at three o one
i'm probably sly better close to sleep me open not everyone like that where they'll be like at all the stuff is all my mind cause i go in to take a nap in on my beastie ye be here
free if consolatoria yes exactly so this new moon i took a happy other day though i took a like serious not yea how just tigerlike tired on the cow stateand house venetiano couch
naps or are sort of i don't like the couch naps to bed that the everybody don't go i think you got to go an i'm goin to have boomiest up elevate set the arm clock cachapeul what
happened right right odoriferi a way and i'm a parentless i guess i'm destining from experience all have any like technical reason but oeser's like the couch not you in this
mental state that is kind of like you have low expectation imperious you boys like you what you might not be the most comfortable but hey you're not moving so boom you sasseby
when i go in kingo like in your room and you lay down an you're like walaitipu es just a little bit and not co and then you like all hillingsworth ng upside lincoyer edalo it's
almost like you can't sleep because the conditions are perfect when you have that expectation to howiseon ition but on the now that you don't have that expectation in just like
it's like if you'd not been outside of the anonatea like i'll just pull his pill or on my left and ordained to see the clear ice seas like sick ecartant ned i mean let us as to do
with ten naps but this is the new moon will end that for like if you have like stress on the only don't talk about it we don't know then talk about another thing yet i i that he
out i think it the conversation went in that direction of its own like momentum okay well protecting you know where tarrabul naps the i know but by elitha's to harness the act on
it the supplements starlike that other ways like straight up facially um brother illfeeling you know more you borrowed the day so i got some warrior bars already adam whatever yet
a work out an i like to eat after work i did i get a certain amount of protein in there and on his warm good for connemara nothing like that but if you only have like one small
piece of half piece chicken left over from a kind of need more notion i needed more so like what i made cool like you like to promise his good but one had like his half piece of
chicken so it's like shootin need more meat in there looking the freezing nothing so i acroteria and chopped them up and like put it in there and like he to help to yates actually
good so was like a buffalo meat cheekin rice monotone and coon it was good though even home you used to worry bout come like beef jerky or line was it like a soft and moist a
elishas it so still the worried bar is iswara warrior baronmead in its bed and worked it worse the fever profile were a ionides eclosion aroana where are the unowhat that is there
look on on it that comes buffalo meat is to do free by the way am i a sole main ones is what cruel oil for you joints you'd be surprised almost degeneration we all have that's
what i think caesari also your genetic me in the longer conversation i'm and have on no aboon degeneration if he do amadain now walkergate one who turned me on to it so
otarihensera ion joint i gain crellin maintenance may be said so this is what criatura great train back into asked me not yesterday not diplas i my son raunay i hear your fish oil
like what now is one who asked it draweth ilich tea he said phil what's a dense official in quill cause i take fisher whatever was the difference of kaethe difference my de ah my
wife's dead would say that this stutterers that it is we cut cruel oil the omega three to make it three sooty going for an ill be both fish all and culminates so fish oil attaches
to you try glycerides grill oil make a three attached here fossilis so what does it mean here right walkershaw's want it you know in my doing so let's lay your joints are a nice
club a following me i foreclose you join in one now and i emission sergeant club that's your joints very and you want the old megatheres to get in there right right so he on make
a three as are these your crew turn jocko is trulier echo is fossilised and care he jocoso his crew to make three though both of a megatheria there attached to me were men or on
the guest list he whom i going to let in joco and his brow crew but lemaitre a soul they do burmester and him time say you know or chochere discresing they spend money let all
though makethe men money they got to be in the night club but which i make it three is the bouncin let in your make three to me through the dutch to you the treguier to the fossil
that it cosmically me kay so anyway bullats why the chill delay in bed early as you know had literatoor in mine the very minute what you see in saying that's basically how your
body are the arriatte absorption or creole in that in old creatrice ill for mat to for black abettor just gets better portion this other stuff do some anti axenstein kilronan
university as he knew an get the cruel oil ticket your joints you'd be surprised the rolling everything that's might be then he not on that get on that also good wages support
amazon click through what you do is you go be free dermstein if in an already could be for you de amazon shopping gondo the website or paestum or uncle story which i click on the
amazon link also it's also called support i can support when i was unlike whatever then you five quick through the website then you go to a misinchinca i'll standing way to
support really good support ah then you do shopping as you normally would in bloom instanter and you know it doesn't cost you anything gossiped of your time for big support fitly
you know smartin beerton like so itineracy folly i hear you on the stand house if you know what happens to solimena when you put in one of agitha's the apostolic i'm just saying i
think it important i like remember that because it's that early you do the seplasia i don't tell you no mind to take isocrates i can stitch a goop play all the e pacator emirate
of review of you in the mood that's a good one i review so part the ranking if our podcast is in good ranking that's cool print ye egressi think so ah or subscribed to or anne
subscribed to you too if you into you to be watched ideals you can see this potassio sly in video format or all the excerpts though we put on there you said that my first this
mass in very lactarian there's more come in and you know the use are good because you can share them with your friend you know if he so okay so i have sung technical knowledge of
you so i hated share the link and then in the link that i share i can manipulate the little you are eller whatever so when they click on the line till start at a certain moment in
the video right not artetius there's little setting but anyway i can do that so if i am set if i'm like a lime share jacala's take on this with with my friend jealowsees then he
coitain he could benefit her thin well he was asking me about it here it is i i can send on the whole podcast i just weepeth thing to the the little book mark place were on start
but if you won't eat on a doll that you can just find the exert that i put on the you to chantelouve just more shareable so that i'll have listened to the whole pot guest to get
the you know the ithusei less in a thrilling dthink that there would be a lot a house from yeer excitement of achaeans all mean by a lot but i think cather's significant you know
careering on a god be the judge of that over here on this and also joculator if you do know what's called jackal store dot com if you or me if if you like these shirts though we
make it would put effort into the shirts they're not like the cheap make a stencil spray paint cheap pains let the handles cheap but cheap shirt hair can you do it it's not that
kind or good like quality things i say the raven think cause i've made shirts like that afore i onely so the not the kind their goods they got some you know so cool you like
complete the call there doktorenko it's you on a support in that way get a shirt and represent in the wild the women stuff whatever shirts patches rash guards nineteen per cent
performance increased proven hundred forty seven per cent proven nineteen per cent improvement what is is well skinadre i understand but still its cold some places michigan
rolette hedysarum good for this time of year right now now because they are the heaviest of weight next winter where to go jocosities there every weight this year we would act
ostile eight cis concerning their still holdest they're not as have you duty they like medium as elaterium i think tacitly there i think they are men amadeddin return heavily
arabiyeh snow or we could go light for the spring summer as well on less not just do a fasherie oyinbo we go there to stare come neshamony ring line of safety or martingale alien
yes but yes he was you know if they something to it looks good to us support that way represent also psychological warfare now looks apart the pot cast at a diet and thank you
every one who is supported but psychological warfare do in his a support yourself situation really if you are weak this what it is ecology or for futoority i know explained every
time but i explained again if you're feeling moments of weakness in regards to your work out or waking up early or slipping on the on the whole diaporesis i'll mean diet like
diving just sang eating correctly and not incorrectly you're about the slip on that you get in ticed like my sister explained she did with arson brings home some brownies screen
helpmate the round he's not she's paying for it on the treadmill cording to her her word some i at the moment of the introduction all of the brownies or donuts as the case may be
you put on one of these tracks is called sugar coated lies snack time shoes girodet live listen to jolo he explained to you some stuff that will cause you to not slip on that plan
and this goes for like i said waking up doing the work out a pushing yourself during the work out all this stuff giving your work to all this stuff so if you need a spot in those
areas look into that scuyler er cockington its good way to support yourself and by happens tancitars in the pot cases well dullamy felt a gravitational think as you all so while
you're clicking through amazon you can order jocolate d you can get only in his own dotcom you elect through try it be careful he killfots it but giving a cry see what appens an i
got complete more just reviews found a com since taking it with me to the gem over ice i not only get to enjoy the semi sweet flavor of the tea but i have also noticed increases
in strength on squat of notice of fifteen to twenty percent in treason strength while using it and my dead left has gone from four seventy five the aioi extolling mathesis sweet
does no sweeter in the tea it's just a man's what it is no sugar and there loudest hypocritical you'd have to close down my life yet if you assure another one no big deal i am not
a teacher in her but needed to sound so situe to kick the diet so dam jackaway is what the reviews say i drink it i and i love the taste since drinking jackaway tea my total and
free t level having creased i don't have the labs tobacco felinity voice is deeper my muscles are leaner energy increased and my wife's favour result is increased stamina i feel
twenty one again enjoy the tea and support the poncas to ingagin science these are from amazon light he useter review yet very loveable you shall reputable and that jack white
genet and you could write a funny refer like everybody else is doing a little book coming out called way the warrior kid by the way it's coming out soon come out may second it's
going to sell out and once people read the initial ones that sell out the people that got it they're goin order more tend to be back ordered and you're not goin be to get one to
order now realise also distances freedom field manuel that's common in october same thing order it seen get a copy when it comes out the man you will will show you how to get
after it that's it it's the field made you and not to get after it you the feel me this one go freedom you heard that you probably think that you actually probably know that how
to execute it you can he feel manifolding structures work out thoughts food in take seabirds everything's in their no factor extreme eldership also it's just word o mouth keeping
it in the top one to two hundred on amazon that's insane thank you all for spreading the word and getting your people in the game denimed want right a little nonacrian for your
tea a little advice what chapter you think is so did for them get him on board up and down the china command by the way you don't want your whole team to be at perform in your
leadership which is at will happen if you just billbook for them than you as alan flung leadership and man is man consulting the notes speeches yet we do those long range
leadership all i mean programs to yes that is what we do so me late j p dave burk come ballechin applied to business and life checked the website askelon font dotcom or e mail in
foe at alanson dot com also the master and again this is not a seminaren pumped up no it isn't asimina about finding yourself it's not going to help you channel your internal che
towards eternal bless not in do that does not what the masters about moster is about leadership pragmatic leadership skies for you to use in your business and your life you are
with people you lead people or you aspire to lead people whose in a teach you how to do that where are you learnt from actual question where do you learn that from cos going to
teach it to you that's the question the answer is the muster lunted your people learn to lead yourself the may fourth and fifth new york city merry a grand marquis are we playing
around no we are not the first muster was awesome grey we having a second master because the first muster was awsome that's why we're having a second muster so come to it and
until we see at the muster beesy the way i'm going to be there lay going to be there j p would be there dave burke there that's not enough for you and you need something a kind of
close the deal no worry because actors is going to be there probably giving the four hours speech to the public yeah on telemuse you can also find us or on the interweb cruising
in a neckless growing out or in tower in taramis echo is at hotels and i iman joca willing and last le thanks for listening and giving us feet back and inspiring ousted this
aspiring us to do better and to be better no men that wear alone on this mission no one that you all are with us in the game standing watch not backing down not settling for
average not just going through the motions but living living life living life hard and fast and aggressively and taking every opportunity to step up step forward step on fear and
step on failure in step toward a better you and step out into the unknown to get after it so until next time missus echo and jack out
