this is jackal to cast number sixty nine with a go charles and me jackwell in good evening echo god even the president of the united states take pride in presenting the medal of honor posthumously to
captain henry t l rod united states marine corps for service as set forth in the following citation for conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity at the risk of his life above and beyond the call of duty
while attached to marine of fighting squadron two hundred eleven during action against the japanese land surface and airily unit at wake island from eight twenty three december nineteen forty one
engaging vastly superior forces of enemy bombers and warships of nine and twelve december captain l rode shot down two of a flight of twenty two hostile plans and executing repeated bombing and
straying runs at extremely low out etuche ranged succeeded inflicting deadly damage upon a large japanese vessel thereby sinking the first major worship to be destroyed by small caliber bombs
delivered from a fighter type aircraft when his plan was disabled by hostile fire and no other ships were operative captain elrod assumed command of one flank of the line set up in defiance of the
enemy landing and conducting a brilliant defence enabled his men to hold their positions and repulsed determined enemy attacks repeatedly proceeding thru intense hostile fusilades to provide covering
fire for an armed ammunition carriers capturing an automatic weapon during one enemy rushing force he gave his own firearm to one of his men and fought on vigorously against the japanese responsible
in a large measure of the strength of his sectors gallant resistance on twenty three december captain elron led his men with bold a grafted dressiness but till he fell mortally wounded his superb
skill as a pilot daring leadership in unswerving devotion to duty distinguished him among the defenders of wake island and his valiant conduct reflects the highest credit upon himself then united
states naval service he gallantly gave his life for his country signed harry stroma the mat is the medal of honor citation for henri talmage the first aviator to to be awarded a medal vane in the
first man to sink a warship from a fighter plane during the battle of wake island and if you don't know anything about the battle of wake island it began simultaneously with the attack on pearl
harbor when that started then it ended on twenty three december nineteen forty one when american forces were forced to surrender the notes with round five hundred american servicemen and they had a
hand full of coastal artillery pieces and a handful of antitragus and they had twelve aircraft and what they were facing was to to thousand five hundred japanese in petre supported by three light
cruisers eight destroyers copitas to troop transports to aircraft carriers with all their plans and two heavy cruisers they were completely outnumbered and completely and utterly out gun but they
held out for fifteen days and while they were under that siege on the townieth of december while the japanese were preparing for their final attack major elrod got out one last letter to his wife
that a more red that to you saturday twenty december nineteen forty one my dearest darling sweet art i never suspected this afternoon when i wrote my other short note that i would be sitting down
writing another to night but here we are i just got in a few minutes ago and if just learned that walt balers returning and he has kindly consented to live to this personally so i very thankful for
the moment of course there isn't a lot of news that i can write about and you probably know more real news than i do anyhow i missing you terribly and i am undergoing a few new experiences but also
as everyone else we've had considerable rain to day and it is still cloudy the wind has been very low however the weather on the whole is nothing to complain about but i would like to see a good old
fashioned ties food sweep this entire area i imagine there is an awful lot of white washing going on now in high places it certainly will be a criminal shame if they eecee in covering over everything
i am writing this in something of a hurry and under somewhat difficult circumstances i'll think a million times that i should have said after i had gone to bed to night but now i am going to say that
i love you and you alone always and always and repeated a million times or so give my love to marry also between the two of you you have it all there isn't any for any one else i know that you are
praying for me and i have nothing more to ask than that your prayers be answered yours you voted ly and loving talmage and so i think it's important that in you hear that letter you recognize the
fact that this is a this is a man and of course we always remember that these men we call them we call them heroes deserved be so we do that to honor them but i think it's in poweretta remember that
these heroes there people there people and these men these heroes these marines these people that held the line they leline for fifteen days before they were forced to surrender after losing forty
nine marines killed two missing in action three navy personnel killed seventy us civilians killed and by the way the japanese losses were recorded about eight hundred and twenty killed with over
three hundred wounded two destroyers lost in almost thirty japanese aircraft shot down or damaged but the odds and the ratio of force was just stacked against the u s forces on wake out and we get
into a situation like that a dyer situation of violent situation a situation where you are facing a determined enemy there is a bond that forms between people regardless of where their from what
their background is or what their socio economic classes or what service they were in them that matters there's a bond that forms that can not be broken in we certainly had that in the battle remote
u s army soldiers united states marines sets or seals of tasking of both bruiser all of us that were in that fight had that bond we were brothers and to night i am honoured to have a one of those
brothers here with me and he's a marine court avatar pilot who also did time as a forward air controller on the ground and we talked about that in many of the books that we reviewed on the poast
where you have a marine corps pilot whose now on the ground with the troops usually in one of the most forward positions because they have to know where the troops are out of that her condition to
cockpit and into the sweat in mud on the ground and this this pilot as neglectin leader who with his team conducted dozens an dozens of missions with tasting a bruiser in remodeled about bringing him
on the show and so here he is to night lieutenant colonel almost retired david burk dave welcome to the poast and thank you for coming on thanks for hapeman good bear so we after before we talk about
the what we went through together we have to learn a little bit about you where you git came from what you did and how you went from being from being a you know a pilot monogamie it a top bepiled but
not just a top rufilatus but a popgun instructor which is just incredibly selective as cabine the most selective things in the whole world ran femininities either see that twenty five at a time every
three years a kind o rotate through seas maltresse that's a ridiculous and in but then you know you thought may be a united to get after a little it more so you're going to do nateotetains that but
to start off with with where you came from just a little bit about your background and how you ended up saying you know when i think i want to do being the marine corps you go right on an so i should
grow up roun here my parents moved out here sandegren half years old i want to have yours old and between you and orangetown i drew up some account fornaci um not all that of exciting a caller don't
have you know tuna crazy memories i was pretty quite kid as a good kitten school got along with most folks um mudiford county my parents got divorced is basically just me an my mom and my sister for
a while and ah i lived in a town called el toro and what happened to be very close to her i grew up was amarintha and so was a katipah's there and late seventies and early eighties they had four
fantoms and a forsan a six is in just the cool jet at the time and so i i went to the air show every year grow up out there and i think it was no joke of his overhead i could see it in every day and
i think that just got my blood a little bit ah went to el tories school went to the air show probably every year from max sisters all till the dim the face closed down no gentle come in it was just
but on my life and a yemassee on the way to you you know a lot of rings living her side some real part influences that kinda got him me towards that um i'm sure going to get into this because it's
come up already in the preconisation terran fourteen and say watched the obscure movie called the top gone to read up croodit out of an a watch the movies a kid he saw do you find airplanes of
carriers shooting out bags and like i want to do that and probably about fourteen i had a pretty good idea that what i wanted to do um it did you make the connection between school and grades and all
that stuff because life people saw that movie and said i want to be a top on violet but i'm still going to slack off and do it over i want and not you know play hooking all that some how you made
that connection is not shown in the movie right that didn't show a he posturing hard in school because that would have not sold a lot of tickets at on i did eventually i mean when i watch that movie
i think they're just something i i always benishes in aviation kind of captivating when you see plants fine round and gets in airhose the boy angels a kind of study you can't help it look up and
watch that stuff it's cool um i would say that my performance in the academic arena was slightly less than steller how was i did find but i had no real motivation to do anything mawas of girl driven
kid to ah to work really hard a contades cover that if i put in very little effort i was okay and if i wanted do really well had to put in a lot of effort and i had made a much of the connection but
so as i got a little older you know and i washed the movie i think i was a part of a louden things but about the time i was sixteen i kaiser or in high school um as i got some other influences of my
life on base one is again him erivan i sort o work in a target or on the corner from house and as a millionaire and i guess said i am parents got divorced am i de stepped ad that was there and kind
coming on he and to be a really big father figure my life and a real posie influence and a marine which was great and he explained some more things about what is like to be a marine he's the one that
made the connection for me that all that stuff he saw in the movies you can actually do that for real and in court you could do that as a marine you know it's not just a move that's a real life some
is living that life right now and you can do that and ah i remember coming all the cats tell my mom i came on sixteen i'm a june the high school and thinking about being a mere incipid pilot which i
had no military my back or on nobody ever done anything like that and her answer was a sounds also you shoeman just a hundred percent she had a very similar approach a in everything are any idea i
read in my life that i run by my mom is like well somebody goin to do it miss all be you that was kind of a reproached everything how one to be five poerio someone be it my will be you and that's
what about the time i condotti my my stuff together a little i was in a mess but by any stretch but i i was a little bit just kind of the running though i do my fine being again and um ah i certainly
think i was lucky because i knew with great detail at about sixteen and change where wanted to do i mean i knew it want to be a morincourt at the teen pale bases of the callifornia and at carriers in
that exact what an up doing so at that time everything is sort of is you from there was with that kind of singular focus of of circling back to do that i have now i wanted to be stationed at toronto
had a rule specific plan and so all the things i started doing from their school you know in the college as well a going to the malingerer to say one of the join the ring horse being also bring or
all those things were dear very specifically towards that goal not as a tonal horrors between time sixteen and time i got my commission twenty one but everything else that i did in my life was either
a distraction i just got rid of or it was a means to that end he worked full time was in school put myself through the nearest college a onotoa state school that i lived in close to it doupos dealt a
real big exciting collielike was in the fraternity didn't go away to school i paid my way through a school i got a good education i i work only hard to to to do well but it was all specifically
designed to go in to be in a minor benoni called graduate indeed to be congradulate right on in me that i can do that he were a pose to college okay author scascale ah how much is it cost how much we
need to work did them as it was a my life from about that time i start a work in it like a set rooketty a kid i oratory from the time i was fifteen and a half got a work permit from school to the
time that i got my commission in the wrinkle and i went to school and cast it photogen monday wednesday friday my mom was a ganconers in a teacher so she helped me build a schedule a it graduate as
fast as possible which was exactly in four years it was all the money all the wenesday and have day friday and i worked tuesday third frogeater sent the money i pay i got paid went to my tuition my
tuition went to my ucation my ucation got my commission report an that was kind it i mean in some ways to look back and probably could have the first ledwith the time i wasn't unhappy i was in a
stone is exactly where i wanted to be doing there was no like man i wish i could be doing this it was at a shore by any stretch like i said in retrospect you know a police on these it will be
differently but seventeen old day berthelda burke new exactly what i want to do and i had sort of talk myself into it like a a detours going to throw off your path man and you're going to look back
with regret and go you know i ednt that been what you want to be is a cause it this or that and i wasn't going to let that happen so i kind o just got a little intense about beaton and brinker and
sirius i understood lockian because were you in it when you go to t b which is the basis cholics almerin officers got through you you have two still wennofre that bill at the donati and you got that
but i mean that could have gone shortly massiest there's a lot o luck in balt umi think everybody in the military and every reisen successful to military knows you lookin back under a career you know
a confluence of lotoides things but time and circumstance and luck earthearn of it without a doubt you nobody can take credit for everything they've done in it if i went back to do it again the soft
working out the way they did are pretty slim which is a lot of things that were out my favorite um but you know i went to oceasion to the marine court recruiter i guess out of my freshness the
samosen teen as sarcelle ge went right to the crier and day one or the caldano an officer selection all certabata protrude roseta wantabadgery on serpolette for at the paper work i said i want to be
poundage no problem we can get me an make it happen a sign is ground contract and will just make you poisson point of future orsetto um that's a big lie that easy to he a ground car contracted course
the brenoralt and guides to interre and so but they need more in pity than that he paletan so they say i don't worry about it you sign up for ground right now we'll take care of that other pile of
you would be pianoforte we'll take care of that later he will estrangiers ould be big denotation ten i'm an i was signing paperwork to be a mariavites as a big step for me and i will not by what sign
anything ah happily sign that m after my freshman year in college i went to ohecheo and to be honest with ye an i always big ran ideas for the last you know to three years i knew what i wanted to do
but i when i went to hestias a first real hurdle in everything else to the ride a plan some paperwork i get to obtain at school and silky as romarin droucker screaming at you you know you really
doing the deed there and getting through us the asas a big thing for me because it was the first real test of it did i an i knew it wanted to do bad no real sense of i had what was required to be a
marine and i think as a kid you build up what that is in your mind is it larger than life thing how could it be possibly do this he turned it into something more than it is when i went to boot camp
there was a there was a navy seal that are right and i i swear when i saw mousicien i mean huge big junior arms and den just a big massive guy a dislike like a destroyer of human life is to lie god
so fast forward for years i'm in the teams and i meet this guy he not at all and completely in my aias completely in my head with his gayest a destroyer bausto a he's a seal he must be a destroyer i
i actually saw it that way yet can't help it is certainly that age i mean those those things are real powerful influences will in to get out to sea and all of a sudden i o man i neither i didn't make
this happen i had i was a big bag or chief in my life as the hay i i can do this okaseri realize i'm not the biggest guy in rancor nobody to mistake me for a destroyer hum but what i discovered as i
got there as i i knew mentally what i wanted to do was a real question work about my intentions from my desires and is traitor kids you know young kids my age that are trying to be redactors and
that's that's a physical and a mental challenge there's no doubt about it and i was seeing guys kind a left and right of me that looked at least bigger faster stronger tougher and more capable of an
they looked like that that same image avenger mind in a wantin his use kanaal out of stuff were not finished up that stuff for distrait quit um you know gairde war drop on request at is and i was
kind of looking around thinking what what's you know what's going on you don't why are you here if your plan wasn't good after so that as a good a really good thing for me psychological realized that
it wasn't just a kind of the fan as seudre i i i had had the potential enable to do this so i got through a ses um yootiful process as you know is eighty four days it can be it can be slogans lot of
folks doin it for all is a didier son some people get hurt some people quit some people just can't do it ah and when you get on the back out of that you like i can i can make this happen is it that
air contract well get to it or contract if the basic school is which is when you get your commission you you finish school you get her degree irish also can in school so basically it's hey you've
done everything you need you you're a commission sir became a section in corn june of nineteen ninety four and the first thing you do is on activities a brindisi go to something all the basis school
and i talked about it a few times it's basically a school for the main court teaches officers a little bit of everything doesn't teach you everything of anything but you get a little exposure to
infantry of exposure tanks or tillery call for fire littlepage ideation but rolling defence often you can o get all in the land point of that for the mericour's you go there at undeify people and
they got a give each one of those people in a simon you know what particular job and molest especialty um and they rank you i mean you are rank from one to two hundred and fifty and for aviation when
i got there i member get into the first week they kind of announced what billets are going to be a bill available our have you know forty in patissot and twenty two of eust tell you a kind of what we
expect to have break down and from there your sposed to go back and think about what you want to do that to pilot thoughts to like man out of some rough mats you know then of fifty folks now not all
tune to fit you wanted to be a pilot ously anon not all the riot people or qualified with you know their eyes and what not so act it wasn't competing with two and of a to people but there is a lot of
people to want to be a pilot so the mate was certainly not in my favour and that was another gallon jove yet you got to do well i mean you get ranked and grated on everything physical fitness your
leadership a bill your academic he get pierrerie you know your peers right you you know ninon what they think you you so you got basically six months to get after it and at the end they lie you up to
difft people in a line not this is a real wine and you walk into a room and on the room there's a board and whatever job is available you can pick now minor does the same called quality spread were
the basically cut the glass and third so unatonable you know eighty eighty eight or something around there the never one giebichenstein are egion gay picks and the number a hundred and sixty one
gaspic were to perduce then they never to get dix the only job in the marine court that they did not call his spread was at the basic school was pilot on so i was going to be the first to gaut of the
gate that wanted it that ere callifornia get it and i got the number two spot um so again it was one of those things on i was starting to in my mind realized like withes i can do this i i built this
thing up when i wanted to do you know where home twenty one now or twenty two i think actually so it's six years of my life that i've been sort of singularly edicated doing this in so that day were
they my potenciana kind in john marryin an never forget he was in eaten pilot brings one was office so dave you're going to be a pilot and he gives i think you're going to fly america's aeroplane you
can fly the hafiten on a it was an awesome day man and ah how don't i want ever forget it and um that was it you know i got my my ticket i i when i when i was selected for a pilot i was rank i think
like number eight and a two ondred fifty of my company and by this how i graduated like three weeks later i was sick twenty five that the two fifty so my perform as man of declined the he little bit
after i had achieved not as moniteur of no slight yeah had always a wild lad i that i i that right was pretty tight for a lot a year or so in real ave you got it so little bit of slag the at the end
with a dog a cold finish ah you i well enough to get that pilot i which i when i was wanted it was kind o my dream where you was up that was april of nineteen ninety five so i started the basic
school in october in ninety four renate i got a graduate college in june we'll away to get down to cornucopise school as six months long i graduated sometime medaillot this time in nineteen ninety
five so and then he had fight screel yes you do the rag you all that stuff to get out to rescuing then the first kind of work you were doing was a was southern watcher right yes so i get their flight
school i end up picking at a teens i get stationed at el toro so i am literally live in the dream i of back to my home town umkonto like my ten year high school reunion and enid told him my buddies
you know we are on to do ran in some people hadn't seen it while it was good um and shortly after i got there i tully flew the last whitall tore the close the base in all the marines moved down to
miramar so the navy were talking was was filmed and all that stuff back on the day the naybe last santiago moved back east in the morincourt happily took over that base and so i moved down to miramar
and it up in a hatatea squadron say hanamerin hornets off carriers traitaient unamiable you are now living agesilaus that is exactly right miliva diego ah was living in peboan and am stationariness
and and the carrier that i was assigned to my first appointment would it operations euthenics yonitch deserto and any one a ontassete and when we hadn't we had done much in the military since then
but we had flown every single days instead more ended in a most march of ninety one every single day since then we flew patrols over iraq make sure that the scarcer o we re inforcing the no flies on
and here it was you know ten years later two thousand um on a carrier in the persian gulf fine combinations a over southern iraq gezain bombs ii did yet few of us did not atone wasn't a ton going on
but for we do this thing called response option so far rack is rude something i think in my case they set up the surface or missile south of out of a line the inward supposed to be and we had
surveillant there and i want in a mission and blew up a samest was somethin called a jam at the time was all i was in a pan gateby g p s which is the time was this panionius a technology i think we
rarely only plans intercede it cause we had this in colleges esper fancy back then am but but at the time doabas come for that was that was it there was no other show in town and so then i irope the
bomb on a sam sight in iraq off a carrier in enough eighteen lighter you could have just retired anthedon or to go edie was it i could have come back to that i get a foam of the ship and i fatwood a
happy man at damoetas like that's it i have i have reached critical mass that all i ever wanted to do so it was um again a lot of it was just things work out of my favorite but i did exactly what i
wanted to do and that event was was kind at the time so the pinnacle that was what i had thought i was going to cheetems thing in the dry ears for the sultans in conveyed some kind of mission you are
just super stoke do you yet we were over in the persian gulf all same time two thousand and ninety ninety thousand i was there i was in a prison camp from we were doing you know me o operations for
stop and smugglers come out of my race we were taken down vessels and get into of em and again at the time superstes the big machine was taking a heslington is pretty cool in a way a goast you just
didn't have any anything to compare it to at all ye through while happened ah so i get back from that deportment an that's the summer some rateth sand and am shortly it hat i got selected by my
commanding origo to top in though i was my first exposure to can of advance in inside the squarrosa young eye done almost two years in the squadron had been there for a little while and he got some
callations in grew and developed in the squadron and they pick one or two guys are recoupled years from me squandering a goat to the school and all portaging there was euler kinds advanced years like
a master's degree basically in in enfield with the intent on a bring that back of his squadron and be one of the kennaquhair a key leaders in the squadrons and went to top gun ah early the next year
a summer of acheta year later so summer two thousand one i go to top gun that came back and we are just in a work i was in no shape to top gun just serrenos ye you feel like having a specially as you
would have bigotted you on mitrofan you feel like you're pretty much a complete stud ye and then you shall put top gun in the instructors do can completely unironed dis frasunek it's it's you learn
how dog fight man o e mano against another gainor plane like stock car racing because the plans are equal and it's you against the other guy than it was actually cool you explaining some of the rules
how you do set it up and they have you know and together you know you you you ocaywita standing no shakanshabar in alt on what with the top gone they started a certain distance they they go towards
each other at a certain altitude certain distance away from other they go they pass at a thousand feet you know left left wing the left wing and then once they passed they say what he said game on
fights of financial and in boots gonatas how they start to nutrition and in of course when you show up there it's just like you did to in the fact that a inagua little bit of training somewhere and
then they show up at a jugulate and there going to get totally destroyed so he shows up you show up at this thing a head in you think you're again big combat that he do get annihilated totally so
yeah i get i had dropped a bomb that singular i have of on a ball and i was as i yea big deal i do that drum the bomb you know and so at the time i was a ihelians had never done that before right
most of them other ices under the dryers are just wasn't a tone going all you hate story here and there but am i think more than anything in my own mind you you can of build up a onetime game here
man watch this you know i'm in a doowee here ah an you know it i don't well enough in my squadron then i was one of the guys a got picked to go to school so weister little confidence sea it is e goes
getting sadoleto worse far abeille bit uh yeah you're feeling pretty good about yourself and so you go up there and a like like you said so you know you're ere a student you know you're not going to
you know he not going to be as good as instructors but well you don't know is it you're not just going to lose you're going to get you detest going to lose i get an isle at and you're not goin to
what happen it's going to be over and you're goin t come t be flying back and before you on a land and and you are not going to be explain what just to cure i mean it occurs in a way that it's so
it's hard to explain it's like you weren't there ah it is really it's coming i'm in jacamar talking the very first flight on the very first day my very first event the very first fight of the first
flight it was over and like twenty seconds in instructor was sagalien on were done were to start an set un up again and in new right then i was totally in over my head the very first one and it was
so my first fight was was so bad that when i landed i were walking back in a toll you go to minacious ll go back and turn to your plain back in and so they can fix it in the whereupon to just walk
across hot the squadron hanger and talk about it and i'm in my dear in your sposo get undress at your flight your and going is like an don't get undustand when oromasis one we just go do that again
em it was bad enough that we didn't even need to talk about it we just needed just say any i cayanus just take a breath mankind we went an did that life with that ever when i even talking about the
first one roams i kind o knew i was yease work to do so topona his really good about it not just home wing you but obviously teaches you a tonatiuh's at the time it is only six weeks with the marines
cause we we didn't do some of the celebes of the navy did cause we got it elsewhere and in six weeks we start with when we just you against another guy aeneans one and you end up building up to where
it's a insist to eight of you on the front on the blue side to friendly side again you know fifteen twenty simulated abetors it's a it's a a lot in a short pertained that idea being my really bad
when you start happened over over again in the course so you get to the one be one phase and at the annoyingly i got this one be one thing i got the thing iteration do this by a cold i got to go to
against whatever you just get rolled again and you are a back a square one so it builds you up breakdown build you a state or military grow no just break he down your pieces and then the guys there
letter instructors or so there oberea good omen that part is so to speak for some really good interplane but what makes them you need as at their exceptional teachers so you learn a tune so at the
time by the time you finished at gun that that image in the mirror we like manna that do is assume they get shattered its a shell back together by the time you leave as the levite you got that patch
shoulder you fly back to get the patch in the last day you'd get up in your air point if they teem with my name in on his arm with the top and pathos without comparir sea retreated erregende better
but that this eneugh for miners like a i should probably may be cool out a little bit you know you start to dustman that there's always gay out that there are signifying better than you and i and you
you keep climbing up the hill but finishing talking as a student you feel like you hit the top of the mountain but you realize cethegus been working with there is an awful long way to go you we least
know what you don't know ye that's a great way to put it you know what you don't know and you there's a lot that you don't know and so i kind of dispels all the feeling you to fight school why i i'm
a finished lights going out of eighteen i really got this flying thing nail and eat your your barely functional or point can pare to be other guys on when you get to place like top going it just such
a concentration of talent you you is good if fields you actually the thing you get the most thessonnet because you just got crushed for six weeks criscrossed ah and of art something of it spotty that
back and teach the guys in your squadron all those same lessons and so my expectation was using to go back from that gun i'll go spare another two years eighteen month in the squadron as it moved
kind of the senior in shutters and then go on to something else and then i didn't know exactly what that was at the time but as i'm waving though jummy last day i remember the guy who asked me um
such a the same guisona do mertimir in a couple of months is like he manawatu come aback to be an instructor talking after this tour and your squadron and i try to play a cool like all its own the
going think about that budgery there wasn't a lock with takabout there so i left there with contenait that i might get at back and was pretty stoked about that they didn't formalise it but he was a
senior upon the staff as seen in being there was well um a rule respected gun in reynand he had give me a sit down side i was hoping that that was going to happen but i also thought i had time i
thought i was you not a july to thousand one and obviously you know six weeks waiter a nine eleven oh hit and so all all that calculus kind of changed and very quickly my squadron which was on his
regular cyclopean to go to what was going to be another sudden watched upon intricate did that whole thing had changed em because i because the september eleventh thought opened on september eleventh
for you ah you were a active in a squadron genre for work in the morning total am station right up the road here an you'll five miles or dears rinkerton armor a man my second half of my first tour as
a pilot on eighteen to wade out our gun that one to potent and um i retinoo was getting up as probably i guess he was probably five in the morning i'm sitteth my bed lay in a my boots like a did
every day to just get in the car and driving to work and click on the t v and you see with a o'clock back easter or around that time and i see what's going on and i think you don't same to her fall
is hopecot er very quickly i have is is it an accident this is something jolly happening here you see a second building and it be a very quickly kind of quick and like this is the real thing um then
i knew i knew something unnerving to go to war i didn't know what i atient details but i knew things were going to change really dramatically as matter of fact you know my drive work which you only
would it take me ten minutes or whatever fifteen minutes something some short drive to get up into into the base he was like three hours to get on the base you know the respecting it reveale you know
every card getting pulled over a doggery know the whole nine yards just the security it was pretty kotahi was kind of mad ham and i'm a drive into my squadron and half of my squadron and already not
half but a good number dazedly been up to fallen which was where we're going to go for training the same place of topinest would just part of a normal training cycle and i squadron the time an atom
guy called me as he got up there and i was supposed to bring the you know people are of the second half of that went up there he's like him an you need to go brief you're on to be the lead of a fore
ship of air craft and we don't know of the details yet borne they're going to call you they're going to find a live more in in and you're going to have to fly and a mission of an air patrol combiner
for tolleston called it the cap because there are so a bunch of airliners that were so airborne coming in from places like japan and corea this long hall you know twelve thirteen four tower flights
there's a whole bunch of airplane airport and and we didn't know if those there is potential issue with those air points you know they're going to hector the same thing back east if they did not west
total cos and and i had just recently graduated in toptani was he'd a a utalian and we didn't have a good we do know what the motion was a man is basically one of those things where we're supposed to
get her born and somehow between us and some other controller in kind i determined if a particular air of mandaments thread and i was happened in all over the country people in their aircraft are
force navy marine piles educating to do these protection missin of what end of becoming something called ah operation noble eagle which started on september eleventh and it was this aviation over
watch of of k cities and ink locations and we were torleus now under of not launching the didn't happen um you know boy did the brief were getting ready to go and it was just kind of that moment of
chaos of we are on our heels an talkin didn't prepare me for that i didn't have a sense of what i was to do with an airliner your field with civilians on some rat coming from japanning out what i
would do if somebody said he and her craft i we figured out that a craft is going to canfield ing or or crash into it and her porofiyat it was just here is kind o maham and and it was you know
stopped to start on the idea being that if that is suspected of happening or they can somehow conformation to happen then you or one of your maids is going to have to shoot down a sevillian air craft
that's with the year be indefinite the thinking it yes exactly and and that was something i'd never considered a nother on anybody i consider no that point and i've read there some one to some pilots
it actually endothen out out in the east coast i've read a couple of articles a polite took off in the reiten here in d c because obviously it was with the pentagon a p and c in the new york city
that i should git it are born and there they had a mission to do exactly that um so in some sense i was pretty lucky that i didn't have to go through that calculus but i still can picture her i'm
sitting given that brief with three other pilots collieries to day and even asked yerselves like what do you i mean how you shoot on an air line you know what what would we actually go through the
dew in how do we determine you know when we were talking of that trying to talk through that and and the idea that a araneid with civilians and we knew you know that point that those are the lines of
eserengila commercial upon a distaff the going and fight and they had crashed when you have run on board you know no one survive that and so he is is a very strange way to start what ended of being
kind of a cycle of war that in we'll been through for years now ah that morning of getting a call from the sea a this way or doing and you that was the beginning um shortly very showy that rat within
a day or two no i see i think polly that laid afternoon anstey by the next day my squadron was one of the several squares of his task to go back on on the carrier so we split the squashing a half
that seemed otaha me he took eyes from fallen flew on to the ship on on to the carrier right off the coast lax ah and i still we we talked about this i can picture to this day i took off at a san ego
and swing over head los angeles in her asina airport and we had gustaf in the carrier they had lied missiles and they are doing a cap and in flying you know kind of opposite direction overhead
lacework in down and you grew up in soutenir excel one of the buses that are ports on the world plans all over the tarmac on the run ways on the taxes because everybody landed nobody took off there's
no controllers and they're doing this cap mission when they just fling a red lax kind of largely in knowing what's going on and just that moment of treaty of them airborne and there's nobody else
nobody else flint and orsova's waiting for something to happen and you knows kinon of those he you'll get or you'll get more specific and structures as we figure it out you know the leadership was
was scrambler body as much as we were in condalkin down thinking this is this is a whole new world you know this is not so then watch you know that that misson would been doing and within maybe six
weeks we we steamed out wait and with the elohe carrier couple months early but the squadron off the hair we got on board the the carrion and steamed out towards the north arabian gulf to go do um
what we call its operation during freedom so wait two thousand one i think s maybe november to thus and one we were going to war a and i afghanistan's wor the war was i remember at the time that was
it there was nothing else going on we went at an anistan so i did a seven month cruise on a carrier um from november of two thousand one at tinkle came back april may two thousand two ah indeed
combat operations over afghanistan and you know you know lot more warnings and a lot busier we did a mission at the times gone operation anaconda think unashamed was like the largest ground offensive
if we had sports his desert storm um and when we came back in april a poemate we sought we we'd sort o largely on the war we we felt we complish most of our mission we left thinking he the thing is
winding down were filled pretty good about it and when i got back and made it out to a kind of distinctly remember like i just had my word speriamo know i was a pilot in combat and you i done other
watch but all these you know nothing like this and but i i doubt a combat to pullman off care our support troops on the ground and have ganistan drop in bombs and for of cares a kind of thought that
was it i think a lot of us did he the lot of festiano i thought that my come back from my first to lomatia i was kind of you know i thankful that i got to do this deployment and a thought dick can't
go on that much longer but i mean really quickly as after a fact it it is it's spiralised o the discobole yea they time um laws on that deployment i had got an email from dagon sayin a one you come
up here next summer menestrier so i came back and may of that deportment knowing that when next step was gonna go back at the foulon safeley good about that i was pretty pumped no what was next and
am you know in that that pietie came back you know i'm packing up that summer moved out in in the fall and already the gears her serantur ah for what interpenetration acted freedom you it's the
writing is on the wall of this is we're not done i mean were really just getting started is several months before that all kicked off i think everybody in the military certainly knew this is which
waves going to happen and i think there was some things along the way that were supposed to occur a wet well knew this was coming carlyon wheatcakes off and mark at the follower if it was a big
surprise any of us and i was up at fallon cannot watchin the ole thing rollin i realized that that deportment i just finished was not the end of you know what what would her doing his country to to
deal with this problem in an then you show of a talk on to be an instructor which is you know you said he going to talk on was like a master's hand tonalists beyond a doctorate right and you it
totally say it to bed i mean and in our business a messer ainly is a for a molinera maitoura that that it top gone kinda represents said the school house it's it's the place where you want to be and
as a shutter a you have yet a huge mattersons ibility it's a bunch of sort of middle the cur guides its its navy lieutenant it's it's maringoins maybe a junior major reginchen commander but it's run
by um relatively young eyes gaystell deponere and in a quickly gaderenian having gone afghanistan comendation gascoin having done of iraq camurata so in the time that i was there from ototoi the
combat sperience on the staff went from bascom to every light igar single dud had been in combat it was coming off a long deployment where they had done backed backups iraq and afghanistan guide that
i knew it duntanat apponere on a carryin really season guise where just one generation three years prior not a single person on the staff had seen any combat like that so exacting in the sultans were
experienced exact emetig went from the eurooeto to zero compatibility that i done a little operation here there to every single guy except for the new guys no and in but but your your learning curve
bowen you show back up there it was just a sepahis time yet without a doubt so when the tersest dent and he don't understand a line what's going on as a student at least on the enchanters iddio
they're not to keep anything from me but you're just you were so busy to trying to keep her head above water you not spend a lot of time on and with enstructed to doing the free time um you know
you're just prating for every brief in the flight may take an hour but you put in ten hours a word to editi and you deep repose hours when you're done you need to go start the next pret process again
for you so you are just all day every day thinking about your next flitting getting ready for that and the things going on so in you ernest is a student when you get there as an instructor and i
didn't know this at the time you get there when you there is an a structor you you ascertain been selected to a pretty lequoc but you don't teach the student at tophane you're in a shutter for a year
they spend in entire year with you as an instructor is only twenty five guys on the staff and so a thirty basically began a do the author sequester for entire year just going through is called we
call the at the instructor under training and there just teaching you had to teach students um and in that year you are now flying all these different training missions with the instructors of
training you to be instructor and you're getting anihilated again so that whole continue move we i'm pretty good ah you are reminded very quickly and so it takes an entire year not the good news
about that as about the time you were finishing your initial instructor qualification you can go teach students you have been flying more than you've ever fontin your teretere o the unpointed times a
day sometimes for a year and so you're just getting rips and reps and wraps and you have got more repitition in aviation so at the tiny get your first tuenes a donaveris student brave you're again
has been elevated you know quite a bit and your able to fly with the students and teach them way more effectively cascenas out goni went to have ganistan i didn't do a single etairon for almost a
year i was dropping bombs i was doing assanate other type of missions who when i got there i was i was pretty rusty on the skill sets year of fine within scruciating sedonius the amount of flying
that you get you now do you through called mattie yahout for normal pilot you're not even getting a fraction of that right a fraction yet not only you're not getting a fraction of it a lot of the
time that you are flying is when you're not a top one is even sometimes you don't adinfin just pining to from different places sometimes you're just prevent for very particular mission you know it
takes a skill to you know the misses gethered to drop on or do or were connaissaient dabs of flying you don't get to see all that you get to see a pretty narrow mount a top on you exposed to
everything repeatedly and so that one against one that we talked about that we call beam basic fitter but overs which is just unnethe guy fighting two airplanes you do that a ton but you you do all
the other things just as much so you get exposed to the paced part of it isn't just the raps i think that's critical but is that you get exposed to this new one part of aviation he just didn't even
really know existed so you you get all the science all the math all the things that drive us to say this why would you think we do and you get to practice it over and over and then you go back to the
science and going there some pause your lives in differences here and the guys a topknot one writing the manual we literally write a manual four inches thick of all this suffragers of how to fly the
point everything from doing a one against the one to dropping a bomb to mission planning to go on at as i was given a chapter in a book and a lecture that i was responsible for and that he the thing
that was pretty amazing for me as when i got there the mission set that i was responsible for my my smeary subject matter exterior was surface arthritic unter tactics so i was the guy as a captain in
the marine corps that was responsible for writing the chapter teaching the letter in establishing our tactics had to feet threat serfs air missiles in tripoli and this was from september of two
thousand two to march two thousand three that i was the guithasach the navy recourse precedes and technics and how we did that in tattat so you know desert there a sorry oh i have kicks off you know
guise it on what it formed with a train with or out there on the point as a right in the letters he were seeing this threat what shall we do here you know buddies of mind that i i been grown up in
aviation saying ay this is what we should do this as i used to do with this particular case it so there responsibility as in it i think why is such a ph d type roams that you love or sponsibility
grows it yet to be more than just a good pilot and you can stand by be a good pilot but he can't teach an explained other guys whether doing and how to get better how themselves all adoucati useless
in combat so he was a it was it was a bath from her some elie manadas he was ridiculous and we just flew every day to three times a day i got qualified hesite en i got the flight totally different
air point so i was ducal in nettete on and an esien has a marine on a navy base it in eighty command after having done two to pontenere on the in you cannot it be like vice a jaconet do you three
days to examine every day for three years that and you need and that's all i needed to do at any to do anything else so you know it's i've actually done a backside at faunas a matter of fact in and
one of the things that i think is important conversare for my perspective on things that made it really cool was when you get in aften if you never been in one most elongata get a chance to get in
inidan fly with her right so i'll give ascription what i thought was one of coolspring is that if you look at the structure in a otanethi pod that you sit in the cock pit is really far forward and
the wings the engines are stuff are behind you and it looks that way when you look at it but when you get in it you those those wings are so far behind you that you feel you'd like your in a super
hero pot an you could turn and get it turn hard you can't just look back cause he the wings in its a glass can i be that surrounds you so you feel like you're just in a little pad that is moving at
whatever eight hundred miles an hour and it's it's it's a crazy feeling it's a crazy feeling you can cause your it's deceiving as you defeater in this little space pod somehow star wars power into
the air you don't realise it the ideas you know tonof metalanien ry that's making this happen and the g forces and all that stuff is it's it's it's a very cool very cool fingers press for me i i
thought i atawa awsome i didn't think to myself man i should have been a pilot i there's some there some i know you were talk about yesterday for you the connection between man and machine is a
really cool thing that you enjoy for me i don't like it i don't like it rely on a machine yes i don't even even get in brabbles and stuff in remudas think o you know i mean i always as apprehensive
about a big machine that i had relied i wonder ye on me yet and why i could do and that's why i had that little disconnect i always i still have it today you know that's why i'm waiting for the
robotics i will how one life that is things estava little disconnected with the machines but i can see where people that are have that type of mind set that just you know it's just a complete
equalizer you were donothin's it's a stock carraciou in the same plane as me and who is better is gonna wind periods that's it there is really no excuses you can make yeh that's one of my favorite
things it's always been one of my favorite things i find fighters is that it's it's aniculis you don't get you don't bring any advantage to that airplane now for an a train something you you
aethereis gadadhar bigger as it better heart rap a got whatever there's a whole bunch of ways that maybe you can bring it advantage ah you lose all that the men you step on it airplane hojaiga of
your fingoes you ntelani jesus they are plain poles that's what you get now you get a lot of all that stuff i initals but you are success or your failure is one hundred per cent about how well you
interact with that machine and compared that other guy and if you lose you know while my in no we didn't have negative you lost because you were worse than me to the period and an egeria find reasons
why you know we we record every flight we record our radar record or information or display so we can go back and thy sect and what you end up being able to do is an structor is right there that's
why you lost this assisian you made her this move you went you went this direction or went up or down and he decided to go to this spear when not you can die sick every single flight and the great
instructors the ones i can tell you this is why i did this to you in forty five seconds because here you made a decision and it took me this long to capitalize it but right now is where i took
advantage of a mistake that you made and you freeze that missie put on a t v and they see it and they look at it that burns on the brain and they take out the state over and over and over intolerably
they don't make that mistake and then you start to make your money as an instructor but being an airplane i brought every bit of capability that airplane had and i'd never had a does no didentite to
disadvantage um and if you beat somebody they have nobody to look at no excuse no nothing of blame except for their own performance and i loved that and i will always love that about being of ideal
um and then when you find enough sixteen now you have a different air point so he wonder points faster than the other what airplane as he turns better and so now is an this being too totally equal
platforms its one has particular shapes weaknesses it are different than the other ones so you'd better be really good about avoiding his strings and getting now and points witnesses in viceversa and
if you lose guess what it's still your fault a hundred per cent because instead of you having to similar air plants you could identify what he was able to do better than you and his regime that he
has exhorting and me find that i'm going to do on to turn more agility ah you know your quick or the me okay whilome be in our power you those happenings and those games that you play in a back and
forth you there is no question at the end of a flight a topan that your fighting other dude as i want you because of aginanwater did in that one it's all very editor looking over your shoulder and a
guy's telling that these gunning you with his air vine you don't go back to the deeper i think i wonder how that i wonder how this is going to play off so it's all right there ah wait out the cards
are always in the table there's a reason for everything while you succeeded while you failed and i just thridden environment because you couldn't hide from anything everybody saw everything it was
all right there we good student a really good townesend coming up to dobson has what percentage chance of winning so if if the best let's say that hyperates student that i ever saw it that came to
talk in his student from his squadron the best student ever came to top gun to fight a qualified talkin shocker stands at zero precantibus futatabi has zero chance ye i could fall asleep in an air
point as an i p and the student is not going to be me there is just such a huge inedit doesn't mean a word better on all men entry that we are better pilosity just your anton yet it is time you are
just it's not it's an it's and it even mean that critical it's just not even close so and and northeast ed you run i mean as some students benoist dent kind o thinks he's going to do some good work
and a watch this i also but most guy shot realize in that set disparity i you know i understood that when i got there as a student these guys are just in a different world and that you want to get to
that world but you know is in it you it is instructor florianora an if i flew my best get on day one against the best student he would be over so fast that yamato even learn as much as he should so
you he still flit her best airplane but you make sure that there's a learning process there if you nusseerabad a top on as if you can do that the students that go come there even on their last day
arnton your onerabel they they distorted done a lot better than lennart but when you're your third years and i patapouf just had so many wraps you know so many laps doing the exact same thing you've
seen everything that it's almost like we talk about this yesterday it's almost like things are happening to slowmotion for you a durin the matrix and that guy is working as hard as he possibly can
and do in his thing and you're just kind o sittin there can a watching it at like one third speed and your biednie and do something to him or so to something to that iron or make decision it you're
just operating a faster pace than him to an attraction is just impossible to keep up with i can't wait till you start training to get houtrage or just everywhere and that's one thing i said you get
you can see the future you can actually see the future when when you're training you do through song some one that doesn't know as much as you you know what is going to happen you know what they are
going to do just like when you're in the cockpit and you you do something and you know what that presunto going to do i just know it so and in dolores i as a as an atractive been on the receiving
into that for years as well so you understand kind of boat sides of that coin and you know you fawson you'll find yourself like oakeley stephen and then you know three tones later is when you get to
take advantage of that because seems some time will have to play out for his mistake to really reveal itself like maniacal leave you just do that there's a goin to cost you over time and you can go
back on the table like a sense have them you know you your word about what happened at the end round behind you but what really what let me do that was thirty seconds ago you did this and when this
was the environment or the the circumstances and you see that stuff and that tratala out seeing the future a man if you really want to be a jerk about it you have gator bodies you know i get on the
radio like a buddy of mine of the students that i came through but gasiharon like all that's going to hurt and the like what what i stand i who can allen thirty seconds later you'll be gone in the
guy am the cause see the mistakes that they make and you know how that's goin to play out so you are on your own point field there is as in the sector in like a sad man it's not about being better or
worse it's just the time and you get so much of the time there and you get exposed to all the the why you get the i a top on you we teach the while lot but when you're writing the the the manuel when
you're doing the in your you have all the testing equipment of alban you're running a thousand computer generated reps to see what the results are the well of what you know that the wye is just so
much more so you just there's a whole world of able to you to and and the guy that talento want to be there in the most that that i paskill to get to a place like that so as not a lot of slackers
there of not autototototo motivation of proud along like anybody let's get go you know does argetti after it from start up to shut down every single day and so you're all getting for long as you want
to keep up with your peers you know you don't want to be the worst top got instructor there you know every time you think you've made it you realize all you did is just getting more slighted and
you're going the same as to be the best that you can be in open the best you can be as one of the best guys there you you ont be waste talk on cause in your last and do we laugh at anyway who does
and so that that's a real kind of a type a roles group addendum they polyanovski up and sometimes you'll coulenges your and their don't for the most part the section process works pretty well you
what's goes to bring this back for a second to you know talking about leadership and interacting with ipeople this same exact thing happens when you start to pay attention to the tactics techniques
procedures of leadership he start to see the move that people are making you know you start to see the move that your subordinate is making because his ego flare nough for because he's gittin em
taking too much ownership with something that he doesn't want to let go nesting a motion by her estarse mister seeing the same type of things at one third speed and you know that that was great for
me when i was running to the west coast he came training at all we we take a food we had these scenarios and we put up atoneth we put another petuntur we put another portion though we put another
plan through weeds over the same seryoga here but shooter over her person on this hill top hostage in this room we put all these guys through the same serio and so as soon as you approach as soon as
you watch him approach and you say oh bunco and is too far in the rear of this was goin t happen he's not going to hear contarono there is and so you just know what's going to happen and if the same
thing we start doing what their personalities you get a guy with a big eagle that comes in and he wants to run everything his way and he thinks he can be led to tolerating you it not this not in a
betise you can end up as he in the business world obviously now too where you get the same exact problem of agitha's to emotional about his plan or has two big of an eagle about something or he's not
past in a word well enough for the trying to control everyone not using the sectaries of yes because you have the raps we have the rap now in this in this arena to be to look at a situation a iohanan
is olooya as your about to happen here it's going on we can break it down so as the same thing across the board you get that level of just experienced and repetitions and repetitions and now you can
kind to see the future and you can predict can to happen and then the good thing is in the business world when you can break or gonave you can stop it you don't get the people on the right track
pollinctor get im arranged why i think the thing that a lot of people don't realize the case sometimes i think it's just different in the military the reasons why people are successful in the
military and the reasons why people fail are exactly the same as wised in business and why secedes person or why you fail not oi know you ll be in in her point is different i get that the environment
my beloved ferent being combats certainly so the setting changes in all these things ascending is different but the reasons are exactly the same and so to dispel everythin is different the military
is identical in the military nooit comes out in an airplane or comes out on a ship or whatever comes out and down town to moniment it the setting yea it's different but what's going on it's identical
um and will you get to a wound you get to be in a place where you get to devote a hundred come your time to that new rate tracked by just the distracts of military racey and and wife of training
schedules and in a aready do there ah you know there are annual survey when you're away from that in your living in a world or being tactical and doing nothing but learning of a hat to be the best
pal you can be in the best teacher everything not just being a fighter but everything in the world slows down everything's slows down ah and i think it just gives you a perspective on life that top
on it will carry those lessons i mean obviously i care that with me in everything that i do and i wrote for ever you know what was home at a place like that and i and some ways in the military just a
luxery case it's just not that common to fort somersetshire oreston to do nothing but this to are you kidding me so so speaking of decision making and good and or bad decision making so you live in
the dream live in the tree or up in foul and you actually have a house epinomis your skin fly in everything is good and and and then somehow you make a decision that's a little bit off the track
lieuts at all about i don't know washouts yea i am a i'm in my third year at top gun a tetouan five i was selected by the training officer so i am running popgun is the senor i pe there which is just
as awesome thesestories lies a marine it's a durango he could not astray thing better ah it was dating what ended becoming my wife so my wife white at the time were getting son was at the want of
place on till true corbett life was pretty good man and am i'm actually coming up on my end user ice allusion i can leave the marine corps ah into this in five and eight i had sort of sold my
relationship to whitney i'll that idea mumpet up with this living at tombut i'm going to get out of ricordati not of it this is all salomone about that tom it's war so you don't need to worry about
that ah inciting i i over sold that to her a little big ottermole out a titan and so there was just a part of me that didn't feel done with the marine corps and ironically in this i this amazing
experience and i built up in my mind since i was sixteen years old i'm not a top inistore i joined the marine court we owing to as a fortunate a talon was a big influence i'm going to leave them
drinkers at tappan shocker but it's been four years a fine eaten off carriers a basically in the in the navy for the pralines purposes omarian when squad but with the port with my carriers and weak
to and i spent three years in fallen on a navy base with the navy command is one of the three pilots on the staff at tapkan and there was just a part of the that i knew i was going to be done i i was
ready to leave in rancor and i wanted to leave them ring cord having filled i think that part of being a moriarne is kinda how i felt and so um again i had cinacoatl when i was going to do with you
you talk to some man catrimony he's the guy that gives you orders to this is what's next in your career less rein a go for how long we think you should do this i guess it's helpful for whatever he
can explain it to us again that basically responsible for your career progression and i was kind of going back and forth what i do i do i stay in i get out you know i kind o was struggling with that
decision and he like look we're going to eat as a toper she her you got a lot of skill we got a lot of experience in the wonted use that and bring it back to the brink horn go to scanderone teaches
guy so he gave me orders as the gorge going to be going to japan neroly if eighteen back to regular whitsun ten in yegorovna i think i even get a poniarded given to me in what you in like a squatter
commander or no sandlike an opera in overman in all trotto junior oonly been in em often your elleen your mar so i'm kind of on what's called with one department head romanorum of no epartment in
squadron in operation for machaon of the two big ones and am i it just it just didn't i that when i wanted to do um i had like i said some long torpoint to do another stuff i was thinking who long
her using a get out an go to something else in si call them honors it hey i wanted do a fact to her a fact is that for air control or like a district discover on the pot cast and we had this little
list on the internet that was called a hot fillettino jobs in nobody wanted and if you called it as a first come first serecold i volunteer for anything you automatically going to get it and cause it
was just a list of jobs to the cooing like force on gaze whatever is an opponent all that well but the bottom line is the hot fill bill it is you call you it yours for any reason and my came an i i
see this a hot field to be a forger control or in japan because i was a wing to japan we kind o cross that bridge of okay were to move overseas within a becas was all ready witnesseth wine so little
bit not super cool that be we found it will go to japan will fly it'll be it'll be fine and he's like you're not you had come to be a forger controller in japan and onnago fly and when i aduertis
right there and like a white man and his hot fell on your guy and he was like a gay yeah i mean he is so he gave me these orders and how wanted i wanted to be a fact as i want to leave the ring
cornhaven fulfilled all the parts about being a marine and in my mind it's funny because it's like robson on that the real challenge of the thing it didn't really want to do but i knew i should was
getting out of the airplane a doing something really hard on the ground i can my natural state and i ran corps is in an airplane and for some people with their miserable in a want to do it for me
that was what one is so to do that was to be a forger control was and is it strange to hear myself say it i didn't want to go be a forger controller but i knew i needed to go do that there's no need
to leave the ring core and say yea i did that too and i was just a matter i think of a filament of kind of an exclamation point on the care and i was kind of fantasizing as i learn more about the
morincourt was more too than just being a pilot bread such wonder that so soon your mind were you thinking forward her controller in japan met you and go over there you know have a little time rings
you go out to the different training rais confers ombos all good you you know go home at night be with your wife ah to my ring iman japan ye just this nice little sort of like a long vacation or an
little bit time on the ground i can to to the field if i spend the night in the wet or sentoit malison like that you know he is really cool camping in the hay for it and so yes that's what i was a
going to go to japan there's a bunch of really cool was going to oanita so not mainteen okana's got create scoparia and it's it's conned and you know i could bring my wife with me is going to be a
lot of fun and you can i can tray ous going to teach guys how to use airplanes to drop bombs i knew had to do that i was not going to be a really cool thing so i get these orders and my wife and i
that to an we got there and a to oeniadae called campania little base up there in the middle of the island and i'm there probably did untether a week and my boss the prodestan ers like hay your
oregonese a brigade potentially fifty guys and guessing him gestate numbers to camp eleven because that angle go just came back from seven months in o and i rack and they need to go right back and
turn very quick turn one of the neniae is and so i mean in there a week and i'm come home till witting like hey here's the del they need guys to go out to leontodon this deponent iraq and i'm going
to be one of those guys so we were there instead of a year we were there for maybe she was like his their snorting enantias you were telling me a loud schooltime so we clamped a year's worth his
staff about six weeks and i could we had to its probably um may early november when it were canacee down we now we had to be in the country here so we shoved a year's worth of living in in japan in
about six weeks and we we do career with de time did mainland to tokyo we did got her dodoland we did it all only december twenty second or whatever was you know we flew home and i went straight to
the lieneff there to start training with second anglica i which was the the team had just come back from my rack after there seventeen are in on a very quick tone that her probably for one in the
torlonia just real quick or belittle or angleways in onthe anglico am angle costan for air naval gun fire flies on company and really what it is is it it's a group of it's a it's a group of small
teams four or five maintains called far park insolens in what those teams were all supposed to have the due is control airplanes tell her plants would to do with their bombs ah we could control our
tillers a fire artillery ordnance and even i wouldn't do it there in iraq but we could use naval gun fire so guns of ships we were training all three of those skill sets and the l point of an angle
go and a place like iraq is it you had different ousanatanah army in its rancor units and is an angle to early as one that's what the ellen angle go is so i could i was trained to go to an army unit
and now how amy does people may not know this all the service i should do the same job differently so the army in the ring corral get the same mission and have the totally different way of doing a
cusser doctrine or training is different now it similar but there's a bunch of pretty critical differences in there is so we are training to do as we had all marine airplanes in where we were in iraq
and all army land forces as the army does have any training how to use marineros morincourt i want air but trenta use any ground forces so when those two people connect there's there's a problem with
have they communicate and what they want from each other in sir anglican where the lees on between the army ground units and in this case the marine court arenas so my job was to control marine air
point on so support the army on the ground and that was all over i rack and with the angle of team would take this whole group and breaking into maybe twenty five four men teams and when all of the
country to go do this same mission with whole bunch of different units so that was our mission as a forerunner and i was qualified as a forger control because i'd forneron stop orsinian understood
how eiteen were supposed to support gronauer and i went to school for her control or school so with god pan i'll be fun or pretended to that for a year um and then we had up in camp june training to
go to iraq a note first time kind of doing grunt work right so a last time i had held a rifle shot a rifle and war appear a combat it was the basic school so i had m gel i was i got my ear slatting
day for me houdon six months of that i had that check in the block as phillipetti good about that and i had never i'll think i put on my came my came a flag to for i think i were a fight suit
honestly i think every day for seven years an i could polecat worn hand what even longer to was eating quisque ply kennel one hand the number of days that i didn't wear a white suit from the time
that i selected to go to white school to the time that i had enuf an angle go days i mean so this was a foreign nat i had i was a marine i went through beseeches all back there somewhere oh but you
know i think there is this and i have mentioned that i think to you i think it's a sort of his habit of self sabotage like we can't leave them or or that being if being a romarin some are literally
savage myself by volunteering for a dathan i don't know if i really want to do but now i'm stuck doing it so i'm going to have to do that so i won't ever have to say i didn't do that so this kind of
psycho break promises to my wife a volunteer for self ididn't really want to do be new that i should and the thing you know it all blew up in my face because i was good to pan that's a and also good
susie and and great experience there and it's goin to be also and i will be a fact and i etherealise say as romary i was a fact and i did all that and you know it's january campion what you for manso
simak no mistake i mean i i did that i volunteer but i did not at the time when i was treating in a flying orders for this fact or i didn't expect to be in remade but as he we need to send a
predictable tone to a cap as unit propos gas to of course yet were in going i mean i'm not going to not go that's what you do do with we'll do that when i got to capessendi had it been the senior
just by rank the senior fortaccio the union he was kind of a mid level major am i you know come from top goin i can't share contented i was experience guy in the canadian joke i can picture the day
walked in one day and he hands me a piece of paper and his cat like twenty six lines on the one for every team and on the other seat was all the locations that we re going to go to and he's like
philotate a going cause we got a cover these fifteen different locations you know wanted two teams perlecta just right the number of the team on there and get his back into a closesteaming and again
my wife loves the story and i didn't tell her at the time but my best friend who i grew up with was in remoate time he was in thirtie affamato we replaced when we got out there or would did a
thornleigh and that's where the war was man i mean in late two thousand five anderton six the war was in remote and so i took then a wrote lightning six and the six one sixty and six three were all
going ramadanovitch it agitate sea and so um if you goin to go do something you don't necessarily want to do but you onto go do you miss will do it and that's sure the war was i could have gone to a
whole host of other places with there's not much going on it would have been relatively chill i would have gotten that check in the block for sure i would have said yet i went to her there and and no
no heat on the guys that were different places just you just more going on there um and if i was in a go then somebody else is going to go to the throne newton you i was up he said they it's an big
dan no i oani were tight and we talked as regulars we could as much as we can sell you entitle you like oh yaws put putting round outer day he said well what were you shooting at and he said people
yeah i was just it was such a foreign thing to me as a pilot certainly come from south canisy best friend too and our whole life we both wanted to be in repile and we we we never when the same unit
together we just couldn't get a line with that it never turned em when we were kids dreaming rinker fighter poet the only time we ever serve together was in armony as for a consoler i tell asomatous
he'll get a good chuck out of this but so he was there for the seven months prior so i think the sum one may be junto that year when i was getting her to get orders he was on his factories just a
bitin fact and three seven you know obtenir o be here operation the deed man and a getting out a big time and struggling it was a lot going on there and when he would tell me the story is even some
one who had been a marine for that long he is a owenford fine and i are you shooting your rifle as the amanita i the people that are shooting in the ineidits you're disconnected and you have this
don't have the sense of what that means and so even as i was processing what you saying and trying to understand and then saying i this is worth this one on to go do and kind of volunteering to go to
that i'll be on in their still apart in retrospect that i didn't really quite fully grasp what that man i don't know how anybody on the first appointment to a place like remote goes into that you
know i doubleton your like you said i'm up in sky i'm in his relatively safe and i i'm sure even the first upon the you did there's just there is an element of just not being able to fully understand
it and if that didn't even become clear to me till right or getting ready to leave for aught and the new units coming in and i was explaining what containing to that's when it really hit for me and i
would just rewin myself a year early on my that due that really doesn't know what the hell about to happen to him and what about to go on but it was like a sad man maldon even wanted make it sallies
that big of a deal but i've an heroic two or they need to us to go it was one to go to a race that's reminder the fight was my best friend was there i'm going remington i was about it it was just
that's where i thought i should do so i went to romanian now you lead in marine ste yes and yes so i i i explained it just a minute ago about the things that make you successful in and things that
that lead to failure are identical they are the exact same things in an airplane of the same on the ground but the environment is different it is different there's no war on an i also would say to
that and for good reason i think the ground ran so i worked a lot of impatiently most of angle was made up of artillery and some emmetry not and obstacles it or controllers there is a decent bit of
skepticism of pilots coming in to lead these these teams and and i think for good reason that i know because a lot of these guys when i talk about combatter ence there one third for their lomatia is
horrebat your coming in yet there on there've already done you're wearing your pop gun at one your son germany can i well what's worse that i'm not wore my tolaath i'm weary my camisa there like head
if you have a wash those games i like as a matter of fact i hadn't tartras you know brand new and they are wearing their came as from they did the march of de bagdad they went over four months a
second rap back round it to day of two guided allusion their back and there on the third opponent in three years and their legit deployments and you know dave but mister toland shows up as it they
was this bagatelle you know was my sultan you know and i think that scepticism of for good reason is who is this guy and that's a real thouare leadership done for me is to apply to things in that i
knew were the were effective but in environment of to holly had my comfort only an untold ut of my comforts on and i have to apply a skill set of things that i just haven't haven't shot a rifle since
nineteen ninety four i got to the basic schoolboy for the first in odo's go to the rifle ranch that the last time i choose a trogon arrife was october of nineteen ninety four and a hert is is he
januray thousand six prefetto to remote and i got a sight in my in for so they should be skeptical little bit and um it was a challenge from me realestate to be successful in a place that i'm not
comfort with to be honest with you if you told me is going to lead a squadron in combat i feel pretty comfortable doing that i know would be challenged be horrid and i wouldn't feel like i know about
this i would be all over i i i i i hate me to say easy but right in my will house not not true for that so am i worked hard to try to be successful in that and you know he got to get your marines buy
off under your program you know they are as you had to go down to those guys it you know and i remelini the those guys was different as you know you know you got to build those relationships and and
demonstrate it you know there's going to work em and then you just talk a little bit about you people for about what to you bruises doin over in remote an we'll get to how we interacted but over all
a yeas doin what you first got there you just kind of jumped into it we anatidae say we did man am so i get there i've got a saltiness for supporting arms leaves on team really what it meant was
three of those little form antemes a group ether in a one thirteen man team cause we had in dis ol carmina little a medic with us so i had three of those teams at wesponse before it and i kind of
knew what i expected was going to happen i got there that i would be in what's called the the talk the patapatoos enter which was i can run things from the desk and far out my teams and units to
support the guise in editor help these army units oronto to missions they needed someone to help them controller i had those gems i would give them those teams well it took basically no time to get
there and realized that the demand signal for our support was higher than we could have ever responded to they needed twenty of our teams through not thor and so that idea that i would kinda be it
sea see guy a talk guy was over in the first day because as i get there were gone the turnover the other angle portinari et to leave his introducing the all the people esben working with and it's
like fifteen different teams the you know they're not running operations like three battalions it's forty squads you know in these guard going out and twelve thirteen men tins in the old need you
there so and there's operations of an distorters five thousand six hundred pinion one eight years you should have in his two tatooed six thousand people or whatever and there's operations going on
all over remade every single night as people patron as people getting in fire fights every single may oust constant gun fire and so there is no way with three teams to on a cover all that you can't
do it be it and that was sort of the immediate awareness for me as well not only was i not going to be able to support everything i know how to portie and tell folks hey we can do this and not that
you know i can help you here or or there and so very quickly was a matter of how i am again break that my team and support these guys um i did have an advantage that i was an eaten pilot that was the
primary aircraft of intenseness the primary air craft that was doing the supporting i knew those airplanes were really well and i was able to very quickly when i saw what the army he were doing this
patrol to day and were in take a humeis from the camp remanded to go to this location and it be really difficult just to get there just now to getting a night or how these on the night vision goggles
and the road can be kind of confusing you know what is icon there and some days are operating in downtown romanian its straight up urban combat like just buildings and five miles away you can be in a
place we call it my charlie one that it was like vietnam i mean it is the contrast in wording so close together was so incredible how different those places were in so every environment was different
usable to understand how what airplanes could do well and not well knows environment and so was he as for support in my hay i can't really do that but why can do is this and maybe there will be more
helpful for you and i can very quickly build a relationship with the army which is really who you needed to be the best support for the marines there go get on board we are good we had a relationship
i wasn't worried about my marines and us building or team when i was worried about was us as a team being effected for the folks were supporting and showing that we could do good work for those guys
and we took a very different approach ah i merely broke her team into three separate teams six one sixty or six three actually sent the six three team again am alan to another base a blue diamond
omer that is right across the river because there was a company based on up ludiae that were doing operations indecently they never had an the angle to support so i do de otio mollie moved there and
live with those guys and then my other team six one o six two out um and i just we took a white board and all the request or support we just started plugging her names in and so it was just i had
five guys he had forty at his own home by at my own on the we had all the weapons all the radios and just started to his god operations to twit were do everything first a little vehicle patrol with
her just to a present petrol or two humbie drive round the city we were just jumping on that and spring the third crock which was a tone of far panaerus sometimes were just doing footpaths and we
were just go walk round and do movingpicture clearing stuff like that jack o man i found myself way way at a a comfort one very early i think my second mission there was a raid where i was ended up
like clearing a room as in a stack abducting a room well i was trying to talk to airplanes overhead of wereand it was the disabuse a man power shorter something o ye you we get it you go you has two
guys will glow a room on a rage you know am in is a senor my armida's a i was always a kind of one of the senior goshen i wasn't in charge of the site working for a first lieutenant which was
perfectly fine as his potion he was doing this mission he knew what he was doing i was there support as best as i could that image of like got skin upon roof and troll air will be awesome well you
need be to blow up negative i mean it was he get in line and an insertion i think that i remember that second mission where with the tethered and the lieutenant was i think he was like a i think he
will did home depot no joachimsthal guard you teatotal guardate desert also his fear for polly penelope much by the time i got there madelon er they've been realist a year hardened that had lost a
lot of guys and sacrifice a ton but i was learning everything i could for them because they were veterans brand new i was supposed to bring the great capability but the reality was i was just stoking
up from them as much as i could and i'm i'm clean room with this guy you know so the phrase what am i doing here oh ah went through my head i'll want ah well i was there and it was just connaitre
andy was a type of place that the deal was as when you got there he was just a bulletin and and you just jumped on the train he or he had to her you weren't couldn't slow things out you sirtainly
could not oother guys hay can we qualitatively get up the speed they were just doing their thing and if you are going to be anything other than a hinderance in to get on board immediately and so
that's what we did as best we could um and i have a lot to thank for this disarticulates no moral hard we tried there's percutis we were just getting up the speed were were not ah you know bringing
her a anethe trying to figure was going on around us and there is no doubt that without those guys they're leadership there willingness it and bring us on board and get us off to speed that play big
part we got to speak quickly but they won i'm sure in a white struggles like we were talking about with flying and egyptian fighting everything else you show up there and things are going they're not
slow down a third they're going five times faster and you just see and you know you're getting told to clear a room that's the only thing in the world you can see is now this room and you're not
aware of all the other stuff that's going on and it definitely takes em of to get her to get your senses about you of what's happening yet and the absworthy were so many different kinds of operates
like i said you need go from doing just um o know a three hume presence petrol and down to romany is not cool is not it's just here just waiting for something to go wrong you know whether it's
skinnin an a fire fight or pigs get him you re literally just driving around waiting for somebody to do something to you in this present patrols and you go right from that too you get him
intelligence that somebody needed the grab was in a no how somewhere in a toy different environment and you be off duarte we help stand up the cure apetak about that past equitation force were you
you literally just waited right outside the gate of the main base for somebody to call for help he case something has gone wrong it's here come help us and so we just start a doing all these missions
and i i just was on board of all the man they vary their very different from day to day and you got altifiorla did we we between me i did a lot ananias we i controlled the release of every single
piece of ordnance in the rinconete record inventory so every piece of ordnance at the the air pothe hints and harriers dropped and everything from the housing the covers and artillery called her tory
as well they had a ouasioto that we did control from as anglified myself so you know that story i know what it bites an old saying in the wrinkle we all subscribed to it every mainsail an and we are
a topinest her tacul not be further from the truth because the last thing you are a topingas the training all your toucan scheming like to on a saturation is a rifleman but i will i will say this a
for the morincourt am by as a motor proclamare do it's all in there the osestes that exposure all that doctrine even in you learn it's there now i took a wild to dig down and find it and those same
things out when i went to ocean i was skinnerese n w scarco dn't get through to a gate second bigger tougher shone her decoding this her or not doing this and i am it's all in there and so i just
have a figure out of that that stuff again and bring it back up and just go do it so great decision there i am in a moty gennarino showed up yet it there is one story retold me that you are called to
fire up and as one and it was your body ah yes yet we are doing am we're doing with called movement to contact my favorite mission as a piling nothing better than moving to contact and a moment
contact mission as you little you drive your humbie take all your your folks out and you set up a staging or in an nor sad of this uh this big areas big kind of wooded duras like little ravines and
trees and stuff like that and we would just we would walk up a tall when you have ten fifteen days or just go from north to south and the missis gold moving to contact you walk until you got in
contact which it yet into firelight and i remember that i not this same day of it my first day going there i think it was broad ill company two to eight and i could be wrong unimperial was an i meant
the potentiometer for the first time and i kind of got out of my home be walk up and i'm looking for the pertinent on ther s a supporting as enamuel gags evering her points as can be good for them
and he walks up and he's got a shot gun hanging on his on his kit and you know i was a red newgate i no i'm in he he what with the shotgun you know i have a rival reserves had devotion that this is
the best weapon for these type of missions and it turns out he actually was right on that patrol i did one of my doing here man is you know i go to a footage shot gun you so i knew that i was in
there is a lot in store for that tom and we would do these patrols these these moving contacts and you end up in a building in my job as a fact was had got in the building it up on top of the roof
right away and i would do over watch you know similar different tastes i had airplanes ad radios sealed to do a rochal the time or it is a matter of cover and moves i'll get on the roof and a head is
what i see this will the airplane seas okay you guys jumped in at next building sometimes an ex building would be twenty yards away sometimes to be two hundred yards away so you were you would just
do these bounding movements building to building and then when they get to next building my other guy would be up in the roof as you're goin run down and go to the next building umano we get into
this building and as soon as i get up on top of the roof of the building so if you can picture half of us from the roof of the building half of the other guys were trying to move to the other
buildings so there odonto and from that other building as i get up on the roof if i look up in the frisians is i three or pegsie building that i menterry underneath me privity i fifteen feet below us
so above their heads and below us is a first thing that happens and there was a vehicle like a truck and i was a car as like a just some car in between on election of a de road behind some trees
where this fire came from and we had airplanes overhead as two of heighteen des remember i am from a a an east coast on a squadron and myotatic you hey overman's arrive men and they tailte tell you
the stories is that one day you are going to be in a position where even to be in a firefight and there's going to be an airplane overhead and going to be a buddy years from t b s and be old buddy
and he going to be like hey jack always day help me out and dave's going to roll on his white horse and come ovipositing flash these things out of them and you're in patribus going to thank you one
day i'm not right on the oronta i was on the ground and be guy finally point was one of my closest friends again in a bored was opsolo this squashing i just laughed and no joke in like a waiter it
weren't a tripidant you know taken fire from wherever and on the radio he says he ship its bee what you neanderthaler was i was supposed to be an airplane with an happen and i'm like i said ah i said
o south to north call wings level and in it that's what happened and and i at four passes from his tateens did these strapping runs on this car and i remember looking at the army gait has in the
first attendant and i look at them i go god regent be fine i like a super cool i very chill hey this is happened i see was going on this horrored out her head saw everything what do you need i need
this were in a umatillas wings level her your clearin and you know the hair mormonites one of those stories where the marine corps for whatever insane reason will take fifteen posen train them
millions of dollars in ten years of of training up in the stick him on the ground and it's for that exact reason that that exact event was i could bring it essettery would never have an environment
that they would never be able to use and through two bodies just talking pointing as to other on the radio make it happen in like that and am i was supposed to be in the norada setebos to work out
but in that particular day man it was the rose for verse but was it was an awesome he was condamnation lifting like that the marine corps is a wait that thing they breathed as it's a real thing ah
and it was pretty saying to be hostwise that car burning agra and then eventually no o o my maybe a month or so goes by and we shall up and who's a first roseye first if ye lay a was the first guy
that i met ah i see lavation rigolet er um so we had seen you guys you know i you we turn over we were just count a getting up to speed we pietra a month or so before you gets had so you know quick
learning car word just can oget in comfortable oh with what's going on at all to this new precaution come in an i'm sorry i knew ah ah ah armour division come in we know that that you there were
there the two weight that predicament emus leaving we knew new progects coming in and we are actually ingested relatives shorey time we are kind of the continuity because all the old gaterine had the
overlap we had a kind of a prominent wall with a new battalion and the new patalamon his retired now um awsome due from a one three seven armagnacs just in polonati osiered pose we had been there as
part of his charlecote out a couple of months prior maybe a man born it saw us and we had mitering about to be so is like to said awsome guy we we were getting ready to do a big operation with them
things the first time refusing south central body and we were in his briefing and he's clothing paths but he's quoting patente move he is at yesterday all i had yet flask you say you for prayer this
day that he was also a he had seen me i do so happened when he was doing as initial turnover before the bit thethe petalia came out i had done i controlled a a um a release a controlled hellfire and
blew up a car and he got to see it and it was kiaoliang as he comes like who you know these eyes i'm in the middle of doing her a real control happening the seas that day for cars all the video get
this big t v screens a show the whole thing as cardenier everything and he he comes over the afterward down i'm kind of sitting there and he's a lieutenant the major has her as like can you do that
when we get her absolutely man he's like werdet along grief that was my niseron interact him so it was awesome its we knew when they were coming back we had already just toed virtue of that
experience built and pretty good in rodot an we are gonado some good work he was also a topic guy what business a whole brigade combatence in his five thousand guys but his battalion that group of
you know several hundred was ruth or group that initially did most of my work with and his approach was if you could help us here on the team to it there am simex attitude he had with a yet for sure
for all the abler so ah they recalled the bandits and they had a little bandit pin a kind of a cornrows both connoting you were if you you were i was a bandit tuteris totally on board the team any
treat of this like his own guys and that was awesome and so um all the enables we had no art we had working dogs we had explodable in his suspose we had the anglican folks we have the seals in all
these different groups from different places that none of them were signed to him but his approach was if you could help my soldiers out you're your abandon the team and everyone is like right on
with do this castes he needed to work with them any way you muzzle the best of it we started to do a couple of missions and at every one of those missions was yourtas and my tears ah in outsailing
the first week or so you guess i liberated but relatively quick and the first couple of missions we are doing this similar things were bringing support in overwatchings do which is the exact same
thing you guys were doing you some different ways but i otaye supporting these guys i'm in my my little building there are on one day whatever to sit round preparer something and in walks lay antony
yet only joint the dover your base which is kinoya of a hall round the round the drive innings hamanim love to work as you morning he we find a way that we can work together in some these missions
and we got this big michican up you want to come down and and brief with us what ye a soul i love to go brief with the seals and be awesome thought to wisbech cool one time thing i could use a seal
do business um and i was it that was his interruption had lay antony i i'll be really candid and like to think i would ha done that i doubt i would have gone to charbanc on your door and said he
lived jackassdom work together he made that initial contact and him in one redefine equal opportunity of foreboding we same thing as you know colonel tedesca we thought some one could do something to
help us out a weakenen each other in any way man we were knocking on doors too to try and make that happen for sure yeah and that was his approach um i didn't i'd never done any work on the ground i
didn't know much about the seals olly very blunt i had my own opinion of what i assumed the gay would be like and it was probably something out of the movies expected like long beers and duesand to
in their own thing ah in sauali tle surprised that that late came and as to do somewhere with us and so i i went to that first night mission ah that first brief i don't want to say i was sceptical
but i was certainly interested in what because my fear was that you guyrion go to yon thing and my god were kiddush not be able to keep up not know what you're doing and not fit in very well and be
able to help out into kind of put ourselves at risk and an look all i'll say this very bony i have a very high bar when you leave to on a wet to expect from a mission brief and mission execution
missionaries that's were all about and i was pretty sure that there is no chance that you are going to do anything anywhere that and i was shocked and i can o overwhelmed it how professional you're
oranais and that was the biggest thing for me was what of these guys going to be like i dissertator a kind of a pick up game it was going on i byou know till some bad guys and come on back and i five
each other and duty was one of the most professional organized mission briefs i totally under sewet your plan was a new exact resinoid in we went and did it and then he gets deep reefed after we came
back after this was a relative on event nothing really happened that night in terms of in the grand scheme of things we saw where there and then you keep refit you guys came back and you mission deep
refuse there kind o clean a weapons in time going through in analyzing what happened and that was it man how is tony on board i was i was i was sold and that we could work together like pretty
effectively um and i was gottheiten it just sort of started out of the blue and you guys came down and asked if you somebodywould we did a youvanaki did you see got a water work with us grew started
to think because this for from our respective in anoother one a junior officer out there whose now probably a bleeted or may be ven a commander of this ameboid you know he was an honest first to
ployment than he was a jet what we call in this seal teams are air controllers are called e j tac and so here he is in some of those missions instead of being a seal his being a jack so he's one of
those guys looked over at you guys and said hey wait a second keep ictus radio from me and do that thing so i can go to my frock man stuff over here and that at an plus again to be blunt you guys
could do it i'll not better than we capered you know we we you know you were an aften pilot for finot loud and we had a new gun junior officer on the radio trying to comprise you as eremnen ly better
qualified to do it and so yea we looked at it as if okay we taisan more shooter and it gives us a whole new level expertise now of course there's jaxartes day are lot more experience in their awesome
and of ours but in our group to do bring you guys with just a huge level up for us to get a lot better and give us more people to maneuver as seals on a salter on over waters or whatever so it turned
out to be a real good little lu relationship as i go he was a classic in weenen it seals says a would you control the air so i can go shoot people you know and that means in no underhand clear that
room and be in a position on my have to do something like that i'm all over and i yinew you were talking about at all we had he and i had a great wish ship someone oh i really love work in with who
want to go be a frogman like you said i want to go control her payandah we found a way to make that stuff or it now it was he was a big deal for me though man to two for my for me in my guise to work
with you guys because ah you've said this on the poast am and i know i know how organizations can were not necessity parakeet we don't trust other people but we get recomfort ble how we do business
and just bring in another group of dudes i think the sea speaks volumes in all as guys you're going to just you an to make for this gushee up you know and everybody knows that you guys git man and to
keep up you got you up to keep up you not to carry her own way than you're going to have makatopawee provide something because the mneme a drain on the on the team you know you're going to get cut
loose and we we couldn't afford to be a drain on you and we couldn't afford to have other people be a drain on us so i think there is a lot of cana at the beginning of there is our lot er reasons why
it wouldn't have worked there's a whole bunch of reasons why it wouldn't have worked and the old is on i did work as in everybody was committed to benares to support the battalion that was it at all
have the same end state in mine it wasn't about what can the seals do to be seals and be drained out his walinford those yes do footing it was opening up with that sort wortham from its just
disattuned everybody there was on the same team straight up all misames that turned in a big mission you know big missions portion into remote putting in the combat out post you know night after it
day after day doing those those big operations and that relationship just got disgusting as stronger you know a late lay fabulet you and and just turned into something really not just not just cool
but man affected yet effective it was i mean in that deployment i i i kept a long journal i i took a lot of notes on my experience there i've gone back in red on a few times and i somewhat reasoneth
that whole thing one of the common seems as how they'll be late or i did this to day artie did suffice hold th time and it can be given that middle that can june ly august i mean that was all we were
really doing the cause we were so busy and there the big of was kicking off and we were starting to get into downtown put you know poisoner been all these clearings on his stuff and so the need for
us to support the arm in the neat bethso the army again we could had ten times many of folks and with my silk could have done more work um everything that journal is just about what we are doing
together i think at the time i just kind o lost track of it because it would just everyday get up and go to do something coming there's no down days or as hardly ever any time we aren't doing
anything it was almost always with you yes um and it was a huge highlife me i to to to be with a group a guise that were so on board with just making things happen you guys had a incredible lack of
this is in the way o this process keeps it yeah we got that sort of the i need to get er points at that it was yet to do is in this he had not at all we get we get this sort of out so you guys had a
kind corner the market on what you need will make will get it will make it happen and for me um to be re get that as such or of the liver that i could and i you did all the work to get it but i can
control the hell out of it right on man i denied any of the work to explain why and to this cause you guys at all that work and you had a valerian for it they laughed at me if i said i wanted the
easy one thirty counterlie who are you i don't they berkman when my negative lay on jog on need an as he were thirty unship not every time you obviously is a thing as i nothing should have overhead
and then you get the gay were talk about that you want to go to his mine yes i do i want to go to the thing so here's a lot of mutual benefit there and i think we also proved as i think for for the
italian bride they figured out that we were really helpful in helping those guys accomplish what they want to accomplish and that was just a not puttin for a good word to renait is observed and it
was a high light of that diplomatist or a toad work together through it i said there's a whole wandless reasons why we should have been er do this a bunch he didn't work for me i did not rank you you
got there is this a whole bunch of institutional road locks that we can just stand or on corners and on thing and you had cadenette and that wouldn't have really been all that uncommon you just been
abnormal um i work out my ye lot of all some high lights all not the poor linen obviously some of the worst days of our lives were there june twentieth doing about that he at mount um said abasanto
were going to talk about this m so we had been there quite a bit and i remember a count of the shock when i first got there talking to the teacher weight i had my first an there i go to alicompayne
they've got a memorial outside of their compound all the soldiers in a been killed i can picture it discoli names rona little placard in kona tall well pyramid looking thing with the names on there
and you see it you understand it a people have died or you get it it it's not hard to to understand the those things have happened but there's a so level of disconnect when you first get there like
appele or die but you don't you you haven't seen and then you very quick i think by my second mission after was a kind of a cur affirmo vehicle i d so basically animation with bunch of bombs in his
vehicles got in between american componte up so i see my first dead body you know i see other this will come back people dying here i was an enemy wasn't the same and then you know march april may we
started taking i may not start we continue to take catties and i'm sartin go to memorial and we're sartain sea eyes that we knew and work with and were friends with in buildest in their their there
getting killed or really gravely wounded and those memorials started to become every couple of days were going to a memorial and that sort of way on you i thought about this a law and how it affected
me in supile my comparson in this environment and and what that was like but without trying to diminish any of that loss there is there is a disconnect when it's not your person wyoto guy and on june
twentieth so chris leon who was my radiobeacon we are in a building that we had been in when we back up i was not there i had left that building that morning come back to the set adams team with
crystalised us and were basically to going back and forth operations in this his comatose gave it her really good view of the north part of the city and we had to be there basically twenty four seven
and and chris and anatomist that gone back out there and they were supposed to go from like twelve to four something like that i would it was we gave him a six hour shift or something and then we are
going to configure out if we replace her sorrow is sort of set em out there and wince back and wet and i got a call on the radio from the battalion saying he can osenge to teot here for four hours we
to go do another movement to do some claritude that hey adam cannogate out for an a cup another couple of hours you know support wherein de chair what not you now stand ranseurs no problem and in
during that time um it was not uncommon to take fire and from that in that ope and there were some side prefir and the first shot there was a younger marina lance corporal who was up there and chris
ran up from the other side and kind of put put him down in his hay one get down to cover go go over the other side of the building and chris got up to start it he was a use don as observation to
tranteigue it was going on and and chris was shot by his neighbor and i get a call cannot very cold very closely up that from adam you i'm i'm kind o made in the radios all the time in a riven in our
home will base there like whereat a radite there so i was ever lay not there i was just on the radio's a hay corporated hit were on the way back it was a bad it i don't have any real good sense of
any news going on and on he will panacea like okay um in no don't want to press for too much information i get a call from out ocany who had odd man all the observation posts between where he was and
where we were that they were clearing mixture the roads are clear the using their tanks in a badly so they could pick him up and bring a straight shot because i was a pretty busy dangerous road he
was had to look out for rides or stuff like that and so ever wold is kind of picking up the pace thick clear out that ronie's come aback and i get a call he he's breathin i were heading straight to
charlie men and in my hall right okay with a can i have this sense of this is going to be okay um charlie mad is this medical facility on the the camp at we are stationed at there and is literally
hunderds from where i slept and i just ran down to charley men a tame the humby i was there and i i'm sorry was an onbearable ratifying the go rolypolies out myself and my my corn and dark are there
the the the bradley has a door on the back of the battle comes down like a ramp ah and the ram comes down he's on a stretcher do goes up to get the front piece of the stretcher in at the bottom and
he comes down carrying the stretcher and chris is laying on the stretcher and i he he went right by me look at the minuette yes he was gone as i made was going it was i could see the entrance to a
new the whole thing was all kind of their late stable is a man done that rested condoning the wood but there was no question for the alcamin already point itself out and chris was going to take a man
to the medical facility which i'd been in you been in a dozen times for a whole host of different reasons but it always been somebody else i mean i may have known that person and been close to the
person but it was always somebody else and doctors in with him is carnate chord he comes out and probably colaspis cons and he just comes out with head shaking and i knew as how wasn't holding my
breath for whole i knew but he can acme out and and just sort of i guess confirmed at esteward on moonwort to sort of i made it official that that christian killed and am it it sort of initiated to a
very strange covery secrets eventi knew adam in the restitution get back and there are going to have a slower road back as they're not going to get the support it just going to take a little more
time igniter gear and all the things go on with a christology in and race of that one and a badly they are kind of long up ter hum des and is just on a take some time and i know it hannett back to
the vehicle we park our trucks as i want to meet them there and i walk back like i said it may be handed yards from my hootoo charlemain i get about half way there and had this thought that that i
may be didn't confirm that chris was killed and so i ashewaballagh way back to go find there's a senior medical obser with cold on the small really as some guy that dealt with all the the casualties
there who i knew because i'd done control i had controlled her copper cash of aconite folks i've been there a lot we did quite blood i mean we were in that faculty all the time and i i i don't know
why i needed to do it but i was i am i i just i had a talk in the hay sis is corpses is he kilt is like a i'm sorry man you know you was kind of an odd conversation as i could tell the why he was
looking at a whisking the question like just was one of those things and i was in sort of a thingsthat of disbelief it as i walked back and i was going to deliver the news i had sort of told myself i
i can't tell them in case what if i'm wrong cause i never really went through that sam i saw dark itbut there no words or exchange and i have this very odd like walking back and forth a couple of
times and kind a soaring and out and then i know my job it was next thing i had to do that oudemian the trucks pull up they all get out you know for gus and everybody else had heard you know all the
anglo teams that were there we shared of facility with old and the work deleever body in a word was passed was something that happened and i you know a corposant coroneted well you know it we do
something calling is calling hero flight and her flight can be like sixteen hundred l i got information i like then minutes the process of them bringing a casualty that casualty not surviving in the
moving they had nothing wired em and i'd seen it down a bunch of times but it just it was chris who was my guide he was a guy that i just knew differently than everybody else i do so him deferently
when we entered our trucks he was the back wash and i was the front right a truce was parked backed into their spots so there always side by side so the back left at his truck and teredo and the
right front of my truck door we always had a fight space reach other you know cries stander perfect man like he could be not a per cent away through his son he walking up he'd get out away close a
door lethean im like a amandus's the great ranges i walk past that kid with it even really talking him you know a thousand times just every single day a couple of times a day and um it it be mistify
as a as a maine you just live a slightly bit for me i shouldn't say you how it felt for me as i just felt with all that was going on in all the destruction and the death in the violent and all the
things that i sort become accustomed to that point there's just that aspect of it this is the tiny bit insulated in your life to a really small degree but it's enough just keep you sort of preserved
and when chris was killed it just sort of exposed that it broke down were yles little boundary of imam ocher cause i can do this because i'm going to get through this i'm going to go home and
everything's going to be okay um and that art a lot that hurt in ways that i did not understand how it was going to hurt i just didn't i just didn't know with that was going to be like and he the all
his next steps and you i know you know this as you saw it he's on a helicopter and he's gone flying away and at forty six in what feels like about a minute if our spent or even rehearse them the
movement on to the the decay amonet you go from christ's hides on his way into watching the hell cupoly in a field like it picks about that long and then you're just sort of lefty walk back you you
literally walked away from the medical facilities takes off and you walk back on to argensola to your room only crisis on and it's like that old the point the cast resonant the right word is is like
a head of startled deportment again because all the things that i was dealing with an all these i was managing it leading his asteead would now would ever want it to say was my job it always a sort
of change in terms of what i thought really will the guise that i was working with everything was different now because it was their brother that was gone not somebody else and it assort of change
the calculus and it really read the fine grass that deployment an i'll be really really blunt it was hard for me to not fold and there is a lot of instinct of like i'd not want to do this any more i
do not want to be this is more than i had bargained for in this we can laugh about volunteering and being marie you know it was lomore than i bargain for em and look man we had done some crazy stuff
at that point i'd seen some bad things appen i was a participant in a bad things and i was okay i was doing okay i was going to be okay with that and this one just sort of i just as a huggle owin a
little bit so it was tough tamoto you know for for us it was no know what a month and a half later on august second wouldn't would mark occult and you know i think that's one of the things that that
we fell you know that little bit of insulation that you're talking about we felt it we fell i will say isaacus more insulated because you know my guys were out there taking masterre getting in crazy
gun fights getting after it to a degree that no one had ever thought they would and we were doing right we had a couple of guys get wounded here and there but they were okay and and honestly that
guy's getting wounded you know if i santovernia had you know one of my gods got wounded early on and he he almost lost a leg because what he didn't and that that didn't make us feel more formable my
mind it made us feel stronger and like he we might get wounded but what we're going to be good answer yolanda or killed and especially mark who was you know such a gregarious and such a guy so full
of life that he don't think he can be killed i don't think it can be killed and same thing you know that insulation was just completely shattered and i think what was also it was it was recognizable
it was recognizable to me was that all there people outside of tasking the bruiser day thought the same thing they thought pay the seals are here they are gone their they're gonna they're going to
push through this thurgate are going to win and there nothing's going to happen them and we saw it you know at the memorial service you could see it in guise faces that they were they were also do
her insulation about us was wisconsan then it turns into dame if the seals can get killed what where am i at at the it was another thing that that really you know what i was going to think it really
just made markethill such a such an impact all us there dathen doubt that that what you to set it exactly how a plain out you would he first got a talk to me went went crisis helicopter flies away
it's it's little i dusty and at you how coppers loud and it kicks up dust there is de was dark it was night time and you came up to me and i don't remember the exact words but we are just turn on a
walking back and you said something like were not get after this guy we're going to go find the soberer doing something to those words and it was basically like her to take care of this and i
remember feeling really comforted by that rake ye man ye go to that that's awesome and feeling good about that that we weren't helpless and were going to suck it up and deal with this just this
terrible loss that we were to get something from this we're going to go find some guys and go get after it and we're going to do killies you and you die and you guys were going to you guys are a make
that happen and i i remember feeling i romero that felt and look june twenty theages second to a like everything else was a border man it was like there was like the imitazione next day costing
happened so fast there and i was you you know i wasn't on the patrol upon this on august second bow on the radio algezira in the air i was doing all the same self will as did that you know when i was
back in the seed with you working that mission all that stuff that happened and before you know it were watching that hell cockerel away um you know or he's gone he now in you in your seeing the the
the the aftermath of at and i actually went back last night to loot my joinery for that day because i never run it down charley met again cause such were everybody came in and i remember seeing a lad
there you know lay was a guy work with the town and there is got a wound in looking at it i overcomers right elderly kind of shirt off there there there there attending delay who was lay was a larger
than life in forgot like me who always kind of felt a limit like without my doing her man with him i do with the seal to this isn't sane these guys are just their just larger than life and i see the
exposure of of of that it it it bothered me and i knew i would have the feeling of holy canoistes can happen of these guys yohanan any of us and it's not a good feeling and when you saw the gas from
the team who were it was just it was just every was scrambling and it was just that sense of an oorakin that wasn't a penalising of free and out it was not like that but it was just a tiny bit conic
that makes sense on a small degree but enough when you were so used to just be in completely not like that that feeling i like when chris lost was what i felt was like oh man i'm not really tonton of
this i am not in control all that stuff that i told myself all that comfort and confidence and we're getting better and i'm going to be more effective and do more good work until the thing is over it
is like no negative that could be you that can happen to day and then it and between chris and mark the army suffered a god but we are going to be morals like every copleys people are getting killed
all the time and every one of those you rode it that that confidence a little bit and when happened to to mark and lace he was hard to see that um and it that was the feeling that i had a like aim
yeah maybe i'm just lucky you know maybe i've been made this whole thing is just lock um now look it we we regrouped i mean june twenty those a bad day you know we did all the things to do the morowe
paid or or we outer him the right way you as can a we did it the right way and we acknowledged a chris um but if he kinda think was gone and remanding the middle of june and there was no taken at
need there was no like let's hold off her second kitchenette the bulletin which is running as matter of fact it was just going aias actaeon to get a honors you remember july and august were just they
are insane they are insane so wet we lost chris really at the big ramp opro know we done a big movement in earlier in june and we were really certainly into the city but the real you know the crazy j
block you know that kind of stuff ought that's up is all at an front of us um and so if for me it was you know my entire career on a whole bunch of really great suffer my career and i think is even
think is even as any one talking about what anything else and i carasman compared to that deponent day i mean it's just a light year stiffin's like he got get up to do it the very next day and is a
firm remember going that first patrol that first mission and china is a feeling of okayannie and ye got in you've got one to two ways ago without it either going to get inside your handing him mesith
you and break you a little bit and and i could feel that happening or are you just you just you just don't you just shut it down and just go do it um and i found how to comperments onod come back i
have moments when i was back in my hoodooers on myself i have my moments men no undone and body to think that i didn't i had plenty of those moments as matter of fact i i still do to be one with you
i still have my moments i go visit chris her langton on this birthday i go physicist made he was killed a good loisirs memorial day his mom comes out i see cat she is i very close ah i have my
moments without a doubt um but the rest of this three months remonte was just not there wasn't a ten a time to do that so i guess i kind of just saved it maybe a for for when i came back and it it
was there minute it's not good but um ye ma'am so then you'd need you come back an be obvious rike you said eeram felt he ramped up all the time and the guys were just you know everybody luther much
to talk about our giveadamn about everybody to it ramped up hard core and got hot aroused the the the combat not more intense the enemy started fighting harder they got more squared away and like you
said you and the rest of the guise there did the mission day after day night after night and then one day you fly home ye and how was that transition for you getting back to the states an interesting
those an interesting transition so from the time that i left remonitory would nicephore we left for modestine went to kotorago went to lison went to japan because i had a gun out of both places jack
i think it was six days on the calendar from the day left her minette day i landed on a point in santiago um which at the time was all i wanted i was the end i've been fairly good about this tree my
career is on i want things ter happen administrated we i can make those things out in for his getting i catch way to this a flight from japan to san diego and i can get on that flight i'm going to
get on that flight even if my seas the young elliot did you got your so fast in it the thing in the guy in the paper i gotta go and i'm out am i wanta get out quickly ah so i found myself in san
diego extruding next orders which the ring course said you go to remodification to go back to san diego from there which will be or your next order so i i knew while as in iraq that sandy was in my
future my wife at a moon there i told you she was living with my best friend neal who was on that fact to her before me so i go and remind the his betting comes home we shall up my wife and my best
friend are living together in san diego ah which was really good for her because he was able to kanonkeitawi was going on but knew exactly how to explain it in a way that was it in a free carowan he
also do mouston at a down way if i would call hey were doing this no big deal i mean i didn't i wasn't telling him a half wit thees go on i would cantinieres dories so he was a really great resource
for her i paid very little time wearing about it to the one with the i was comfortable but that she had a good support shuture am which she really didn't a wet we got married ah i depot formed later
to remote she she started getting a due to gobbino live in a tie was a top of the shutter and and formosanta got married i was in remote so there was no like evening in so i knew that it was just i
didn't know at the time i think of it but it was obvious that the looking back with she was just the rottindean ment as she was to hold we unprepared for um that forraby jimmie gone to just the fact
that i was in remodelling the news everybody knows going on it one of my rings is killed in it of crazy stuff going on an next thing it alma september twenty eight on back and san diego like three
and sixty five days to the day am home and i checked into a eaten squadron like the day i for i got home before october first i was back into an fateaguin san diego i which is insane um and i to be
really bound i was you know all those guys an angle on went back to anglico and cantilenam a ansonian japan i was like whitebrow yeno longer by s you know how five great deportment ah you know i'm
out i was just one other things and i kinda extricate myself it's you now a fault the rules to do whatever supposed to do for i know em back there and i honestly i think also containing myself like
that was the be the best thing for me less let's get home i knew something was aramis because on the drive home from the airport i find the andagaron just down the road my wife and my my mom who
liteing both of saytakaytoo near portyary mom greatly my wife and my mom take me up from the airport i got pictures of a meeting in her getting the car drive from sanderson to her house a pacific
beach and as repiling like on a jessie up to the how am i like screamed to them to himself talking or something like that i said suddenly how don't even now i don't know what it was but i think i
just remember seein the passenger seat and some the dearest discernment a trucker a car i whatever i don't know what it was but something's going on and i and i think just the pressure is building
and i and i have no sense of what's going on no alector it and they'll be having a perfectly normal adult conversation that might have been an active above when i was willing to accept or tolerate
maybe and i completely freak out on my wife and my mom was seen in the year and you know they were like oh so in they were super cool no push back and as it was an indicate like a eleanore agnize
that immediately like to go yet immediately and it was that combination recognition of that's not good and clearly i have i have things any deal with it i wasn't quite aware of so i knew no question
right away and i think i think about this a lot with with other marines and in the thing the experience in con at you told about pedestal looked at the subject agement hours on the bottom line ever
read deals with things differently living or broken or masseuse did just meet you have some process in to go three had then we all deal with it differently i had maybe talk myself been to out thirty
three is fairly experience guy i was strongly very young marines who may be in my mind in have maybe the emotional ah a maturity may the life skills to may be managed some of these same chaotic
things you know us at sacrists in it i may be kind o built myself of liberalite better a quite and i was better equipped in my mind and i was i in a matter of forty five minutes from the airport to
the house i'm fling off the handle on something so am i it it just all it was man it was it was those two things like it's not good and this is going to my happen again he inanition to do think about
this i can't pretend like i'm not going to just have some sort of residual you can't leave remote being standing six days later and not bring some baggage home with you and i was bringing some
baggage home um and there is some baggage there will it ah so that transition was was it started in eating that light in the eye to that help do you he did not tell you what help the most is my best
friend who had been in remaddened all of that loss it don't lot our story you know the state gasterea the guys that replaced as it's a very similar story lotte understand that you know i think having
an out what having on other duty happen to be my best friend superportfolios you are a talk about just hitting the jack pot on being the best equipped a certaines deal and power through it in and an
except what's going on in an embrace it and all the things a go on with it i had an outlet man i had my best friend when i mean he knew every place we were there i mean it wasn't even like all he was
here how it was this same pose circus modes not that big gates is not that big man and so he you say i was on the corner of a son said machines like yaller dixium and and he was struggling a bit too
you know again it's all relative i mean we're handlettered okay you know i'm going back to a kind of doing and amalie and it but the moment or you get this old spikes and those is what can i comes up
and get you this ill spikes so unperceiving kind of reactions he could see that in me i can see that in him and we actually been real were really good for each other when i see him contigiate shaky a
little break like i'm not you know he s not digging his environment a little bit or he see that a me you have that other person kind of bring you back to helping you helping you deal with that which
is good that the flopsie of that while it was really helpful for him to be there i gos really tough on wine because she was not my outlet for that i wasn't under got on out totally and not at it
didn't sonnot by design on that i do in this calculation about a woman had he does not i'm not going to use her a resource but you know for that in to be honest with you too there's also a little
sunk what the corner of michigan son sedative so totally man and i'll i'll be really candid you know i i i think i would have been an almost barsom not the right word but i i wasn't onawanda see that
back part you know men like and the tact this ridiculous on bona built that have right now that i onotawah me for gotten how long that's goin to come of an ignore and you're going to have to just
deal with it so there was a a i think the thing that bothered me the most and was parodist kind of getting back to day day life was it i would get with things didn't go well when i had my moments my
actualises exposed off it was that feeling of so you ll have this like some of that what happened something stupid with catch my attention kind of it my now my response and because it happened at the
nore to myself at a letter that i let it bother me and that to be pissed off on myself because i let about it my you don't menlik this ridiculous side cove i told her the story the other day um my
wife and i shoot i guarantee she rumsteak in across the street down town no not but by the beach i think and an auto body shop is run in to the argiletum tires off a roof you know that that kind of
sound and as were walking i i think my left arms over her her shoulder or walking like this i hear that sound and my first rations i push her down to the ground and in the time that it takes to do
that and catch without happening is baby a third of the second you reamed so i hear it i do the aim i reacting and pushing her to the ground i'm kinda getting on top of her to do look at what to oh
that's the car it's not a thing there's no reason for you to do this is about a third of a second and what bother me the most about it is that i did it not that i felt like that is it i read racket
it and i was like embarrasse which wrong of me to to uskaran and she like the yukon i'm a a it sounded like you know can i go through the whole thing and i think just the the the fact that i had
responsibile off and i would just kinda onesty i have a temper about it and that was she got to see me just get pissed off his stuff for no real good reason where you never really get pistol had
tamed i have tempers of that just stuff it just did i would get mad by seinte makes senor i mean i have a temper about things that lank my computer passes me off to see opinion that's a totally
normal right i would get i would have reactions to stuff that just there was no way prohesy oh that makes sense i understand it would just be this tory odd ball somebody would say something wrong
which is i would just trigorin ways head look at me and cabelio are you see now on my flag he was everything right on eve and all of a sudden i am doing all his host stuff guano ther little thing in
the yahahah victor i got my wife who we get married i leave a going mister pometacom back i'm home from maybe seven months before i deployed din in that seven months you know we'll come to marriage
to dave burge know that involve a year long de point in seven months in iraq you know god i knows what the his you know back to work some back of the squadron as the xodar and ridiculous excels in a
fighter squadron prepared to go in a deployment i i voluntarily extend my time to make the deployment which is exactly what you should do at the beginning of your marriage is volunteer extend on a
theomaniac in the grad school is going to go to darkness i was giotto the rancours onatoga my amber and i remember the conversation of a ionathas for to extend in you know as explaning wilson when i
was going to do and she's at white why would you do that can i said so i can deploy and hear those words like girl i just say that to my wife wife so which is so i cannot be with you so i could be a
part for you in secondhand out the boys and go do that you know what i not retire from the reset in erin corso i cannot do all the other things that i not set up the entreat i told you all about and
sold dentally so to say that my wife and and everybody got to stories the laundry list of reasons why she should have dessert cut bad but i know this is not happening she is a lot longer than
lievres's why she should have and props were dead where she is here and my marriage with her ah you know for all the ups and downs ages on everybody's marriage the one thing i don't worry about even
even when at our worst and our absolute worse which are worse is whatever it is we have our worst moments and our absolute worse and they shred and with a brain cell of thought of one for margeson as
rubio know the throat an arab and over god knows what you know so we kinda went through the fire there and she s got forgetting she's a stud a she deserves matronage as i'm not really sure why she
did to be one the jean on i i cannot can come up with an cause we sentence had a lot o options of a saveloy though it was that transition was tough man is so naither squadron you go on to pomena
which is another what what you doin that pontus mars soon back in negation quadroon the exe and the apsidal did both jobs on this deponent we just go to japan as a west hoewen pacifica back and i
oconnocca just doing the exercise exercizing i kind of stuff get done with that as a now may be time to uato of them inquire before i left and deforming i had told my commander took the group
commander and aquatic manner at this is for me and hanging it up it's been awesome i haply to extend for this deportment that they need to be to go on i was great experience i got to turn a bunch of
young guy's life was good but they knew before i left that was going to be out of the ring corps at the end of that i deferred it dartmoor a year paid my non refundable deposit which i have never
gotten back that it was a throne of niyaonsakahawe out my point i wasn't kicking around the idea of getting out a sand full executor we had look at houses like wear in execution is was merely a
detour to get to that instant and when i'm due back from that deportment in january i think it is of the following year and um it it turns out for the mercurians to extend a guide to go fly f twenty
two for the with er force for three years and there excepting applications for a the twenty two rapturising which had never been had happened before never happened since as a one time thing and the
guy water they picked you know was going to go to none to poling in ellis and fly the a twenty two rapper should properly apply i guess he seems like a reason thing to do because they they say no
then your gerraple am and long behold a at the end of december i get the word that i got picked up for this raftering um and i o i remember call within a babe the alister real ototototoi she knows
what's up and i did the standard dave work over sell hay no depot were going to go to you know it's all it's all the goodness does no downside you know and she's like canopy know she's all and she
was good with it and then it was that it was it was just another one of those things i i can't say no to this is just something that doesn't happen and he just don't get to nobody gets to five the
twenty two in the marine corps because the readers of laghetto sane thing i said when i left sixteens and top gone and all this sort of stuff so it was just another thing that i just couldn't believe
is happening and i couldn't leave them here in course saying i walked away from that i just couldn't and she was to inboard and gave loman didn't get back my non refundable to posit and ah motives
and sartainty of twenty two rather three years up there in the net somepin that woman's verehren after a five oxamine so if in fine restent twos ah how many beautee flying the aftertastes point so we
probably had i knew at the time what number i was i think i ought abentheure something you know we had two squadrons that were stood up and you know it i starting to pick up the pace as early to
thousands they would the rapture was just start in to get his legs under either or sort of building more and it was started become a thing and the marine crathis ideas they are going to they're going
to be the new steterant called heathery five an they're going to get it and they wanted somebody go to the air force to learn all the airplanes are really similar that a gold steal all their
experience no the pain of they've gone through the estan up the thing and then neuenburg it back to the brink course so the deal was the aften two gateways it was really high probability is in go
right for the ateneo the thirty five in command the foorca and onoma the exactly what haven can we went to tend we lived in tin for three months when i went to training and that was awesome willing
on the beach and in florida and for three months i got trained in the rattray move at to vegas um lived there for three plus years started a family to my first two kids were born and loves where were
kelat man i mean it was awesome and as i'm getting rid to to leave vegas i get selected to command the first superrational have there was a guide there before they did have airplanes an a guid
there's another sea before me but i was going to go out there on except an start flying the first aftertime the inrush up this poor guy was selected to do the same thing the tears prior great deed
but he in headstock at night were always in contact in helping him stand up with everything and and i get there chocolate i think to day and the first airplane showed up for an i what's the was the
big duties bend two years in the cigaroot work yeomanry this paper were grinding do all this administrator perhap he gets no airplane you see up to this that ere boom giddy man a work at him and his
guswen through to stand up this squadron i literally showed up a tor and the next day the futer wallace ledgeville this really not hard an what's the big deal and and he did a turn over and he loved
him certified of the revocandi in now that's a whole part of my career we can spend hours on that but i flew the rapture which was as an amazing airplane and i flew the pretty fire which is as
amazing airplane and i and i got to totally be relevant in aviation i had sort of exhausted i did all the things i want to do in a cornet i i love that her planet topping i kin had reached all the
things and which i about this too when when you leave talgon you're never going to be that good ever again so she s'matter of how slow you can make the process of getting worse it is how can you slow
it down to be as good as you can knowing that you will never be as good as you were there cause you're just your never going to get the wraps again ever you're just never get an get it and so it is a
matter of kind of son on that process and at some point in your mind like i don't want to be in this business if i'm not at the top of my game when i wortheton two and in have a job i didn't i wasn't
run i wasn't the obsequar which is when just as i reinforcement had some leadership responsibly in in the organization so up grabbed the keys from some one tohotaenrat the grand i little report and
you may like ingrian works back to mainington yet had the things broken in monotones um it was ideal day he was awesome yes so i did that a tory great for for my marriage my rasenian always
professional interests with great which you don't get to do in the rincon winters a war going on you just don't get to do that and here i am and did it i had no more friends in the rancor man nobody
liked me they're all do in back to back to back of pomona planes or breaking and i'll come live in in vegas find the raptor all my brows rik'rath you men we got nothing for you so you know i was
vistillas felt gated not feel guilty he but i own ordainest did ah then i go out there well we moved a destined florida i or or or for a beacon knights von the osseous in screamin and i was the first
pilot ever fly the after if i be operation in the world like diculous did that pray to appears and there was also an then you what brought up tecumtha rob had to desist i was i was so sure that i was
going to leave them in or after that command to her the other five that i re applied to dartmouth at that gang again got a cetonia another deposit and no not with i was smart enough not to pay the
deposit is here a tiny little possibility that was in work out anyway i did get into darmian as a bay and go to get my beast one to get my barand um i got selected for an academic fellowship were a
basically got to go to granchio for a year and with it citizen john hopkins university came a masters and i basically went to decisively and for a year can between those two things is another
terrible deal like convert gold like the pay you to go be a full time student a john atkins which the which they did um so we moved up to d c and i went to john opencast ers and then the next thing
we all for you is to go back and eyes so from there the the the pay back of that good deal was so go to the pentagon which was brought wholly reasonable thing i'd post come and i've been to school at
a istory couldn't complain about how tough my life was in the ringhorse you know the last eight years revert was ah and i just went basically good adest job in the pentagon and work for and the joint
staff in the charman jonesy just working some project or was it all that exciting it was a learned bunch but it was just kind of a kind of a mad job i was how very nine to five string hours i don't
take work on me no black berry no real responsibility pretty chill life beelike was pretty good am i selected i picked up colonel while i was there am the end of twenty fifteen hours slept for
colonel and a in the summer of twenty sixteen i selected for command again as a colonel this time to command enough thirty five wagram but i didn't want to do that i don't know how this is going to
come across to the people listening and what a terrible deal it was the rankest we be a carlino flat fortyfive again and i'm not i'm not i don't want this accomacs it i was complaining but what i the
one thing that i italisation dotey were great deals the thing that i was missing the most was it i always kind of fell a had one foot in one foot out they were desonating jobs therefore six change um
the the effort five job was kind o standing up a squadron we weren't prepetrean thing and i loved it but i could feel sort of underneath the surface i can lack of investment i could tell i just
wasn't i i didn't have to be a hundred set poceeded as there was no war going a go to de polywog to there was no thing that was going to happen and i think one of the healthiest hangs about being in
the raincoats prevent for something he so even the trappiste you don't want to do you know hey we got to do this because the in state is this and i was missing that and it sort of overtime sardara
little bit that i did i was catching myself on the will slackening of the honest with you i told be really blind i didn't have to bring my a game every day i just didn't i could do the things that i
was doing hongatar because there was just an element that there was no outcome to what i was preparing for and i started a kind of find other interests like school became really interesting to me i
did that guerissant nued my education johnsons as sartoriad my unbiased ed something i wanted something else and once you can of catch in your mind that the marine corps and what they're asking you
could do as in to go back to a training squadron a one to go to be an operational commander with operational units it or prayer prepared to go something i wasn't goin to get to do that was going to
go back to a training environment i caught myself losing the thing that was the most passionate about the ring corps and seeing his more of like acathistus i give to this retirement and this amount
of money and it was a starting to become a little too professional and not enough a byassing that i on me to say i was a gonnected one old again i i you don't neither retreat like that but my wife
actually sound my doater talking and she just kind o looked at me as like dudont going to be happy doing this it was really clear to her i think even more clear than it was for me it's hard to come
across is ungrateful but i i could i was not going to be good at that job because there was something that was missing it was something that i didn't there was nothing that i about it that i made me
feel passion about doing it so no joke man last year august i basically told i declined command and to climb for motion and put him for retiring the same day and it was a big move man a big macrebah
out there in the world so yeoman be a it was it didn't it surprised everybody but my wife obviously sure this to go in i knew a right thing my closes buddism talk to my browsing my brows those guys
understood but yet it was a big move em and i was turning down what by a whole roby all rights was a really good great deal another great deodonato it but in a then at some point you show up at a
different kind of event in virginia with latin i or can with a company four or company alan front were doing a leadership training for a company and you decided cocomonga jacket out lay siccome un
down check this out soothink of this yeah so was it talk to me compeers ago i went out as leaving that at forty five dover i went up to decade's like a man jokanaan it's going to be all some home
we'd love it yet talked you about it i came out him i'm i'm all out of this other gig i'm going on schooling drink horror he weinstein touch i mean the late with a buddy i musagetes it yet the time
we reconnected here and there and i certainly preciated a call but it is really wasn't in the gauland was it really i wasn't there so i when i told him i hamando my letter i'm getting out um and like
i said ladislas the easiest gotten old of right away to talk sometimes sees he's got a lot on his plate of busy guy and he taxed he texian of right then i'm on the bus leaving the pennon has had you
of how to talk right now i do so he calls me and we talk for i mean probably a solid fortifyin is to an hour and he's like he joking to be up in vienna heron of couple weeks won't you come out for
the day i okay right on any in e gave me you know i what i was falling you guys i knew was going on i was seein what you're doing things were blown up i was soon a braggin on my my body's life in
jocolino that listen to me about it um and i watched you you know you and laikipia up there and being in to this group and um to you were ah it was also man you were so with the smile on your face a
week in week out tod and that first day and you we sat down with you you were ananias and i want to do this this is all your your pompton that in i think it was you know and then and it actually
weeded i brought you up and we did and even with another company ye and that you're now involved with for a long term and and even then you know cause it cause for us you know i i want to see what
you were going to do and see how you were i do it and man i was like i you gave your first coharts of talking you know your first two minutes of of explaining something is a cocacola just everything
that we talk about all time you know that in the book and here you describe things from the book but with your view on it and your angle and it's it's it's refreshing to me and all sometime i
eelenois i'm here a different angle and like a talk about with with everything i like just talked about with with flying at top gone or likely that isn't jugeait it is the battle field the more
different angles you can see something from the better they're going to get at it and so here i am listened il there another angle the here we go so that was awesome and was also the first time you
know we same thing you know i i i listen to jetlike first in j p came with me and he was just a sit in the back like would you do the first time he said in the back and and i say i come come up now
when when i do this quaaeker some questions and you don't think hey if something goes sideways i'll just be able to cover form nobiel you know somebody asked the question in an japonais me look like
a will answer us and is like okay you don't go ahead and all just cover freestone in all so anserina outthide river of like you know you thinkin o kaye's he getting go with this with this a tough
question or whatever in boom here you go you know fire for a fact i said and and both those two events happened really close together for me and for me it was and i can actually called life i think
it was the next day or as i might have been that evening and i said at a lafone good to go like we are not going to have to do all of this ourselves because dave that jap can do this they did it they
can they can do it and which was you know everybody in their own eunaetheisa arrogance but it's it's just you don't see it and so you inating how is any of you know what i like when you are a command
to something that's one of the really hard things to do is lekoko and lay stock about this all time you know when i'd be watching him roll out on out the gate for his first mission i done all kinds
of missions i that here he's going out of this first one that he's in charge of and he thinking man i should just go i want to go i want to go in and then you know to hours comes back and you're like
high five you you men then you go cool i don't have to be the guys goes overtime and so when i when i saw you when i saw japs like this is awesome i call late in said we argant be good to go other
guise macandoe this they can bring the same message they can bring the same passion and power knowledge and that was very very you know refreshing to me an boloine is the experiences are the same i
mean phenonenal the same but the expince and remade same and in the experience that we have throughout our military career and now you can pasewalk interacting with businesses and you see all those
similarities so that was a that was a big day and so it is i have made this court dave now is with us partly as salamone and doing what we do helping businesses with their leadership in their going
pussyism it's awsome having you on if you shemite ella in i left the ring course on like a there's something missing and i can't i can't stay him rancale or something missing while you leave them
rinkerton me hell and i got to re create that thing that i unlooking for not in the military at all i know is that's the place and that was my biggest con my biggest fear was inigo go to work you
know go to a something that so is worried i got fine something and that's part of the is what at first gave with you guys in the back like a holy cow mate you've you've got to be kidding me it's old
those things you just discuss all the things i spent my whole life living and breathing and learning and deadnettle people like lavatore a ordinariate ye so good deal daveiss you kinnegad wasn't on
monterotondo aching her her and pometii es lad call messico to the inna my atoka my head was a million miles away man i'm just working through paper to get my letter out to leave them in court like
very hastily with no no plan be there was no unbelieving to do this you can ask when he verascope sation but what i'm going to do and i came back from them like advice here's the plan and i do he was
instantaneous for me it was instantaneous and then to be with a share that message and bully that an have all those feelings and innin a totally different way and do would you guys and its cold
tobias you get that kind of oh for you topon for me working in the train in command whereas i got water what i already talked about you you have the experience and when i was getting out a saintonge
to do with this thing what are you do that i got all this smolledin i thought okay well i guess i'll put it in a prose box over here and locking up and it'll you know they don't fade away and turn in
dust but when you realise that you can take what you learned and you can at you can apply it to all these you know civilian civilians eoline companies it's it's a pretty it's a pretty damn good
feeling you have and be out go go out and do it on a regular basis and one o the best things about it you get to see the improvement you get to see a keen and again it's kind o like when you show up
and you see the leadership is is your haven it's like your seeing you know what a future you know how to fix it and you just go this is going to be fun in you get to see these people grow and learn
and and improve and get better and if they are already good you get to see him become olesomer not doing great you get to see him improved a position and then move in that direction so it's
definitely rewarding from that aspect i i know you've already seen that ye wit what a loud and you know that book and in the lessons and talk to the other title the bugis how you is naville win ye
i'm top my life is what i learned no it's from top gun in the marine corps it just so happens i was it it's exactly the same i have my own long list of my personal experiences with those things but i
was tenthday like the concepts it's identical it's so there's no like big leap in my micomicona get there for how mananas this it's oh ye o my god that exactly what i've been olate ty three or only
my stories this this and this and this is my view of that so ah again man it was just it was so easy to just see it go this is this is legit i am i'm all i want i want it right now my son oiaesin i
don't want i don't want t go it for a lickwise happen right a yesias jonathas it celia little bit but it was i was all in a five minutes in the day one with ben ten of some so far in speaking of
askelon thrown if you want to have us come work with your company with your team or whatever you can you can email in fo at ashlan front not come if you want us to speak for niven don't contact the
speakers bureau contact in vonalis doom you'll find us there um also we have the muster coming up speaking of atalanta the muster number zurratte it's goin to be a new york city by the way dave will
be there he's going to do literation cause you know what the gonado presentation is going to peanut the utile i can lie questions at the good to lie bielevoda do a presentation but the little loop
it's goin to be fourteen hours a ah no you go to talk you know isn't about dis am his perspective alias tuffnell a lot of times people ask me about eloped do talk about it and i've a said a few you
know a month ago or something somebody asked me but i said you know what i'm going to marring you professional a professional wit that specific information so dave will be talking obviously lay is
going to be there japs going to be there clearly as well jes can be doing a little presentation as well from is perspective on some things echo charles h you know alcalescent be there will he be
doing a presentation i don't know time will tell i don't know what he would present an maybe just present on you know we bring all the intensity nineteen to a presentation on cousin you know
aeternitate bainton a little balanciore right there and yet so mister may forth on fifth new york city maria grand mary it's an a venables it's tolford lucheer its about under standing understanding
leadership and getting those wraps in in hearing all the different angles that's what made you good at it course it's life of course there's no backstage there is no devoren room that will be hiding
in saying bring me some green eminene sat nolente we won't be hiding is going to be all of us together will be learning we becoming better leaders we will see you there now far as this pot cascoes
echoed charles maybe you could percents at this time with some informational sir if anybody does one as support this potestate could do ye smallridges small presentment with the green eminement he
said with the greement to somebody ritson be wroth if neverout and i actually know the story behind this the there's a reason why he did that they would have a a call that a afterdeal but you feel to
somewhere oh it's called a writer right to get a contract in the contract comes to the rider and says this is the things that we need it so what david my wrath from vaneword's he would say hey i want
you know seven bowls of emans with no brown eminus in them or green or whatever havings brown but he to no brown eminent and this sounds like a ridiculous request ridin would possibly want that
bolabola daily roth bitter for reason why do you think he did it can you guess no can you guess because sackett think of how simple is as he's doing a concert one night he doing a concert to it later
to concert greenites after that teresa the road hating these contravenes and there's all the stuff that has to be set up in all the stuff that lights and sound and sound hoards and special effects
and rampant all the stuff got to be set up and i got sitari when he would show up if the seven bowls of eminus were laid out in hers no brown eminus an a he wouldn't have to go and inspect everything
because he knew that they were paying attention and if he got there and it wasn't that way he knew that these people had an issue with attention to detail and so now he had to be a go and
scrutinizing make sure everything was in place the way i supposed to be and to slivers learned from david le rough like a little test erastians tethering and and my wit that story that i just told
that may be a hundred per cent urban miss minuti i know i heard it in some muceit i tenise i'm here somebody i'm sure sourest ners littell as where it can be reverenced yea for some reason i thought
that of somebody else in the just how they were more there oshidori is not one but either way oh he our fleet think about like gum the reading you were such a importance asset giving your skill set
as a am forward air control as whatcoat because essentially you have all this exportentur in the air and you can bring all that brain and eyes to the ground yet that's why you're better than you're i
mean in gesualda yentra take up on that till teneatur day miss pritty advanced a if you sinaun any aspect i mean is i give you is that's why in the corner of a mimosa arch match all often times
there'll be a striking coach ribe a jujitsu coe and no be a resting cotinglade those specific guenther in some adelring a specific guy in two order like like dean dean has been brought in to quarter
guides that are going against a specific juives here they want to get a little with that expert a same fundamental concept or hey when we satartia cast i needed somebody that you had a press for
corncutting thing identical yeletpos years have pressing recording in stop and then recorded in a sum canelike good deal echo in a way attinghausen thing is davy when it comes down to it speaking of
doing good things so gallaspie brass side you better said in your atlas alright now tatatatatat holiest one i felt like a real wind deep into the cree oil and allay the night club will make it three
of contratation was of god you like a method in my sausage and alligator the perfect inalienable in fact was yet a good i wouldn't touch me in a wantonest when i say in the now that you can just too
much of a good tithenai he do know what chillis it's a little like but shrimp things verbere of you extract the the oil and it even good for your joint beam i make three on a begood ferginny way in
new artselm entations which i'm down for now by thee i may supplement person not also lament just the key ones join a maintenance what not anyway gettim on it that's the best ones everyone knows that
actually so if you want a ten percent discount on that cold on it a complete olonto about the soldierin the water situation i got furward discontent over here yesso so well dave and i are talking
through the bocas are you just over your just dreaming up jinonweh you're no onion i say ellins support from thinking dan you days been controlling all this stuff and going to tap that you've been
doing your stuff in a watching like solomin the lake videos the overwatered what you ask in what i am doing to ask sooayter watched those the better analogy i realize it is you know with amon click
through things so people want to sport spaces in a easy way clicked through the website jack botato comments little support tab quick on it do you amansomi some people are smart when they do this
clever they figured out which i may i think i mentioned over and i know i mentioned it long term with a wood and what they do is the click on it and they save that you are owing to their book
barkhatnaya sidecast amazon its onright on my book mark barred just as a son and that's what i did rangheehoa did that ehenot smart thing to do good ladingford can yet good with his port before you
do you amazonian click though there and oh you know that's a really solid solid way to support a small action with the click noperation big support eritis also subscribed to do overintelligent
version of this potator little excerpts that all put on there you don't know watch nosily the whole pocasset any given moment fill exercitata from dale from that also she rabsaris yes yes you
nisharyenen buddy hey i heard you have to situation going on just watch as the hour or or the eight minutes to taste in a rag now people to have that kind of patience no unfortinit yeminites me for
their good bonarense you know this listen to four five minutes not their like may i i got this guy that's really you know treated at work what should i do colinette newitt yes as opposed to a listen
to this televised numbered you know whatever i or that a nightie now as long yes good not too not realistic also joculator called jocasta ah we got a new design natalians about it um so yet go in
there jocasta dot com um let you know i need emenhere near tesher nesdirsen to shirt is out at this time it is currently dan the ushanting not i'cod get after this is like a crowd i i wouldn't
consider it crowd source idea but you know how crowded demanded yet you know i was at there he put this on a shirt put this unshirted make sense the wit connestabile did all the ideas that i thought
were good mastee ideas that i heard from you you thought were good and bovering a currently flidgett outcome anywise school stuff good for the stuff for women and ashworth stuff rash arts now ay that
was the interruption of thought it is so like a lot rash ardmorran after this one the enosigaios you know how he thinks like five things at once and they're all like jockeying to see which ones are
going to hurt or your maanea's what ivenia iterate rashers a thought but came in and one in a think i'm going to put in new resguado um de inouis well but in a rush tardif you want nineteen per cent
and proved mention all aspects of proforma he condimental physical emotional as well as double being tested by the way ah i think like quadruple blind here and not going testing all that stuff
psychological warfare at your having weakness in maintaining unmitigated daily discipline in all things listen to psychological warfare i i got i discontented other day and it was at the gate
unashamed a bisque tin o hey will do when you're your innocint ion where you've got you know you want to go to the gym or you're you're supposed to do some hard to ask a worker you to some tined
something to improve yourself and you jim you know i don't attain set comes in were you just he just don't want to do it you'll what should you think people should do then and i said do it anyway i
and then it was all quiet at because he thinks i'm going to give this big excites nobody exclamation ah the explanation is oh the stuff is hard yet i can't make that thing easier for you i cannot
make twenty rep squats any easier for you and can't do it they're going to be hard if factor going to sock i can't make nothing i can do sinako you you you have to do to do it anyway i i kind of like
i told this to jade that exact situation or that thing that he just said where it's even if you don't feel like doing it you still want to do it in all this stuff so but your body's like oh it's kind
o running on otto like okay compared till i could videogame right where you put the settings on otto and it'll it'll just with how it sealing and that's how it's going to handle any situation the
like kind of goes down to kanauss or how it feels you know that to deal with this situation so if you're running on autonoe like dealing hand on with this work out the squat you'd got a man neverout
it just can automatal now you got to turn it to manuel man you will be like i don't care at her hardy sat eseguito what i see the hoodoos what we're doing yes exactly so i let a man in iron yes his
control you in mind testaceous that belong to a outline though on a cause your body wants to rest to really i want to torest we prevoyant a rest every thing they actually you got to turn it from
atotarho can get intonation like this in psychological warfare only i i tunes the artist's name jocis jacka willance at heart is dinner thought that i would be a set you had to paint something or
skulpme thing to be an artist yes i thought that i think it's been now if i put something on intent they desnoettes now a hidin' it that on the say there there really stretching the word on that
billamore you lif you're slipping on the diet waking up in the morning and you want a hit now may be potful of the workout and you want how should i say like a spot to switch the dial from automatic
to manuel that's what it is so serpiontic wore on i ton't jockey get after hiawa on weakness yet he he you know when your clicking through amazon by the way you can get a joco white tea there on him
as on and you know when you get it i was going to say this when you get it you will see and i gonegave you one word just a kind of what it what do you anticipate just just think about this dead left
betrothes going to come to contemn with the dockweed tensing to be goin off the pilot so and that by the way again quadruple blind double tested that that you're goin to bring her you know minwaloius
i think a man a moment at you're goin to get dead left thing is eight thousand eight thousand potatose gannat you all a prouder way the warrior kin i comes out may second by the way to just came out
on i too as one of the most anticipated books of the spring all day it got listed ring how how do you imagine that gratiot now the sudden were talking most anticipated book of the spring which means
people are waiting for it and have ordered it so view one it order it now now minutely there is some people that are not looking forward to this book coming out they are not intepeter those people
the least oh yeah am bullying forward to all taylorson forward to this coming up do not make her an even let me goin up to mouthedness you know weakness is like a creature like allaster and inclining
ear he's not looking for in the annouce all those things are going down all those things are trembling make those sayings trumpledor order away the war your kid for your kid for your neighbors kid
and for yourself you will dig it also displicere the fieldman coming out october seventeenth i know it seems like a long time away but i'm telling you should pre order it now why because when you pre
order it you will then know that it is coming and when you know it is coming you will begin to prepare for it mentally and physically for this book to arrive at your door set you want to be ready
mentally and physically because when you get this book you will have to do certain things namely that after it ye that one tree ownership of course the book even get it right now you onto wait at all
not to re but for your team your spouse your boss your baby sit or your mother in law you know she needs a copy of that genet takes ownership so satrop just be gentle with it you'll have to throw it
at her but maybe just you know place it on her desk so she can read it because the more people you get in the game and start taking ownership of things but that you life's going to be stertinius it
is an unough of as you can find us active on the teepe twitter insteamed if you can alkamenes well dave is at david burgeo he is at echo charles and i at jackall eacles any closing words oh i feel
like we should talk about the movietone a little bit right to tacudona question or in quite owllike when watch to gun right of course to everitt's your guy goose that's your guy did you like a mat
causes pretty dilatation lutely as it as in huysmans absolutely there it is tepatitlan question found question yet or did give her but the tower sing that never happened is that fake it has like a
harled that hung introdogtion the trouble as they say you can do anything once you can do that once and then what your own you out but not of your maveringham dave man obviously thanks tomfoolery got
me a you got me closing remarks and i'm sure we'll do this again and when you listen as you think of a bunch of stuff that we should have said on this one but anything else you want to wrap up with
forstaaer thanks i was also a a in thinking out this recoupled how even talk about it as superfined up to beat her and this was this was awesome um you know were talking about it just briefwit it you
my my wife obviously he talked about the things that he went through so my wife in my mom it is my family as a fokare to whatever degree that when you're removed i think we nearthewinde do this stuff
it's hard but it's actually in some ways harder for the people that you leave behind cause inondations on they're just waiting and wondering and and dealing with it in their canoodling their breath i
remember story that we need told me when i was deployed and to think that any of the stuff am a body of the old it come to the house he was gone and ah he couldn't get in house and he enoki in a
window which was by the front of the house and katarina door bell and he was a late night like not a kind that somebody should be at the door and she didn't want stertor and she's telling me at the
stuff the old thing about that sefenteen hear the stories caused really think about what your family's goin through because you're busy in your doing or thing and she talked about the thing that she
hated the most as people knocking on the door cause she was always a sort of a tiny depand bet it was going to be somebody coming to tell about me you are cut crisis mom cathy way on his someone i
had ednoth words to the scribe on much i i'll love her and admire her and it's not just about her loss she augustly she had to answer that call but he or she had to take that call on gentinetta
thousand six e she took that phone call but that woman has endured the loss of a milinowski meself on behalf of the entire country and my relationship the irony of all this is that how would not i
would not have a relationship with cabby it chris was in killed anodine anything to take that day back and bring him home i would treat any of it but the goodness that comes out of that there is
always there is always some goodness the if you look for hard enough that comes out of all the stuff and and the loss and the things that you sacrifice and i know cateaton listening in and i never
anticipated avenarius ip with with some one like that based on the recusance but my relation if he is really important and what she has done for the country he is really important in the few look
hard enough in the worst situations you find something that's a good in my relation with her is really good and i would really it would be wrong for me to go through this whole taught cassendana the
things to without acknowledging that goodness with her so i wanted to mention that we day obviously thanks for penelope in on and here we been talkin about this reviled it's great to have you on in
fankfort your story with as the story of you for marine fighter pilot a foriner controller but also a son a brother a father a person in ye thanks for sharing the story of corporal chris leon a
marine no doubt i hear o without question but let us remember let us always remember that dement these men we call o warriors these men we call soldiers these men we call marines these men we call
heroes but us never forget that their people sons and daughters husbands and wives brothers and sisters metso forget that there there not only courageous vigilant and bold and aggressive and
inspiring but their hossifus and flowin of us and that their loving and loved peneteleu people who left behind people than those that are left behind never forget but chris leonmontanus poroteo on
his memorial page mackintosh usan and eight then she said high baby tornate difficult day to face without you here i never thought that memorial day would be in memory of you my dear sweet beautiful
sun it's been one year eleven months and five days so close to two years then i cannot bear the thought we honor you by fine be flag every day and we will place you emerica heroes tribute banner for
all to see to part of course we will cry more to yours and maybe find a smile or laugh as we remember your deep voice great smile joking sense humour and the love you showed to us our hearts on for
ever empty and broken without you missus ouch i love you more all our love moment an remember remember major henrie rod remember our pro christopher leon remember those like them who have fallen
remember them as warriors remembered them as heroes but always always remembered them as people remember them till next time missus dave and echo in joco out
