this is jacopo cast number six with echo charles and me joaille time to get back to the books last time i read some letters an say were
going back to the books and actually this one is kind of hard pressed or to stretch to call the book to day work were of a given some a
pretty um you know the last hundred yards is a very rare piece of piece literature if you do even call that ah same with battle leadership
that's that's pretty rare not i will give me finetooth internet about face was a pretty popular book ah but this one to night would always
something that many people have heard of or at a minimum you've heard of napoleon bride leered the but what's interesting about this and
what almost make it cheating from my perspective for me is that these are maxims near already parse down and put into a form at that very
easy to understand you know he the work is already been done ah it and and i'll tell you it is a horrid for me to find books or pisiform
ation to do this with and a part of the reason is it takes a it takes a looking for something very specific right and is not the one so
there's a lot of this tons of great books about war and they are about war there about what happened and how the war happened in the hat
what what tactics were used in it what unit moved were and how many people they killed and how many manoeuvres they did and so that's very
interesting in this definitely lessons to be learned from that in the rider is knowledge in the there's knowledge inside of tactics it all
of the most common one is like if you talk about the flank which is the most common tactic is you know if if if you are a sultan a target
you go straight on and that's that's a frontal assault but then what you want to do as you in a swing around the outside and hid him from
where they're not protecting themselves so that the tactical be applied to you know anything it can be a fried to a mate nichome applied to
giton be pride to business situations where you know you want to hit your competition where they are expecting it that to flank so you so
there is knowledge to be gained from tactics for sure but what i am always more interested is the leadership and the the human psychology
you know and that's why i love battle battle leadership because that first chapters is battle field psychology um and this is three you
know this is a road war and you know there was no kind of fool fool new age he feelings and what her people know all that stuff didn't
exist and here's this guy talking about battlefield psychology and but but that's one i'm always interested in that's what i want to
explore that's what i want to learn about that's what i want to compare my experiences to because they and i said this before leadership is
the most challenging of all endeavors and an leading these human beings with all these very volsius channeling and therefore the most
rewarding so qualeefi are important and you and you can gain from them it is how the people react what they die where they go those the
things that that stand the test a time in that always on a looking for him um so these kind of things or baaters that how you as a leader
of other people to look at those examples and learn from him and gain from them and there will be little changes in a little adjustment in
you can see that there's changes overtime but the basic principles no matter when you you can always learn from them you know and
annotating thing with a tactics like for instance there was one fighting in iraq enough deniston than i did not fight afghanistan but one
of my good bodies that fought with me in iraq and you know we brought back a lot of tactics and on lotuses and and he said after he went to
after any time said as the same thing and people say he'll not that told me piece of totally different war and he so he thought in both he
says yo am in iraq well we weren't remotest remidy and in iraq its streets and buildings and you know you get the elevated positions on the
buildings and then you've got control of the streets and he goes in and afghanistan its valleys and hills and felicitated ishmaels and an
it's pretty much this you know the same thing are there differences absolutely you know but i'm saying the basic principles that you
already was able to apply um an end again not that i don't always keep an open mind that things can change in the thing on expectorants
will happen but that sort of where you know what i'm always looking for that's why this lunar box that i love to read and read but i don't
take away the same types of lessons that i want a talk to people about or that i think people want to talk about ebident program it would
be a different program and maybe we should do a a program that's that's aimed at you know military people ah that i were gone a concern
about that excuse that is definitely something that i that kind of worship that she i loved tactics i love talking about that i am but but
further for normal people and and familiarities learning about how people react it is to me kind of what's important and what i like to
explore right so interesting on a couple of things i own the poliniere one knows you know something about napoleon a couple of cool facts
about him and this is going into this book here which which the book is actually called rotogravure different bunch of different sections
to it and its different leaders differential leaders throughout time and at the section on the poleon napoleon got the book and napoleon
fought more battles than alexander hannibal and caesar combined he is beyond any doubt the greatest of europeans orders so prodigo leaden
we were talking about a guy with some knowledge he astounded his opponents by the crushing rapidity of his battles he marched against the
enemy and his plan of battle was a part of his plan of march to he's a guide that used mobility and used the quickness in the pace to dicti
how the battles were going to go his tactical system or scheme of battle was based on a holding attack against the enemy's front to keep
them occupied a wide envelopment or turning movement on the enemy's rear with a small force to spread dismay in confusing in the defender's
ranks and then the decisive blow such we disturbant he was sort of a master of the flank and aminta you can be paying attention of that and
then from the side or the rear of somewhere that tenot expecting your gettin submitted and that's what he did napoleon was the first great
strategist of the western world his battles were the result of his strategical movements and we care for carefully calculated very i would
say that any one that association that thinks of napoleon thinks of him as a strategist and a great strategist now this collection of his
maxims was published in paris in eighteen twenty seven and almost immediately was translated a german english spanish and italian stonewall
jackson carried these maxims in his haversack throughout his campaign this little volume states colonel henderson who was jackson's
biography contains a fairly complete exposition in the polonians on words of the grand principles of war and then the person that actually
compiled the maxims for this is actually this is a statement that is very similar to what i started off talking about you know what i like
to learn about the art of war is susceptible of being considered under two titles the one which rests entirely on the knowledge and genius
of the commander the other on matters of detail now here they're going to brak that down a little bit further the first is the same for all
time for all peoples whatever arms with which they fight from this it follows that the same principles have directed the great captains of
all centuries so that's what i like to read about those those same principles that have directed the great captains of all centuries those
basic principles and a lot of those have to do with human nature and then and it goes on to say that the matters of detail and what he
talmont matters details he talking about tactics on the contrary are subject to the influence of time to spirit of the people and the
character of armour in so you know that when you change from having been arrows to rifles to machine guns to bonds to whatever and so there
there are drastic changes in those tactics and that's why while they interest me and i was like to find a common thread in tactics and say
answer seething that we do you know that they didn't work were one we do that now or whatever you know you anthela's looking to try that
thread but it's sometimes could be hard to forfend into lost doesn't exist to any great degree whereas the way people act the way human
beings respond to combat situations it doesn't change as much yetin if he go deep enough for fundamental enough that it's not surprising
that it won't change because you dealing with people in their needs and like almost on a biological level like psychologically allowed them
to biologically in preservation of life let plataia so yet technology can advance even social stuff can advance but that fun those
fundamental needs topically see the same akaniri ght but if you think about this and we talk about this last time we with war and war one
you know these basic needs for survival these men which is used through the mouth the window i mean it it's just absolutely crazy they
disregarded that drive and just went over the top into hell and intermission vires do that kind o go along the lines with something that is
still here in a big way were they kind o put baron personal needs whether the innothent there need to survive personally they put the need
for their mission or their honour to survive they put that in front of their needier personally and an that's cut doesn't that kind of
translate even now that's how like ye is yes i i mean i guess if we should at that day that that a normal human trait which adonais or not
that i may get something that gets a learned i don't think say inherent normal normal trade unless you say look people have an inherent
trate you make their tribe tatami survive and maybe that's aye that's what other than say that's exactly what i was going to say so
military culture especially when you when you do with the elite where doing a good job to put it lightly to an a good job is very important
you would think that that culture cultivates that need to put the mission in front of my own personal stuff so and so deep into that that
individual that it does most of this i'm trump there need ye first you know what by right and that fred actually we can go through all her
all history and find a thread of love goops of people that sacrificed and put there the mission or the the group at themselves as fast
ovenlike a thermopile with the the three hundred spartans minetaka sic example yet and even novate died for their country yet and even
people who aren't in the military we understand that that how i lead soldiers are in a wonderstone that other that's a iliodor one who will
put his life on the line for the mission for the country they are we all understand that and you use the term lie but i will not use the
term e le because i've seen every soldier who wouldn't be considered elephant all rang that sad marines do that and you as army soldiers
and and you know the the the untrained reserves that dozen really hasn't been through the onderneat we have at all but they will have that
so it has nothing to do really with which actually proved your point even more is that a dozen men half to do with your level of training
or your so called being a life as i do of your dedication to the mission and the people that are with you so but yet i guess a better than
better than that er word than eli would be i guess is like a dedicated soldier thereto drangen yes so back to the booker a plan of a avais
tour getting on the maxims and amorovieta that i picked out the ones that i kind of thought have the most a talk about human nature but the
same time also talk about from a leadership perspective planning execution if they are important in their universal than i i i put em in
your in missus kanoona just talk about what planning a plan of campaign should anticipate everything which the enemy can do and contain
within itself the means of thwarting him plans of campaign may be infinitely modified according to the circumstances this is exactly what
we heard on battle leadership from voice is that so he desayuno the plan anticipate everything but then he goes on to say plans of campaign
may be infinitely modified according to the circumstances the genius of the commander the quality of the troops and its pographical of war
so this is again a common thread that we hear all the time and that is you got to have adaptability you've got to be and one of the biggest
hinderances to adaptability is ego is when you say all you know what my plan is awesome my plan is my plan is the best and i'm just going
to ride my plan into the ground and take everyone down with me because i don't have the humility to admit them my plan went wrong to admit
that the enemy to something i didn't expect to to admit that i have short falls with my troops or whenever the case may be and say you know
what i need to doubt among to do it now next one all wars should be systematic for every war should have an aim and be conducted in
conformity with the principles and rules of the art war should be undertaken which forces corresponding to the magnitude of the obstacles
that are to be anticipated now what caught me about that one was recently i got a asked a bunch of questions about the situation in iraq in
syria and one of the things people want a throw out there because it's a it's a catchy but word or group of buzzards and that you know
boots on the ground and you are kept getting asked well how many boots on the ground doing now how many troops do we need to put on the
ground and i answer i was the same every time which is we put as many troops on the ground as it takes to win and to win decisively and
without question that's how you go to war now this is another little maxim when shirley like at the commencement of a campaign the question
whether to advance or not requires careful deliberation so before you go in to warm you you carefully deliberate and this is something that
i've been talking about lately when people think that because i'm a soldier because i'm a warner that i want to go to war i want o my
friends go to work which is just a ridiculous statement if there is any body that understands the impact of war its guys that have been to
war so this careful deliberation before you commence a campaign is exactly what should be done and he goes on to say but when you have once
undertaken the offensive a should be maintained to the last extremity right that's commitment that is commitment now i will say this even
on that and that a beautiful thing you shoot maintained to the last extremity that's extreme samen and i would tell you that you got that
and that and you want to maintain that but what i just said is that you know if your planishing you got to put your goingson figure out a
new plan so yeah you want to maintain it to the last extremity but just short of a last extremity is okay do aegean mature you've got a
good plan going a retreat however skillful the maneuvers may be will always produce an injurious moral affect on the army since by losing
chances excess yourself you throw them into the hands of the enemy besides retreats cost far more both in men and material than the most
bloody engagements with this difference that in battle the enemy loses nearly much as you while one treat the loss is all on your side
again a common thread that we talk about with vance with backward in that is being on the offensive is good being on the offensive is
always better than being on the defensive this is a another an i i put on no obtain this for every one of his maxims but these are you know
any not surprising that you do the sameness before each one these maxims you go wow this is an immaculation offer this before this is
another way of reinstate or re stating the same topic that we say all the time a general should say to himself many times a day is the
hasty were to make his make its appearance in front on my right or on my left what should i do and if he is embarrassed his arrangements
are bad there is something wrong he must rectify his mistake so this is the humility of constantly asking yourself okay if i got hit from
the flank right now what would i do how would i handle it am i ready for that if i'm not ready for it have make that change so constantly
assessing yourself seeing where you're at seeing how you're doing that's a common thread not just for war but for being a man and being a
human being a woman being a being a person that's trying to be successful are you looking at a looking round and in othing i i'm always
most nervous when things are going well but things are going well i'm always thinkin o ay what whence when is the bad thing in a coming
hipety know how to prepare for that how do i watch out for it how do i flank that thing be it happens to ye let them see fulget in though
in a way revel in the success i knew and nobody used to it it'll be good to em to get east to it and then yet one something does go bad or
or just different you can aloight it yet or just so into that success and immersing themselves in in that success in a yet it an now to do
i was a weak my first ponto iraq we were doing of souls in capturing badges and we got a gay and then we went and got another guy right
right on bread on top of them we entered at a hack a wouldn't go we broke down some cell and my commanding officer the time e came to me a
jonathas you know i think it was for missions in a row within twenty four hour period and he said he those operations of that was olesome
awesome worcell your baton they did a great job getting the information going back out there quick planning cycle it was just fantastic
yokosome admirable and i just looked at my said give us twenty four hours will screw it up it in a just you don't want to set expectations
as how that's how this to avoid what you were talking about to avoid be like that right you know i said no and no tsar give us twenty four
hours and and will scoot up read the ever fear like in that were in that particular case that um he could look at at it as danger you being
negative or could have obviously you're not giving what you're saying up in negative your checking himself the whole time i met do you fear
that that other hand but even your commanding officer or any one would take that is tagishes emile for emiliano i had a good great
relationship with my with all my commands offers you know why we say that's my responsibility is to have a great relationship with these
guns he knew that i was a being humble and making sure that we are on godoy even though he was trying to fire me up now you know he
probably trying to do that because everyone was kind of burned out i mean from doing staying away for whatever time and do it unchosen you
just try to you'll give some compliments and yet an i just said ay sir let what's not what's not gingras ere long to plimneus still so he
got to be careful that to operate upon lines remote from each other and without communications between them is a fault which ordinarily
occasions a second the detached column has orders only for the first day it operations for the second day may depend on what has happened
to the main body thus according to circumstances the column wasted time in waiting for orders or an act randomly so what that means is
you've got multiple elements out there and you got the main element and never breaks off from that may nomen they might know what to do the
first day but what are they do the second day and this is just going in the classic decentralized command because in reality to day in
today's world this rarely happens but we lose total communications and in the business world of an amata to wait you can literally talk to
me a instantaneously but there there's there's times in combat and in the business world and in life were instantaneously isn't fast enough
you know it is not fast enough on talk about this with decentralized command if if you know you get ambushed and you don't know what you're
supposed to do as a commander when you get ambushed you don't have a plan you don't have an overall strategy then will you now call back to
iracoson said he jocatore got again was tregonwell yolante do no i've got you you have to be out there in the field with the with the
commanders and tentat you know what's what you're supposed to do and you know that you could ambushes or the new union of break contact or
you're going to you know flank the enemy or what whatever the case may be but you're going to know what to do in a inabstinent environment
it's the same thing there's times where instant communication isn't fast enough you know i actually see this one work with like sales
people and you know there'll be some higher archy of of adjusting product pricing and you know a client will come in or a customer come in
and if that person of that front line sales person doesn't have the ability to make a a pricing decision on the spot and so you know what
sir i asheous opped it around and this is the deaycon over there i can do i hear i can take care of you we can beat that price if he can't
do that his molossi he goes let me check with my manager sure he could hang on to but there's a chance he's going to lose a so sometimes
instantaneous isn't fast enough you know it's got to be it's got to be quicker it's got to be all to happen with no communications and
that's that's what this is referring to it ought it ought then to be adopted as a principle that the calms of an army should always be kept
united so that when the enemy cannot thrust themselves between them this is something that i always preached to my seal leadership and that
is that separating your forces and some one do have to do it and it's in its a completely acceptable tactic but is always better to be
unified is always better beautified it always better to be close enough that you could in fact you can be separate but you don't easy
always need to be close enough to each other to support each other so if you don't you shouldn't be getting your you and your omen
shouldn't be getting any further away from me in my oletta we could be able to support you so with the range of my gun so the accurate of
my guns you fianco three or four hundred five hundred meters you know if you have eight guys i have ah guys and now we're getting further
than that a part i mean that really can't support you so now we're alone and that's not how you want to be so again there's times were
people have to take contulit risk but we always would say you know keep that um keep ticketers state gether as much as you can and an again
this is a imitating tactics now this is like for people that are in the military that are listening this pot cast this something to keep in
the back of your mind stay where you can cover a move stay where you can mutually support one another they should move to o u when fra
reason this maxim is departed from the detached corps should be independent in her operations they should move towards a fixed point at
which they are to unite they should march without hesitation and without new orders and should be exposed as little as possible to the
danger being attacked up any this to me goes in the contingencies where if we do get separated you've got a new a if i could separate it in
his bed an hour in coming to this fixed point and we make an open ye can i don't you hate all ye alexis going to say when you got a family
that is something you actually have to let get come up with okay if we could separate the ears when i meet it hears what time and by the
way if we don't make that muster for whatever reason in next'll be here and he got to have a little continueing with the fame the sure all
good what is must stir me ah master means bring everyone together and count how many people you have one say that next to ye say moster
azat son so next one a well established maxim for is not to do anything which your enemy wishes and for the single reason that he does so
wish kay that is pretty self explanatory don't do anything that your enemy wants you to do you should therefore avoid a field of battle
which he is reconnoitered and studied you should still you should be still more careful to avoid one which he has fortified and where he is
intrenched himself a correlate of this principle is never to attack in front a position which admits of being turned so one of the one of
the the biggest pieces that i take away from this and this is uould still be more careful to avoid one which he has fortified and where he
has intrenched himself i used to give my guise of warnings about this about these fixed positions that are intrenched and i wasn't talking
about combat you don't have taken i was talking about debate is talking about debates because you there's there's guys in this soil pays
that would lure you into some kind of a debate about let's say the strategy that the sultans reason at the strategy of the way things that
they the way they fought thing should be done and the the thing is these guys would sit there and have this argument with amongst
themselves and and with other people and so they would they would have these kind of fortified positions on them and you roll into it and
you're like you've got your experience but you're not ready for a debate on it you're not ready for these fortified positions that you're
beaten ugh howat you so don't engage in these battles and you now it's like a a i was doing sam arises a podcast you know and and i went up
there and there was some things that i thought will you he might ask me about some of these philosophical opinions on things and of course
i mean i was ready to to have a discussion but what i wasn't ready to do was like stand my ground on the topic of free will we have with
sam harris a guide that literally written in entire frock which is called free will and you as his own silk from engage with him it's
intrenched position at something that i'm not going to i'm not going to win and i am in fact you know so do some like sam harris's pretty
mellow gives i'll go to weiningen but i was in no make any practical point i you know and so i just always very cautious and again in the
business world you get people that understand some part of their business so well you have to be very carefully as to plan when you're
going to engage with them because otherwise you are going to get just you know destroyed hyeh temerite position on free will is pretty
fortified out this year and it's in and in the scary thing is is that you can actually be right about something but if you're going against
some one that's got a fortified position it you can still lose the argument and look stupid in not that is anything on with looking stupid
but you know you want to pick your bottles and red yet not that same here isn't right or anything like that the ahsenal ye no not as wasn't
definite wasn't talking specifically about about say arista's just a great example read again if the guy that felinely written a book right
old free will ye so if ye want such talk about it and i want to say no i don't agree with you he's just ready for that you know just like
every receding he lets lestrange denser i'm ready for that i've been in every position that that i got to happen in digito i've been in
there a thousand more times than him ye because i've been training for a routine so we have that discussion on free will come the same
thing i'm must not gonna we have bringing eatable is that kind o like em the guys superwomanly into conservancy theories you know and there
if they present it to they're going to have all this yes orion web in documents that they went to an ear you know yes even even if your
facts are like stronger they have so many other weapons and her ready for that war they ran of their arwenach and fortify like our your
sinorex at the hard word to win you because i'm not going to go like we shall to a before not going to go and indigo the into webs and
watch vidon vitty right now just to fight that war is to fight too and want him that early to truanting right or i tended to the fight and
when that wharf the the passage from the defensive to the offences is one of the most delicate operations of war and i actually have a a a
note of what i think is the most difficult operation of war and that is it will inking up under fire and again you know what now in talking
tactically to two people that elisei to the show that are the currently serving in the military in the police linking up with other units
other frontenac under fire is is ponomo's difficult things to do because they so much confusion people are shooting your trying to bring
friendly units together there can be bad guying between you and obviously there's bad guys in between you and the other good guys that you
have to shoot at the bad guys that means your shooting a good guys too you're nolens can hit them so it's a very very very challenging
thing to do so be careful when it comes time to link up under fire and you know what i think of when i think of this i think of when you
see companies merge it's there there you know there there moving together and there's just it's a very galling there is confusion there is
a a disorder there is a there is a merging of the chain of command of two different groups so it's it's very challenging and to anybody
that's going into some kind of a merger scenario you've got a recognize out of the gate that this is one of those hardest military
operations in one heart business operations to do sevot to be aggressive with it you've got a plan it you've got to be clear about it
you've got to do necile way don't think that you're just gonna merged you company together and i on to be all good at the very challenging
of vent to participate in it is a violation of correct principles to cause corps to act separately without communication with each other in
the face of a concentrated army with easy communications this is the same theme this idea that you want to stay together you and work
together you want a alpheus word out there again be put in catch the first time i i said it the word mutually support or the words of
mutually support you on a mute support each other now what we find in the business world is you get different elements inside of a company
that do not work together they don't communicate with each other and it's the same thing as being all about field and you got your
potention my personator not talking how we helping each other it's we're not and if we if if you've tried to hit the enemy and the enemy's
bigger and stronger than did you are alone will he's going to be you and then if i try and you know later even if it's now or later i try
and get a onest he's bigger than stronger than you and he's bigger far and musing to be be we have to join together work together at so
obvious i know is obvious and you know what you'd think it'd be obvious to people on the battle field and yet no polinice folk the need to
write that down as a maxim because people don't do it and and and lay for it in in our book we have the the the law of combat called cover
move and that's what it is about mutual support it about working together it's about team work and it's about not having silos mean our
organization where one person just is going to be on the roan or one elements on their own other elements on their own and other elements
on their own are you talking about like destructory where that i you can run the business or are you talking about where they don't
communicate because i and really like that guy it's both those talk and that now what will structional to have things structure there will
be separate elements and structurally in the military even the military there is you know there's artillery that a separate element theirs
you know logistics that a separate element you've got then you've got the the infantry companies and they'll be separate in fatuous but
they all separate but they have to work together to have to mutually support the half to communicate ray fail to do that well in a business
you've got the same thing you've got up sails branch you got an operational prince you've got an administrative brands you've got up a
marketing branch and and all those branches they have to work together to right yes to an um on a personal level it say in a i don't like
jenny from h r to do i can stand jenny for major yeates we're not going to we're not going to talk to her you know we're just we don't need
her in all working just going to continue without her kind of can attitude the yes that's a classic example if anyone decides that for
personal reasons are whatever their mocking were put some nelse that's exact or actual and it does happen in it happened so often in
businesses it's ridiculous and inhales in the military too it happens in sopitum it happens in interservice and and that's just a huge
obstacle dovecote and like i said that's why napoleon bonaparte himself put it in his maxims another one one battalion sometimes decides
the issue of the day so which battalion is lacking we don't know which element is going to hit that critical situation this to me is
bringing it back to you now being prepared and giving you know making your teams strong all of them in balancing them because one battalion
or one element one team or may be even one person can decide the issue of the day so balance is very important i just could now disconnect
go with napoleon on some of these i really couldn't it's just great stuff and herstall it should be adopted as a principle never to allow
intervals through which the enemy could penetrate between the different course fording no forming the line of battle unless you have laid a
snare into which it is your object to draw him this is very simple for people that in the military to understand it i just kind o talk
about it if you and i are the good guys and we have guns just you and me and we allow a bad guy said get in between you and me and he has a
gun now what is that you you understand yet what that does if i want to shoot the guy and i missed by accorder of an intrusted right but
tensely me it hits you he it is you because it's murphy thought not even potentially it will ending the perfessor you want always agin the
scores back to you know unity command and having your elements working together and not allowing other elements to penetrate in between
your forces interesting how he added unless it's the snaring of like unless that's like the your bating a into a atratinus that's
interesting how he added that specifically lira kind of a stout little thing to do go to it is i i don't know if napoleon would have said
it was a dolittle thing to do but but it kind o is though that thing and this is the next one same seem the camps of the same army should
always be so placed as to be able to sustain each other right you always have to be able to mutually support yutely support it as you would
say that is important a good general good officers commissioned and non commissioned good organization good instruction and strict
discipline make good troops independently of the cause for which they are fighting independently of the cause for which they are fighting a
good general good officers commissioned and non commissioned good organization good instruction in strictest upon make good troops
independent of the cause for which they are fighting so you can actually just have a incredibly strong force that can operate at a high
level regardless of the cause that there fighting for a just because they have those things but yet like kind of what i've told you before
where if you you know you are trained and disciplined trained in all these things all way down to just look at for example if you if you
were trained in by whatever means your train to show up on time every thing to me where you know never be late to the point where being
late could very well be the end of the world for you like a train that heard in never being like that's goin to git on for a certain
situation like you're in the military right to you not to be late the militar so now when you get out when you show up for work when you
show up for drinks with your friend gances are ye there going to be late of course and that goes for you know the skills the displenishing
else you're trained in her the first quality and missus norgate it is the first quality of a soldier in constancy in enduring thicke and
hardship courages only the second so the first quality of a soldier is constancy in enduring fatigue and archias is the isis napoleon
bonaparte saying the compost important thing the most important cality of a soldier is that they that they can endure fatigue and hardship
courage is only second poverty privation and want are the school of the good soldier so now when you look at any of the elite military
training schools that those get that people get put through but one is it about it's about poverty privation and want he know it about been
hungry cold tired miserable that's what they do no privation i looked at word up actually a state in which things that are essential for
human well being are lacking in that's what they do and you know for me you know i was stockinglike you know i don't sleep a lot and wake
up early that's one of those things that will it was pre natural to me luckily there's some biological genetic reasoner whatever but that
was very helpful to me very helpful for men do not have to sleep alone ye and beale to suffer through that well was was beneficial and you
was a lot of guys that have that that now in debilitate that talent have a rough time he as you know as warriors in a real sense you should
by all means encourage the soldiers to continue in the service this you can easily do by testifying greatest old soldiers they do every
well in the military you know the older more experienced veteran soldiers get alotepec the pay should also be increased in proportion to
the years in service there is a great injustice in having no higher pay to a bedroom than to her accrues that's good now when i read this
this didn't particularly strike me as in an portarait bring up but it reminded me of a story that always stuck with me and so i was over in
rybody and i was working with a with the italian call the first the five six band of brothers here red cure just unbelievably awesome and
heroic soldiers and i went over there for a meeting with the commander of the battalion and i shall have to meeting early of course i was
meaning himselfe but and this guy was a was just an incredible leader and an incredible soldier and really an incredible man that i and
could not have any more respect for him and i the itusi his name right now because i don't want to interrupt his privacy in his world you
know i don't know if he wants to have his name sat on a pot cast you know and we talk about him in the book and i don't put his name in
their either and again this is out o respect for people's privacy and also out of you know security reasons you know he doesn't want to
have the insurgents in terrorised knowing that he was this guy so but i will tell the igorrotes tic leader and a sort wentilating with a
visit of one on one meeting at forget well we were talking about by showed up early and he's in there indianer you know he he's kind of
talking to a soldier i can't hear what he sang and there's a a soldier and was interesting up this is these in the army seeing the seal
teams when you go will you join us elpenor two years or whatever how however long as can be you stay in that sealed you do work upside and
then you go out on deployment and the army does a little bit differently the army you could be three months into a year long to planet to
iraq and they will just stop those leaf that they'll their time their time in the army is up in a tool or and in some new guy will show up
and he'll be the middle of the poet and that's how they do it the sea pies doesn't let you that you know you can a stick together for an
entire straight six or seven months oponent so i shall do his men with the biting commander and to the soldier that was in before me walks
out and ah the colonel as i sat down as a syrian good sez i can't good to see a roman and he said you know a direct there is a soldiers get
out of the army and i said oh it's interesting how you guys do that he said you and he and i said ah you what you say to these guys when
they're getting out of the army and this a medal of the deployment and he looked at me i said you know when i deal with a soldier that get
out of the army said a lot of people who will say you can't leave us now you know you got to stick it out with us you got to stay here you
we need you and he said when a doll with a soldier that's getting out of the army i look at him and i shake their hands and i say thank you
for your service and that to me was just a something to to to have a totally different attitude because the seal came is is like that is
well sons going to get out a sikeology in the middle a point but when you get back those all you getting out and every one says all you're
a quainter but baba in insisted differ attitude in what is that what is the tell you about your community when you say ay you know hantee
on i'm goin to take care o my family i got you know i got one ever going on in my life and i'm an get out of this seelem and people are
like oh you're a quitter and that's normal men do that every branch snatches as yelpings and here was this guineas attitude was he's going
to say thank you for your service he preciate everything you've done and i wish you best like that guy is more willing to change his mind
because he's like olamon for any credible leader of the armies also ran and that that story always stuck with me about about how the truth
people about how to treat people as the guide put his life from the wine for months on end and only did we do say said you for your service
ye that's a leader i there next one it is not by aransas the moment of engaging soldiers are rendered brave veterans hardly listen to them
and recruits forget them at the first discharge of a cannon a speeches and arguments are at any time useful it is during the course of the
campaign by counteracting false reports and causes of discontent maintaining proper spirit in the camp and furnishing subjects of
conversations in the ox the several objects be may be attained by the printed orders of the day and in insolitis again as a leader in
leadership position this is basically say look at the moment of combat all year yellownose in and trigamia people as to ate the veterans
like the veterans arnest you and her cruttendens off their not here in you either so your main focus needs to be you know during the the
nonie fights canarios that's when you get people with the mind set that's goin to drive them through these beds situations and if you're
trying to do this thing encourage people during the tiring the fire fight you late seem of the night nothing is more important in war than
unity in command when therefore you are carrying on hostilities against a single power only you should have the one army action one line
and led by one commander does that even need explanation not really not a eity of command there are certain things in war of which the
commander alone comprehends the importance nothing but his superior firmness and ability can subdue and surmount all difficulties is the
burdeen this is recognizing when you're in a command position and when you are no lorship position there is some things that are years
alone and you have to drive from the top and i i talk all the time about leadership being at every level and and how the lowest rank and
guy is a leader and the person above him as leader all the way through the whole chadakoin but this statement which i agree with as much as
i no that leadership throughout the chinomania is infinitely in portant it is important as a leader to understand that there's some things
that you and you will own are going to understand and it's your responsibility to insure that that peace of the battle is handled correctly
this one's a little bit long imagine reader any atafaris generals and officers to lay down their arms by virtue of a special capitulation
under any other circumstances than when they constitute the garrison of a four five place would unquestionably be attended with dangerous
consequences to open this door cowards to men wanting in energy or even misguided brave men is to destroy the military spirit of a nation
from the poleon there can be no surrender an extraordinary situation requires extraordinary resolution no taken underlying in red and
extraordinary situation requires extraordinary resolution how many things apparently impossible had nevertheless been performed by resolute
men who had no alternative but death strong words verstraete could go throughout military history in fine case upon case where i would tell
you yes absolutely that commandement wise this ision to surrender and you know that's the are situations where that happens but i think the
main point of this is that to have that out there to have that as a thing ruitis not smart is not smart and you going in with an tamaitai's
if you get caught missmiss don't tap let it break get if you get for the choke go to sleep just do you there's no submission you are not
capping now obsedit to gods and i've had some guys get out of some orazi submissions that they should attack to maybe they got a little bit
injured but they got out and and a most sad gustet caught in likesome gather stating submissions in the like anoatok i'm going to tap
because but the fact that that attitude was an out there right up yentai like okay you know and if you get cat you don't want us at i mean
you're not going to say to a fight or kayoo if you coenabat armory know just tap no no you got about our back get out of it eh incompletion
let any grain emmeline ye i mean oyeyama i'll go ye trading sorry folks if you're in training dapperly and tapped offside okay so when you
say having that be a thing that's out there meaning there's almost not out on a seat ashamed but almost like etiquette is to not the render
that etiquette and it's so much an edict where it it's here you don't surrender it is three planning this don't orgreave edicate there's a
better word for it there's a word i don't know where it is but not all any kid it's it's or he fell riatas as or ethos do not surrender
right so one some one does the render when it's a good boonies like every one in a there is a it's like man he it is there was literally no
other righteous and seas to a yeah but to not have it out there you know that that commander took it to the end stir and said you know what
all of my manner going to die from no reason now if i continue on with us sir interfere we are going to stranger and end of a will come
back to fight another day yea otherwise ye it's if you know if if i don't know some one even had this much mental weakness going round he
could get and that could kick in at a hole other time to iole's under the certain kind of mind set that man i could look for the easiest
way out right here you up real tired or man my shoulder got hurt on that last one she so maybe i'll just you know a but if using that mind
set that don't give up he just can't cerne he won't even eat consider that that won't even enter its mind that's what i'm talking about
that's exactly what i'm talking about such conduct such conduct ought to be prescribed pronounced infamous and punishable with death the
generals officers and soldiers who in battle have saved their lives by capitulating ought to be designated he commands the arms to be
surrendered and those who obey him are alike traitors and isoro capital punishment they finite give up usefulness what they say i that's
exactly what they're saying now we're going to get new little bit of a something that we now refer to his extreme ownership a general in
chief cannot exonerate himself from responsibility for for his fault by pleading an order of his sovereign or the minister when the
individual from whom he perceives is at a distance from the field of operations and a partially or not at all acquainted with the actual
conditions of things so you if i tell you to do something and it doesn't go well for you at your ottewells and i told you i charge this
machine gun nest and you do it every one dies and you come back and say head but wasn't my fault or a jackassable point is here no doesn't
work that way does not work that way hence it follows that every general intrigue chief who undertakes to execute a plan which he knows to
be bad is culpable so if i tell you go at im achingness you know it's a bad plan and you executed any way your fault that's kind o like a
in that hole idea is you take responsibility for your direct actions right so it's kind of like if you do the opposite of that it's like
okay i you know i will speeding i got pot rare speed and got a ticket is that my fault cause yes it's my fault but in a way if o want to
exercise with this concept in a way it's my parents fault for having me for mimitarai me the value of following traffic currant glantha the
destruction were that's just completely resais the same thing an you can't blame your parents for your speeding chocolate and rayless you
do that's the point that's the point of young e it that that's an appoint here is that if you are doing something is this is even more of
extreme point this is if your parents tell you to speed and you go out and get conspuing apoleo only hay my barnshoot even more direct you
that's what i'm saying is you knew it was wrong you know you shouldn't be doing it and what napoleon is saying is it's your fault you are
coupable godaveri it teriitera perieu knew it was wrong soulmate plan of action de express the you know that the the mission or whatever is
wrong yahouh got camutones on in fact he goes on he should communicate his reason insist on a change of plan and finally ravine his
commission rather than become the instrument of the others armies ruin this is just the busiest probably the most powerful thing or goin to
talk about to night i want readin a general chief cannot exonerate himself from responsibility for his fault by pleading an order of his
sovereign of the minister when the individual from whom it proceeded that a distance from the field of operations and a partially or not at
all acquainted with the actual condition of things so that this is an order of it coming on from kind from somebody that doesn't know hence
it follows that every general in chief who undertakes to execute a plan which he knows to be bad as culpable he should communicate his
reasons insist on a change of plan and finally resigned his commission so quit his job rather than become an instrument of his armies ruin
every general in chief who in consequence of orders from his superiors gives battle with the certainty of defeat is equally culpable this
is ownership this is he i got told to do something i dogeetah lotless to me her this is not the way we need to excite this hears a better
plan here's another plan here as there's an alternative because if you give battle with the certainty of defeat your culpable regardless of
otoyo do what individual responsibility and this is especially important to have this concept coming from somebody that was as egotistical
and expected so much discipline from his troop that have napoleon himself saying this like if it's a bad order you shouldn't do it this is
napoleon saying this so that's how unfortnet is to have this this culture in your organization to make sure that everybody knows regardless
of what you get told you've got to do the right thing and it's every one's individual responsibility to take extreme ownership of
everything that's happening and not to say you know what one piment portering ropeman blame them when something goes wrong i yet i talked
about this before you know me times i blamed my bosses for things of werowero never blemmyes he how could it ever be there fall i was in
charge and if they told me to do something that was stupid i would tell him look in on doing that here's a lie let's find a better way the
first qualification of a general in chief is to possess a cool head so that things may appear to him in their true proportions and as they
really are its beautiful the ebutius statement possess a cool head so that things may appear to him in their troop proportion and as they
relieve are he should not suffer himself to be unduly affected by good or bad news the impressions which are made upon his mind
successively or simultaneously in the course of a day should be so classified in his memory that each shall occupy its proper place for
sound reasoning and judgment resolved from first examining each of these varied impressions by itself and then comparing them all with one
another she anear all these things all these different impressions you're goin to get rumors gossip reports proriger these first report war
is always wrong can hear all that stuff you got an you got a detach from it you can't get emotional you gotta categorized then once you
hear them all you can look at them and assess them all their own light there are reason there are that there are some men who from their
physical and moral constitution jack every thing in the colors of imagination with whatever knowledge colens courage or other good
qualities these may be endowed nature has not fitted them for the command of armies and the direction of the great operations of war so
anybody that gets emotional that claathes here something in less it clouds their decisions that gets too close to problems they are not cut
out to lead in war and i won a hundred per cent agree with that and are not cutout to lead in any situation to be familiar with the
geography and support of the country to be skilful in making reconnoissance to be attentive to the despatch of orders to be capable of
exhibiting with simplicity the most complicated movements of an army these are qualifications that should distinguish the officer called to
the station of chief of staff and my favorite of those is to be capable of exhibiting with simplicity the most complicated movements of the
army a talk about all this disallied one of our laws of combat it at shafter and extreme ownership that we wrote about in simplicity in a
lot of times with alabout giving clear concise orders simple clear concise orders so that at another mark of some one that can lead well is
some one can take complex ideas simplify them and communicate them in a simple manner that like inweigle people name move yes a doelike to
give moveamur move all have like you know for five six ten parts to that move details that important to to make the move name at one move
you've learned that home love so it takes these complex orders or moves and simplifies it yes such one you communicating in an ahuehuete
are i mean their definitely or coaches that can take complex moves break them down very simply and that is that it will make her good
instructor right that is what makes a good instructor some one that can explain to you exactly what you do with your weight exactly where
you put your fore arm exactly and then and then explain you that you know what this might be willed from you for you because you are
different human but here's exactly what i do and here's the effect that i'm looking for when i do it very simple that's where we're looking
for the first principle of the general in chief is to calculate what he must do to see if he has all the means to surmount the obstacles
with which the enemy can oppose him and when he has made his decision to do everything to overcome them again that's to me is about
commitment next war is composed of nothing but accidents and avowal to general principles a general should never lose sight of everything
to enable him to profit from these accidents that is the mark of a genius in war there is the one favourable mon moment the great art is
deceases obviously yogibogeybox ly these that's just there's there's moments there's opportunity there's opportunitate you for you have
that opportunity the art is to seize it very simply defensive war does not exclude attacking just as offensive word as not exclude
defending although its aim may be to force the frontier and invaded the enemy's country i just think it's important to not only think about
ausheton into finding at the same time and i ending in attacking at the same time but also we got her member the the contradiction in the
fact that he is a guy that talks but often often often but even he has to balance that with defence even napolione sayings and will do the
last one a doubtful general who acts without principles and without plan even though he lied even though he lead an army temerity superior
to that of the enemy almost always finds himself inferior to the latter on the field of battle fumblings the middle course lose all in warm
and i just like the fact that he thought in about principle leadership and i would say that principal leadership not just in a leadership
position but as a person what are your principles as a person and if you have principles as a human and you stand by those principles
you're going to be successful you're going to win whereas if you take the middle course and you way for or they don't just don't have
principle on which to stand then you fall apart and i think that everybody should look to define what their principles are he actually
define them i can tell you that i would love to tell you that when i was you know nineteen years old i sat down and wrote down jocko's
principles of life i did know that i i wish i would have and i and i can tell you that as i grew up in the sualtem's there i probably added
principles and and i had some bad ones and addison good ones and i think that those those principles though when you get to a point well
you know that your principles are solid and honestly to me the best or the hetheridges thing of done to define the principles that i live
by is really the book that lay for i wrote extreme ownership that he that was the combination of twenty years in the sites and putting
together the principles that that that i lived by and the survived by so i think it's just very important to think about what your
principles are as a person what your trying to give and have those principles like a guiding strategy underneath everything that you're
doing and as one thing that's good about these podcast it is that you now i'm i'm i've been lucky enough to capture some of these you know
like the bladders that we read last of you counting letters i'm talking about my personal principles in those those were my principles on
how to lead and so i think it's important to come up with those pintles and define them and let those principles of reflect you know who
you are as a person and what you want to be and i wish that i would have been told to do that when i was thirteen years old because i think
it is that important as a person yes in it it seems like anyway that defining your principles it it seems like that's a m that's kind of an
ongoing process yes because it's one of the things where you think you have your principles you know but i don't know for example you could
have just heard it on some speech that really resonated with you so you odenton you have pretended that i ectini les now but you haven't
really defined them you just kind of like to that sound it and you may be satan to three situations where an pies to me and let me tell you
or your talking about rihow your number one principle should be free or mind and an anavalt to never say the principles that i am standing
upon our ever going to change because i know everything right now and we sought ratis before if i know i i would have if i look at myself
ten years ago i know nothing compared to what i know now you faloose twenty years ago i know even the last time just a lost animal now the
woods so you have to you know build these principles and like you said but i and i think there's a difference between being a footfarer
like in a year politicians give you know o your foot poterius you said you don't sport on a trooly and now you you you do sportingly don't
support or whatever are you do support bringing in rugge's or not so everyone get called a foot flopper and and i actually i think there's
some cart principles that shouldn't change even for a politician and even for a person but there's a lot of peripoli think there's pereal
principles that do of all and do change in you do and up with hieropoioi ties in your life and i think that's okay you know there was a
large portion of my life what were the saltem was absolutely the most important thing and nothing else was even a close second including
things like my personal health including things like my own family including things like my future the everything was just completely
unimportant compared to the silts and while that makes for a fire up seal and and i wouldn't trade that i would even want to change that
principal i mean that it's what i needed at the time to do a good job but you know at some point i had to say okay i i need to think about
something else i yield very i need to a valve as a human yes and in you know little things like i needed take care of my family you know i
need actually pay attention to them and not just pay attention to my seal pontooner my seal tasking it or the guisarts to you so i think
it's okay to evolve your principles but i think more important is that you need to define your principles and where you are and that also
is a way to check your growth and see what course ran if you know this i won't think that i talk about when i was a selinus to talk about
this the most important piece of information on the battle field what do you think the most important piece of information on the battle
field is echo echo has no idea i can come up with an idea but i'll take a little bit ye size to ask that question to everybody to sin your
guy's junior guys and they'd all kinds you know where you know where the bagus are what you know where the target is i mean they everyone
different answers and there is actually only one answer the vows to important a piece of information that you could have on the battle
field is were you are tsor you are on the battlefield do know where you're at if you don't know where you're at does it really matter if
you know where the enemy is no cause you don't even know where you are is if if you don't know where you're at canyou even navagate
correctly now but he don't know where you are if you don't know where you're at can you get closer support can you call for air craft a
comin in trophomis no you don't even know where you are so that piece of batmen how do you know where you are if you're not tracking what
your principles are a danser is you're not you're not going to you're not going to know where you are you not monsieur voland when i work
with businesses i use the same fanfoune is we'll go out and operate all foisting now you have to trust your instinct after understand it
but you all safe to track what the facts are you know i say like where your matric how do you know what you did last year this time in
profitability how do you know what you did in salsun what you did in product development if you're not tracking it you don't know where you
are on the battle field and if you don't know where you are in the botfield you're lost to the ear principles kinda just continued to be
more and more informed you know like you do don't about when you're thirteen or sixty hour or old where you think you have these rinciple
because on an a elise to henry rawlins but as you conduct yourself through life with an open mind and all these easy year offered all these
different perspectives that start the solidify your principles so he tuck out the diference to in a flipflop er and then and some one who's
who isaphiny open my nitrides yet the differences that someone who continuously evolved war have an open minutes time have pretty concrete
pitiless so when they're offered something significant that is a simply a difference in perspective that is going at that's going a
essentially on a infiniment a way a line with their principles of their principles are fairness in the you know these these things that are
in arguably good marning party for insie there gunny evolve one these separate perspective givest attem and thus solidifying their
principle even more yes and echoed the word thus and i like that i like that not sure and i think that's a i this is good good thing to
keep in mind as you know people moved forward is what are your prints boss how day of all thing how are they improving it have they gotten
better those are great questions for every individual vaskmenton on asiae right now on the jackaroos live heaping so speaking which we got
to question speaking a question speeton the first question in episode five mention treating people with a blank slate how do you deal with
misjudging a person in the event of you misjudge in there so that was now in reference to a person that that we went to a counseling sheet
on and the fact was it had heard some bad stuff about him you know that i am at reputation et cetera and so i was saying that he you know i
i treat every one look like a blank slate and so first of it talk or up his before is i set low expectations for people on for i don't have
a super high expectations of what they're going to do and how well they're going to deliver an axe somebody hit me on tweedy and said
something along the lines of i like the fact that every one with you starts its erotika im any said i the same way he said he was the same
way and i think that's a it's a pretty good attitude doubt like every one starts at zero you know and and that's a better way to put it in
my opinion the atlanteans seller you okay you have a zero and an agannonsioni a negative person but i just don't set high expectations i
sat in a zero in look you show me who you are i'm not gonna predict one way or the other and i understand that people do crazy things and
and people are crazy in many ways there ye go there personality there issues in people there a motions people do crazy things so i don't
that's another thing that keeps me from giving people all kinds of credit out of the gate and and i do we what other people say you i i
take it into account but i definitely am careful to use my own judgment and not cloud my vision with what somebody else said about soon so
so deloode with mis judging a person it's kind of what we were just talking about i don't set permanent judgment on some one and say echoes
back and i don't like him and i don't trust him that's not a permanent thing you know i i'm going to build from zero and i'm goin to say oh
you don't want actually say he he did a good job with that or hey head my back on that so i'm not stuck in my ways and i don't i don't hold
grudges against people and say this person is never can change that being sad man it's hard to change the spots of the leporine people are
who they are it's a very difficult yes sir some people can grow and change in a valve and that's great but a lot of people they are who
they are and so you have to take that into count as well bred yet when you say like trusting from one one's littesters you in whatever way
and then in a week later whatever they had your back in a way that was really unexpected compared to melanthea that they did so basically
what that doesn't help paint an overall picture of what kind of jepson this is on you so work is like on a may be i can trust them in this
type of situation they are one in these benefits and in an detriments are or in play and these other situations i can't so ended then as
you have more and more extent people they paint more but picture jeff so trust he can sing trust at such a broad breast trirene retinendis
are involved involved you can't trust the certain person to do or not do certain things but to offer up different incentives than you know
you can trust them and yet penalising the same comer you saying as one i'm saying is i don't know can i miss a judge some one because my
judgment is not a permanent all all powerful statement of one time yes i'm constantly looking at peepul and like you said learning
impressions of their whole there whole entity in what they're all about next so at starting out in judith how do you find a good chin in
your area okay so this is actually a question you know we plucked to one out of many of people that have hit us up on on tetebout where to
find a good presiding you did so jim because people and think people will have heard us talk about you gits and he heard me talking about
it with your roan you know her retail tim parisian something that i talk about something that is definitely a big part of my life i know
it's a big part of your life as well and so people think you i'd like to check that out then i think that's awesome and if you're out there
and you're going to ask me if you should start you gito and you're going to give me a whole bunch of qualifiers that your old dirty work a
lot or you you've been sick or you've been injured or whatever you're going to tell me and i can tell you ninety nine point ninety nine
ninety nine point nine percent of the time my answer is going to be yes you should start you gesipoor sicknesses contagious except to your
sick this is contagious or if you're a bully or you're a sayshore person that's hungry for power i mannsell you don't yes um start you gits
because you're going to use it for bad things yet and even before that i think you might get it turned on you in the hall like as yet
really easy to depend on the school but for the most part it's really easy to spot a believe when i come he is item and if you and it
doesn't fair well it doesn't uneatable farewell for a day even maybe one five minute matters someone that yet man it doesn't yeguas a self
regulating ye for the most part yes as alreadie seeing very few people can maintain and and most people with bully belin attitudes don't
have the humility to continue intuition a long time anyway ses yes at all it that's another way that itself polices so how do you find a
good a jugerum obviously he start we google you find out some locations to me proximity is very important so you want to place that you
know on your way to wagon your way home from or of cost your house so that somewhere that you're going to get in there and train but you
want a sign up for a gym and never go because it's too far to out of the way so proximity is definitely a a factor than you and ask
yourself what are you looking for because juicier tremendously in how their set up how they're run and all those things i mean there's
really super traditional brasingham's were they yeowomen you get on the mat you bow after you you bowed the instructor when you are going
to talk to him you are very averse strict with uniform as though you know only a white uniform you have to have this certain path on your
uniform to represent the school that's that's one type of ah atmosphere that you could have then you go have a very loose atmosphere
where's like you know you're going to come in your nitrate is no bawling there's there's hand shakes and there is a rush back but it's not
as old fir and not as imposed as it would be in a more traditional presinting for you know for me i always enow and an if you come to my
jim it's a very is a very real act atmosphere in terms of traditionally imposed discipline but when you roll there will be disappointed
fossett's pretty dynamic though like we are such a big group yet of people that to go in there and to get a non competitive roll is you can
easily do it mister invaluit ease to choose it's eaters to be like a key i know miss rooigrond it's gonna it's going to pomeliere day and
mariana bring it or you know what i'm going to show with these guys over her and were to work on so sacandagy but that ye so that's that's
good that is good um you you know there's also a are you going to go to a school that's a very focused on fort you gittith is hay were
going to compete we're going to learn the technique that are very applicable to stew competing in jugemanland something that's more
concords self defense or and or mama in a class example i think of that is the ah is the fifty fifty guard were in this position
injudicious were if your innouie situation your very vulnerable to a devastating submission call the helve and so it's but there's there's
certain competition rules that don't allow for helonin so depending on what kind of school your at one of them you're going to get dirging
to be in in a different situation in that did not won position and any now actually in our schwegler both but do you want to do and the mad
folk is do you want a dog or no gie and again there's benefits to both those and they're both fun and i like training both um see see got a
kind of think about what you're looking for and then and then bring that into the school and and then go tracasser you know take some
classes at a school and see what they're like what are the other students like you know what kind of atmosphere is it ah do they have like
the similar goals if you want a complete if that's your goal then all the other people that you talk to are they like yeah i can beat all
the time there's a turnin coming up or the like as you know we can be sometimes or actually out of care about computing cause there's
plantel that change you justitiae about computing it is there the what's the attitude what's is there egos i or arbelite to kill you which
which ninety nine percent of the time in a judicious knock on to happen but it can happen it can happen so what will and then and then it's
like what was the instructor like is he instructed personal as that is the instructor you know what we salaries he clearer as he concise is
the understand can you understand him can you understand the ways explaining moves now there's you've got to give a little leeway there if
you jump into a class that's an advanced class you're not going understand it rethink you know and people ask me of how to get started on
judicandi tell me go and merging training just like a language just get in there and start training in your going to get destroyed at first
and then you're going to slowly learn in the next thing you know that's the fastest way to learn a language is to get in the mercian do the
same thing with you get to ah is the instruct ger having fun is the guy having found or the girl are they have in fun teaching is it a fond
thing because you want you get so to be fond and you want the instructed to be having from oninterestin having fun will then what you know
what they going to be like in six months if they don't have the fun to day a little over the old be like in six months so that's that's
another important base yet when you talk about what um what you're looking for you in injin in my experience there's so many elements of it
to look for like if you know when you if you say okay them i do i want to learn em malanin amamare fighting is the sport of fighting
compared to like for example the good bedigree came torrents there diesase defense in regard to fighting getting into a fight or some one
attacks you and a fight that's way different than training and mama ringing emissory of emiretur going to learn a lot of moves the or not
probably not get to learn things that acquitance an attack or i mean you will you'll you will but not focus on that you're not going to
learn stuff that in attacker is going to do to you so etaient ation is just the fighting part alone yes not to mention the competition pay
big then no gethin all these dynamic moons like if you go ten planet ten plenitudine gracy coney torrent or almost like through different
sports almost yes and they are but it at same time you're going to get you're goin to get you get that that's a younger and i and that's
the important thing i see you i do and just like we talked about the evolution of your principles let your you don't you're game should
evolve as well and almost everybody that never done to it so before if you said oh why do you want to take your disunity per cent of them
are going say i selfdefence right and answered because it's kiotes at mongondro or myself there is not to be people that are going to be
you saying you know what i really have become interested in this cerebro aspect of judicial which may be some people that will listen to us
talk about it or listen to jo rouendale about it you know they'll say oh backus talking about this thing as if it's a very cerebral
experience so many someone but but most be goiloor other imself on mature so but you're going to valdescus atherix months of training you
can handle yourself in the street regardless of you in patent planter you have a grace anyone to handle yourself in the street he is so
then it becomes an obsession of how the table happened to her new throat you got o yes what you got to be ready to fall and when you are at
that point if you go to you know school a verses if you went to school be you're experiences gonna be a lot different and it's going to
depend on what you reaking for in the beginning but none the less yet if he is it is i wasseige school head that that that parts not really
going to change ye you're going to lendeth it is a beautiful thing a the other thing that i got to say is you got it you get as much as i
love it do you go to his not a religion and you know the the black belt instructor at the school does not have contact or direct
communications with god write so just i think keep that mind it's a person that is trained in the sport for a longer than you okays just
keep that in mind it's not a colt there there should be an open atmosphere in my opinion you should be looking for a digitisation open
atmosphere not a colt controlling atmosphere um you know the that being said in and i said this already respect yes absolutely you should
respect the people that are there and respect your training partners and respect your instructors for sure but you shouldn't be worshipping
them and they shouldn't be expecting you to worship them so just be advised because you get do it should be fun it's be friendly to be
gauging the atmosphere should be good and it should be competitive without being conforto should want to go without fear of having a death
match every single night i molestas what you're looking for and you to said that echolike i go in every night looking for death match
against being against you against and you know against who congregrated me our crew of murderers i'm i'm going in for death mateery night
anyone i don't want it outmantle it to him because because that's how i'm getting better that's part of my own personal will to say you
know what regardless am in there to put it on the line and an throwin there and if they get the best of me cool so be i learned i got
better and i i definitely got better than i bored if i was either a sitting on the side of the mat browish some one that's not as good or
sea standin home so yet that's so interesting help oh it really does a comedy who you are like you when you see when you go in looking for
it hadeth match every night that totally makes sense because of who you are and who i understand you to be but at the same time in the same
gem on the same mat dear there einheriar who you know who you all you you know and getting his black felt a bunch in knowledge but he is
not going for any death match there was you know older di uma's what soul in my opinion good about it sir so it accommodated to you are so
much like me i you both like their odasete master but most as noodeletarians sever every two weeks to be two weeks we get the death match
of achaea so yes i go out there and joy ogeeehee you don't fall into a cult next do you eat fruit and it's though how often and if not why
not not so the orgasm times in a form oh but if you have asked me if you should eat fruit i would basically said no i don't recommend it
and again this is just a a if you talk to damaggoo whose a doctor or or mister paleese rob wolf if you if you toneless and his pocasse or
doctor peter a tea you know who a factor but before these guys even know what they're talking about and they will tell you what i'm telling
you and these guys will back it up with the science upon science upon science so fruit carraras spike or in so level just not good for you
am again then my inexterminable blueberries get you blueberries on kitchou blackberries on that's awesome but take a bunch of fruit and put
it with some apple juice and mix it up in a blunder and eat you know four hundred grams a carbohydrate and one shot no don't do that it's
not good for you have you ever eaten and i'm not saying when you're on the program so to speak have you ever eaten the whole box of dona
negative a hereinafter here kissing her then it did not make did not work out he pillowed ye say ye don't eat through that's more of like
one you're on the program reine did you hear it you want i know when a on the program yet raheen you on the mole said you i i when when
you're when you're trying to eat clean which you should be trying to get clean eighty per cent of the time as any one will tell you m you
know keep a clean and and keep it too you know fat and and protein you can do it a little bit of a subject change when if ever is it a good
time to blow up at some one the loser temper will blow up at some one in los you temper to different things right did i finis i good
eloping cut i think most people would think that they were of the same thing losing your temper and blowing up at some one and i can tell
you that is almost never good to do that i when i say almost never i mean never with the tiniest cavato there is some possible scenarios
where it might need to happen so if you lose your temper and you blow up as somebody what are you what are you showing your showing that
you can't control your temper and if you can't control your temper than what can you control right that the animals you should show no
emotions because if you should know motions in your robot and robots can't lead people and people don't follow robots so there's some
obviously some level of showing emotion is needed but if you're losing your temper you're not thinking clearly ain't if you are not
thinking clearly because you've lost your temper you can't even read their reactions to what you're saying and you the fact that your
blowing up is is clouding your own vision the package losing your temper is clouding your own vision and so you got it detach in order to
be observant and ordered to watch what your actions are so if you do have to blow up and when okyon when it is almost never happen if he if
you were working for me and you did something long mum and i said echo and it was grievous there was a pretty grieves my icould have got
someone hurt is an echo he do this was bad this is what happened i don't know what i did wrong that thought they made you think i would be
okay but whatever i image i gave you that made you think this was okay i visitors mistake i ever made we never let this happen again okay
you're like a key and then four days later you do to gain and i'd come at the same approach maybe a little bit different like a echo i i
don't know if it anything i could do to make this more clear than i did and what can i do to make her sense so we might go three or four or
five in erratas may be one more iteration i should say three iterations of you not you failing to do what you're supposed to do and getting
some one hever almost getting some one hurt so now i okay he hasn't listened to the indirect or proach he hasn't listening to direct to
proach he hasn't i've taken over chipotata in any yet i need to come out of a different angle okay i need to lose my temper with him and
it's goin to be calculation and i won't actually lose my temper in it but i will raise my voice i will get loud i will point and i will
make damn sure that you understand that this infraction that you have committed is severe and grievous and can never happen again and
that's the situation where i would quote on quote blow up at somebody it is so rare that it so rare that in my military came off it ought
my head i can remember one and only one incident of this where i actually said you know what this was this was a bad mistake i could see
where these guys think they might be able to get away with us again in the future and i'm going to make sure that they realized that was it
the kind where they not like they made the same mistake is more like they chose to do something short a something a certain way and in my
my assessment of it was that they would do it again if i didn't make it perfectly clear that this could never happen again and so i raised
my voice i pointed in the face and you know gave them twenty seconds of of intensity and the situation ever happen again and the pongos but
over all not a good thing i don't lose your temper people don't do it yelled in losing your temper not blowing up at someone using your
temple for losin it is you can be hard it's going to be hard to think the situation where that school yes okay and i'll tell you on i know
when i lose my temper i olalla i do as my camporeale once every six months and it is almost always with inanimate objects the name we
objects that prince or copy or compute in some way you know electronics sometimes i i get agitare yehol want to keep that in private areas
right you know what people to see that ye like my wife will hear me sons every sex mons seno and she'll come in and she'll be like a
printer and a yeah she says your stupid i go now she goes at dozena you yell at it he lessino i like terence that sonething looking were
look look at his next question you're specific lifting work out your weekly training schedule including ogita this is a big question in
this felstede jesoot there in the world this like on someone sitadaka i pass your guard he cause i have a good guard see you know some one
that is a blue belch we'll say you a i i how do i pass your guard you know and they i in literally i have guise at the gym that are brown
belts and black belts that pass my guard once every six months you know so my gadsbud and you know here's a boliadoras regard so this this
question kinder reminds me of that a little bit um specific lifting work out in weekly training schedule on gigito so this is of the big
ass and here's the problem that i have won us i'm an individual and i have strength and weaknesses i have whatever little injury thing that
a working through at a particular time i have things that i liked to do and i have things that i don't like to do i have i i'm an
individual and my work out is for me and and if taken and if you know sometimes people will go on a trip and they'll be guida's natly
you'll say all you you know i want to i want to go ho through when you work out with you and i say i ay and i've done that and and i've had
guys like almost hospitalized from going through one of my work out and that's not good and then i've had other guys that there's guys out
there that will just trust me in work out you know and especially you don't versaret that i have that i could be most of the war alpino
know there's work out that i have that i could crush anybody in entiers work out that some you know the yogurt or could put me through that
would crush me right so my point is that you get some people that i that would die to one of my work house and you get some people that
would it be my one i work out is no impact is there incredible athleen so why would either one of them wanted you my workhouse it's doesn't
make any sense that they would want to do that so what i've been trying to think of that i get asked all the time we are what your work out
what your work on what you work out in an so what i've been trying to figure out his how to do this how do i how do i communicate what i'm
doing and when i've when i've been kind of go on through the idea in my head is putting together a a like an evil and actually put this out
on toward her is like oh altrieve people like able people key do it do it so it's note that's already been floated out there unfortunately
it's not but a lot of time to be right in books but what what the folks would be would be yet like the types of exercise that i do yes but
and and you know cenaeum bers of that i that i do of them but more importantly going to a from a leadership perspective is what is the
intent what is the commanders intent of my work out what am i trying to accomplish because for you and me to accomplish the same thing is
going to be a differ a very different work out right if if i want to if i want to take myself to a dot an arabic threshold for a total of
fifteen minutes what i would do to get there is very different from what you would do to get there it just it just is if i wanted to
destroy my legs with heavy squat it would be very different between what you were doing what i would do so what's important is is not the
actual exercises that doing it the intent and machining that attempt it emaciating that intense like i can do a decent amount of polyps
right and an in an o my poor athout i might do five hundred ports or three hundred pots there's a lot of people that can't do a hundred
pops soonest in the work out right not three hundred been i can hear her polson around all wish i can but but my intent is to yell mac to
do a number of maximum sets of poesia then do a number of slow you know very good form maximum sat and any intent is to get stronger a
polyp by doing you know of high number of maximum sets and i think that intense to give the people with the okay so that way if echoes not
that upon and you okay wharton and i know what the intent i am trying to get to a point of failure even on one single poop and it might
take you only fifteen minutes to do that and thirty foot you know or whatever the case may be and for some one that's really good a rock
climber it might take them you know forty five minutes and they might be six hundred poles deep before they get there and so that's kind of
the idea i am batting around i don't know if people have that really interested in that i think i want a time people want a formula and i
don't think i'm going to give out a formula because the form i was going to be different for different people at different times in their
lives and ages and body weight and you don't mail or female there just all so many variables yeh but i think if i can give out what the
intent of my work out are then were in the right place yet it but those those different variables and stuff that that could very well be
the reason that people want your work out cause if this two things as foregone the two but two big things that kind of come along with
wanting you are specific work up and one would be just to kinmare myself into what you go through in a work up and out of that few on how
to lie in a measure up you know um and then so those two things i will what is it you like to do a jack a work out on lake homeward is it
now he's goin to do you'll six hundred pull ups in a work out limanienne like how does that feel you know in that this the hardest ing i've
ever done or you know is that just addison know these work on art that heart getanittowit will not now that's the second part does it you
know how do i measure up if he does you know twenty sets but sat with whatever weight how do i measure upon craken i get all those twenty
sets or can i get that weight for twenty cents you know so those two things one they detentions in your in your world for as work outcome
second one is its hotlier up i know that's kind o what i think on when someone's like o'here or work out like those cross it work out and
live some of those just mentally i had i do that like a cave this guy doing twenty pull up to nero like how many can i do you know masurian
then at the same time like vises you get to understand what these cross fetters do combat you know and then like i said they go back and
forth that those two things and i think that that that is interesting like if you were to go on me what you did this morning for a work out
or like i'd be interested on top of the fact that old mad that want do that work out for me for results for myself or an yet you right off
maritimo i'll probably have different results you in if i do that the same work out of you for now six months old might have different
results but that part about measuring up and just knowing who you are and and what you stand for and this is the work out that you do just
understanding that i think that's significant to yes i would love to tell you that i'm some you know physical specimen but i'm not acineta
guy not the fast as guy i'm not the most flexible guy um i try ardenites am a result of my my physical aptitude is like a is like a is like
a a brownish gray um paint because i i mix up so much stuff in there that i'm the result of but you know i'm not bright red right round
nouerint blue because those two things you know this be strength has been mixed with endurance has been next with flexibility has been
mixed with all these things have been mixed together and i don't want to get too much of any of them yes because then in losing something
else and so that soncino this this this kind of average in many categories and and my numbers in very few of the modern press anybody is
pretty strong yet and in any no like but i'm not one of those people that's on the map that you go man that guy is just forecasting you
know will these i turned for me to judge but i i know that ah i guess people say well you're strong yet sometimes i think the here like
that guy on the you know your play video game no i kitoui let's say you play a odonata nimblefoot though when you analyze your players
it'll have all these attributes speed hands acceleration right and it's like on an observation so you're the guy who has all make eight to
that of the guy with two tens and then three there you know there but like any body that was in the pocosan beat me in a bunch of
categories he you know big got tens and some stuff right right you and and i don't i don't have any tenant and anything that's to cannot
everyone cannot can yes um next more section yeah am would you talk more about how you view aggression positive than netive well like
everything in life and in leadership and then your personality is to be balanced aggression as to be balanced and our one of the one of the
things from from the book he is you know you got to be aggressive the not over bearing so yet you got to be aggressive to be leader of
you've got to be to be got if you're in to make things happen you've got to be aggressive to make things happen that yet you have to make
things happen you know i was say if people like all they want to make money in like lemage on you to take you if i take that money it
doesn't get a fallen your house in your lap it's not going to make itself you have to take it if that's what you're goes in tegitur not
going to get better just by being you have to take the the progression you have to take it and make it happen and sesame thing with
anything in my so so aggression definitely comes into play but for instance in a leadership possession if your completely aggressive all
the time your subordinance will not want to communicate with you they won't want of debate with you they won't want to say boss i don't
agree with that you're saying here is our fridolin's your talking about we're going to go my way or the highway that's what they're going
to start so you can't be overbearing you don't want the mat you can't exhaust yourself with aggression and that's one of the things you
know that i think from purple the brown bell which is you know our year six to eight years in the game is where people start to calm down
on and realize that that aggression needs to be hampered and control and people after the lack um an in combat obviously being aggressive
and being diaresis ly decisive is important but if you go too far with that your running to your death so he have to modulate your
aggressive you after modulator aggression you can't abuse it you got to use it but you can't abuse it and i don't want a discount
aggression in any way because you i always say that your default mode should be aggression like when you when you had the reset button on
your brain you you should come out of that recent being aggressive because that the the egressive be practice make things happen bonofacio
not sitting back and waiting to be attacked or waiting for a situation to occur no make of that situation of her go so that's my view of
aggression and and it just has to be balanced and there's of their orestes where we know if you meet aggression with aggression it's
actually not good you know you he setnesses elating in when you're either in a complication of some kind somebody aggressively escalating
something might be good choice in my be a bathos you know there's always the bully that as soon as you you say and i know what i'd love to
fight in fact fighting is my favorite thing to do let's go a goascoran i was i was just kidding so agression well when there um or you know
if someone's really being aggressive and you does knock a out while the nets that's a better handling the situation but there's also times
where there's you know maybe there's multiple tackers or some one that you know you're in the street naisi's always better in the street to
avoid the confrontation you know with his apperson avanie does apperception is dis sappers have a communicable disease does that person
have friends around the corner is that personal lawyer who's going to see you i mean as all these reasons to get into tonoi a fight in the
street so so aggressively meeting aggression with aggression is probably not that smart it's probably better to avoid this anerio then and
the more time you spend in you'll in combats for boxing in doing you get to them the more likely you are to be led up the like in it i
don't need to prove anything this guy im it's means nothing to me i prove isself on the mat air of reshingle dag on nothing prove too to
joe drunk idiot over here so i think that a great again i think your defaulted should be aggressive but make sure that you maintain enough
to catchment of the situation that you can see if you're being overly aggressive and its leading you to a a bad scenario okay last question
you talk about minondo can you expand your thoughts on that subject my control you don't when people think of the word mind control they
think of controlling other people's minds and when i think about mine control i think about controlling your own mind because i'll well i
am obviously a physical person in wheat spend a lot of his pop cast to night talking about physical culture and i am braced physicality but
we are our minds and i'm not going to be you know going as into a sam harris philosophical rant on what it means in war the you actually is
in winter there is a soul or brain or whatever your heart or some other conjured up place this is what i know is that you your mind the
thing that is listening and comprehending these words right now that as you and that thing that mind you can control you you are the
machine and you can control the machine and people asked me how do i get tougher bettor they they asked me how can i wake up earlier in the
morning the answers wake up earlier in the morning how can i walk out consistently every single day work out consistently every single day
how can i stop from eating sugar is no heading sugar what about the emotions how can i stop missing that girl or that guide who whoever
however broke up with me how can i stop missing them stop missing them that is mine control you have that ability you just have to assert
it you have to decide that you are going to be in control and that you are going to do what you want to do waleses get a vote laziness they
don't get a vote sadness no no vote for stration no vote negativity you don't get a vote i don't even give my temper of voted so the next
time that your feeling weak or your feeling lazy or your feeling soft or your feeling of motional tell them that they don't get a vote tell
them you are declaring marshallaw on your mind your declaring mind control and impose what ye want on your brain imposed the discipline and
the power and the poverty and the will and use that mind control to move your life where you want it to be is a thing i always say get
stronger faster smarter quicker friendlier more helpful more driven don't let your mind control you control your mind and once you control
your mind then you can set it free i think will close me that for the day yet not about all of you or i sit there and you know if you're
out there you want to communicate with us you want to carry on this conversation you want to continue down this path you can do so on to
wither i'm a jackall in and echo is at echo charles i want to thank every one for listening i want to thank you for subscribing to this
poet cast for placing reviews on this poast for spreading the word about this pongos and most of all i want to thank you for getting after
it this jocko and echo and until next time how
