this is jacopo cast number seventy with a go charles and me joaille good evening ah good evening now is going to start off to night with a warning that to night's episode is going
to contain things that are not appropriate for children then as i as i put together the notes i realized that maybe the opposite is true and that maybe this is an important
episode that children do need to listen to but i would say listen to it alone by yourself first without your children and then decide if in when they are ready to listen to this
and unfortunately i will tell you that i think the time is likely sooner than you think and it is most definitely sooner than it should be now normally i am talking about war and
in that light i have covered some of the most haines and horrible things that have happened in the world evil things it evil people and the things that i'm talking about or things
that happen on a large scale in in war battles between nations and armies of verses armies and men against men and in those situations on that globe stage of war as i always say
we see the best of human nature and we often see the worst but sometimes the worst of human behavior the most evil of human behavior does not occur on the battlefield and it is
not driven by war it's not brought on by the madness of combats not the result of men trying to kill other men sometimes the most evil side of human beings sneaks around in the
dark lurking waiting praying on the week the scared and the defenceless praying on children and often it isn't some archtype of evil like the picture you have in your head of some
sneering predator with a sadistic look it often be but trusted neighbor or a family friend or even a relative an ter talk through some of this with me to night i althaea special
gaston an amazing person that i admire for her toughness and courage incredibly strong woman loving mother and extremely hard working in a highly productive farmer and last but
certainly not least in a credible wife to one of my very close friends who is done multiple combat towards overseas leaving ness wonderful woman back on the home front to handle
the business all and her name is iris and my first solid memory of iris i'd matter before the but you know i didn't really think too much about it but i was driving out to see her
husband out on a farm out on ther farm that they live on and i i i pulled up and my vehicle by manifactur and i look across the span of land and out there in the field fully nine
months pregnant guiding a horse drawn the blow right on talking it looks like it seventeen twenty nine how there are drawn plough in the field in the summer time and in the vain
the in the inland of southern california so it hot and dusty and she sees me and she like ties off the the horse and then she comes walking over to me and she's wearing the actual
spurs like you see in a western movie that jingle jangle linking and she's a small frame woman you know and she took off the head a paralleles on that look like they were past
down from the marlborough man just all work and she took one of those often he gave me hand shaking her her skin was basically as togas the leather gloves she was wearing and she
you know said hand point me towards your house where i'd find her husband who was in there but watching t v or something in the air condition and then she turned round walked back
and headed back out filled again she's nine months straight up nine months pregnant and i thought to myself dewata what an awesome woman so years later are we say may be five four
five years later i was extremely moved and angered and disturbed and thankful and add all the the same time when she posted an article on line about something she experienced as a
child and here is an exter of what she wrote i was only five years old the first time it happened i wasn't feeling well so will every one we went down the hill to cut firewood i
stayed back at the cabin in bed i remember him coming back coming through the door and telling me he needed to get a chain soft file he then came over to the bed told me to lay
still and pulled my pants down i was a shy child and would never ever have questioned and adult at that age he inserted his fingers into my vagina and i remember it hurting and i
was just petrified i had no idea what to do he said things to me like doesn't that feel good and you like this right i was unable to say anything or i don't know i may have even
mumbled agreement with him because that's what i thought i was supposed to do i just remembered that it hurt and i was scared and i was confused the sound of my parents truckling
up the driveway stopped him and he carefully pulled my pants back up and went over to the sink and washed his hands as if washing away the evidence he then pulled me close and
told me that this was a secret just between us there was so cleena's me now that that's what he said and how well it worked now i have faced fear of faced horror on faced evil but
i faced it as a full grown man who spent pretty much my entire life being trained to fight and to kill and prepare to die and furthermore when i was in those situations not only
was i for grown man i was with my brothers in arms to my left and to my right but to face this kind of evil as a child as a little girl and i have three daughters i don't little
girl scared defenceless and alone his almost impossible for me to comprehend and i know that i can learn a lot from the type of person that can survive this kind of abuse in no
weak in all monolog especially from a person with the strength to confront this evil and overcome and then put together an amazing and beautiful life with an amazing and beautiful
family we could all turn from this and with that mind iris welcome to the show and thank you so much for coming on a thank you job on that early an honour to be here in like a
whole or desk now you have to tell us about to begin where you came from what was going on in your life and your your life is is very rani remember when your husband first met you
and he was kind of telling me about this girl he had met and in i was set outawinder your story just think day am that awesome and so tells a little bit about that about your
childhood you had a lot of very cool experiences in your in your childhood and go up in a in a almost completely unique way that i don't think i've ever met any well said
globelike you did yeah i am i never realized it was really unique until i wasn't and the dull got out in the world little bit more and realized that most people am anywhere near
my age did not grow up the way that i did so we lived in em the mountains in northern california my dad was a initially a miner a gold miner and he would go into old mine shafts
and bring out or that they would crush in a in a small mill and in refined the gold down into bars that they would sell and eventually he became a timber faller and a locker a
backin nineteen eighty seven i was seven years old there's a huge forest fire that burned through northern california and i remember it vividly because one night there was just as
wall of fire rolling down on her house and luckily our house was spared but a lot of her neighbors lost their homes and after that a lot of logging came into the area of because
there was so much burned browner so a lot of people will have parents that might be working in mines i might have parents that are working as you know loggers or lumber jacks but
they still might have things in their house like power they heat the analect ocity where you guys will like off the great right yet that the whole area so so this place is
probably one of the most ollas in this country still unless maybe get up into alaska m it's in northern california the mountain tires gorgeous river valley there and it still
doesn't have a lectricity am the people that live there still just use some soul now or am generators bed no one had that that when i was a kid so yea we grew up with um no power
no telephone so television we used the old school am cerainly entered with the little thin glass globes and you carry those from room to room if you need it like we would take him
to bed with us at night and read by caressing lantern and we had a wood cook stove that we cooked on em just to get hot water or would cook stove had coil that ran through it that
the water would run through and warm it so you would have to start a fire in the stove to have any hot water took to warm in so yeah i whistled it was it was interesting i i take
power and things like that for granted now but back then it was just normal you goosestone normal for kids i know that for insanely kids will little they just thought that every
one did you git hocus we did you dan hung his oar would be it doesn't every one dolly did so all the time but just now no power and it's kind of there a h hard for people to even
imagine that now a days in your kid and you don't have on a pad to entertain you you don't have a t v to entertain you well the creativity asked to be there right has the debater
to do for fun well we are yeh i know what seniawan now the kid it it was an every thin every stick you could find turned into him chinonian every rock he found turned into a
burned and that's where we did did you even how would you even know what a good ned was or you know how did you know what a doll was yeh we had we had a few toys but you know i
see the toy that gets out now and openly isn't a isis very different ah we had a few a few old toys but mostly we just lived outside we just outside was r that was our playground
or toys and then where we go in fruit from we always had a big garden my mom am grow grey cure huge garden and caned and froze or weldon freeze we didn't have a lecture for
freezer but can and dried food and we had her on milk cows an we raise pigs which that that was kind of interesting to my we had a lot of pigs my sister and i used to sleep
outside in this um in the summers when the weather was nice there was a old stone rotselaer with like a loft to had to hop in and and we would sleep up there whenever the weather
was a little bit if he and it was right over top of the pig pen so we essentially grew up in a barn we would wake up in the mill might with pig squealing and turn our flash lights
on and shinin there and watch like litters of piglead these weren't even normal pigs they were like wild pores the cindered and so they were all the harry and long snouts and they
weren't like your fat pink pigs that you get the most people raise and ah and did you was a reconosco up there there was a tiny little school that we went to when i lived there it
was sort of a hit of the population there's less people there now but there was the mining in the logging had brought in a few more people and so the school that i went to had
about twenty five kids from case through a solis maybe a couple of kids per grade and we were all in the same mithras the recite two rooms the big kids room in a little kids room
and we were as so close because there were just a few of us and we were every all of the kids that i grew up with had a very similar upbringing to the way i did so there are at
least twenty five other kids out there in the world who grew up exactly the same as i did but we were this pack of just parelelo really i did just lived in the woods and swam in
the river and and ah did everything i have wonderful memories of bad which of set all law of the not of pleasant things that happened in that same time did you work were a book
did you as have a ton of books do you read was that sort of our one escape from the reality that was around you yea we in have talantaton and in the summers we are mostly outside
in the river a in the woods we would go down to the river in the evening and watch the bear catch salmon and ibeereea afterhere year olds at but in the winter when it was cold and
rainy we read a town and i've got the best big sister in the world she is a couple of years older than me and she was reading these just ridiculously age inappropriate book i
remember her reading these serge novels when she was like ten years old because we didn't have any money and it wasn't like our parents went out and bought a the finest children's
books or anything to read we just read whatever happened to be laying around and am often times at was not what you would typically give a ten year old that but so she would so
she are reading to herself and then she would read to me before i was in you know inventary i'd became in very avid reader to um but yeah that was that was a big part of her life
in fact am coracias is also one of my very favourite authors if not my favourite author i think i i read em all a pretty horses in the crossing when i was like fifteen i read
blood meridian by the tumult sixteen i read them all numerous times as i remember a this wonderful old neighbour lady that lived down the road from us gave me this box of a big
cardboard box full of old leulumoenga grain awful which for any one is not familiar with those there there westerns they're all westerns and that was no the way utah abel being a
kid and sort of wanting to be a soldier wanting to be in a military so bad and that was like you are focused on that and that's all you are a goin to do that was me but with
horses that was the only thing i cared about and so i i just gobbled up all of these old westerns and lived in that world of imagine myself being like a cowboy riding across the
plains with my bed roll and but i didn't have a horse so ah you know i lived in the woods as much as i could i i we weep for ad sweet found um we hunted for wild mushrooms all the
time which is still one of my very favourite things to do am i i used to read mushroom plants field guide like other kids might read you know fantasies or something sir he it
definitely you need and a water really i mean that's just an unbefriended if it sounds like you you definitely what positivity you know there's so much positivity to that that way
you grew up it less a very ideal at childhood i would say that i i have a light darkness in that same time but i wouldn't trade the way that i grew up for anything see what me
take little bit about that that darkness recondite about it that i met opening well of how it started in and the first time it happened to you this this abuse that you suffered
not going to go back to this article that that you wrote and i regi forging this is this is the this is from a five year old i was confused mostly i don't think it ever crossed my
mind to tell my parents i just knew that i had been instructed not to tell any one so that's what i did i really didn't understand what he had done or why but i definitely knew
that one had been done was wrong and it might be something that i would be punished for him from that moment on my life became one big game of cat and mouse i tried to avoid him
and he pursued me and took every opportunity to get his hands on me he had plenty of opportunities because he was a beloved and trusted family friend even right in front of my
parents in other people he would regularly slap my butt and poleon to his lap i would always squirm away as quickly as i could i remember being left home with him i remember
throwing fits and begging to go along with my mom and my sister my mom just thinking i was acting out and being a brat and would tell me to stay with him until they got back the
fact that no one realized what was happening by simply observing the situation still bewilders me so this guy like you said here tis gytha full access to your house full trust of
your parents why is it that you think or expand connatal about a little bit but what is it that that makes a kid old that information in when something bad is happening like this
so i think it's started happening with me when i was so young that i just i didn't understand it i did not understand what was even going on no one had ever pulled me that
something like that might happen and i was told not to say any thing by an adult and so i didn't and i think i definitely had a feeling that i knew something was wrong and that
this was not what should be happening but i was a lot of it was probably just my personality type i was a shy quiet kid and i wasn't inclined to express my emotions at much any
way am and i you know i think people who do this sort of thing they look first specific type of kid they are not stupid they know how to single out just the right kid and that was
me in in the time and i just had i had a lack of understanding of what was even going on am i didn't really know that it was definitely something that i should tell other adults
and prinking mariner in your situation in your upbringing your seeing your seen nature right your understanding that pigs are having babies i mean your ocean this kind of thing
take place but it wasn't something that your family talked about the virgins or anything like that just didn't come up ye not really and definitely not in i i think that it's hard
for people to believe that their best friend who are close family members would ever harm their children and so i don't i i suspect that my parents fell like they kept a pretty
good eye on me and that i was fine because they didn't look where they needed to look as he did on i'm sure echo has some kind of bioscopic bias for this but you know any time
your esitation where there's something that you simply could never imagine i couldn't believe it and if that's if that's it something that you could never imagine and couldn't
believe happening and you're not being told about it what would plant that in your mind you know to make you think that it's going on from your parents perspective you know is
that if i m looking at one of my close friends i would never have that thought and so where would it come from well see how it would not any shabby think that your kid would let
you know if there was a problem rayendra well i would be able to tell if something was wrong because my kid would let me know somehow and that's not necessarily the case to go
back as you continue this back to your writing here we moved into our own house and i would have some moments of peace but he was always around always visiting and even parked a
trailer on our property to live in for periods of time he stalked me like i was his prey i never ever felt safe from him he would watch me constantly i would look up from playing
with toys and seemed standing in the doorway of my bedroom staring at me i would wake up to him watching me when i would have friends over i would suddenly jump up in announce
that we need to go outside and play right now because i would notice him watching us through a doorway or a window again i can't even i can't even imagine what that had to feel
like for a five year old a six year old a seven year old and again i picture my own children and there her inane that day live in thankfully and i can't i can't a man this is like
a horror movie you know you're a kid and your looking up and in your playing with your toys in your reading your book on over now look up and you see this predator you know just
just stalking you all the time and and the discomfort that you had to just feel constantly and and no way to escape do you think there's a was there anything else that you that
you can think of that you try to do or tried to send a signal or was it geologist so sort of enveloped by the situation that you didn't you know just like i was talking about
maybe your parents couldn't imagine what would be happening it is it was it like you just couldn't imagine this not happening ye pretty much i think because i started when i was
so young it just was part of my life and it was so consistent it wasn't like something to happen and then didn't happen for it was just like a daily part of my life and so i don't
think i really ever tried to signal i remember one time there was a couple o girls some friends of my parents came and visited and they had a couple of girls a little bit older
than me that came and i remember the one girl who was probably twelve at the time telling me they spent the night they slept outside and she told me that am when she woke up in
the morning this my buster had like crawled up on to her bed and started touching her leg and she liked jumped up and told him no and ran away and she also didn't go tell a grown
up she came and told me that this had happened and i remembered telling her what happened to me and that the only time as a child that i ever told any one in i remember as sitting
there kind of discussing this i was probably eight may be at the time and were like well that's yeah i don't know why he does this that that's weird i am i don't know you know and
we just kind of disgust it and then never told any one even though she was even older and hadn't grown up with it began i don't know if later on she told some one but at the time
she definitely didn't go tell her parents or my parents or any one which reaffirmed the fact that your kids aren't necessarily going to tell you no i know we my kids you know i
had you something that facings goin to get him in trouble especially in that is five six year your old seven year old very not going to tell you they don't follow inter that eaton
anna think it's something that they did wrong or think it to so so that's another little trap that occurs back to your writing here he was old and was missing all of his teeth he
wore denter sometimes and sometimes he didn't i remember him penning me up against a walls and counters and kissing me with his soft toothless mouth and fingering me with his
dirty hands i wanted to vomit i would never tell him now though never telling to get away from me never acknowledged that he was doing anything to me i would just slip away from
him as soon as an opportunity presented itself and mumbled that i was going outside to play or down to the rock piles my secret labyrinth of tangled blackberry brambles and
boulders you'd follow me to the top of the trail saying things like come back you like what i'm doing or i don't think your mom wants you to go down there walshes gone but he
never followed me down into the rock piles it was my safe zone it was the place i could cry with no one seeing me i remember some one accusing him of molesting another little girl
i heard my parents talking about it and in my dad pulling me aside and asking me if a mieder touched me i was caught off guard and told me unprepared to deal with what saying yes
would mean so i said no as soon as it was out of my mouth i wanted so badly to change my answer but no one ever asked me again i am convinced that if i had had a little time to
think and had been asked again i would have spilled it all remember that it's important but at the time i said no and the woman who made the accusation was discredited as being
crazy or a drug addict and having ulterior motives and that was that solers a clear example and i could i could see now go in from the perspective of a parent whose all
uncomfortable to go up and ask this question in the first place you know is probably the weakest form of questioning too an you know like as my ever made you feel werdenen okay
we's going to go now dad's like okay he i told you this is no a sue she's a liar she's a drug addict a want that answer they want to hear no any parent wants to hear no and they
asked that it is and yet you got to ask again you got to put it probably in multiple different a way of asking the question not just as he made you an keep feel comfortable dezzy
touch you the you got to ask out in so many different ways as i get to open up the mind of the kid you know obviously without asking the leading questions and you know that's
going to that had made but somebody you know it in another weird situation it how do you ask your own kids so i think that you have to you have to talk about it casually hopefully
before something happens am make them aware of the fact that this does happen in people think that their protecting their kids by not telling them that horrible stuff happens they
they feel like their protecting them by shielding them from this and meanwhile their kids are being molested and don't know how to tell any one because no one talked to them about
it and so you can start talking to them when they're really young you simple terms and express it sometimes people do dthings and there's something i tell my kids that there's
something broken in some people's brains that makes them do something it normal people don't do but that they're out there and when you i think when you question a cat about this
you have to ask at once and i give the tabogie the kid on to think about it and then bring it up towsly again a couple of days later he you remember that thing we talked about the
other day i was thinking about it some more uh do you have you know there anything else you wanted talk to me about with that and do that if few times especially if you have any
if you suspect anything for sure but even if he don't bring it up once bringing up again a couple of days later bring it up again a couple of days later give their little brains
time to process what my men make sure to tell them did if anything happened even if they're not telling me anything did they are not going to be in trouble yes they feel like they
want to tell me something now some kids are just the old hen will talk fine but other kids won't and that's the kind of kid that you have to eat it out of it if you figure about
this you could actually develop a pattern with your kids where that they're not talking about molestation but if when they tell you something you punish them because they come to
the truth and because they put took a hokey drop the cooky jar spilled milk and they could a cap that a secret but they told you and now you punish them you you do in the same
thing you're hatting them up for to keep secrets and keep things in sile i tell my case that they'll get in march trouble for telling me a lie than for whatever they did in will
your space my my kids absolutely now that and and that's a same with menander mind kids when i was in the teams to a this standard will hey you tell me what happened he not why to
me what happened if you tell me something you did something wrong there was an intent some bad happened well handle it but one thing we can't do is if we try and cover something
up and we get caught now now there's going to be held to pay so he had that of another thing that i deal with my kids is i got it there's some great books out there about talking
dear kids about of use and snuff and m there's one that i read to em sometimes in and it's not those books are meant to just read one and never pick up again they are perfect
opportunity to bring it up casually in conversation there's a book it's called i said no and it's written by zaandam rely king and zack is a little boy and his mom can belly king
and they wrote the book together and it's really great at tait talks about people as being like a red flag people in those people can be the sort of people who just give you a
strange feeling they they unsettle you they make you feel a little bit odd and it doesn't necessarily mean that they've done anything wrong to you but you should be able to pick
out those red flat people and then talked to an adult abel what is making them a comfortable no nose is that because the dis red flag person did something that dead gleaem areas
winona i told my kids especially now that my daughters are older you know one of my daughter's going on a ship somewhere and i was given her the talk you know listen you need to
watch out and and my daughter said something to me like dad i'm knocking be gone going and ran it around with some weird and i stopped a right in her tracks and i said it's not
the weird the guid that looks weird it's not thing guitarov like a predatory need to watch out for the dye that you need to watch out for is the guy that seems like a nice guy who
guides with just you know how you with your love ages the guy but not all of them yes but you need to watch out for them if you look at some of those serial killers you know ah i
think it was i i i think it was ten bundy but he had the whole thing where he had his armor accost and he would ask some one to help him he would ask her a woman to help any to
get my groceries in the car or whatever and they see this kind of an if you ever saw a picture a man looks like a nerd and he has his arm in a cast and he's got a collar shirt on
him as like a white collar guy and he's got a car and and you know necting i know as soon as they'd youknow the groceries boomers out he cast and he he supped off in them in so so
what i have the identify like the red flag at the fore marabel here you're got intuition if there's something that just makes you feel a little bit weird if they say something you
know it's list it's about listening to that internal voice that might be telling you something a little weird but he's a really nice guy you know he is and and learning how to
identify that and listen to it am because yeh that's like a said patiflo predators there not stupid people most of them are in stupid people there very calculating and they look
for the right opportunities so you yahoo a teacher kidwelly that you see a younder kids pacifically to the i said no park right on cause even you aid you don't know how to say no
you don't know how to scream you don't know how to tell some one to stop in and also how to identify what you know kids don't know where the lines if you don't teach them what's
right and what's wrong the interims of physical contact with them then how how are they going to know how are they going to know exactly that a good point now you you don't want
to scold the kid for making a mistake and you know how you hold lying as a impiedad as far as violations go where if this environment is kind of created that what you say does it
mean that much so be careful with what you said you know but if the environment is he you can come to me with anything and you demonstrate that don't just say like once a month
say hey you think come to me with anything next day they come to you with something your like hay i'm busy or he grown up sir talking you know so if you actually provide that
environment consistently velcome to it anything anything that's off they'll be late a man what's this hey there there's a rabbit in the back yard you know sent you in something
that small so some weird or some red flag person comes and they're doing something strange out of the ordinary there genatum to a way more likely you know yes you know i we talk
about inoculation when it comes to a training for combat and you know you you inoculate yourself to stress and and one of things as are about it with self defence for especially
for women is if you transegit you you get a knouted to the fact that some one can be grabbing you touching you grind in on you in it and so you're over that your over that but it
seems like it is the same situation you do with kids where are you a knockulist to the uncomfortable conversations so there o katalin about stuff that let's face it you know there
is your cat does not can be comfortable talking about some things unless you and knouted them and you get them used to it and they understand what's right what's wrong i think
it's correct help what he said it's the parenthetically the ones going to be more uncomfortable like the key be surprised with kidlet gainer to it unless you made it uncomfortable
for them they'll talk about some were stuff such five six but if they the parents hey you know that in your scenery where thou ask me something you gave answereth say good that
the answer i want lit don't talk any more do there uncomfortable and it's on the parent to initiate these conversations and not on the little kids to come to you and tell you
something of ages happened in line you as a parent to initiate these conversations my daughter is um she she's shy and she doesn't express her motions there well she's not the
kind of case who comes in just tells you stuff and i don't i don't want this i found like a beating to stuff into my kids heads every day and terrorizing them with the thought of
curying er in my hapantes i'm not you know i talk about a casionally enough i think that it gets through to them but she had chesington she had a little issue and she told me that
a boy had been coming up to her on the playground and she aiaways used correct terminology because that's another thing i want i feel like kids should be comfortable talking about
their bodies and she told me analard for her to tell me she didn't want to tell me and i could partly see it because of her personality she came up and she she told me that a
little boy was coming up every day on the playground and like poking her in the vagina and in asking her to do the same to him and she is i think he's five she told me mad and i
was like okay what i'm doing is working because knowing her personality she didn't want to tell me that but she did and so as the in alitis also the perfect experience to sort of
peach like okay cold not a big deal he's five years old you know the bulkies do that and they don't know what they're doing bellesca to your teacher and make sure you know and i
immediately took action and showed her as it i wasn't gonna let anything happen to her if she was uncomfortable with it without blowing it out of proportion i was going to say
cause a lot of times though at cupar abated about from aged whatever we consiste don't want to tell you because you'll turn your my seventeen year old will do that i as well my
seven year old at that tony know so i think that's another thing is how do you make sure that they realized that you're going to be both you know when out blowing it out a
proportion which which i drew to you know to five you old kids to find yo boy ah they're doing like you said they're talking about stupid stuff that they don't understand that
they're doing things that they don't ersten's like okay but but let's now teach them will ye let them learn and at that ye and i gave me a lot of confidence that if something
because i because she dellatoria way if something bigger were to happen i now feel like she would be much more inclined to come to me but were you saying about knowin i make a
scene i think as i got older and i understood what was happening to me a lot more than i did when i was little i didn't want to make a scene this is somebody who was my current
best friend was deeply involved in our life had been with us for ever and imagine what telling would look quite and that wasn't something that i was prepared to handle even when i
was a teenager and i knew exactly what was going on i knew exactly how wrong it was the scene of it would ensue if i said something was not something that i was willing to deal
with so to be heartened for adults to do any kindly competition the scenical yes be rippled as if men i got away all this out now i know like canines strengthen myself up verses
you know create this big see i rather do with strengthening myself opiniated on me ave no idea in your mind you probably made it even of bigger crazy see you are probably thinking
that they were altomare a choice between you and this guy you know may be in your mind that the afriend may you know now you got to convince people in the nioukour anything you
don't know if they're kind o believe he don't know if he's got to go to jail yet you just don't know what the consequences are going to be and it's much easier to just be like all
right i've dealt with this i can keep the ling with this i'm not gonna cause any repulse so i was youriba to your writing year as i grew older i got better and better at avoiding
him his hounding of meat did not decrease but i rarely let him get his hands on me i was incapable of just telling him to get away from me if he got me cornered i'm not sure how
to explain what this is like this constant pursuit and hounding that you are unable to avoid when you are a child when i was twelve years old we moved it was over seven years of
stress and fear and pain finally replaced with an empty discomfort a weight was lifted from my shoulders i got a horse and felt more freedom than i ever had and then he followed
he bought a piece of property just up the hill from us and that was the beginning of dealing with him as a teenager i never let him touch me again i tolerated his crude comment
and ate dinner next to him at the dinner table i laughed at his jokes and i do to flee road my horse up the hill that check on him every couple of days at the insistence of my
parents he would always come out of his trailer lay a hand on my five invite me to tie up and come and side i still couldn't look him in the eye still couldn't tell him the folk
off instead i would just change the subject and ride off with a hollow pit in my stomach so you move away and then he follows you there and you know you talk about how hard it is
to explain this in this hounding that you've got in your trap you can't you don't feel like you can say anything to your family you can't get away from him and this is his god to
be my you say a hollow pit in your stomach and this is got to be eating at you yes and you find finely some comfort in horses which was already your dream and now you findley get
if i am a good your first horse yeah that was on the best thing that ever happened to me i until that point at least may be ever ah there was a neighbor lady that lived close to
us who had this horse that she didn't have time for and she let me bring it home and start riding it and i didn't my family never had horses we knew nothing about horses other
than my just insane desire to have one and so i just started riding in this horse was half broke at best and i would fall off constantly i i just would smack my head on the ice
and get back on and fall off again and i remember my dad one him standing there and just telling me you got a stop you can't you kate i'm not going to let you see her and kill
yourself trying to ride this horse and you know of course that then i didn't i didn't have a silly thing like a riding helmed or even a saddle i just i decided to desire to ride
this horse and if he if it was gunicelli was gonna happen and so i did i just kept after it and finally wore the poor horse down and he he gave up and he ended up being you know
the by my side for for many years and so that that gave me this whole different level of freedom i wasn't you know constrained to my speed any more i could go out and get us miles
and miles away from it all and you know home was in it wasn't a comforting spot for me to be so i was much more comfortable being out in the mountains by myself with my horse and
some people might have an issue with this but by the time i was twelve i was carrying a thirty thirty rifle on in a scabbard on my saddle and i had a little repetenten two that i
carried with me you know one or the other usually when i was a riding because my parents felt like i was safer with a gun then without a gun even though i was twelve years old i'd
grown up around ganesan's comfortable with them and since i would had out in the mountains and i think the the only rule i had was that i had to be back by dark and you know when
you're on a horse and you leave for thing in the morning you can cover a lot of ground and if something had ever happened to me i had on anyone would have even found me so i was i
had to be responsible and self relying to make sure that i was the safe as i could be at their ani give my parents a ton of credit for allowing me that freedom they had a daughter
who had this passion to be doing what i was doing and it was dangerous and they let me do it and that is a large part of what bill me and who i am to day and so that you know that
something that i also try to do for my own kids as much as i can you a you know i'm i'm pretty cautious with them but i still try to always allow them a lot of freedom i remember
one time i was i think i was fifteen i was riding away from home a little ways and i was down in his creek bottom and i heard this commotion down there at this leg barking and
noise and i thought there were neighborhood dogs who would chase deer and i thought that the dogs had a dear down down in the creek bottom and those what a fool what the main
through my head and i ran my horse down through the brush into the creek bottom think i was going to scare the dogs off this dear and i came out of the brush literally from
mediative feet away from this mountain lion it was just in full snarling crow should hacked and it was squared off with i didn't i didn't know this when i had looked was riding by
one of my dogs had followed me and i hadn't seen it and it was down in the creek bottom with this mountain lion and they were face to face us snarling and crouched down at each
other and i came out of the bushes right on top of him and you know i didn't feel any fear at all i just reacted and i just knew i had to get a little space between myself in the
lion and i spun my horse round and got up the hill to still little ways and then stopped to watch the situation and the dog was his big wolf thou cross it was a big dog but she
she got scared and she cut and ran she decided she'd had enough and she turned and turano the cat in the second she turned around and cat hater it just threw an arm over back
reached under bitter throne she just went limp and then the catches picked her up and carried her away your ocyor not so to turn her back on the i don't ever even when you've
kinda rode away of colic and i and the reason i did that is pecause the cap was a giostra ed rot i wasn't the threat to the cat i was a side then the threat was the stag and thank
goodness my horse was just a rock and didn't don't me ring front of this cat he cause had that happened there no doubt in my mind that i would have been attacked ah but you don't
think like that that was that was my life things like that happen and i was young and i had to be able to deal with those situations old were you with the penitente's all there is
also this really really strong dicotomy here is that you're out in the wilderness on horse back pack and he you know confronting mountain lions and even with all that you didn't
confront this abuser and and that another you know sign and indication to people of how hard it is psychologically for some one that is strong as you were as a teenager that out
there on your own in my asad riding round the mountains with a pistol and a rifle ready to you know get after it and yet this by this point kinemon man is still has this level of
control over you in your own home yeh that's just um in an i would say then at this point may be to fill that all are to release some of that tension you start going down a path
that's not a good path or you to be going down the enlife yea so when i was also fifteen i am met some one that lived a female away from us he was a i think he was in his thirties
he is an indian giant he rode around the mountains on his horse as well and it was am i divide oped relationship with him and you know it was he was not the kind of person that
you would want her fifteen year old to be dating but to me he was i as just dis romantic thing and it was this escape it was it was something different and with some one that paid
attention to me in a time when i was really struggling with ah my home life and and who i was i think that the molestation abuse stuff got harder for me is a teenager as i even
though wasn't actively happening any more really physically it was messing with my mind a lot more because i understood it better and so i started dating this guide who um you
know was a distraction to me from that and you know in the way fifteen year old well i just became madly in love with him and you know you can make your own conclusions about a
thirty something your old man dating a fifteen year old am i certainly feel a lot different about it now than i did then he want he told me that he wanted to marry me like it was
it was very serious in my mind and then one morning i was riding away from home down the stirred and i remember a neighbor rancher pulled up alongside me and asked me if i'd heard
what happened he and he told me that this man that i was in love with had been shot and killed where was he what was the genesis of him being shot took yet was like i said he
wasn't he wasn't the most upstanding person and it had to do with marijuana and guns and it it was just a mass in regarata yeh he wasn't a drug addict but he led a life am of well
i'll just say it he would steal people's marijuana plants from them and felt him and it not im in the trouble and i look back now on the road that that relationship could have
taken me at dawn and wall it was this horribly tragic event for me at the time that sent me into an even deeper tail spin now isn't a doll the way i am i am almost thankful that
it happened because i think that had that not happened who knows where my life would have gone it's a what have you erotesis of all the i can see how fifteen year old i rest whose
dealing with this stuff at home and meet this guy that she now thirty one an yo thirty one year old is i don't care if he's a total idiot he can manipulate the hell on of a
fifteen year old all day long yet and but but regardless you're enough uriniferous situation because of your mind set and you end up here to know in this relationship with this
guy now he gets murdered and and you go it's you you end up just going even worse at the time he had allesthai a hard thing for my fifteen year old brain to profess and shortly
thereafter my parents separated not in an amiable fashion my sister went off to college so i was especially on my own because she was you know my rock and i just really went into
a cyclop depression and misery and am by the time i was sixteen i was dating a thirty two year old cap which again you know i have very different feelings now on what a thirty two
year old colt is doing dating a sixteen year old but he was this safety for me in a big way he was as you know strong brave person who wasn't going to let anything bad happen to
me and i really lashed on to that when i was just trying to find something in life to hold on to and that ended up being a long on and off again relationship which definitely was
not healthy for me and at that point time i started self mutilating i started cutting and burning myself am i was definitely very depressed and it was not something that i knew
how to communicate to any one i just was sucked into misery and self pity really reely start earning yourself it is that at that moment is it just so much anger and frustration
that it somehow feels good to feel that pain or flippant on yourself or is it more of a hay every one look here i'm doing this to myself maybe you should pay him attention to me
and help me or is it a little bit of both or as there something that i don't know and understand i would say it's definitely thoth it definitely it's a funny thing and it's hard
to understand it sort of an addictive behavior he and you know i read about it some and they say there's canicans released in your brain and stuff when you feel physical pain that
makes the motional did dodoothat pain and things like that but it also for me i will absolutely say that ye think it was it was a cry for help it was like somebody realize what
you know and as all teenagers do you think that your some rare exotic creature that no one else is ever experienced anything you've gone through and nothing anyone says to you
matters because they don't know what they're talking about but for me a lot of it was was it a cry portenti on to to have some one in an i got it the thing is as i got the
attention am the the cophtha i was dating pole my parents that i was doing this and people kind of freaked out and everybody thought that there was really something the matter
with me and i was really depressed and i wouldn't even though i was getting the attention and people were actually asking me like what's going on what's why are you doing this i
wouldn't say i would not tell anybody i just was shut off and if like i wanted the attention but then i still wouldn't say what and maybe part of it is i didn't even know but i
think what we talked about before of the not wonting to make a scene i was not going to make a scene the at this point my beer was pretty old but she was still alive and he was
still in our lives he still he know all the time hand people were asking me why do you doing why are you doing this and i was not going to say go back your writing by that time i
was already damaged by so many years of abuse harragan deaf painful and destructive relationships my parents were divorced to angry my sister moved away i was in a spiritual bowls
in a spiral of self destruction and self pity i had taken a cutting and burning myself scars that i still carried to this day to remind me of the way my life could have continued
and that's what you just talked about and then at this point your seventeen or eighteen years old and your abuse who you just said had was now an old guy he dies then a meconnue
i'm not sure exactly when i woke up when i shut off the self pity fountain and realized that i was strong and indestructible somewhere in my early twenties my twenties was a slow
rebuilding of my life the way i wanted it i travelled wandered worked as a horse wrangler around the west had relationships with men who were kind in decent got married got
divorced made friends built up a reserve of strength and found myself little by little so you know one of the reasons that your sitting here to day one of the reasons that i know
you is that this spite all that darkness that you got sucked in to you somehow in some way at some point realized that you were going in the wrong direction and you in turned
around and started to and i know we i know i've talked about it before it wasn't like you woke up one day and said to day i'm going to change my life you you transitioned you
transformed over a period of time you can't but like new york and put in a day on it you didn't have a a y reaume but you slowly started seeing yourself from a different
perspective and realizing that the path you ran was in a good one so as soon as i graduate high school i left to start working on ranches i went to montana and i remember clearly
i was eighteen i guess he and as working on a ranch in montana and some one had left laying around this dusty old copy of de laurence book of poetry and i read this little poem
and he just stuck with me and i'll beat it here it i never saw a wild thing sorry for itself a small bird will drop frozen dead from a bow without ever having felt sorry for
itself and i read those words and they just they just hit me in the right place he and i'm not saying that that in particular is what really started to make a change but am i read
some more things and you know all the growing older and i was thinking about things differently he and my views are had died and that was probably the biggest weight of ever felt
lifted off of me because now what i realised as even if i did choose to tell some one it wasn't going to cause the kind of hen that it would have before now fell didn't really
choose to tell any one but that in itself not having him actually be present was was a big thing for me and i realized that i just been damaging myself and i'd really been
hurrying people in my life my my parents my sister they were just confused they didn't understand why i was where why as you in what i was doing to myself and i realized that i
was just in this i was being selfish and self centered and just feeling sorry for myself and i stopped i just gained a little bit of perspective hand made myself so breasted
fleeces so important what's crazy to know we all he had seen and every one seen people that are in the downward spiral there just caught in the dales viola whether it's a
relationship whether it's bosher there it's drugs whether its behavior you can see it and when you're on the outside of it to so obvious and you want to grab that person and i'm
sure every one i have literally grabbed my friends that i've seen in that downward spiral and shake him and saint get i'll come out come here i'll yevomous over here with me and
look back and see where what situation your get your in and you're the the direction you're heading and unfortunately you can't pull them out you can't bother head out and let
them look back at themselves they have to step out they have to come to that recognition themselves and that's one of a hardest things as a friend or as a family member to watch
that person it's like watching a train wreck and and you know all you could do you know you could press the brakes you you'd realize how easy it would be just to have pressed the
brakes press the break staff and yet we can't we can't do it we can't help people can't anough to help yourself and and so i mean obviously i that poem you know seeing that was a
form of you start to take a look at it start take a look at yourself from a different perspective may be your abuser dying how do start to look at that from a different
perspective nantli was ill a long slow process for me now they didn't just happen over night i mean i i think i'm made of very conscious of vision not her myself any more but you
have to teach yourself how to think and see and that takes time to teach yourself to have the right kind of thoughts and feelings about things and one thing that i wanted to say
one here talking about this is that joseus i'm sitting here saying that i did this and i i woke up and stopped doesn't mean that everyone whose experienced something like this
should just get over it ah if you have listeners if you have a a girl friend or a wife or a sister or some one who has been through something like his or maybe after listening to
this show will confess to you that they've been through something like this maybe they've never told you before and maybe they'll tell you something that doesn't even seem like
that they of a deal maybe it's not years and years of abuse or violence may be it is something that you know happen to them when they were young and it's a sucky situation but
it's not it's not horrible it's a horrescit she still feels filied and its eperson process said you have to go through and and friends the family of people that know some one is
struggling in the withes definitely need to support in every way they can but you also don't become a crutch just because some one has gone through something like this doesn't
give them the right to drag everyone else down with them into the into their pit of depression and misery so you support the best you can without enabling the bad behavior because
as really what it is it's bad bevore there's people who have gone through much more horrific things than anything i have ever been through that have come out fine he and it just
getting your mind in the right place and taking control of year your thoughts no you know you have obviously experience being been married to a military member and i would say
along the lines of what you just said is that people are calahan le thinks differently than you can have two guys that were on the same exact combat to payment and did you know
pretty much the same things and there just gonna have to deal with in a different way and maybe won't guy gets over pretty quick or maybe one got berleeve react to it may be one
guy it really hurts imitatae im some time in it it sounds like to the same thing with with what your saying we ave to be open to haytime some time and it may take a different
course and at the exact again to mirror what you just said there's there's guys that just because they had some rough combat that dozen give them the right to number one dragged
them dragged themselves down that the wrong path and number two dragged their family of their friends down the wrong path and and i think definitely you know saying eloi i don't
claim to understand what you've been through but i do know this you're behaviours knocking to get help it right the the the bottle isn't going to help it this self abuses it going
to help at the skipper isn't going to help it so i i they those those are those are fairly similar again i don't i'm not trying to say that the same thing i'm just saying that
there's that dealing with them has a lot of similarities both guide that have been in combat drama and people that have suffered this type of thebes it seems like there's some
similarities in the way that yeah if there's very ways that that and it and all there always has to be a count of ability for your own actions no matter what you've been through
you can't just say i've been through something horrible so i can act like this well you know cation poured before we pressed record to day you and i were talking about you know
colonel reader who came on the show and who was a pew and hales ain't thing it and you just think that guy you know just has been through an he's been through hell and then he
sits there during the pot cast in says the same thing that you just said which is look i had a rough but there is plenty of guys a had it wayworn me and and you know i think i
don't i can't think of anything worse than a two foot tall bamboo cage in the middle of the of the jungle with rats eating my wounds with my feet shackled into a bamboo shackle
you know that is just that unbelievable and till your point he comes on and says you know number one other people had it rougher than me and number two unhappy for it ouggasena an
so it really wasn't until my kids were born that i mean this was this was in my mind all the time i probably i would say into my mid twenties does prevalent it was i probably
thought about the abuse at least once every single thing it was always in my mind and eventially i learned that i didn't need to waste my thoughts on that and learn to spend less
time thinking about it but i really wasn't till my kids were born i think and my daughter was five years old she was just a little girl this little girl and she was the same age
that i was when i was already dealing with a bus and that just made me burn with rage and i realized said i felt that i hadn't obligation to speak about this did it happens to so
many kids so prevalent in not in a girl's but also boys it's not just girls is as happy happens in higher number to girls but it happens to both and i felt like what i been
through and what i had you know i think i've come round and amaretta well adjusted person now and that i had an obligation to talk about this because it's something that doesn't
get talked about it gets swept under the rug and even people who have happened to you get treated like there's something wrong with them and there and there embarrassed and they
don't want to talk about it he and it's time for that to stop it's time for us to start talking about it and i am i feel like i'm resilient i grew up with this really close
proximity to nature and i seen animals sufferer horrific wounds that should kill them they don't have doctors they don't medicine but they've got fire in their hearts and they
don't feel sorry for themselves and they survive and i credit a lot of my resiliency to my upbringing in nature and observation of nature and how its cruel and it's beautiful and
creatures survive in the most difficult and challenging service situations and they flourish and if they can do that so can i rreals rats just also mend you know you kind of um
went right talking about your kids or run stanemoor daughter you you ah you know as you got out of that bad time of your life you ended up meeting your your husband the my friend
your husband and not my note here is that you meeting your husband was the best thing that ever happened to him and and now an it's another reason why you know i really wanted to
bring you on and have you share some of your experiences obviously the depth bus and your sir survival and your attitude about all that but bringing also that strength to an
ipeople vois asked if i would be my wife on and you know my wife is she linifolius one ful she not coming on the ponies not her deal but you people always want to know because
it's a lot of young military families out there and you know i'm going to i'm going to say this right now an talk about military families and and in the background i just want
everyone to think first of all that also applies to you know copan first responder and and fire fighters may be not to the saverack not to the same degree but also just normal you
don't hard working americans men and women who you know you've got some one that's working hard and go on a lot and dedicating a lot of their job so that that applies across the
board but that being said you know you're a military wife um my wife's a military wife and you you ended up in the situation well you you met your your colonus band whose ah you
know like i said a good friend of mine and and we i was on my fumy very first to payment ever barkin the day had to fit out women was he was on to pomonella and at the it was his
second to ployment and you know we met and hide off immediately he kind o grew up eager up in california i grew up on the east coast but we grew up with a similar kind of
background and that we were both kind of in two hard corn music and metal and dun crack and we were just into the same kind of stuff and we i recognized that immediately about
each other and so we became friends back in the welbys ent many years at different teams and but we we ended up being together at citeth ree was in different asking at the me but
anyways you got a guy you ended up being married to a great guide but who is a military guide de point all the time you've been come from the military background you in have
military near life what was that like olesale being welcomed into the military family and the harsh realities of a being married to a military member during a time of war an yeah
i i definitely not from a nolia family i don't i barely knew what an abyss an i wasn't impressed particularly with the factories i think that i'm fairly well suited to delight
style because i'm pretty independent he and i'm i don't tend to be some one who frecklet over what might happen i know that he loves his job and he is as well trained as he can
possibly be to do the job that he does and so you know that's really that's really all there is for me he and you know of course there's moments where you feel aleatory for
yourself and think gosh what if something happens what if he comes home with out his legs or with half his face shrapnel er something but you know i don't any more that stuff
doesn't get into my head much and so i don't i just don't really worry about it or one of oneota about being a dependent and i know happyland persuaded a law by yourself and and
my wife the same way very independent in terms of her day to day ses'tus need me to actually do anything for her but i i i well down a note just to talk about another level of
independent and that's emotional independence which i think is very important i think it's something that you know spouses need to find for each other because i think there's
spouses that become emotionally dependent on each other and that works in a day to day relationship of your senses at all time but if your husband is your wife goes on to pomona
leaves you for six months to fourteen months to eighteen months of your in a long deployment cycle you are not going to have that emotional who shoulder to lean on it's not going
to be there and so you have to learn how to be emotionally independent now what scary about this is that obviously if you get so much emotional independence that you no longer you
can loose connection righthand so that's what you have to watch out for and i think what you see with especially with younger married couples the emotional independence from one
person leads up to lead to some kind of emotional dependence on some other person that they meet next you know we have a bad situation so i think that emotional independence is
something if you talk about when he other and you so you know my wife was one of the best things about my wife as i would be i would i talk to my wife you know just not you know i
wouldn't send her email the bengalee to weeks three weeks no email nothing because i'm over doing my job and and she wouldn't think to herself oh he's not talking send me animal
wire july ballymeen i paint he's busy you know she wasn't dependent on me for her emotion so i think that's another important piece that you needed talk about when your spouse if
you're the military is at uation yeah i ah my husband's pretty good actually about staying in touch with me and communication on deployments but it's not because of emotionally
being dependent on each other not just the way he is he values my opinion on things a law and we talk about sayings and am you know so so we do communicate quite a bit but i yeh i
completely know what you mean about the anas being a wife sitting at home with your husband gone like you can't just sit there and pine over them being gone and waited for them to
come home or you have to have your own life you have to carry on while they're gone and that's the best way you can support them i think if your you know making them feel bad for
not calling you every opportunity to get and then laying a guilt on them about you know the facts said they're not giving you enough attention stuff when they've got it yet he can
you can't do that you've got a you've got it just take charge of your own life and and do that will there way no when they are away obviously that's something you deal with whom a
very way and then you have other things that you have to deal with when they come back home they specially during a during a hard deportment now i know a lot of civilians the show
as well and it's important i recognized that there's different types of deployments and even during the same time period exact same deployment cycle with two groups of people or
the hundred groups of people there be some people that are in an area in an area of operation or half a mission set that will allow them to completely coast and and and enjoy
themselves not play free time and and that can happen and in the other and the spectrum is you can go on to payment and you can think he he you can end up in total violence and
cosima him and i just thought of this my first appointment to iraq we don't we did a lot of operations it was cool it was fun they were really good operations and when i got back
what i was there i think i mean i wish i would a broth my tar because you don't have some time you is like mad back at the pride played guitar for you know half hour a day may be
forty five minutes be cople of the guys would rout their deterrence and so jam sessions right in and we will work in at your of them was a real working were probably you know
we're doing probably a mission every one two or three days we were out so my next appointment i said to myself going you don't bring it to you know it time gettin work all the
work on the rest sure go back then this dupont was the remote and i think laveleye played petasum time we played we place a corone time when there was like three days left into
poliment we broke out of the cars gondalas another task in it there now and we were turning over but that that shows you the difference and we we literally did not have any time
to do any that and an obviously the the pressure of combatant to iraq was a thousand times more intense and i knowed that your husband done multiple to pometia they varied in
stress level a varied in amount of combat and amount of direct combat and his leadership a situation but i know that you know not too long he went on deportment that was
definitely high stress and they they saw a lot of hard combat and when he came home from that you know what was that what was that like what did you notice and what do you think
other people should look for so the very first night he was home from that deployment i woke up in the middle of the night and he was standing over the bed holding a gun and that
sort of shocked me a little bit and made me realise that i was dealing with something a little bit different i talked to him on deployment he and over the course of the deployment
i could hear his voice change i could tell that he was he was changing it was he was strenuous and there was a lot of m engagement and when he came back he just you know when he
woke up in the middle of the night his mediate response he just heard a noise a dog barked or something a echis jumped for a weapon he just startled easily and that was his
reaction m he had a definitely a surer temper little things that he shone been getting mad about worse setting him off you know just just dumb stuff and i would say something or
do something and he would get so mad about it and it was like you know take it down the notch he started a you know on a make it sound like he was doing us in a terrible way but
he definitely started some self medicating with alcohol ah he was slit relying on sleeping pills to get to sleep he has never been much of a drinker i'm not a drinker at all and
so when i noticed him drinking more than he normally would every single night ah you know that immediately was a red flag to me and then the sleeping pills you know this this a
ambient powerful stuff and an can really be a bad a bad road to go down and your gas definite re did on that man road and i i've seen gods go down that road and is just the call
the onthe can't sleep it out embannered cycle and everything else so eland and i i i guess that there's times when people need it hubut i think i think gussie military slip real
really easily from a guy that needs it to guy that didunt because they're starting trelyon yea for sure an it's weird that you've told tavolata you know dave burge who was an egg
go for air controller on the ground with with my taginal of work with my task in it in remedies and use nephila he was you know popgun on a echoed just thinks he was straight up
tom crust he had on a ground less remidy for however the polymetis l lot of stuff and and he insommary intense direct combat and exactly what you just said like coptain you he
said when he with you stockmen and he got the car with his wife and in his mam he's in there for ten minutes and they were having a normal contrition yelled anthem alike his
temper was just short so there is the temper the increased temperature think people definitely get and the other thing guillestre response which was it which dave talked about his
well was you know he heard a argun fur puttin the putting waringan he's walking by a grass and seventy fired off an air gun and he grates wife into the ground right and he was
like me and he said while he was doing he already realized to what am i doing as to lay accent so those are things to watch out for and then what about what about the i know you
talk about the sleep baton yea he gatholian sleeping am normally and so you know i started to to see this stuff and i was like this isn't this isn't a road that we want to go down
and so i told him that i thought he really needed to go see a sikh and luckily in the silting sir good access to that and also fortunately my husband listen to me he muckleford
her he keep he values my opinion and if i say something is amiss than i he believes this something isn't miss and so he went and saw the syce and i think i do partly i think
you've talked about him before he helped helped him to get on to em just a help your sleep cycle cut out all the the medication he doesn't take any medication at all any more nor
never any sleep pills or anything started taking like him herbal supplements and stuff and am he takes him alfagrano aidenn it didn't take long he he you know he made a few
appointments with the sights at definitely helped him to realize it yet he was wasn't acting normally because i don't think when he's well you guys come back ye don't you've
already been used to work operating on a elevated level for a while and you don't realize your your don you now home with your ripein your kids is and your still trying to operate
on that level like granite boy of frogging you know where the youth's normal to you it's normal you don't sense it when you're over seas you just are getting wrapped up and ramped
up and your stand in the sight and stayed all the time and everything is intense all the time but you don't notice it and so when you come home you don't notice that it's i
shouldn't be like a ritolderiddle imploring for the family spouses and stuff to you know keep an eye on these guys and hopefully channel them in a good direction when the heat
home as supposed two of you know that had i not stepped in and i mean my husband he's he's in silver a long time you he's been through a lot of stuff but um you know he keenly
could have gone down a road that wouldn't have been healthy for him or his career were no doubt about that the one i just remembered this one i think were it was either right
after you met here that all right after you move down here i think i was talking to him could i talk about well where you guys were live in you know out than you guys had proper
you hadn't bought property apperture in the leg property and he had to horses everything is all man when you what made you move out of your you know this is this is also an he's a
dam my wife told me she wouldn't come down here in less i got her a property with horses on it in loan here we are thank awsome that's fellos yah bit then you know you talk a
little bit about your kids and how that all that helped you but o you in the mean time as you were having kids when you got down here you started straight up farming yeah i mean i
thalassian to him having me was that i was not going to put my horse in a stable and josiana a while like they were going to come with me and we needed land for them to be horses
wild horses like they were used to being and he could be came may the alarmed eddie made it happen and we got a great eighteen ere piece of property and we've got five fat horses
now out in the field every time i look out and i never farm to be for i'd always been a horse wrangler and i started just growing a little garden house like i loved this and i
heard about as he say program which is basically where you grow a like you grow bunch of stuff and you sell a box of whatever your farm is producing every week to people who pay
you know they'll pay to give their box of fruits and vegetables and ashley could do that i could get a few people and start to do that so i did i start out with like ten families
that i do boxes for and realize that i really liked it and it gave me a lot of focus when he was deployed it gave me a lot of something to really throw myself into and fousan she
was from oinopota on a farm i like that and an you know we we had kids kin ride a right around the same time and so that was that was a little challenging itself to be trying to
like yet this farm up and going and being you know in the beginning you talked about me being like nine months pregnant altere working and um yes solatia you will do but it was
awesome you know i loved it and i've i've managed to build up a pretty decent to business he and um there's nothing that i find more rewarding in life and growing good food
there's something about it that an end for my husband to like i do most of the paticular work he's more of my farm boy may be ever yet but ah it's very therapeutic for him i think
when he comes at from the playmates and stuff and he well he can just kinda let all that though by being in this natural surrounding with physical labor to do it every day you
don't need i think you've thought you out this before you don't need sleeping pills when you work yourself hard your maldarelli on for it is so go you as leaning ishiyama boy on
her like we has on the point of my boy outheroded slave labor of teroahaute let learn about an honest days work a year we help side in with yer it's uh you know i i one of the
things you you had written and this is you know different topic a different the different article that you had written and adams can read a a little kay a little chunk of it
because i love it here regal this is about you being on the farm with her with your now ah this on you just had your your one darteth we go my garden helper turns one year old
this week i remember when life was simpler when i could work in the garden all day on interrupted when i could sleep when i wanted and be out of the house by the early morning but
i didn't laugh nearly as much my heart was in his large i was more selfish these days are slow this baby and i there are so many little brakes create things we get distracted by
things that must be learned i feel lucky to accomplish one or two small tasks in a day now that is enough though we manage there is nowhere she would rather be than in the garden
makes me happy to see her dirt street face smile i have gotten past everything having to be clean let a child be a little while let her experience the taste of dirt the feel of
leaves mud and water let her grow in the garden like an artichoke rambunctious and beautiful she laughed out loud throwing her head back to point at the birds she squealed with
delight when she gets a hold of the cat and crawls like mad to get out of the way of the sprinkler this is nothing that can be replaced by toys nothing that can be learned from
books or videos parks or playgrounds this is my sweet child sweet as the honey suckle blossom dirt and all lasgird stuff bring those kids up on the altaforte anne you know
continuing down that canobin you enough to to the present you wrapped up the article that you wrote about abuse an you kind o talk to bout where you're at now aamaadt the person
that i am now i'm fairly proud of considering i carry very few scars from my past other than the physical ones that are carved into my skin i am comfortable talking about abuse i
can look at pictures of my abuser and feel very little i am married to a kind o courageous hero of a man i've built up a beautiful farm i've got two amazing young children who i
will protect with my life which is really where this story begins the children look around you please look at your own children and other children that you see look at your
friends and relatives and watch their interactions closely we fear so many ridiculous things in life but we don't fear the most common dangers to children nearly enough we like to
think of child lesters as strangers not the people we know and let into our lives daily stavelot trust your gut instinct if something seems off remember even very young children
can keep tremendous secrets this is uncomfortable he sometimes on comfortable things need to be handled head on until they no longer have the power that secrecy and silence gives
them thanks were listening plesher and keep the children safe in then and we yoke' talked through some of us but i kind of wanted just you you kind o laid out and you've talked
about it already you know just in what was discussed so far by think it's worth covering again from your perspective your thoughts on unhookin save in some of the things to watch
out for and some of the things to do here we go i think the best the answer is talk about uncomfortable topics early and often don't just have the talk with kids talk to them on a
regular basis about their bodies sex predators consent if they never hear you talk about it it's going to be harder for them to bring it up to you i know communication is
difficult many families remember it's not a fetid to do it as in the dull you have to initiate hard conversation regularly don't ever assume your kit is too young for something to
have happened to them it can literally happen in a few minutes with a friend oframi member when you are out of the room as tom if i've ever been pushin appropriately and were in a
way that made them feel uncomfortable then asked them again and again a few days later bring it up casualty the second time he was thinking some more about that conversation we
had the other day give them time to process and decide if they can handle telling you do not push kids to hug and kiss people if they all resistant to it even family members this
is a topic that they should be familiar discussing with you everyone treats it like it's this dark secret that we can't talk about that makes kid feel like they can't talk about
it either take every opportunity to bring it up in conversation a new story a face book post a friend dealing with issues talk about what's going on and why we may think that we
are doing our kids a favor by keeping this horrible stuff from them but the statistics and the women who have spoken out here prove that most likely your child or grandchild will
have to deal with it alone if you weren't proactively if you have four female children or grandchildren or nieces chances are at least a one has or will be molested some kids just
will not talk no matter what be observant and if anything ever seemed slightly off follow your gut instinct if a child or tentell you they haven't been touched for a wasted don't
take their word for it kids can be amazingly good at keeping secrets in that i think i disagrees for people to think about to put to put in the action and really a good in a great
example to live by so that you can be aware of this stuff ever happitie this subject to be normalized a lovemore than it is a you know yeh it's a horrible thing to talk about it's
hard to talk to your kids about it but we have to make it more amalon for kids but for the millions of adult sitrate who been through it and still don't talk about it when i first
posted am what you read i post it on face book and i had a ton of people sandy private messages telling me their own horrible stories people that i knew people did were friends of
friends people that i didn't know it all and i was shocked by a few of the people that i knew who had horrible stories am kiddie to high school with that i knew during the time
that there abuse was also going on told me some things and every one just yells with it and as it feel like they can talk about it and that's it's it's not right and so i hope
that it might coming on here and and bringing this to light in being the person that i am he unsaying hayles have honest conversation about this will help some one else even if
one or two other people decide that they can change their life for the better because they hear someone addressing this honestly or one or two other people look at their kids and
the interaction that there neighbor or their friends or their grampa once somebody has with their kids and realizes that their something not quite right then everything that i've
been through is worth it because i will have used my experiences to help some one has wilberforce siate that i owe focused a lot on that to day and again i i you know you as a as
a military wife ah i also wanted to take of a moment to recognize all those military wives out there that a whole blinville there husbands are as you know deployed overseas in
harm's way and i i wrote something for one of my daughters in this point one of my daughters was quite frankly not treating my wife with the kind of respect that my wife deserves
you know it was typical to anger stuff a roll the eyes of fippence basically young adolescent girl with young adolescent attitude what you talked about her lernonas tell me
anything i know everything and in her mind you know my wife was just some lady that did the laundry got the groceries and cooked dinner and that's how she treated and so i i wrote
this for my daughter but i i wanted to read it for every one in a and a want of the naked not just to my wife but all the military wives out there holding the line on the home for
to the what i wrote to my daughter you are mum i wanted you to know a little bit about your mom your mom was a champion horse rider he wrote cross country races showed jumping and
she did fox hunting she cared for her horses every day clean them trained them and took care of them she won many victories your mam worked since she was little starting in
restaurants first peeling potatoes then bussingen cleaning that waitress to make money your mom went to an extremely good college her parents didn't pay for it she worked from
colleges a waitress to pay your own way when your mom got done with college she took the money she saved and back packed around the world she went to pyland malasia hawaii
ostralia neeland and a bunch of other places while doing that she worked as a waitress and other odd jobs as she could make money in paroma when your mom not done travelling the
economy was bad and she couldn't find a job so she went overseas and worked at it airline as a flight attendant which is a horrid thankless job serving on grateful passengers on
plains sheenlike it but she did it when i met your mom for the first time she was the most beautiful girl i had ever seen and when i talked to her she was the nicest person i have
ever met and she was funny and sassy and sweet and i knew immediately that i wanted to marry her so your mom picked up everything and laughed and came to be with me in america she
moved into a tiny one bed room apartment with me she was wonderful she was adventurous to she surf with me and she trained you git to it me every day and worked out with me every
day she got a blue belt and jugdesh worked as an executive assistant in a real estate office and got a real estate licence we went to steinman hiked mountains and camped under the
stars in the mountain and we went dancing at night she was amazing i got orders to move to virginia she instantly packed up everything we had in quitter job and moved across
country when we got to virginia she got tough job working for an insurance company of course i was in a seal pecudes i traveled all the time and was gone all the time and she
never complained one day she tonish was pregnant that was you she was so happy and then the day after you were born i left on the ployment fer seven months she did everything by
yourself i was going she never complained and she sent me a picture every day of you when i got home from the ployment she was already back in shape and looked amazing the navy
gave me orders back to california without a word your mom packed away all of our stuff quitter job and we moved back to california i worked in went to school i never got up in the
night to help take care of you it was always your mom every time she changed every dipper made every meal tried every tear ran every good night book i worked went to school and
trained you gito she never complained one single time soon she told me she was pregnant again that was your first sister when your first sister came now everything that your mom
did for you she had to do for your sister to every dipper every meal every tear every little bulk red i was working and going to school and training she walked you both and read
to you and took you to parks and play groups and dancing lessons and swimming lessons and craft fairs she did everything for you she didn't get to serve any more or do you git any
more oh work out for high with me any more she devoted all that time to you her kids who she cherished she never complained or wind or asked for anything then she got brigantine
this time it was your brother she kept doing everything for you when she got her morning sickness throwing up dizzy and carrying around a baby in her belly sheeting complain ever
but she was in the bathroom said and throwing up she would apologize to you and you sit you and your sister that you girls had to see you like that then the war started i went
back to the seal teams i went to iraq for six months i was working so much that i barely got time to write your mama ways wrote me he never complained about anything she did
everything on by herself everything i was taking care of my seal potune and she took care of you three little kids she cleaned everything made every meal can change every diaper
dried every tear took you to lessons and parks and doctors appointments and read you every night and major lunches and got groceries she did this all by herself no inlaw to help
out no grand parents around just her alone when i came home things didn't get any better i just started getting ready to go back to aracan she didn't complain some guys had to
worry about their families their wives are complaining and cry and file for the force and fight over the kids i never worried about that at all your mom took care of everything
and never made me have to worry about you kids or her or anything else my last upon the track i was going almost seven months i left her mam alone again with you three kids some
of my men were wounded and killed your man went to the hospital to visit the wounded men and went to the funeral of my friends your mom knew at any time he could be need that was
wounded or killed but she never complained she cried with the alms of my friends she gave support where she could but she never asked me to stop or come home or leave early or
even be safe never she never asked me to give anything to her she knew i had mente care of she told me not to worry about her or all you kids she only told me to do my best hat my
job and take care of my friends on the battle field moseles get divorced almost ninety per cent there is too much pressure and separation and distance and commune challenges and
many women can't take it so they leave your mom never wavered she never had an issue or a complaint no matter what happened or when i came home or when i left for what i did she
supported me always and she took care of you kids every day every night every moment every need you had was her responsibility she never asked for thanks or appreciation and when
it was her birthday or our anniversary she would tell me not to get her anything so we could save money when i got home from my last appointment to iraq your mom got pregnant
again that was your youngest sister and she did it all again morning sickness die diapers sleepless nights pun the bad p on the floor chicken pox life tears scrapes bumps bruises
teacher conferences school ones everything she never complained about it i was still working preparing men for war and travelling all the time and she continued to take care of
you kids so i could do my job your mam is stuck with me through hell it has been hard your man has been married to this hard headed frog man for seventeen years she's been through
multiple war time to ployments she is helped me when i was sick or injured she has done the same for you she has done it because she is strong and determined and she loves our
family more than anything in the world your mamasaki ble person and amazing woman and i worship her she is everything i ever wanted so when you get the chance you should tell your
mom that you love her that you know how much she is done for you and for our family and that you appreciate everything that she is done for us and for you i oh you grow up and
have some of the same quality that she possesses strength honor intelligence dignity selflessness respect determination and kindness that's your mom and i hope you realize how
blessed you are half eoote note that i wrote to my daughter and ye others some people that say a woman can do anything that a man can do when out on no fat true or not but i can
tell you this i don't know of too many men that could do what my wife has done and what thousands of other military wives have done an i want to recognize how blessed we are as a
nation to have these women out there holding the line on the home front a job and yesedi job that is undirected nice and over we all the time then iris like my own wife i think
you are a stellar example of this thinking no faint you for what you have done for your family but also what you have done for our country in supporting your husband and your
family and thankyou and obviously thank you for coming on here to day to to teach all us about a subject that we all need to know more about not disabuse but also determination
and on top of that determination to overcome what you experience in your life but the determination to keep a family together and protect the protectors lads been an it's an
incredible honour to be here in an thank you this fur steppin out of box a little bit with me he and getting us out there and and talking about some of the stuff and i love you
know what you row to to your daughter and your wife is still stunningly beautiful me in very kind she is indeed and it's you know i have in you on a pocatello brater high i have
probably waited three or four months to broach the subject with your husband of waiting at the right moment in he said something to me about it now like you not to tashter just
happens to man a come on and let em know and i and and he answered me in thirty sen and wasn't his answer he said i just actores googoolias on pegrani one thank ye as well
speaking of the port casts echo charles i mean if somebody wanted to support this pot cast a thorny way they can do that in the various actually is kind of the one we talk about
these heavy things this kind of the the time to decompress little bit right do little but we can all waterpit in the paces down it lindores yes i think so most et let's talk but
supporting ourselves now you know got actually it all out of it like veinlike a strong military wife and all this stuff even even just unnormal and you know this i'm going to say
the star ainsa there's military husband is well edenite and and there there doing all that stuff i talked about i was talking about wiscasset what i deal with i had a wild midwife
you know and and you're a military life the guys at are of their whole now before and also there's guys that are married to police all sorts the the i know that that gets flipped
sometimes and and respect yes respect the equally challenging a for for anybody that's that's home now the fort at home so yet the the concept as you know love has specially when
you dealing with kids and full of responsibilities on me or whatever and i the mention this before where lies to fall into that got a mind set where you're making about yourself
now you know where you have kids and as like hay oh i got a chain i changed the diele you know but if you notice you're talking about yourself not the diverting change in
regardless but you're like focusing on the fact that you had to do anything of penates not that you're wrong but you chose to make it about yourself so the less you make it about
yourself in more about the mission the family that chondawat ever it is that you're doing the stronger you're goin to have the like the capability to be in now you can like salt
the problem you know complish that masheesh being said make it but herselves for second i supporting ourselves so this is kind of a flat yenisei how like in the in the airplane
they say support yourself before you support the kid you you apotheosise man because if you support yourself you have more capability of supporting others train he starting
rantingest like the stronger anglicised he got iris over her shoes at grosshesslohe blowing a yotanka it is to imitation she knows she mentioned elaphria these things and i
started taking were eltern bowly are tiggit that to day you were sharp let you rest with the folk i yea yea i felt like a la bit distracted not the silly here but just in life and
i couldn't like focus on the thing that i like make dido or what in all i've been making videos branasko it relaxed anyway if you're working out you want supplementation consume
support in the work out which actually im down for now i wasn't a supplement person before as i said before but now i am because there's supplements like crill oil you know strong
bone strong bones there is that for like a bone to it might be but i just i don't know my bones seems strong i don't break em very often but my joints a want help so i take it for
that i take it for the joint ye could he figure choseul one like you tendite yowrin by sevier to the ten in ripping off the bone there so you figure join struck me be that's you
know the strong bone this that's the part of a white man home work deynier get back to vingolf you so good supplement quoil for your joints that's a big one in my opinion in
ocasion my opinion i return the minion to sir e manifesta though he whether you're working out a whether your act should be working on the fore yestidday it on not good on em but
as for supplements go you know you get the good ones when you get on at once nor you on temprano on it doombles joco my joints here's a thing like the all albus of crill whenever
it's applicable in my mind and people do wonobobo roil now but then i feel like it's kind o always on my mind because you only lay i'm talking a great right the other day i don't
i don't think gregson the creoles were talking at your beds after where he should be there were talking we talk for a little while about stuff a whatever the caitive to go we get
out greg egeline danaides and i didn't have to make that noise but he missonaries an indicator and the cadeat has carlyle in many somebody ordered that man criminally what i
thought i didn't say nothing but that's what i ashanti as canetella think maybe you was like while he'll write it on the tenth too fresh so i just make this just for this whole
advertising for grattan greeting get you on the hill fundunt and it's less about making that kind of noise or not making a noise as the fin that compelled him to make the noise
that the important for when i gratiate ten per cent off manthanein help this along now an age if he chose to get down pionono flashed jocko the flash jocasta they could give you
the temperate on on on all your stuff you can if you like provender and what not which which is good too by the way they looked on there see what what you know cause it depends
your life style you something anyway does he get ye get my dear okay they all refer that's a good way to support yourself and the pot cast and ultimately everyone around you
actually every one in the world to regain lowell be more support ultimately get flick the butterfly affecting him like a talking yet affect china plate he waimanu through that's a
good way to support so by the way ah so what that does is you know before you do your shopping you click through the website jackal pocasse up come on the tab on the top banner on
the bottom thing is with a banner oh i'm only thing this cause people like it me up about it and the in these had don't see that that at your banners not there on the website if
you have an add locker which is writing how by the way just generally speaking you have been add blocker it'll block certain like things and sometimes that banderilla within the
confiance of seeing that the ad blacker blocks the impanelled what we could also change our whole attitude here i make the full folk is of the fog cast in the web site and
everything that were doing to get people to get into the give us money but not going to do that ray so like now that i'm thinking in talking he has about him like manna should
really go change that but when i go home when i go you know other places on thinking about getting after it thinking about him making eyes what have you so you know i hear him in
but so an maybe that's a good thing they that's a bad thing but none the less those are the facts as of right now but on the matter because the tamon the top like i said quick
anela it goes a port takes three seconds small action and that's a port at that it one's been given be reaction and and somehow the supports china you are harassed all our male
yes is the butterfly sick look into interlocked at its real gets real ah you can subscribe to the pages and this is on any podcast ing providing platform goulaine course stitcher
the oriretur of you to which i've done some red some live refuse and here of of jackaway but i might do that with the parecas together some really good god on there too i was
actually thinking of doing a face book live and weeding the comments on a picture that joe roguin post of me be there so funny comments yet the reproof media let there novatian to
make fun of my hand here but they're worth reading you know there was a member that video then we made actually clung to alien a might have been before the first pop assionate
after a anyway we made it and it was about marshallton your you know what what's the best part haaeldean all this stuff right so it ain't re visited that i was a while ago there's
like millions of this over a million views on that road so with views come comment surelie said to end it tippable here you know it's the usually not a productive to spend much
time in the comet section on you too but a lot of views letcombe let see what the bean it's not like people who've necessarily follow jack potestate times and of being you get a
cool little like variety of of people in their so the others some interesting ones in there hiding quote any or nothing or save any but a into san charles speaking interesting
nameless back to subscribing to the proud you to yet we have a outgane if you like the video vertano this boncassen at like people know what you look like there either but a
smaller percentage of people know what i look like they are in a manticora in you to watch the video to see what i live on not saying that echoed look like wason like you got
parlatore then you send is you is your sentinel today i seen pictures that o online and i was surprised when i did because each sounded sort of men no i'm not going to say what
she said lingayon away i who on you luckeeserai is yea yea yea her smike that won't i sit a mixed white and latino not hitter am like skaters on a something in a they got real
specific as cool i i did it while he i guess it's becomes you have a weird background being a ah how wyant do you half black half white guy a year i mean not to split here is that
there's some need of imagining the hand name bayside but see now i had i think to do with the way you talk yet where you tales the willow talk yeasting otway ye yet does so is it
a bit as maroney and then leaving here and then anon in an you i was turning all this stuff is jumbled up in noway back to the leonese what he looks like he could change her
interested in something like that if that interests you subscribe to the eocene might facility gasconner silly i look like what a young frank i'm going to lay and in other wise
look like that exactly so yet they do also also my looks societe do now is that we've been doing this for a little bit is a all take a little exertion little lessons and we'll put
em on theirs wealthy can share em you know easier than sharing the whole pot jesting having people received it you know what can't just listen to two and half hours on a whim you
know now what three ida after kind of schedule that you got a schedule as exactly right free minutes vote no schedule lorelei it rest right now yet no less an earphone individual
that life you proved pretty go yet rough enroll yes exactly so less really the gold here and you know i got a beat like people have said you know i would sit or people been asking
me if one person not to in my case people have been saying like that good to have those ones because some people they don't listen to the poet like the first day you know they are
like high said the kind o got a shadwell even minoriten we are or commuters not elastica a but you know half an hour to unitate you you know a few days to hear the whole pot cast
but he might have been a nuggeted for work that wanted answered yes some people all say that helped to me that day like the college one that you talk about i had up rochecote
there wet in a pulowech you have at when you approached college i wish i had all this really i what i approached anything in life rebut yes the college is so he has subscribed you
to me that's that's a good one that's a good way to support and that's another way sport yourself in a way cunnel um and and if you were to shirts at any point you went a
represent little bit with that unculture you know i think you i think they're buryclose they are approved he cried literally all of her and hers a new test now which you are
wearing at this time all i get at um in weel complex yet he back in it says get after it in a man technically it's a char coal heather but factionis what it is and oh tis usually
more to one kind of meat the eye we call that lays a laical sins of but yet in what if if you want support that way that's a good way you know and you get it to sir that you can
wherever wearable that's a thing they're not the cheap ball part give away shirts they're like good very wearable multiplication people say is my favourite trick to wear because
of the fit he portone you that people evelina day yet i'm telling ye women's on their women stuff on their shirts patches rash guards monait on a new rush cartier pretty soon not
that that's like supposed every one fired up or not like that and i m ardeatine good this it is our on there is well and you know if you like any of this stuff i'd say exist look
at it if you choose to support ye feel like supporting you feel like representing pigeoning a gewaesser ye and also this what amount wormall you here good very well border on
essential now it's like one o those things were okay so psychological warfare woinomoinen to it so you don't how like let's say you're getting after it is given after an i'm
getting after it i start taking hill oil i istar taking crill jackalskin for oil maybe someone else comes in based or get infer they start it meanwhile you're not taking the grill
oil were kind of a hand of you he now is that alansasa meteetse surely that's a big deal so psychologic warfare what that does is cessatoris an alp with tracks with joanne put
imply jock on their helping it through any moments of weakness that you may have a year getting after it journey waking up early in the morning every day sleeping on the diet the
procrastinating all these things yet big deal so he saratogas with procrastination on ye procrastination is one of those things it a massive problem with people right people all
over will have a massive problem with procrastination think of how we housoever come that you any easy thing is the easiest thing to overcome such an gorger yes you just do just
do go do ye what you're procrastinating i ness already you want i bethink you have to work no it over passed it you just just crusade is back of the the other day or last week
whatever when i said like you you got a switch it to manuel just and for prowess nation you just got a switch it to manu for like literally to secular one to pomona you do it on
one started a yeah you're doing it you were no longer progress in now you know by its amenity battle the wind and we what a battle that is so many people face in a loose and lose
bits yet one of those acadica things that you kind of got i declare war on and in that case engaging psycholophon the less this is a good way okay so back to my point about when
everyone starts getting after the in your not so i i i want to feel that like anyone's do as i odoriferous you can't listening to it and like a nanak up an i presses you can't
listen to get up you know when i first structure whatever you can't listen to that in annotate you can't you won't be able to face yourself in like one of those things is like
that strong so let's say everyone's doing that you're kind of left behind if you're not that's how i feel like you from that doing it you know i'll do it even if i feel like
working out all still listen to it devoile kick little kick anyway pyootiful worship jackal and i did a little it was looking at audiobook the other day it's still number one by
the way and a man on a spoken word on night dear in a man to get in on it you and been that way since i came out the jail everyone at estaline get after it they're getting after a
ennismore ninepin eight there like he's got to do it he also on a cooking when you're looking through him was on you can also get jackaway tea and here's a bottom line you know we
all need a dead lift more yes all right sir don't play around if you order your jackaway tea you're going to boost your dead left to a proxy thousand banksias that my bag of day
you think a thousand pounds is happy it's in another you know you of measurement is for tone her yet i think that that's good man not really good you want to do that way the
warrior kid by the way it is not even pre order any more the teimes out may second right so it's coming out soon boom order now and save a child smash a belly save yourself
smashed pousa's them that's hoolaert putty yes is it and so did the play ground there and the kids are discina running a mock you know and let him his parents in there and this is
one kitambi oh any of that look on his face i'm not saying he's a bully but he you know walker i was like grabbing another getting of his his brother on offees bullinger help you
know or whatever but you could tell like in all the little kids vices the older some people there like there's a line for the little thing and the kids get on it's like a
minnesota margaron it's nothing you sit in an so some kids are real assertive they'll be like oh it's my turn cut in the line not even realizing this a line on whatever then the
some kids will stand in line and they'll just sort o let people or is cut for and then there's some kids who are like all wet and no explain there's a line you know lescande the
different levels for people on nessie something like this that's goin to turn you into you know the person who you know canalled er coatroom leader the complacent williams and
might have been out there can you will sicily and now trustingly i'm doin me there's a lot of i ask question who should read the audio for that right has it if i was thinkin i
would just read the whole thing and then some people said ah you know jocko you're not a kid and it the kids force it's in the first person of a kissock so i i couldn't read
parkinson i decided you know what a mocking ridgework mother the kids part but there's a character in their name uncle jtuns jake he was a seal deane's going to come and help out
and i i decided maybe i could read uncle jake sheard so i did feel like i had in an then we got a kid reading the kids part and i think you you all find out who that is and i
think they'll be some layers behind that that part it so ye wait the warrior kid you can order that now then also get to pinnacle freedom and you'll manuals coming out what a
field manual something that you allows you to take information and put it into action that's he that's a dispatchful manes going to do comes on october seventeenth my teeling way
away with so did ma second irebu this thing's coming out around the corner so the field manuel it's basically this pot cast in a book you can't bring this pocket into the field
with you i guess you can put it on your head fonsegues an abe you can bet ganbutsu you need visual kin ye so that's where it is the faults the things from the pocasset then it
also has very specific additional information like workouts sleep strategies martial arts you know everything that's cool in the world it's all boil so you could do that tremors
you can feed a bye away why is extreme ownership still one of the top books on and was on and i tuned and audible a year and a half after i came out wis that is it cause the day
advertising campaign that we did know it's not because at its purely because a word of out servants is right now that's bin it for other people and spread in the words cause you
it's awesome appreciate it tremors mason wise it not oompa back yet do you want to know why you don't why yes he had on don't pay for back because people ask me why is it on paper
back is not on paper back yet because books come out on paper back when they aren't selling the hard governor he renesse version here is a paper back now it's only nine ninety
five they haven't done that with our book yet why people still want the hard cover it still selling and the reason for that is because because it works because people get a lot
out of it so if you don't have extreme wondership or if some one that you know doesn't avery moorshed just like they don't have trillide great train he needs croil tell you tell
your subordinately or or your superior leader or members of your team taliman omit you all something her forswearers p and if you need some more extreme aldershot at your team
company contact whatever your year you can contact or company ashalorn laffan myself dave burge did now leadership a man for consultants so naming us on board contact us in fee
and ascalon fun dot com and also along the same dan if you don't know we have them muster coming up numbers orazio in new york city at the mirrored marquis come get your
leadership on you will become a better leader period was going to be there dave's goin to be there dave burkas going to be there amine there echoed charles he is going to be there
and thought of people that listened as poast and that we worked with are going to be there coming get it we'll see you there and until we do get the master if you want to
communicate with us you can find us grating on the interweb first of all were on twitter were on integram you nasafan is on the face bulkheading is there so i rest yes for face
book were you at ah you can follow my farm on predeal its primeval garden on facebo in stream and an iman twitter at only iriarte and i just told i risked the son of potation
annotation i will i i will double interested to me to yes you inclose sign a porter no big deal on in bunch of people will like asking me questions sillies what he did as what it
makes a cool as you can communicate with all these different people and they can give you good formation they can tell you what books to read and they can tell you what speeches
to listen to they can tell you what you do vicecount makin tell you what you did scriptorum is a great way of communicating with a bunch of people so now i icewater a downcast you
know like park come to tod a set messages with what pigeons are ain't ye you know they sent me on it carry her palliasses like when you send someone a mettersi you have the
wonders have to be nine with an tween now to elia don't know the developer tweeting messages that's what winter is anisette a birds sir a message pedantic alween enamel expert of
the manhattan one to change the name of tortoshell yet well know they have to change the name of tweeting the act of weeding to to the noiberlin alleviation tersely said grosgain
else for us to day yea he said i am your dad made gold bars ah i'll be with the barcoe maybe that got a sanconiathon with me wean a you know the a little like aediles like
crumbled cunarum right first year you get just little fragment so piece is when you crush up or you can if you are like sowing in those streams and creatorem out with golden
august which you're naturally forming larger but when you're crushing a for you just get a little tiny flex of gold and then you refine it down into a bar and i at otremba i think
you know they do him in a few ounces to whatever eyes is makes sense just sell your the word gold bar you'd beningain movie you're watahmelon like a oiketan pound you your aero
whatever it is but yes smaller bars pretty cool repreduces it tissaret sing it you want to close out with gosh now just thanks for thanks for doing this thanks for getting me on
here and am love listen the show i i listen to when i'm out working yet after it i i i need to get after it sureties like going over your house cause you and you and your husband
yeaned the conversation in portugal to me and ask about the hateless have you guys listened but thank you anything else i think we're get well obviously thank you for coming on
sir i think it's awesome i the courageous em brave and really the helpful for a lot of people i helped some and thank you for that said you for giving us a warning that that evil
can hide anywhere right under our noses and slink around and thing to corrupt those that are closest to us sir thanks petellin us to hogarth l dren to hold our children and to
watch our children closely and also thank you fu reminding us once again that in the end evil cannot win if we decide that we will not let it because if we confront the darkness
if we stand up with courage and we look upward toward the sky the light will shine on our faces and wash out the darkness and bring us want and how that happiness they in thank
you for showing us once again that even with the evil and the darkness of the world than even with the scars that ve can leave even still even with all that this life is as sweet
as the honeysuckle blossom dark and so until next time missus hires and echo and jack how
