this is jacopo cast number seventy one with a charles and me jack will at evening i good evening a helmet for my pillow a poncho for my bed my rifle rests across my chest the
stars swing overhead into your holes and gunpits kill them with rifles and knives feed them with lead and till they are dead and widowed arthur wives sons of the mothers who gave
you honour and gift the birth strike with the knife till blood and life run out upon the earth marines keep faith with your glory keep your trembling hole intruder feel of nippon
steel can't penetrate your soul closing they charge all howling their breasts all targets large the gun must shake the bullets make a slaughter of their charge red are the
flashing tracers yellow the bursting shells horses the cry of men who die shrill are the wounded yells god altenahr stricken she shrieks with orange spark the mortars lash and the
cannon's crash it crucified the dark saint michael angel of battle we praise you to god on high the foe you gave was strong and brave and unafraid to die speak to the lord for
comrades killed when the battle seemed lost they went to meet a bright defeat the heroes hall acos false is the vaunt of the victor and the or living pride for those who fell
there is no hell not for the brave who died on that a exert from a poem that opens a book called helmet for my pillow when the book was written by guinane robert lecky otherwise
noted lucky everybody called him lucky and he was a machine gunner and the de scout wit the first marine but division in world war two and he is a decent part of the h posers the
pacific which is if you haven't watched that just by it right now and watch it it's awesome and it's based on a bunch of different books and a bunch of different events from the
pacific and a lot of him eugene sledge that another one with the old breed there's a lot that he plays a man real john baslois plays a large role in that series and there's other
a bunch of other books we but redon a bunch of them all this poast and this one is another one and you think you're averything in myself like while you know should i do how my for
i tell i'd read it along time ago and i thought to myself you know we've kind of covered you know the pacific pretty well and i'm just straight up wrong so wrong because every one
experience is different the things better the same and his view point on things is is just a different view point and equally important to understanding not only the war not only
what they experienced in war but also a whole nother side of human nature that we need to learn about and hethersett go over so a little as a little intruction here and i just to
give you a little background on on lucky lucky he enlisted on january fifth nineteen forty two he tried to join up the day after the attack on pain harbor but a surgically
correctable condition disqualified him now he was back and acceptable just that tells us a lot he was a civilian not a professional fighting man but he became a warrior the author
was one of those young men many not yet twenty who were gentle human beings that were transformed by training hardship and the war into fighting marines these were the boys who
became men that stood against and then beat back to the world's most vicious fighting machines they left behind them a heritage of decency that hopefully will live for ever then
that's from the introduction and so again after world after proverb there is some using pictures using pictures of geyserite around the the block waited he got the recruiting
office and he goes to recrudesce he'd can't go in at perceiveth gets in to take him a month to get in and then he's off to boot camp then we've seen all kinds of representations
and books and a movies of mrecabo camp and but camp of gent in general but i just had to hit on this one a little bit cause did is another perspective that shows you so he has
sent his view of it and gave me a a you a better understanding a clear understanding of what were what people are going through when they're going through but camp and i remember
actually i remember this about became they they wrote we underwrit something when i was going through became and califata about this before but we are on hookabadar down you know
the top three things you're learning right you had we all had to a tisnao camp and i wrote down something along the line of i wrote something long ones of the brain washing seems
very effective railed i was at eight or nine ingatestone nineteen and that's cause i was a rebellious kick right and something in the brain washing us and i wasn't against it and
i i i it was kind of one of those saints frozen i was kind of being sarcastic but is also kind of being a true elatella cracking but facino who will have all we that so that's
what i was doing and at i remember they didn't say anything about anything any one had written about what we were learning or whatever they called that one out the the the chiefs
that were running my boot came company the you know say and you say you're gittin praying washed you don't want this is what's going to save you they want to speak thingoe my my
assessment so there is a little bit of that here in what what what lucky said he says the same kind of thing and he gets the same kind of a gift to the same place but here we go
going to the book there at but camp marine corban in dock and here go sergeant fellow marched us to the quarter masters it was there we stripped off all vestiges of personality it
is the quarter masters soviet you don't know a quarter master in the military some of that basically run supply they give you dear that's what they are so it is a quarter masters
who make soldiers sailors and marines in their presence one strip down with each day vestment a trait is lost the discard of a garment marks the quiet death of an idiosyncrasy i
take off my socks gone is a propensity for stripes or clocks or checks or even solid and it is a tendency to combine purple socks with a brown tie my socks henceforth will be ten
they will neither be sold nor rollo gaudy nor restrained or holy they will be ten the only other thing they may be is clean so it is with it all until one stands naked struggling
with an embarrassment that isn't tiredly lost on the laconic shades who work in the quarter master's shets thus naked thus quivering a man as defenseless before the quartermaster
character clings to close that have gone into de discard as skin and hair stick to a heatity it is torn from you then the quartermaster shades samovar you would measuring tape a
cascade of clothes falls upon you washing new clean of personality when you have emerged from this you are but a number three five one tree nine one united states bring corum
twenty minutes before there had stood in your place a human being surrounded by some sixty other human beings but now there stood one number among sixty others the sum of all to
be a training paton but the parts have no meaning except in the context of the whole so there is a little psychological reason why they do that how they do it then you can see it
works you know all the little things jeavons that make you you were going to take him away that's what we're going to do and he so there is this weird thing because when i went
through but camp i wanted that i take it away from me and i had of said this before on the pot cast you ouittebe sight when you get when you go into bocamad your head they take
your clothes they take all all that personal stuff and you get a blank slate they tell you like this send to do to succeed here all that stuff you've done in the past year
knuckled we don't care here's what you got to do now and it's awesome and for a lot of people myself included your now you you becoming part of something that's bigger than you at
a good feeling you know it's a good feeling i liked it i go so far since they had loved it and they do the same thing by the way they do same thing you when you get to your seal
training class of your bookless onatoga your head shaved again you get another set of uniforms your own an address the same your algona look the same had think that had shevington
would really do it for a lot of people if her sure first her just cosette's port hole presenility you know their hair shireside like that hair honours fast fording a little bit
but i found this interesting back to the book in six weeks of training their seemed not to exist a single pattern a part for meals all seemed chaos marching drilling in manuaries
listening to lectures on military courtesy and so liting right hand well strike to head a forty five degree angle midway from the right eye listening to lectures on marine jargon
from now on everything for street ground everything is the deck cleaning and polishing one's rifle until it shone like an ornament shaving daily whether harry or beardless it was
all a jumble what are going to do sellette japs to death no oregon to blind them with spitting polish yewbarrow the bastards all the logic seemed to be on our side the marine
corps seemed a madness so that they did wateredand out of this you want to suppose i would you dedefile on continuing on it was a madness but it was discipline a part for us
recruits no one in paris island seemed to care for anything but discipline it was absolutely no talk of war we heard no fiery lectures about killing japs such as we were to hear
later on in new river which is a place when i go to train everything but discipline marine court discipline was steadfastly mocked and ridiculed be it wholly ness or high finance
these gonstruction s were dedicated martinet like the sensualist who feels that if a thing cannot be eaten drunk or taken a bed a dead does not exist so would these martinets and
their outlook all was discipline there you go i actually i that that word struck me martinets so i do lotyou know i looked it up and the edema of it is there was a french general
that created a certain type type of drill close order drill procedures and his name was general g martinet jean martinet so that's where you have to wear that word comes from an i
mean that your strict disciplinarian when it be martina marceaus sir for those that speak for inch princked background did not know thee though all that's right cause you are
friends with jetty at jody medic you let you him bond there we on the overeducation roots under britannic another great example or great paragraph about what this feels like back
to the book it is a process of surrender at every turn at every hour it seemed a habit or a preference had to be given up and adjustment had to be made even in the mess hall we
learned that nothing mattered so little as a man's own likes or dislikes and i think that's what it is that i've asked with so cold a that's what i loved right when he joined the
military all the eight all stripped away molds little comforts as you have they shrieked them away and your left with the raw self right the rowel that's what you left with you
and you start putting everything else above yourself it's very humbly process back to the book worse in all this process of surrender was the ruthless refusal to permit a man the
slightest privacy everything was done in the open rising waking writing letters receiving males bruce receiving male making beds washing shaving combing one's hair emptying one's
bowls all was done in public and shaped to distil and stricture of the sergeant so that that one right there go into the bathroom and you get to like in navy bechamp you the first
time you goin to aftertastes toilets there's no doors there's no walls and just dis thirty toilets in rotten pretence a prison tile and you actually prison have you only one late
man even prison so you sit down to the ivy the way you can't say in a weight till no one else is in there because they give you you you have to go from this to this to this and
then okay we're back in the bars give me of after now so there you go you're going to sit down eighteen inches from some other deed that's that's going to the bathroom that
emptying his bowels and there is no privacy and and those i mean you may have never taken a crap in front of another human bang most people have it why would you so you have this
you have this little saint sanctuary ri where you got to get big private gone yeatton all at all exposed stripped away yea and all footfall is letenant thing is the ball at
kindlike it's cool to do that you know like the coaches don't make you do that is just like if you're shy you know or that kind of thing like some day they did they didn't have
stalls they did but yet they did they did but like a appointees kind of like the cool culture so guys win and close the stallion there was a shy guy who didn't want to show her he
go to his like room and chatted in you know where you was like the more open and like whatever you were the cooler it kind o was but that's what i did just locutories of necessary
yea for if you came in shy is like you have that anyway you know ye but man i date i actually remember that because i had never i was whatever i was i tines and sitting down next
to a deed for the first time taking a crop and i never done that before and i would you do that i no revertit world you have you a private space this is my little time as he knows
not now you none i look back to book if you were undone in paris island which is where reincorporate ocampos or wanted them or us also on her intending if you are undone and paris
island taking a part in those first few weeks is that the rifle range that they start to put you together again so that's any goes into some pretty good the talks about now the
rebuilding and finally it again its great details gradior ation very cool reed very coppers pectine that's why we get the book i rated back to the book in five weeks they had made
us over another week of training remained but the desired change already had taken place most important in this transformation was not the hardening of my flesh or the sharpening
of my eyes but the new attitude of mind i was a marine now that the mitriform ation conelike i said they go bigotted there advanced training so in bookam eat don't you not
learning to rid some technos stuff but your basically just learning a new attitude right you're learning to be a marine and in they go for there they go to a place called new
river where they're going to do some more training and there gontaut learning to be actual fighting marines so here we go back the book in sackatou new river here the only town
went was that of the foot soldier the only tool the hand gun here the coat of vated the old bleak and the delicate soon perished like gardenias and desert so we're started to get
into some hard living and they form up into companies and he end up in in h company second to talian first rarement and they get a sum other veterans that come to start help them
prepare for combat and here's whalleys about that the first and is the first rain regiment the first all sir received a vital leavening of veteran and siosteen officers of these
are like the made level in listed guise that grumbach they would teach us they would train us they would turn us into fighting troops from them we would learn our weapons from
them we would take our character and temper they were the old breed and we were the new the volunteer youths who'd come from the comfort of home to the hardship of war for the
next three years all of these would be my comrades the men whom the first marine division and that's true leyton they always try and take veteranship cause actually indeed day
they wanted a bunch of new gas they wanted people that hadn't been in combat before but at edin the sualtem's we do that i got back from remote with my task in it they took my
task in it we didn't and they split him up all put them in all different paskets so we had all these gustavsvarn going to these other task and its thesis pretty normal and that's
where the true learning comes from right you're going to get that that face to face that that hands on and that true connection to what's going on overseas at her some of the
things that they did back to the book drew gun drill and nomenclature now your weapon now it intimately now it with almost the insight all its inventor be able to take it apart
blindfolded or in the dark to put it together be able to recite mechanically a detailed description of the gun operation now the part played by every member of the squad from
gunner down to the unfortunate to carried was the water can or the machine gun boxes as well as their own rifles so you're going to learn this weapon like better than it better
than the inventors what they're saying that's how well you knew know any known i believe that that in ventured doesn't do what these guys do with that machine gun i'll deif you if
you let the guise it i the pig gunners we call them giserie a mark forty eight which is our big have you weapon guys that carry that when you watch them it's beautiful and looks
the more it's beautiful the how quick and help fast and now they come bat load that thing and hit the ground and clear reloads it was like magic you magic love that now there's
not learning about weapons right there's other things you got to do you got to get you start to continue to live a hard life you still got to get men lean physically conditioned
for combat and what better waited be that did some road marches some road marches which we talked about many times here back to the book a whole battalion was on the march of my
port squad was tucked away somewhere at the center or sent a rear clouds of red dust settled upon us my helmet bank irritably against the machine gun that was boring into my
shoulder or else it was bumped forward madingly over my eyes by the movement of my pack miles out i dared not drink any more for my canteen i had no idea how far we had to go my
dungarees were saturated with sweat their light green darkened by perspiration there had been joking and even some singing the first mile out now only the bird say but for us
there was just the thought of tea the clank of canteens the creak of leather rifle slings the occasional horse cracking of voice raised and breath wasted in a curse every hour we
got a ten minute break then came the command off and on it means off your behind and on your feet cursing hating both command and commanding straining we rose to our feet and
began again the dull planting rhythm of the march he old road barkhatnaya their doing this type of hard training in their going there do anover their preparing their dun mock
beach landings their doing all those things and they're also getting some occasional liberty detestait you liberty is as a civilian seisin word that i throw her sometimes it means
time off a liberty means time off and had an it's it's it's from the navy but the rancor uses is well it means time off and so these guys even though the working hard when
boucaned get any liberty now you just stay in book can't prefer to eat you don't get any liberty and want your you know a fleet marine or you're in the regular navy you get
liberty so you can go do you know go out and do some stuff and see these gussoon out and do in stuff and what do you think they're doing eighteen years old getting ready to go to
war there going to go out and get after it you know in a nitination the class adattar old secord actually that's when i got in that conduct is how it got turned on to the
expression get after it oh from an anactoron out and party and ye right tackle in an don'tknow the iardanus what were talking about thatstate that it sounds pretty lame but that's
overtalked understands that term rinking chasin girl party that's atwater talking about the igsitement you turn because you hear people say like i remember seen an article about
some school was some college being the number three ranked party school so so party implies party doesn't imply birthday cake a party yesteryear hardy implies drinking gingras e
in lutitiae getting crazy different from getting nuts right now getting notices fighting for getting out to fingering her is this virtue or it towerites and partying and at what
evegnee doing getting oughter an so he wedged back to the book we were impatient we were wound up we could no more relax and we could think in those days there was not an
intersect ive person among us we seldom spoke of of the war except as it might relate to ourselves and in abstract way the affix of hitler the extermination of the jews the yellow
peril these were matters for the gentlemen of the editorial pages to discuss we lived for thrills not the thrills of the battle field but of the speeding auto the dimly lighted
cafe the drink racing the blood the texture of a cheek the sheen of a silk and cast nothing was permitted to last all had to be fluid we wanted not abait but possibility that's
pretty interesting statement we all had to be food we wanted not actually actually want that they wanted to chase that rare we could not be still always movement everything
changing we were like shadows fleeing ever fling an demned men souls in hell soon the spate of sixty two hour liberties was ended mid may of nineteen forty two some go home for
the last time my family would not set eyes on me again for nearly three years and again obviously there some very important experiences in that section that's why you're in the
book great it's great to hear its presecutor lake he's a very oeser intelligence a writer man he became a writer he disentangles it he wrote forty plus books in his life he worked
for big newspapers and he's areas a writer so he's a very smart guy and andy talks about that and we'll get to that point here but he that's why its perspective is so interesting
and he brings a lot of that in this book but eventually obviously they finished their training no more parting and now it's done to fight back to the book fires flickered on the
shores of guadalcanal island when we came on the deck they were not great flaming leaping fires and we were disappointed he expected to see the world a light when we emerge from
the hatches the bombardment had seemed fierce hour are an armada for such we judged it to be seemed capable of blasting gamical into perdition but in the dirty dawn of august
seventh nineteen forty two there only a few fires flickering like the city dump to light our path to history we were apprehensive knocked frightened so engage haven't gathered
these guys are about to do the landing at guadalcanal and they get into the the little hadendoas the leading craft and he regaled the assault began now i was praying again i
prayed much the night before carefully deliberately in in impetration god and the virgin to care for my family and friends should i fall in the vanity of youth i was positive i
would die in the same vanity i was turning my affairs over to the almighty they in a think what he means by vanity that he was sure you would die you'd think of something that's
made of a calicat be killed but i think what he means by that is the vanity that there's some determined outcome that that you can control of that there is that is that there's
some way it's going to go like he's goin to die no you don't even know that i read that he knows you know he yet yet yet he exactly i know what's going to happen i don't
monteith's vanity in its own right that's what you say so they hit the landing back to the book but there was no fight the japanese had run from somewhere came the command moved
out we formed staggered squabs and slogo we left our innocence on red beach it would never be the same they spend a night there there there out patrolling in and in the night
there are there in security positions and the here little gun fire and going to book at dawn we learn the import of the gunfire medical corman had been killed he had been shot by
his own men when the sentry had challenged him as he returned from relieving himself he had boggled over the pass word little fusion and so met death it turned at the mercy of a
liquid continent now little heads up little fusion is not a good challenge and replied password for everyone of the odont want you only come up with something that's not totally
obvious but don't make a guy that scared out the middle of jungle remembered the word lilliputian and an you know we talk about boombee ugoline their first cassilles booble their
first casulty is bloom their first castles a got out of medical corman being killed by centuries at the nightmare and i wasn't going to read this but i'm going to i peered at the
captain anxiety was on his face as though carved there by the knights of vent it startled me here was no warrior no veteran of a hundred battles here was only a civilian like
myself he was a man hardly more confident than the trigger happy century who had killed the cormon he was much older than i but the responsibility of his charge the unknown face
of war had frightened him past trusting the evidence of his senses so imagine you're going in the combat you're in charge your civilian but now you're in charge and you're going
out on your first combat batotela and your first thing you do you kill what you're at you want your mas kills when your other guys as a nightmare and he can see it on his face
they spend the rest o the day out there still no heavy enemy contact back to the book that day was a dull lost witness to the cycle of the sun of which i have neither memory nor
regret the night i shall never forget i awoke in the middle of it to see the sky on fire so it seemed they was like the red mist of my child a dream when i imagined judgment to
have come while i played baseball in the castle grounds at home we were bathed in red light as though fixed in the eye of seaton imaginaire of red traffic light glowing in the
rain and you will have a replica of the world in which i awoke the lights were the flares of the enemy they hung above the jungle roof swaying gently on their parachutes casting
their red glow about motors throbbed above they were those of japanese sea plains we learned later we thought they were hunting us but they were actually the eyes of a mighty
enemy naval armada that swept in to see carcanal soon we heard the sound of cannons and the island trembled beneath us there came flashes of light white and red and great rocking
explosions the japs were hammering out one of their greatest naval victories it was the battle of savoia what we learned to call more accurately the battle of four sitting ducks
they were sinking three american cruisers the quincy then sends and astoria and an australian cruiser the cambara as well as damaging one other american cruiser and a u s
destroyer and so they then during this they moved towards the beach and he re go it was dusk when we reached the beach we saw wrecked and smoking ships a clean unshipped expanse
of water between glacial and ford island our navy was gone gone so you don't know anything about the pacific campaign you're taking down islands and your life line is the navy
because that's coosening you ammunition food water gun support fire support that's where you're going to take your casualties so you have told in reliance on the navy and these
guys wake up in the morning and the navy's gone other than some conshpire and what it what can adother is nowhere to run to you can't back we can't desolado benevis gone so they
get ordered to take up position where they think an attack might come from and he re go back to book we were ordered up from the beach to new positions on the west bank of the
tenor river our orders commanded us to urgency the enemy was expected the tenor reiver laid green and evil like a serpent across the pale coast opan it was called a river but it
was not a river like most of the streams of oceana it was a creek not thirty yards wide so there placed there to set security and there there for a while and finally one night the
recoba to the book a man says of the eruption of battle all hell broke loose the first time he says it it is true wonderfully descriptive the million time it is said it has been
worn into meaninglessness it is gone the way of all good phrasing it is become creche but within five minutes of that first machine gun burst of the appearance of that first enemy
flare that suffused a battle field in honory greenest greenest light and by its dying accentuated the redeveloping night when in five minutes of this all hell broke loose every
one was firing every weapon was sounding voice but this was no orchestration no terrible beautiful sympathisin of death as decadent rearason observers right here was a cocoon
there was a cacophony here was dissonance here was wildness he was the absence of rhythm the loss of limit for fires what when and where he chooses here was booming sounding
shrinking wailing hissing crashing shaking gibrish noise here was hell yet each weapon had its own sound and it is odd with what clarity the trained ear distinguishes each one and
catalogues it plucked out of the gentle in heaven though it is intermingled with coincidental with the voice of a dozen others even though one's own machine gun spits and coughs
and dances and shakes in coleric fury so it was that our ears pricked prickled at strange new sounds the lighter shingle snapping crack of the japanese rifle the gargle of their
extremely fast machine guns the hick up of their light mortars and by the way the movie the pacific or the the series that pacific shows the battle scenes to the tenerife and
their pronominal they did you a great job of representing what's just to what he's talking about right there back to book we died for our rods and gun positions i jumped the gun i
jumped to the gun with which choler and i had left standing on the bank i unclamp a gun and fired sprang my shot as though he her handling a hose all but one fell the first fell
as though his under park had been caught from him by a sky and the others fell tumbling screaming once again are gone collapsed and i grabbed a rifle i remembered had no sling
which had been left near the gun the jap who had survived the who had survived with deep in the coconut by the time i found him in the rifle sights there was his back bobbing
large any seem to be throwing his pack away then i fired and he wasn't there any more perhaps it was not i who shot him but every one had found their senses for not every one had
found their senses and their weapons by then but i boasted that i had perhaps too it was a merciful bullet that pounded him between the shoulder blades for he was fleeing to a
certain and horrible end black nights hunger and slow dissolution in the rain forest but i had not thought of mercy then modern war went forward in the jungle men of the first
botine cleaning up sometimes they drove a japanese tore us he would cower on the river bank hiding on aware that opposite him were we already the victors numerous heavily armed
lusting for more blood we killed a few more this way the fever was on us yet it interesting in a heat looking back and thinking to himself that when he kills this japanese soldier
that that was a merciful thing to do because he never suffered yet they've been on the island for a few days even though the scared even though they received farther haven't john
to the full length of suffering that there bennagor through so won the battles over and lecky's every one in the book he just gives them these really kind of easy to understand
nick names based on their personality so he talks about this guy here who he calls lieutenant ivy league which it doesn't take a lot of exinanition to picture what that guys like
so he re go back to the book we cannet ivy league strode up to our pits in the morning to the battle over he sat on a cocoon and told us wanted happened he smoked desperately and
stared into the river as he talked the scatered his eyes was drawn tight with strain and with shock his eyes had already taken on that aspect peculiar to guanaco that constant
stare of pupils that seemed darker larger rounder more absolute he can give a deep brief on what happened with the battle that when the japanese had come from and then he says
when he spoke again it was to tell us who had been killed there were more than a dozen from h company besides more than a score of wounded four or five of the dead were from all
polton to wit them had been hacked to death a japanese scouting party had found them asleep in their whole on the river bank and slice them into pieces or regiment had killed
something like nine hundred of them most of them lay in clusters or in heaps before the gun pits commanding the sand spit as though they had not died singly but in groups one of
them rings went matonia ly among the dead arm of the parapluies he had observed that the japanese have a pension for gold fillings in their teeth often for solid gold teeth he was
looting their very mouths he re kicked their jaws a gape peering the mouth with all the solicitude of a park avenue detest tearful always careful not to contaminate himself by
touch and yakout all that glittered he kept the gold teeth in an empty bold durham tobacco sack which he wore around his neck souvenirs we called him titanothere nickname he give
they get the called the cassoni now there holding in that position and an for a few nights while they were holding a position on the river they would see they ain't no hot it was
they would see sort of a vein calm water they would so like a v a disturbance in the water and they couldn't figure out what it was they were scared at the couple of times they
shot towards it they did know what it was they thought it was a a spyers trying to check him out but they were crockidile back to the book i took the glass is from him and focused
on the opposite shore where i saw a crocodile eating the fat japanese i watched and debased fascination born the crocodile began to tug at the intestines i recalled my own
presence in that very river hardly an our ago and my knees went weak and i relinquished the glasses that night the v reappeared in the wherever so they could see the the little
ripple on the river or every one whooped and holler no one fired we knew what it was it was the crocodile three smaller vs trailed afterwards said elevener coming they kept us
awake crunching the smell captus awake even though we lay with her head swathinglea which was now which was how he kept off the mosquitoes the smell overpowered us smell the sense
which somehow seems a joke is the one most susceptible to outrage it will give you no rest one can close one's eyes to ugliness or shield the ears from sound but from a powerful
smell there is no recourse but flight consence could not flee we could not escape this smell and we could not sleep we never fired at the crocodiles though they returned to the
repast day after day until the remains were moved to mass burning and burial which served as a funeral pyre for the enemy we had annihilated our victory in the fight which we call
the battle of hell's point was not so great as we had imagined it to be it was to be but one of the many fights for gallicia and in the end not the foremost of them but being the
first in our experience we took it for total triumph like those who take the present for the best of all worlds having no reference to the past nor regard for the future sistat we
all make you know something good to happen and you think you figure the victor now from the high plateau of triumph we were about to descend into the depths of trial and tedium
the japanese attack was to be redoubled and prolonged in varied wood come from the sky the sea in the land in between every trial there would stretch out the tedium that suck a
man dry drawing off the juice from body and soul as a native removed the contents of a stick of sugar cane leaving it spent cracked good for nothing but the flames and there is
terror coming from the interaction of trial and tedium the first shaking a man as the wind in the tree tops the second eroding him as the flood at the roots so he got this two
things at a working on him trial which is that the actual fighting the actual attacks and tedium which is the bordone waiting and again if he watched the pacific at does a great
job of showing this and one of the things that really got me when i watched that for the first time is it shows this landing in this nothing happening then you waiting for it to
happen the new noes gonna happen and you waiting for it and that was a real that that that i remember that feeling of being the streets and you waiting fritata you're just waiting
and it's a you wanted to happen cause then you can go getter with ye but here's he describing it at is like a tree being rotate the first shaking a man as the wind in the tree
tops the second so that that's what that's what the the act will think us you chase you round but the tedium the second that the tedium he rode in him as the flood at the roots
each fresh trial leaves a man more shaken than the last and each period of tedium with its time for speculative dread leaves his foundations warned lower his roots less firm for
the next trial sometimes there is a final shattering a man crouching in a pit beneath the bombardment of a battleship my puttest to his head and deliver himself sometimes it is
partial from another man might break at the sound of a diving and my plain and scream and shudder and wring his hands and rise to run this is the terror i meant this is a terror
that strangles reason with the clawing hands of panic i saw it twice i felt it pluckily twice but it was rare it gleamed few victims so so that's a really i think that's just a
nominal way to understand what these guys were going through the waiting and in the trial and in the waiting and in the trial and that's a great description speculative dread just
destining about okay what's the next attack on to be like or we going to be able to get through it and you know socius kill themselves a being so they just can't take it any more
they can't take it any more and the only way out take it figure is to kill themselves which is just as horrible hardtack let them criminals will do that like you there on the like
fugitive there on the raserie when the gonnarea down my door and find me and they get that speculative dread and they just turn themselves in right or i thought you were going to
say that sometimes you know got guys won't a surounded by the swat team o ye the ayette just know there's dthey just can't take any more than goldeye feel like that more of them
like i'd rather diving good a jail almost your there being but tiefel ative tread there you talkin about the ofilius the turnament you know when you want your round like alway up
and my average in be part of the chain waiting the yeoman obviously wavering harder than this but you know this hand and he so he says this and he says it i claimed few victims
meaning i didn't actually most guys sucked it up in your old ayear him you as he says he felt that no twice it plucked at him twice but it wasn't it was rare he says it but it was
rare and then he says courage was commonplace flat was what was norrates walls courage and this is just such a good barograph or two her courage was was a common place it formed a
club or corporation much as do those other common things upon which men for divers aries in place so great a value like money like charity for it is in the common on which the
exclusive rests are muddy machine gun pits were transformed into courage clubs when bombs fell or japanese warships pounding from the sea there was protocol to be observed too and
it was natural that the poor fellow who might break into momentary terror should cause pain silences and embarrassed cough every one looked the other way like millionaires
confronted by the horrifying sight of a club member borrowing five dollars from the waiter then then he says this but there was a bit more charity in our clubs i think we were not
quite so puffed up that we could not recognize the ugly thing on our friend's face as the elder brother of the thing fluttering within our own inner you to day metoosah a powerful
thing to think about when you see some one going through some trouble to be able to recognise a he got you know echoes going through semiseria now an i'm not looking down at you
i'm not judging you i'm recognizing that what you're going through to day could be what i go through to morrow and they all felt he felt that hell i see acholoe and in curling
into a ball and not wanting to fight and i recognized that as the older brother of the thing that i actually feel too but i'm got in under control to day to morrow i might not be
otago or reconcile that's why i'm not looking down my nose at you that's why i'm not judging you and i think that for such a tight bond that these guys had you know these guys had
respect enough respect and enough mercy on each other the say look enheartened right now it's okay or it again him through to day i'm not in to look down on him in to morrow it
might be me and he's not going to look down on me no powerful stuff we tend to judge yes spicy yet is it seems like ten to they can relate you know like a set level eight right
now he's losing it over a lot too he and luckily i can keep the two inside you know the pani don't even know when tuesday elias that one day i got very well be it you know and but
the idea that when you're doing with other people you try and save their perspective you try and take their perspective and understand what they're going through and have em
otherways happening to them powerful and instead we tend so often just to want a judge a judge back to the book at night washing machine charley picked up the slack washing
machine washing machine charley so named for the sound of his motors was the nocturnal marauder who prowled or skies so he a japanese bombers like the dog whose bark is worse than
its bite the throb of charley's motors was more fierce than thump of his bombs charlie did not kill many people but like macbeth he murdered sleep to these trials was added the
worst or deal shelling from the sea and my worship usually cruisers sometimes battle ships stand off your coast it is night and you cannot see them nor could you if it were day as
there miles and miles away we could see the flashes of the guns far out to sea we heard the soft upon but one of their salvos then rushing through the night straining like an airy
box car came the huge projectiles the earth rocks and shakes upon the terrifying crash of the detonation though it be hundreds of yards away your stomach is squeezed as though a
monster a monster hand or needing it into do you gran gasp for breath like a football player who falls heavily and as the wind knocked out of them flash a boon their lowing their
sights its coming closer all that one's close the sand bags are falling i can't hear it i can't hear the shell if the one you don't hear they say the one you don't hear where is
it where is it flash put boom thank god it's lifted it's going the other way is daylight now and their only the bombings to warry about and the heat and the mosquitoes and the
rice line in our bellies like stones self again the the unknown and uncontrollable experience of getting you know hit with mortars artillery or nicasa gun fire and again does no u
s navy out there there is having their way the nightmare they continued to press on but things are not looking good back to the book every one kept saying hopefully that the army
was coming in next week to leave us every one was in despair we heard that the army relief force had been destroyed at sea chocolatiere cemetery it lay to the south of the coast
road that ran from east to west through the cocoanuts we knelt to pray before the graves of the men we had known only palm fronds marked the place where they were buried although
here and there were rude crosses on which were nailed the men's identification tags some of the crosses bore mess gear tins of fixed to the wood like rude medallions and on those
the marines had lovingly carved their epitaphs he died fighting a real marine a big guy with a bigger heart our body the harder the going the more cheerful he was there was also
this verse which i had seen countless times before and sense the direct and unpolished cry of a marine sardonic heart and when he gets to have in so saint peter he will tell one
more marine reporting sir observed my time in hell now part of that heart of that despair that they felt came from the fact that they began to feel expended then he goes into that
here all armies have expendable items that is a part or unit the destruction of which will not be fatal to the whole in some ordeals a man might consider his finger expendable but
not as hand or in extremity his arm but not as heart there are expendable items which may be lost or destroyed in the field either in war or in peace without their owner being
required to replace them a rifle is so expendable or a cartridge belt so our men men are the most expendable of all hunger the jungle the japanese not one nor all of these could
be quite as corrosive as the feeling of expendable this was no feeling of dedication because it was absolutely involuntary i do not doubt that if marines asked for volunteers for
impossible campaign such as galicia almost every one now fighting would have stepped forward but that is sacrifice that is voluntary being expended roby of that exultation the
self abnegation the absolute freedom of self sacrifice being expended put one in the role of victim rather than sacrifice and there is always something begrudging in this so but
luckily they do end up getting some help getting relieved the army shows up to help em out and here go so we were glad to see the soldiers when they came trudging up to our pits
they came after another air raid a very close one but the thing had not infected them yet war was still a lark their faces were still heavy with flesh their ribs patted their eyes
innocent they were older than we and averaged twenty five to our average twenty yet we treated them like children now even though they get relieved their still working and still
fighting and their still suffering back to the book we were growing irritable are strength was being steadily sacked and a sort of physical depression affected many of us the rain
the rainy season was upon us on arose ridge it fell upon us and tolerance a man was drenched and seconds his teeth chattering at his hands darting swiftly to his precious
cigarettes transferring them to the safety of his helmet liner cursing bitter leafage too long before becoming conscious of their peril after cigarettes we were concerned about
our ammunition on the downward slope of the hill the rain water ran into our pits and holes as though they were sue receivers we had to dash for the pits and lift the boxes and
machine gun belts out of the water's way piling them a top one another on the earth and gun platform any drive place in the pit was reserved for ammunition he who sought refuge
from the rain had to sit on the water cans there were whole days of downpour relaunched and shivering grazed gazing blankly out of my hole watching as the sheeted gray rain
whipped and any undulated over the ridge at such times a man's brain seemed to cease to function it seems to retreat into a depth much as their red corpuscles retreat from the
surface of the body in times of excitement one ceases to be rational one becomes only satinet like a barnacle clinging on to a ship one is aware only of life of wetness of the
pole gray rain but without this automatic retreat of reasons a man can go only one way he can only go mad certain level of the tachment there just checking out just checking out
your detherter not there good place to to get place to visit sometimes you know i don't think you want to live there you certainly don't want to live there but it's a good place
to visit why i just think i think it's important to get to a point where you're jist attaching from your physical suffering in your physical pain in you just say you know what i'm
just turned off and you just retreat like you said you deseret into almost like nothing nesibinebdad they bigamarious some ten think you gave us a clarity and i think it's i think
it's a very important defense mechanism to have oh yeah you don't sometimes when you're doing stuff you just have to do it like you can't think about her nay more you just have to
turn your brain off and go and i think that's what that's what he talking about right there he is not ease not participating in it and is just attaching from it and do what is god
to this body is doing what he's got to do now they there there his whole time there expecting to be relieved their specting to get to get pay off the island and one of the
sergeants comes out and and makes an announcement doom stand by to move out the morning yet we move and out into a new offensive get all your foul weather geared misery guns as
oil up and ye aminition belts derry at greenside up to relieve us in the mornin to day they facing they're going to get relieved and go to a ship and relax and get get get into
disome relief that's what relief is right but they get told no you're one on a new offensive so therein well here going back to the book after nearly five months by to a lot of
time you think of that island campaigns japan these are little lions you know ten miles long you think all that probably took a week to week five months after nearly five months
this runner and he's going to name all the different guys to different nickname chicken runner had malaria brick barely stirred from the pit except that night whose oak stump were
subject to long periods of depression red and long since left us i had disentry chucklaes irritable all of us were immetated and weakened beyond measure but we were to move out on
the attack we could not move to go without gasping for breath but we were to move on the enemy we despaired in the morning we crouched by our guns and waited for the order to
dismantle them and move out it did not come nor did it come the next day or the next and hope came creeping back blushing ashamed of her loyal dis offer disloyal flight but
commending herself to a once more with the promise never again to desert the ramparts then one morning the word came to move out sergeant dandy gave it to us leave the guns to
behind he said take only a rifles and foul weather deared he grinned where being relieved it was december fourteenth nineteen forty two we have been a malines without relief since
august seventh my battalion the second battalion first regiment was the last of those in the first marine division to come out of a lines galilean was over he had won and next
he's the get pulled back off the island now he's climbing aboard the ship of the board cargo nets is exhausted i was able to reach the top of the net but go no further i could not
muster the strength to swing over the gunwale and i hung there breathing heavily the ship's hot side swaying away from me in the wells the very perdition lapping beneath me until
two sailors grab me or to the arm pits and pulled me over it fell with a clatter among the others who had been so brought aboard and i lay with my cheek pressed against a warm
grimy deck my heart beating rapidly not from this exercise but from happiness then ends up having a sailor a conversation him and his body chocolawska of his best friends they
they are and of having a conversation with one of the sailors and he so the soldier seemed surprised as you mean guanicoe and you agistas it rough how was it rough rough weitere
mechanically then chuckles spoke up mingalika the soldier seems surprised sir the leonesa ion with the soldier that was on the ship that hadn't been to golconda the soldiers
seemed to prize of course i do chuckler hastened to explain i wasn't being wise i meant had you ever heard of the place before you got here his astonishment startled as an idea
was dawning you mean how yes walcote first marines everybody heard of it you guys are famous you guys are heroes back home we did not see him leave for we had both looked away
quickly each embarrassed by the click tears they had not forgotten and forget i kind of breezed through that part in in the book but a lot of times when they are those moments
despair they'd be thinking no one knows what's going on here they don't know how bad it this but the reality was was this this war or this battle that lasted five months there was
all contraption the glory of the of the brine and what they were doing and so they were i guess you know there they were just overwhelmed with the fact that this the soldier said
you gas are you getting me gagnait now after they leave all conal they get some much needed arnor rest and relaxation they get to go to australia to do this and they they go into
the book of all the regiments are the first was in the most advantageous position for the great debate discipline already dissolved in the delicious squeals of the girls all but
disappeared that night we received part of our six months arrears of pay in australian pounds but iriuna clothing we still wore are dishevelled dangers you can imagine he's got a
coming off a guanaco hell and now they're rollin australia and and they described his girls are waiting for them these years a gallican so they roll in and they get after it in
the way that we thought out earlier they start they start just genere go crazy and he and this is one's one of the things i loved about this book is that distat robert lacks so
real he so real he's just that he just reelings what he likes to do he likes get after it he goes out he drinks they drink they changed women he goes hard and he ends up getting
into genlevende trouble and he talks about brigit basically guise it of before brig which is which is the military jail and on the ship they actually have a little brig you know
little jail room and you can get thrown in there and so he talks a little bit about that it is most especially of marine sediment sentiment and when analysed it turned out to be
not shameless or shocking but merely this a man who lands in the brig is apt to be a man of bold spirit and independent mind who must occasionally rebel against the harsh and
unrelenting discipline of the camp i am not attempting to exalt what should be condemned i'm not suggesting that because of their boldness or independence the brig rats be
perioger and escape punishment briggotty must be and brigette were nor am i speaking of the habitual brigrade steady moliner who the good for nothing who is more often in the brig
than out of it and who seeks to avoid every consequence of his uniform even fighting i speak of the young high hearted soldier whose very nature is bound to bring him into
conflict with military discipline and a land him unless he is acceptably lucky in the brig i speak of choler and chicken and oak stump and a dozen of hers and of course of myself
so he say look you got gietta high spirited go getters and they're going to they're going to get after on the battle field and they're going to get after it on the liberty and
sometimes they're goin to get rolled up unless there's superlucratus an make em bad people that i have one of my buddies get in really big trouble this when we were young guyed
back in the day one of my brows the gotten big trouble and and i thought that our officer who's one of the best alces ever wore for i thought he was gonna really you know just
crushing and and i thought it's going to be really disappointed in all these horrible things in this the guy the officers a gittite all loved and wanted to always impressed we
wanted to do a good job for him so when my buddy had this big incident that he did which you know he was drunk and got crazy and you now got a rested in all that all but bad stuff
and i talked to or oh i see about it in i sitations going to happen with my body and to the outer goes hey you guys are young warriors in things like this iranien don't let him
append much but they're going to happen and we'll deal with it and i will set myself when i love this guy so modist that's that's exactly it you know he was he knew that that you
know you had young rambunctious guys full of sesostris and then you add alcohol and the guason and you add taotai some graminetum again i had to to give that credence to this type
of stuff cause when i look back i wish i would have been a better leader i wish i would have been doing other things you know but if you are loristan and you got guys like this
and you condemn on instead of trying to help him you're not helping em it's goes back to this judgment thing at we talk about earlier if i'm looking at you saying oh you don't you
know a you've gotten trouble you're a bad person i don't want you on this team instead of saying a look we got to get you on the control you got the right attitude you got the lot
of energy let folks it on somewhere correct lets folks in on something good wits did you do in something positive instead of doing something negate instead i sometimes guys going
to the judgment you know i just goin to judge you in oh you gotten trouble sir your bad that's the wrong attitude down now but you've gotten to be habout me as leader i let you
down i didn't show you the right way to expend your energy i didn't give you the opportunity to give you an outlet for this this aggression that you have cause you are a gresson
you're gonna have that means fighting you you don't think you get up you get a guise that are in the military do you want so any your patoon do you want them to be not aggressive
of course you want to own with the most aggressive bastard you can imagine and guess what if the you'll give them a something to do with that aggression they're going to find
something to do with it and is not going to be good you so as i legeres find something positive we can that they can do with their aggression yes not like he's a alternated known
no liking your case you you you thought you've got oget severely punished you know for i roselike is not like he's out there publicly say nay that's cool doing do now playright
but when it happened yet they and i think truly that officer who was a great guy he truly probably felt exactly what i just said i should ha given them a better outlet for this
young aggression you know i should have let a should have figured something better out for them to do we got a do something you give us idle hands and pockets full money came out
in his gottscho pay andronette were the richest guy in the world i guarantee it will return into war time astral i mean you know how strange they were with with the restricting
the the money that people were in the using and spending all over the world to save money from a war in here come these guys and wretches guys ever heroes of alcool ill you think
they're going to get after this i got out after it so as leaders what we need to do is give them a proper outlet a right cause those guys want to get off for but well you got to
give him a right way er you know you got to give him something positive that they can work on an if you're going to let him do something negative then let's put some barriers
around them so they don't get in the trouble was i would a known this when i was a wenison up though to do more positive stuff in said a more negative stuff so now we get to the
trouble piece i need to he got so many great stories about how these guys what these goswell going through and this so there out he's out drinking and one of his buddies that i
mentioned before name is chollar chuckles actually on duty so he he standing duty whiten his uniform is not allowed to drink he toothing and he's been you know the east et on duty
and so he regained chuckler standing glumly outside the slap she entrance he'd hoped for the interior guard were he might sneak a beard to i'll get you one i promised i returned
with a big glass out of which chuckler might take a sertinius set there were more side ells until chuckles said i got to go to the head here coppertoes gave me his pistol belt and
helmet and made off so now let he's drunk right now dorcas but but chuckles as a man i can take a pest here take my helmet take my pistol covered me for a century be drunk and
then to desert his post and surrender as a weapon is to combine cardinal sin with unforgivable offence i was anxiously hoping that he would hurry back but then an unfortunate
thing happened lieutenant ivliae striding down the corridor i say it was unfortunate because i belieue was the officer of the day more than that he was still the man who had
filled my cigars the enlisted men cigars if he will so atone point the some gotthold of some cigars and his officer had taken in by the way also you know a araber lackey he is an
irishman in amoton a you know make a generalization owayneo tempered irishman and so he sees this see this guy and he then he's drunk he just got off qualcuna and here's what
happens back to the book my anger was nourished by the alcohol within me and i drew chuckles pistol and pointed at him and said stop where you are you lousy sugar stealing son of
a bed or oblongata as off so not not good nonnain in pretty significant trouble and he actually gets bread water if they still do that the military they get bread and water you
can get it reante for five days is there in a break bread an water for five days that's that's the punishment that he gets me get doc pain he gets through buston and reckon time i
was on a ship to poynder and we were in a seal portion and i think i've i've told the story before i was the one word of marines like we would stay all the ship when we pulled in
a port and it would it would take like an hour to get off the ship because every oudewater in line and so what we odes we were just work out for that hour or a half then would
have oliginal right off the ship will in an hour and a half the marine this this young renagate off the ship and was getting carried back on to the ship like passed out drunk
covered a pekin an hour and a half so that the old i fineries for it you medicament of canaller poix months never mind alcohol the tanker but it and of course they don't punish
them too bad well they they punish him but deikelon i mean he's analogy marine they are not going to their knocking away the albany marine and hopefully the colonel the bacon his
mind was thinking himself in a ant i want this guide and my velleity with me you know it is kissings from me in coldhearted your life electing nuts so they but now australia and
they roll back out in time for them to start getting prepared to negotio to new guinea you remember to guinea it's another hard bawls fought there primarily by the australians and
undredweight deftly fought because i read that letter from the australian soldier to his two year old daughter batster he died was in new guinea but now new guinea is is on the by
the allies and they go there to train to start to prepare for their next big push and harrigan the book the chalkline a series of small hills and finally deposited us in the
middle of a field of cuniga are new home this is holderness train their men keep them mean and nasty like starving beasts as the core and they will fight better when men are being
moved from one place to another spare no effort to make it painful and before they arrived at their destination despatch a man to head deserveth ground with an eye toward
disdiscover they hear this old time that that's the riuers gonna make you so pestof but that time you going abated cause you so sick of livin in the dirt now they do a decent
amount of training and now they're preparing to assault on another island called new britain that is as i found this very interesting so back to book the commander called us
together that night and delivered an eve of battle speech he spoke in deliberate but angry tones he spoke like a man who hated the japanese as though he had suffered a personal
affront at their hands and was bent on personal vengeance as though this worry personal noakhali warm his range seemed unreal it was unreal because it could never produce the
desired effect kill the japs the commander was saying i want you to kill japs and i want you remember that your marines we've got a tough job where we're going and where we're
going you won't have much room for ammunition so you'd better be sure you see something before you sho don't squeeze the trigger until you've got me in your sight and when you do
spill blood spill yeller blood that was all we walked back to the tents it was christmas eve and i find this is christmas eve he gets this speech and you can see like he sitting
here so sentono this guys trying to get him all riled up and its not having any empacketing what i found to be the real dicotomy here at the tenth father straight was preparing to
say midnight massilia on her caphatabira straight and here's what he says father straight spoke gently he reminded us that not all of us would live to see another christmas that
perhaps some of us might die this very day he told us to be sorry for our sins to ask the forgiveness of god differe those who at wrongest prepare our souls for death we sang him
nineteen undred and forty odd years ago the babe had been born in bethlehem and we celebrated him this night in a dark and misty forest that his father had wrought we sang him we
say hims to him silent night and hark the arange sing mild he lays his glory by born that man no more may die then to morrow are hands would be stained with the blood of our
brothers but we sang on half heartedly half hopingly sometimes mechanically sometimes with a desperate driving poignancy one hand on the heart the other on the hilt of a bayonet
in the morning we marched down to the ships so much more in backful on him was what father straight and much more than the fiery colonel that sad ringkops here these guys are a
man can you imagine you go in for comfort to midnight mass christmas eve and you get told that many people many of you may die this very day and to prepare your soul for death
that with these guys are face it that's what their most trusted the most trusted person are lives right their spiritual counter is telling them prepare for death yet collectanea
tackletons where you get a guy like if your watching a video you know and it's a guy gettin you fired up you know he's getting fired up to get you fired up sometimes he can work
but a lot of times that won't really work cause you kind of feel like you tressell you some in a but then if you hear some one may be even talking to some one else or talking
about something else and you just kintray certain things that get you fired up cause it's so often in a basically the indirect approach on your own mind to yeigh pemines back to
the book on the sunless shores of new britain where the rain forest crowded steeply down to the sea weave the first ring division came back to the assault and it was here that we
cut the japanese to pieces literally when that devouring jungle had not dissolve them and it was here that we pitied them now to pay the enemy is either madness or is it a sign or
it is a sign of strength i think that with the first ring division on new britain it was a sign of strength we pitied him in the end this slengo disorganized demoralized crawling
on hands and knees even in that dissolving down port for in the end it was we the soft a feet americans had learned to get along in the jungle and who bore up the best beneath the
ordeal of the monsoon and in these things lay our strength and tell you what i think that boils down to the what they're innersten the americans what it would a people round the
world think of the americans even in nineteen forty three americans are soft americans are lazy americans they have their too much comfort any thinkee opposite of the japanese
especially world war two the imperial japanese army it was idly disappointed was extremely strict it was a spartan life style but look at what happened here and why is that and
i'll tell you why in my opinion i will tell you why because you have men that are fighting for freedom there fighting for freedom and that makes all the difference in the world
fighting for individual freedom fighting for their personal freedom in fighting for their nations freedom and fighting for their nations freedom in it a nation that is based upon
freedom that right there is stronger than any tirannice government or any fanatical idea the ideal freedom is stronger than the man and that is why these cloth soft americans that
is why they were able to conquer and defeat this enemy this hardened enemy this well trained enemy and this cocoleu about what we were facing to the north one patrol discovered
the body of an e company scout who had been reported missing the area bore the marks of a struggle as though he had fought hand to hand his body bore dozens of bayonet wounds they
used him for bayonet practice in his mouth they had stuffed flesh they had cut from his arm his buddy said he had attached you there the marine emblem the foul anchor and the
globe the japs cut it off and stuffed the in his mouth the commander was angry again to the north two japanese officers had been caught snooping around our positions in advented
and e company outpost scouting the train at their fun and discovered a japanese force in pontoon strength sleeping sleeping on the ground sleeping they fired into them into this
sleeping supermen of the jungle with drawing upon the approach of another enemy pucoon and after this after the bulk of the battle takes place and it was fair as it was it was not
a fair fight and you're about to find out why back to book for japanese soldiers and went off or had been taken alive and had been brought down to the sea p their arms bound
behind them knives at their throats and from them we learned that the third company fifty third regiment of the japanese seventeenth division had been despatched from the main
body cape gloster to defend against our landing their passage had been through near impenetrable jungle and they had not arrived on the scene until two days after our own coming
nevertheless they attacked us they attacked us some one hundred of them against our force of some twelve hundred and but for the prisoners we had annihilated them were they brave
or fanatical what had they hoped to gain had their commander really believed that accompanied japanese soldiers could conquer a battalion of american marines experienced confident
better armed and placed on higher ground why not turn around and marched his men home again was it because no japanese soldier can report failure cannot lose face i cannot answer
our dead were six men among them the stubbing sutherd ob whom i last seen in melbourne so drunk ye could barely stand whose gun petted been over run when the japs overwhelmed the
sectional lines in their first silent rush up the hillside o be who had helped the drive them out in the counterattack and who had been alternatingly firing and hurling
imprecations at them until one of their bullets took him squarely in the forehead may rest in pay the japanese dead lay in heaps on the hillside and they filled the trench where a
besgun had been located so that shows the will of the japanese fighters no doubt about it but they were hard corn and they got told to its act with a hundred eyes against nine
hundred or twelve hundred is it right i do this and now the life the existence in this jungle was harsh back to the book the puffing of my lips and eyes symbolized the mystery and
poison of this terrible island mysterious perhaps i mean to say new britain was an evil darkly and secretly evil a malefactor an enemy of human kind and adversary we leisuring
corroding poisoning chilling sucking drenching coming at a man with its rolling mists green mould and ceaseless down porch tripping in wisewit his numberless roots and vines
poisoning him with green insects and bugs and treasures tree bark turning the sun from his bones and cheer from his heart devolving him the rain the mold the damp steadily packing
each plucking each cell apart like tiny hands tearing at the petals of a flower to solving him i say into a mindless formless fluid like the sop of mud into which his feet were
ever fallen in monotonous slop sucked slop sock that is the sound of nothingness the song of the jungle wherein everything falls a part in hollow harmony with the rain nothing
could stand against it a letter home had to be read and re read and memorized for a fellow partner pocket in less than a week a pair of socks socks lasted no longer a pack of
cigarettes became sodden and worthless unless smoked that day pocket knife blade rusted together watches recorded the period of their own decay rain made garbage of the food
pencil swelled and burst apart fountain pens clog in their point separated rifle barrels turned blue with mould and had to be slung up side down to keep out the rain bullets stuck
together in rifle magazines and machine gunners had to go over their belts daily extracting an oiling and reinserting the bullets to prevent them from sticking to the cloth loops
and everything lay damp and sodden and squashy to the touch exuding that steady musty weak that is the jungles on that individual odor of decay rising from vegetable life so
luxuriant growing so swiftly that it seems to hasten the decomposition from the moment of birth it was into this green hill that we were inserted day or two after the march and
here was fought that battle with the rain forest here the jungle and the men were locked in conflict far more basic than our shooting words the japanese for here the struggle was
for existence excel the war was forgotten who could comprehend it who can and what do you say and i have not spent that i simon the uni spend some think of long as i've been the
jungles maybe a month and was in his bad as this and wasn't rainin his tappan but i can't even imagine just that constant assionate from it there is no escape from it and it's
even worse for lecky and i'll tell you why back to the book i would be wet not only from the rain for sometimes it stopped and at other times in did not fall so fast that a jungle
hammock could not repel it but because in affliction which i had begun which i'd begun the moment i left australia was now again active in it begun during the discomfiting had
disappeared in the civilized living of melbourne and had reappeared on good enough island new guinea now on new britain i laid i learned later from doctors to call it an eresus
when asleep the blatter empty and that is that so he puts that really nicely but here's what's going on because of the stress that he's under when he goes to bed he passes in his
pants and it's just he is he can't stop it and it's nothing he can do about it and it won't go away in fact it went away it will go away when the stress stops when he went to
melbourne is all good tops get back out there in the stress of combat the stress of the environment and when he goes to bed he pitted himself and certainly he made a decision to
put that in his book for reason and the reveries there does fall into the story a little bit but the reason i loved that he put it in there is because in just another thing now
that is being with and he's not even ashamed of it said pa can't you i'm i'm stressed out um scared and i pass myself but guess what come stolonifera to the book the last patrol
was a prolonged one of several days we were taken by landing boat down the east coast to a place called old notama and there deposited the place had once been inhabited by the
japs but all their emplacements were now empty those of the enemy who were discovered were in the last extremities of war deal some were overtaken crawling on their hands and
knees some so badly decomposed it was as though their feet were rotting off some wing perhaps no more than eighty pounds some without weapons all without food and all possessed of
that indomitable fighting spirit that was the japanese imperial armies greatest asset the one single factor that made a police soldier a first rate foe they all resisted and they
were all destroyed bayoneted for the most part for it was file for i was follify on patrol in unfriendly unknown territory one of these stragglers was strangled in cold blood by
ve kid a youngster who although already a veteran of galicia was hardly acquainted with a razor he would go mad two months later so they come up across these japanese total eighty
pounds now nourished some of the neniae weapons in their just trying to fight any way he and up with a hernia the lackey or end up with a hernia and the eye gets pulled off to go
take a look at his hernia and they say ah you got a bad ernaut it's not bad enough you don't back to the front then the army comes replaces there them there and i next thing next
move as they go to train at a quick at a place called tafoo babu island doing another training to get ready for another island campaign and he re go back to the book the food was
bad too and the tents were brought in and punctured with holes there was no water except at was caught in her helmet during the night we bathed by dashing naked into the rain
soaping ourselves madlen a race against the probability of the rain ceasing and being left streaked to stick a stone so and we washed our clothes by boiling them and cans of rain
water our jungle roth had become so bad so persistent that there was an appointed time each afternoon for the men to take off their shoes and socks and a lie out on their sacks
with corrosive peep frost out into the sun but we had borne all this before and we could bear to gain nor could mere bad food or leaky tents press upon the ardor of my comrades it
was the death of a hope that boredon there it always been hope hope of relief hope of the sun hope of victory hope of survival but when they came and told us that none of us were
going home on rotation we strangled hope and turned into wooden soldiers the future looked to innumerable enemy held islands and numerable assaults and we had already noticed how
the ranks of the new river originals were dwindling with every action breesen a few suicides to suggest how despairing some could find the situation then the thing jane they came
and said half of the originals could go on to the gateward pay look worked very foot her soul but half of originals are going to go home there was joy and then once the method of
selection for the state side bound became known there was anger there would be a drawing a state side lottery in which men's names we payed for a hat but only the names of those
who had never been in trouble i was among those whose name did not go into the hat and so was run her and hour and chicken and souvenirs and a host of others it seemed that the
originals of the second battalion first marines had been neatly divided into good guise and bad guise among us there raged a profane anger i know now how convict must feel upon
being turned down a job after to being turned down a job after job because of his past that was what disqualified us our past it made no difference that we had been punished yes
punished again and again for to become customary to solve all problems of selection this way by marking brig rats for dry duty and excluding them from special benefits nor did it
matter that we had good war records in retrospect it easy to forgive my commanders this but then it was hard it was too much like being unfairly condemned to death the injustice
of it overwhelmed me and i burned with a resentment that was dangerous to carry around so when a and one night mare this a look on i have a little water some august get home every
one's happiness if by the way of you in trouble here the on get all molest and at a death seton the way he seen it rather at the snowsheds sentence i o bored to keep it doing his
island hopping campaign were going to keep going there's all these inner i want i need to be taken out you're going to be a molten you've already seen x number of guys that you
had killed a unyoke going until you're killed in so this was like a death sentence you know meanwhile the guys who might be able to go there just the right there you know nearly
right next to you and those guys probably did a lot of the same carapresa the back to the book my nemy an resis was more noticeable than before perhaps to the agitation of the
moment aggravated it i know that the men in my tent had been urging me to report at the sick bay i did the doctor who knew of my case ordered me to benecke i was leaving in the
morning so with that basically as ocana i'm passing on myself the guise have been telling me to go through the doctor about it i haven't done that i have a hernia amingo to
medical so he goes to medical and the doctor says okay you're going to go nekenne is a is a island where they distorted up to handle wounded in when he gets to be nikai it's kind
of shocking back to the book beneath was a flesh pot beneath a wide big town beneas broadway benicia had women it had buildings of steel and wood they had rode it had thousands of
sailors as sleek as campos it had movie amphitheaters it had electric lights it had canteens over flowing with candying comforts and benita had bear walking with the others from
the beach to the navy hospital at felt like a hick on his first visit to new york jepson trucks and staff cars swept over the islands roads raising a busy court of dust crancos
and cranked on the beach loading and unloading the boats emperor a stockade of pointed sticks behind which dwelt the women the navy nurses and red cross workers every one was well
said and unworried the seat of every pair of pants was filled and happy we the lean ones who were discontent on our faces and carried our nervous impatience in our hands must have
been a disturbing presence in that purring island incubator yet as i walked along i was filled with the uneasy suit suspicion that would it would be the image of beneke and not
pelota would be presented to america as the pacific war they do the pretty good job of this in the pacific the inseres not as good as a may be could a done because they show they
show the guys coming on to a beach and there's nurses and their dressed in like beautiful clean white and the little handy out lemonade and it's such a contradiction to what
they've been living so i you get that but but this image is even crazier in my mind of coming on this inly becoming off plooin in the hall and here these guys are whatever a quick
flight away and they've got movie theatres and they've got beer and they got women runnin around it's just totally totally different of talked about that montimont you could be
you could be in word or two but if you are on the island of benita wasn't that much of a sacrifice as it was compared to somebody that was on the island happen combin this is not
and it same thing you know there's places i was in iraq where i would say god this is crazy how nice this is they got a swimming pool the base some of the besides they got a nice
jam they got to miscall then you go out the sum some out station in the middle or some four operating base and these due to be livin hard totally different for different people
now lecky gets put basically into a cycle word they want to look at him and he's he starhaven this conversation with the psychologist and i think this is a very important
conversation back to the book he began to question me about my experiences in war and as i told them to amesa's head from side to side as though to indicate that my hold of vision
not only myself ought to be psychoanalysed then we talked of books for he was well read and filosophy something broke it off and said what did you say you were meaning what was
the say like what did you say you didn't he bring or a scout i said proudly i used to be a machine gunner in the doctor says back but that's no place for a man of your caliber now
i was shocked the old shibboleth intelligence had not are government been culpable enough in pampering the high ice draftees as as though they were too intelligent to fight for
their country could not doctor gentle see that i was proud to be a scout and before that a machine gunner intelligence intelligence in deligence keep it up america keep telling
your youth that mud and danger or fit only for intellectual pigs keep on saying that only the stupid or fit to sacrifice that america must be defended by the low brow and enjoyed
by the high brow she tontined over heart and soon the head will arrive at the complete folly of any kind of fight and meekly surrender the treasure to the first bandit with enough
heart to demand it the careful and that i think that we do a really good job now in america you get kids said are you know berryless ed kids with bachelors degrees and masters
degrees in the army in the marine corinthens i don't think we have that as much but it's definitely something that you did watch out for i think especially as cusack to judgment
and i posted that oerter day i i i met some young marine now no younger in but you don't guys probably twenty five twenty seven years old and he came in the gym and you know
something eyes in the ringrealm which you do in the ring court he was a alemaigne like i guess that's awesome and but to have somebody think oh you are just a mashing you mustn't
get no no being a machine gunner should be a vaunted and elevated position in the word bless famishing gunners afther you want to talk about a person that can get stuff done go
talk to a machine gunner and you esther'll make some stuff happen there carrying a big pig of a gun around their laying down fire under pressure put him all put the uppetish
gunner up against one of these intellectuals that he daedalean it but the machine got a can be in intellectual absolutely absolutely that's the point that's the point just because
some one chooses to do something that's hard doesn't mean that they're not smart it in fact i go so far as to say they are searching for and and discovering and becoming something
that takes a level of mind power beduking alike the week superficial assumption is that all your going to choose that kind of that hard thing because if not in trelintin to just
only for the hardest thing it's guanto the de blackness the easy thing to do because it's easier so when some one chooses the hard thing to do that the kind of that sumption is
that i enderton's forfeits no man i think that's what i think i anigh school where are you that you are old enough and he's like usanas smart guy and had all his stuff to get a
good family and he went into the army and i remember some people were like kindness surprise because it all now going to stood the army that you know just like doctor gentle here
what you doin that for cause i wanted the machine gunner a sorrier prose machine gun or some now or on the sillon he's there spent like a month and there sitting down the watch a
move at the theatre a remember went in readiana that worked for or were remodels and so their building the building bunkers a marketing like what were their priority build when
they were remade with me on our little camp camp markley the priorities that they were working on war bunkers war security walton the river getting bardies the priories they
working on and might lead sebastien he see had to go to our headquarters for a couple of days to get the money and get equipment of whatever and we came back he was greater his
nickname was baggy and he was big nonentities the yet now his he would he would he would like his warm upsets on bench where newity to youth be a mayton a he strong and he came
back and you know he says he suaseram the back from pollution everything go other he goes teetatota that lady isis nor debellare i said no i have no idea on care what her
boletobia as it what is it their build my theatre i said you mean a movie theatre in goes yes of the ateenth was just but it himself could hear we were trying to build bunkerons
walls and villeneave that no but those sees man they kept us they kept everything wrong on roanoke wants you proposichon gunners ostiensis so there a theatre that had been built
out here and a movie began there was an interruption over a public address system of voice announced allied troops of just invaded northern france the second front has been opened
cheers and shouts rose into the soft night to be followed by a buzz of excitement but then the film began and silence was restored i rose and left the amphitheatre my heart
robbing in excitement it was difficult to comprehend this excitement it was a mix of thrill and pride but predominating was the herbette for suddenly added been borne in upon me
that great events were happening that the war was now rushing down hill to victory and here i was clad in pallid pajamas and robe lounging around the hospital yearning came upon
me in a rush and i wept hurrying along the dark road back to hospital i wanted to rejoin my comrades so he goes into the doctor gentle goes into his office and basically they work
it out back to the book there's not much we can do for this trouble of ears to hospital commander told me there's no carrying it out here what you need is a change of climate and
a less nerve racking assignment your shipping me back to the states sir i asked he smiled wanly ordinarily yes unfortunately omarites can't go home on less your carried home so we
are sending you back to duty with his with the suggestion that your commanding officer have the century wait you during the night i laughed and he laughed and doctor gentle
laughed because they knew it not something that feeble what they're basically saying as you're going to go back and you're just going to pass yourself and you're going to fight
and that's exactly what he wanted thatsachen and now back to the book we left evove victors of gatelaw new britain we went out to fight again marching into the open john landing
craft driven up on the beach never before were we so confident of victory never again what its price be so high pelee was already a holocaust the island flat and almost
featureless was an altar being prepared for the immolation of seventeen thousand men to her going on the pelouse we go right into it there in their landing craft of water began to
rubpint guisers in the air became populated with exploding steel the enemy was saluting us they were ceiving us with more erarer fire ten thousand japanese awaited on the island
of pelletan thousand men as brave and determined and skilful as ever a garrison was since the art of warfare began skilful yes it was a terrible rain and it did terrible work
among us before we reached the beach our amtrak was among the first to salt waves yet the beach was already a liter of burning black and in fibers of dead and wounded a more
garden of exploding mortar shells o had beer scooped in the white sand or had been blasted out by the shells the beach was packed with holes all filled with green clad helmeted
marines we were pinned down we were pinned down but not by mortars alone machine gun fire came from an invincible outpost which the japanese had blasted out of a corral jutting
into the bay we found an opening in it and even then were filling it with all manners of small arm fire grenades dicks of diamonding hurled by men who had crept up to it or
building fire from the flame throwers who also gained the whole but the answering fire continued to rake or deadly picnic ground and the reason for that is here for the japanese
had possessed pelleted and had blasted into the coral a network of mutually supporting caves so that the listed been of her twenty years preparing for this answer agathis massive
cave not work in a antery time they hit one of these locations the more giedest pop up and they also the japanese also had takes on pellock to book their tanks swooped in suddenly
upon us they came tearing across the air field a dozen or so of them it was startling they had come out of nowhere and here were only riflemen and machine gunners to oppose them
there was a violent outburst of gun fire i poked my head above the crater through the lacy branch work of the scrub trees i saw the enemy tank streaking along with snipers and
came a flashing on to the rear it was but a moment's glance but at the time my eye caught sight of a marine from f company of veteran running bow legged to the rear his face
writhing shouting tanks tanks and officer grabbed him and spun him around and kicked him in the pell them back to his post in the crater we prepared for defence like a caravan
attacked by indians the enemy tanks whizzed past their whole their little wheels a whirling within the track machine guns clattered buzzum or airplanes came screeching down from
heaven and there rose the detonation of their bombs and no roar of exploding tank to my right i saw a line of artanes advancing firing as they came seeing to stop each time their
guns stuttered then it was over the japanese been destroyed i turned to go and as i did nearly stepped on some one's hand excuse me i began to say but then i saw that it was an
unattached hand or rather a detached one it lay there alone open palm upwards clean capable solitary i could not tear my eyes from it the hand is the aristio the soul it is the
second member of the human trinity of head and hand and heart a man has no faculty more human than his hand none more beautiful nor expressive nor productive to see this hand
lying alone as though contemptuously cast aside no longer a part of man no longer his help was to see war in all its wantonness it was to see the especially brutal savagery of our
own technique of rending in it was to see men at their eternal worst turning upon one another tearing one another along at their own innerds with the maniacal fury of the pride
possessed not much i can come in on that one back to the book or casualties were extremely heavy before the day was done they would total five hundred in the first regiment
something like twenty per cent this on the first day we were advancing again our objective with bloody nose ridge this was the high ground visible from across the air field it
gave the enemy perfect observation advancing across that flat table of crushed coral on which there was horridly a single depression as we were easily sighted as clay ducks in a
shooting gallery but there was no other route and we had to take it grass cutting machine gun fire swept the air field mortars mortar shells fell with the calm regularity of
automation marine fell they complied they staggered they pitched forward they sank to their knees they fell backwards they kept advancing the mores had stopped the first alconan
wave was advancing across the airstrip running low with rank scattered breasting a withering machine gun fire that had been a begun to rake the runway they were following it
seemed unreal seemed a tab blow like a scene from a motion picture it required an effort of mind to recall the these were flesh and blood marines men whom i knew whose lives were
linked with mine still more was required in facing up to the fact that my turn was next then here is the point in battle where one needs the rallying cry here with a banner must
be unfurled or the song sung with a name of the cause lunette enemy like a challenge here is the mounted charge the thing is old as a warfare itself that either overwhelms the
defence and wins the battle or as broken and brings on the feet how much less forbidding might have been that avenue of death that i was about to cross had there been some wholly
irrational shout like vivela emperor or the marine corpore rather than that educated voice which in the same foe that was at all odds with the event said well it's arthur now so
you're going to get that's all you're going to get these marines are getting to all apart by machine gun fire by morga they're getting to partings or falling lestrade continuing
to advance there continuing to advance and he's watching this group go across this airfield getting mode down he wants some kind of motivation in what is he get well it's our turn
now crazy i bade good bye to the artists he looked at me sadly from beneath his helmet his face made darker and more angular by its shadow the castrol gretlie in the direction of
the air are strip and the still following men good luck kid he said and turned away i began to run but he rose and stifling waves the bullet whispered at times at other times they
were not audible i ran with my head low my helmet bumping crazily to obscure my view like waves rising round a small ship in a moment i could not see lieutenant deep chest or
filthy fred i was alone and running there were men to my left still falling i ran and through myself down caught my breath rose again and ran again suddenly i ran into a shell
crater full of men and i stopped running so the only cover that they have as a shelter bethides into the shell crater and there's a ten eyes or so in there and one of them he's
calm his one guy walkit back to the way talk he sat below on the crater for he hunted his shoulders toward me and asked me to treasurin dials i did but could not seem to give
through the cane the screech of a shell i braced my back for it even though i knew that the ones you hear or not the one to be feared but how fear the one that gets you the one
you do not hear another voice was audible now the fifth marines outeat who was wounded who was in fact dying as i learned later was speaking by walkie talkie to his regimental
commander the glorious fifth marines have gone through sir he was saying and have achieved the objective we are now in contact with the first regiment now there's ten guys in
there in finally one of the captains speak a pomady men coweater from the first marine he asked we raised our hands six a that auto be enough we'd better take that block house
over there that's er all the machine gun fire seems to be coming from as soon as the shell fire stops will move out against it just like that the bewails had resisted even naval
gun fire it had taken bob's point blank and remained standing hits obviously covered by a maze of pillboxes we six of us were to take it the captain might be stupid but no one
could say that he was not gallant i felt disgusted and resigned myself to an unprofitable death i looked at the men from the fifth who were guarding us with wonder and envied them
for having retained diplomatic relations with the state of sanity their commander was hardly conscious now but he had heard he waved a hand weakly in our direction and grinned as
though to say you'll never make it but there's no harm in trying and of course to a dying man i opposed there was no harm so he think they're going to do it yet they're goin to do
it they're going to charge this block out six guys this block house is just concrete block house tasachs gunfire coming from it they're going to charge this thing that took bomb
straight i took in a too direct hits from bombs that they make a run for it back to the book the shells drove us back to our creator once again walked talke had difficulty with
the apparatus he could receive but not sin but talian was asking for positions you better report back to command post captain said to me but come back out so lucky wants to go
tell command post what's going on he imagine they're just a machine gun fire mortars going off everywhere he brunback he gets back to the major at the command post how is it out
there lucky the major asked bad sir i said adding nothing for my notion of this battle was still a confused jumble of men and movement in explosions in which blistering hot when
which a balustering hot air field was somehow involved then i arose and said i better git back out the major nodded and waved good luck i took for a hold on my toledan and adjust
my pack cured my map case and circled a pile of shell casing to return to the shell crater it was my last warlike act for the last time i set my face toward the enemy about a
hundred yards out a shell exploded in front of me i feared to the right another shell exploded frontem i feared more another shell another but closer for more another closer still
i hold a horrifying fact became clear identity myself between the enemy artillery and their target they were hunting something perhaps the ammunition dump behind me and were
walking their firing direction there was no cover to go forward was to die i could only run away from this approaching death hoping to get out of the target area before it caught
me i turned and ran i ran with the heat shimmering in waves and from the corral with the sweat oiling my joints and the fear drying my mouth with the shells exploding behind the
closer ever closer the air field the air filled with the angry voices of shrapnel demanding my life i ran with an image in my mind of the japanese gunner of top his ridge bringing
each burst tearfully closer to my flying rear chasing me across that baking table in a monstrous game of cat mouse gleeful at each greater burst of speed called forth by a closer
explosion and then tiring of sport lifting the gun and dropping one before me a shell land alongside me perhaps five feet away but it did not explode or least i do not think it
did one cannot be certain at such time there is a different space and time with fear but there was a shell a two foot blow of burning red which struck the coral with a thunder
clap and seemed to glance off into the earandel away into the bay with that i called upon my remaining strength and also then the japanese gunner hid his target the munition dump
was hit the war ended for me i been shattered no good a dry husk modern war had had me a giant lemon squeezer had crushed me dry concussion he first tension all had had their way
with me i must have stumbled about unable to speak until at last i sank my knees beside two men scratching a fox hole in the sand they were startled as though from afar i could
hear them discussing me he can't think what he thinks the matter with him search me he don't look wounded maybe he got a near miss he fell up what's wrong with you can't you say
something what do you think we ought to do with him they rose and pulled me erect got a shoulder a piece beneath my armpits and dragged me like a dummy through the sand life like
a like sunlike a life sized doll in whom the spring had been broken they dragged me to the doctor a cormantee me on the blanket tied a ticket to me he thrust a needle into my arm
which was attached a running hose to a bottle of liquid suspended upside down on a frame on a wire frame the pair who had brought me crouched beside me what's wrong with im dock
one of the mast out of now the coranians wered he's pretty beat up the blast concussion i'm sending him back to a hospital ship one of the pair looked longingly at the tommy gun
beside me his glance seemed to say you won't need that any more i told him with my eyes to take it and he slung it over his shoulder with a mean satisfaction then they left they
had their reward mortars were falling as they tarred me on the beach with about a half a dozen of their casualties we lay there an i wondered dully if the jap gutters were to
catch me after all at last a landing boat took us aboard and roared off for the ship i begin to feel shame the others were badly wounded some put out of pain by morphine and here
i lay in a corner quietly retching like a frightened kitten intact my face on blemished my bones unbroken the war was ending i was ashamed my spirit crept away from the eyes
staring from the staring eyes that fat fastened upon us as the boat was drawn up out of the water to the deck people in white coats throng with the rail and two of these at the
centre gazed with thorty into the boat searching for the wounded most in need of aid i shrink from that expert star when suddenly one of them pointed immensa him did him down
stairs right away they grasped me stripping me naked as they did and hurried me down the ladder laying me on a table and again trusting in newington with the liquid flowing into
my body came the warm flood of returning self respect the dull dispiriting shame had it disappeared the moment that pointing finger singled me out i had been hurt i was in need of
aid with a healing power of which he had no inkling that doctor had restored my spirit to me so the war ended for me each day for a week i ascend the latter to the deck and gazed
in morbid fascination of pellounes away they were still fighting one could hear the sound of the firing each day the news was bad we were winning but at a fearful price then then
the battle had been won extermination odcombe to the japanese ten thousand on palamon my regiment the first was licking its wound one on the beach of my battalion a force of some
fifteen hundred men there remained but twenty eight effective when the command came for the last assault on that honeycomb of caves and pillboxes which the japanese had carved
into bloody nose redge in men and blood and agony the most costly spit of land in the wide pacific when the command came they rose from their holes like shades from supporters and
advanced they could not run mad could barely walk and they dragged their weapons but they obeyed and they attacked they were taken from the line on the brink of collapse rutheford
was killed the been hit by a mortar shell and blown to bits white man and pinkie and the artist the artist was dead a brave man may rest in peace captain dread not fell dead of a
sniper's bullet it had become a hall cost in the fullest sense scores of others in the battalion perished there were those that have not been mentioned this book friends who did
not fit the narrative men whose faces i have not forgotten and whose bravery and sacrifice has deposited a vast spiritual credit for our nation to draw upon these two fell
wrestling that island rock from the grasp of its most tenacious defender may they rested peace sacrifice says not the blood of your brother my friend your blood that is why women
weep when their men go off to war they do not weep for their victims they weep for them as if victim that is why with the immemorial insight of mankind there are gay songs and
colorful bands to send them off to for a fither fate their failing hearts not the quick in their lust for blood that is why there are no glorious living but only glorious dead
heroes turned traitor warrior's age and glossopetres change less and sacrifice is eternal sacrifice is eternal close with the book there obviously it's an incredible book about
incredible man in there he tonnellerie and it's so humbling to hear of their sacrifice and i say it over and over and over again and i will continue to say it that we must live
rides worthy of their sacrifice the seventy one hundred killed guanaco the two thousand three hundred thirty six killed the pelletan all the soldiers sailors airmen and marines
who as robert lecky said later in his life who fought or who foremost fighting fell inything it's also important to remember the example of robert lecky by his own admission was
no angel no plaster saint but who is truly he here and remember that that people all people have good and bad qualities and people make mistakes and they do danthing and yet those
very people or capable of so much and yet so often we judge the judge and we charge and we judge and we cast stones but but i worried who are we to judge when a man like robert
lecky lucky lucky who not only drank to excess in chase girls and pulled up his aloner officer and who got so nervous so scared yes when called scared o got so scared that he
would lose control of his platter every time he went to sleep and yet he overcame that fear with more bravery in his heart than most of us can even fathom so who are we to judge
reconjure people we should help them then there's probably nothing more we can do to live a worthwhile life than to help people to help other people and in helping all the people
i blames you will be rewarded and you will be helping yourself to then one more thing that we see in this book once again is the strength of human will we see men tested beyond
anything we can imagine and then when they passed that castanete they get given a testating and then again in still they overcome overcome the pain and the suffering in the fear
annawan get ourselves out of bed in the morning we can't move torn a go we've set for our selves to lovat remember the tenor rorie remembered the air field at glaucoma remember
the discipline instilled in every marine appareiled in remember what you you remember what you are capable of if you mobilize you will then if you keep moving forward you keep
advancing remember what you are capable of if you keep attacking and keep attacking and keep attacking and don't stop don't stop moving forward and don't stop attacking in don't
surcumferonce the pain and the fear don't succumb but instead move forward penitent that's all of god for the night so echo charles yes ali over here doing a little decompression
sure they be you could mobilize jowel sir to let people know i don't know how as the forces tamaseseites make to decameronian much will to do this but i do see it as the time to
be compressed a little bit from seriously ye canoein imagine again what you didn't cast it over an over again you're going through the hardest possible tests with disentary and
hernia were then daria or here your passing yourself your friends are getting killed you pass that test through some miracle and though i get you another test ye rattled and get
ye but you to prepare you for the test we make you suffer more and then say you get tested again that's cool but does not dosimeters not final exam you don't do it again in eyo
know again i say there's all the time missus sousands and thousands and thousands of people did this not it's not that's what's that important to remember this isn't this is a
civilian this gueselin yet sounded like this crazy extreme otanes's all the cases nationalities this is all the cases he talks about it as licurge was common the there was a rare
case where we get touched by this purity would overtake guys and a fat we both ornated up the best we could but this isn't ananova this isn't the story of this singular hero right
this is the story of thousands and thousands of heroes and this is the story of what people are capable of people are cable of this proven yeah an when you think you can't take
any more guesht you can mazing you well if i did disenteria went get out of it tatooed alone all this other stuff yeeped may be a good hospital or something like that but then in
my pain of little men even achochre touting point a will in carrion when disentry hewit ivisa you malaria to by the way and you know fillhellenist friend of the god to do it he
got millerite god has set as when they went to look at his hernia notice you got to go back to front overstaffed fog that for whatever it is yet it had four days okay now you can
go back kipson okay our guajimaclo thank my well i feel like we should talk about in it then rotha sounds like a great it is singable you talk about a misitions wallicae so
antiviral glad undersings without saying but i'm a sayin i'm glad that we kinogama already took shooteh efore this but actually i get technically with you who really made me take
crilloire i did make your eye but you let's say you influence okaihau actually take action as as they said but in rum so it's like kanootare like the post cruel oil and the prey
cruel oil situation and so is in eating into lifting ways and stuff in you hallie weights the good china we to go because you know how strong you are kind of thing you know
spartiates pretty black and white there is the number so you can kind of judge i gat this that i stronger i am stronger i'm not strong whatever rights i consider myself preston in
the wet room but kit is one time one met when of her friends came in into town you know we the weights at the hopsit and stuff and there it all he you got the weight in em it so
he gets under their any any either drives away not heavy but he grabs them in him think on my head like a cantatore than that but then i like i can but i have to warm up a lot for
you know is in lariating amy you know really and anyway to the point there is doubt creek crill i'm not saying i can jump underneath my mac no woman not saying that but i'm saying
like my actual strength is closer to my no nonwaterman those voshther probably not but go i don't know he may very senatore the they dress up the the young professional basketball
player or something hartledon old goodwin old man oh yeah yeah so there is this one it's like a think he's like a pro cross thick eye or rowit blind be lifter something so he goes
to this beaches as old then as her you guys are strong and stuff like that i think you got over doetin might inwinding whatever and everyone believe in like all this old man you
know you should probably used to be awaitin he and he gets under the way and he's distilling his embarrassing the inishowen up all the guides beating him you know lifting always
said then them and what not on so many kind of like does is old man walk away that's all i felt before the cruel oil when his time the life like i can lift a lot but like me
everything life on my cantico know like i got it like get up a troinitski colonel oil comparison speech and where would you recommend people get the grille that you speak of so
highly in way on it but i i i looked into all in all my prompts lead towards closer esiglio but i'm doing like iolanda about my utter go i gedalyeh paean to hear about but i think
when i do when i saw those deals i'll say that was me before crilloire ly thought that like one that's how feel you know citify it's a funny for the o o funny thought you've been
really but that's kind o feels by a taprobane you know what i feel like that any more so if some one is seen that tea and they might be feeling that that way maybe i can sell her
i wish i knew that long time ago it was looked into strong bone remember without it but a very little grew whatever indelicate does it make your boerhave you a whole wrong
reminescin on veitel when i'll neroni very resourceful i am a soul person on his very good resource the website and answers yes it does help like even like the onset of like
costumers like all this stuff it's like that that's what it's like ome i ad memorial the terms but i know the point but it's a set strong team alike by name in after yes
constantia molesting lake make it so lineolet and you know degeneration you lose that we all in your natural deal you know maybe and you get to strambotti e back in your bones
easy money see take the cruel back in your bones or back in your joints well your joints are made up of your bones tendons ligaments did a go to everything it goes into ponds or
kaso you figure the tend in connection to your bow nets that's the part that erwachsene yes that can jammerzeit in your biometer ye heard it one day fear ripped off my bomb a bit
result mazel anyway if that's so stromboli that one happen maybe it would have on an abut none the less that is what she bone helps so guess what i did got some nowheres but yes
there tis not just that is all cynical stuff warri bars as in a incommodes shrieker performance and the pro hetiti think sometimes people will kind of mistake the sheet when on
now cause it helps your oxygen or take they think that like a man when i breathed it has something to do with your breathing you know it's not your breathing or your lungs it's
the the amount of oxygen you take up when you breathe you know so they can go to your muscles soft and with a foelsoe you go hard like supperward or a grappling long wealth was
right werterian the day ye ye ill keeps you out of the red a bygone isn't it for whatever you do when not even a work out stuff but not proposes canavaun web say you be on there
for for a while a king at the cool stuff that's my opinion and my experience in her subscribe to the piacular we talk about amazon first so am vance through this a good way to
sport part cast up what you do if you don't know already before you do your amazon shopping go to jackpots outcome either on the tab on the top left in green or in the top men or
on the side kind of towards the bottle is a place to click on just sport through either support aboard on six to anyway to redivision quick through there then do you shoppy i
actually did that the other day and another watching this unutt you are this is what i bought a richesse and aisou totally miss it this book i i didn't i martinico the book that
we read to day is called helmet for my pillow by robert lecky you can get that amazon a year on what it echo have it on the web site and we on click that and you buy it boom
you'll be good to go yes you will support the poast you will support the lucky family in some way because they'll be somehow being supported right gaiter on i'm sure this book so
it's a good way to support this hero this hero's family and also get the pacific on now we could put down in a hole but anyway what the like of you could put it on a click through
unless maybe someone bolted all right but watch that and and you know what for you watch it like prep yourself mentally and don't watch it while there's an the things going on sit
down by a receding on a nice situation you know logistical with the good t v set and a good speaker system throne ye and then watch the pacific and you only were there like may be
can watch two and time may be in what to episode though up solebat them close together to so you and omiting the continuity of the situation a good that's good too and when you
see it man it's just a incredibly well done thing ye doom ah there then when you have the background of the pork as to the books and you read the book man it's really a onlike
come to ye eclogite more more into it or for sure you know like you know how to littoral you my ernest in the curators ye and you realize that that when you see let lucky lucky in
the thing you have his whole boxoffice the book and it's also you know um this the oby the way is on the pocasse this whole section homage with all the books of all the bocca
makete by the book situation but ye so ye before ye door ensanguine click through this the click to them as on blank and then do your shopping and yes i did buy this item which i
am showing so if you look on you too you see see it it stated to our little collection on the table you know softly beginning to we have you to gentles good people have been
telling me for real people have been doing not just one person but they say hey you should take this can you to gentlemen of the pack as of course it be deal format and excerpts
dislike you know except on a poslednee charm in stuff like that and then there's like a well what do you call him the wet artistic pieces stuff that i put some like time into puts
on to a track of sound treacheries sure i just called it i forget what i called it like discipline something hot enough but you you made three categories or tetootney it solenmly
people been asked me ha you should separate them and make em into playless which kind of knew about but i am not deep into the outofitnow know that well no i far as the customs
they shine and not you know all that which which i kind of looked into him they listen good when i like about this his people gave you a suggestion yet which i saw to you you
looked at it you explored it and now you execute totally in anasonas any other good ideas that people have they should post them and so that when you can approve you the more and
weaken improvement and serve for them better yet think though i think that the innocuous some one going to be like hay you know and they'll say idea might not be all that good but
if or it may not seem like it all like a butifool person says it can unrelated you know not the kind word some guys or they but do this you know make this or create this and then
some one just like it or put a like on it or says ye you're asking for multiple well but not to split hairs but i'm not asking for anything or i'm saying that's where he act of
eyes so if some some one says as suggestion menthe next day to the three days later and not the person in same suggestion subjugation unrelated and that then the end of the
tendencies attendant coming to bed that's what i start taking acetosa were about the fourteen thousand lottie more vineyards feathers you know because i was watching i realise was
washing so many packingham who was bowswain chunks of some one speak the other night some one that i was an out o who was and and i was so happy that they were a short clubs at
halicti is why we need more short lips yet because it's really convenient to go whitie here boy see the name of the video here's the idea i want to confine about that idea a boom
year to go and you to this god like that where it if there's a bunch of em which hatometen kind of coming up with our collections kinda growing now this desayuno how well did you
execute when people said make wintel like apaola to make of video from this to this how old did you do any that orrid you blurry an olonne that you do it along it that's mainly
what i may so oh okay um so but those that there everywhere you know so the someone quite translate some of whom i just i mean i don't want to apluketat day and that i fredome
stuff that it's like an annotated do that but i know the opthalmoi howat i don't know less not just let a fabulas good to do and what's not good do you gotta get taking were
hematite see you sure you i did it now but yeah you to lillie that where if you listen to just the like an exertion to minute three minutes for minutes and you like dan on i want
to listen to some more they not only are they there to listen if you want but they'll suggest ilanit of continuity there instead of like oh i'm locked into this free hours being a
right now right well that's a atoning that's a little bit tricky about this is that when i when i am thinking what i'm talking i'm thinking in the context of this giant to hour
thing sold some of his hardest out something and lose a little bit in my opinion ye but attentio gain a lot because you can get it quick right and you can char with the next guy
who's more likely or next person to more likely listen to it she is even how manhole will send me you know whether be funny videos there's the sodium video that there is a you
know that a disking of piecraft you saw that beneath it's been going round on an off people look for in then sent it to me or in going around so no more people are sending it to
me because well the lagao weeks every one's been sending the tone and i want to actually do that i want to get the sodium made and i want to throw it into the water yet were
dining here house i do if we can find it i want to do it in and fill mandolinists you will see what a aigues carling yet some soomat all o them but yet that thing the these ere
good things these lives you too situation made the play less thereon there excerpting more on there there is fiamuri on it in or stitcher or gully and all the pot cast platforms
um you know that's a good way to support because you're essentially just cunnin the game in general you know and that's really the thing because like the more people you know
though he ate unwater or just like kanonnawen in knowing what years alan about or submitting questions in this constutions make that circle of like it's not just jockteleg us what
to do it's kind of like rawlins group you know we yittering roof like a common it like hanging out with your friends perihelion i go on the road now mikolas just out with some
fire fighter in an like whirler ones telling the same jokes but if they're all you know who all get it emencly aloight now of them because it's like as if they were here the house
actually talking to a brother like woodhewers happened it would god be a little bit strange to me right cause you don't remember them sitting in the cause no one was sitting there
eely and i will like well sometimes it seemed like the pocatello was me an echo sitting in a room alone i but then you realise now there's a lot of people sitting in here with us
and they have their own spin the what's funny as people have their own variations all the jokes and all the inside things and all who resort to it all and it's too they've already
taken stuff and spotted out somewhere now they're bringing back to the sou'ard of their right i want in etiam so it's oh it's pretty funny yet and that's not to mention the
question set that you answers all everyone's glader sure it's all like or like your limenetis curse you that i think people no have no you got from certain people and you know the
answer on the layout's like a two three was street something vetterale when you're her what near when your asociation good ways support mills jucklin store called jocatore good
store is more like the pot cast as a store could i don't actually have the store it's the poncas as a saragate le ber you as make it so much i have a store yet because it's called
joe had orders jack pot yesterday store orational story it's just a son do tom be seemed saying i'm going to an seed to the point there it is bon with i have a store must don't
like about it so i never i say i think some school sure son there if you want to wear to the teachers and represent but a new design out there will panine two weeks three weeks
maybe on but a rather tart on the that actually be moment it's a new cassirt as i desire i avifauna other places of yet right sir what do you mean i mean all right riggan
contenter places ye man is good but he looked like all the get after it moutarde found his drayton my lord to be let game here like a oneadatote after a mile he we got a sure that
i get after it in and now when keighley recommended perfect perfect example of people saying he weren't you know ye be ware saying it so like a like matter is agris yet where it
was to the point where they were like hate you she you should do it get after a shirt they weren't saying that any more there are saying when eritage out or traits come up wind
they come out of old i didn't know we're doing that yet but aparently we are so full there out and monition to cycle hunterian i'm glad they did because i think they turned out
good and simple like most things you may be sure the colting but go to jocatore out come and look at him you think they're cool you think you're a war one represent in the wild
good yone so when that i also some of my othoman stuff out there a woman might be under represented over all but i think that the women that are in it in the game that listened
that get after it to get after an art to make up for the numbers and is himanthalia greater than the quantity they went out some patches on their two the rash guard of course a
inapt a new one out it's in the work said like red ready to be pushed up her and the few days i think maybe a week i'm so you if you're in to you gito that's a why i think that's
the primaries in i made em but they're actually for surfing body boarding legousin jane sprucing cross fit in kataoka where you needn't you know from like maximum mobility but you
still want to go with like a shirt on something you just go no shirt but yet the letter ratler shirt you're not supported apodeictic and in all that the poor think you know we can
tedisome calculations i think the new rush garden might i'm nothing will collenette re not here they might yield as it twenty four oh so echoed did he's got the sample one
hellenon and the sample one you said gave you latent seven per cent and it twentyfour but you know what now that event in it i think it was to any seven yes yes if from nineteen
yea which is alas but that's only one case did so that one ibsen were really good a a young and lineatus is actually true where i went and i practise i did some rounds and you
look in when you've done rounding your pentolin with a boy's afterwards their angils an inartistically was there to were talking and i told we were done we're done somebody
calligeitus no and then david thutmes bole said a holograph like actually actual nephew lake from blandtias brother onenhia part wrong but his bettany that's the sight notoriete
as is on one still rolling and in so stood around left shriek rash guard said yet brocaded only the leader good good deal got experienced but daggoo o bathgate yes good yea
everything ever you got out everything else but at fromelles sally respect ah ye baseballer he got cause he's he's a bigger dude but he gathered a deflated donegan careless some
he trimmed up a little bit but not less you have good good train also psychological so if you know what that is said album with tracks joco talking but not just talking he is
talking with the intent of getting you through any moments of weakness that you might have in your getting a theater as it is goes beyond my have rages into actual moment if we
isolate though you are in a moment of weakness or yoking at actual doughnuts there in front of you right right are breaking you down mentally right on clicked at no it played a
play in the track in her the actual man in a potential moment we tolerate as a honeoye eaiatair yet and were getting request now for the second one year through a minister
thinking about that well i wont be like ye in if you want recommendations of wet for ticular moment o weakness an you might have that need to be overcome and there's a common
seumas echo referred to sir we will and if it's got to be something that i dealt with before right because i can't just make up some way of overcoming a weakness that i've never
experienced now i experienced a lot of weakens but have you come up with something that i've never experienced and we're going to have to disforth one simimon to make it up for
familiae a bankmint work to wit it's hard to manufacture you know your manufacture in parado as the great senate yet ye a i think that's a good idea i got some ohalaque od that's
wort's going to come from sir isolani she that luther that the good in cyclonic warfare jackwell ing i too am unmusic all this good is probably any music outlast a bunch of music
outlasted jump on that rothelan it and i use it and it warmint i use it when i was like an feel like working out this a big thing for me because i can a had it like that will be
like a recrereis cause i don't feel i goiant nine hours of sleep on to it to morrow no yet mansanares worked with that the work out one i've got yer you said it woradoo the time
yes but like the wake up one for cause there's only wake up tracks a guy on toward her said a number wake up track didn't work they failed in and then he said but i made it to the
number two wake of hanather settle you at a ona'gon a get you up david dusen number two's waiting and other number two an then he woke up so we still matting a thousand for over
all yet orellana n r ain't been a can has a wind but we did take a we take a bigger for one do that just didn't get out of that after listening to psychological or for get out of
bed track to an he had to go to trastevere there manatarree nonslave yet be nefri i am telling i was made into three yet now as made it to the wake up track threatened them as to
make it the even to make it the tea must be one tired dueidar night and i for and you must have a red work out waiting for your so on something but you in my experience huntresses
successor but i don't i and that i started doing it just cause just cause i want to get fire out over his answer because his note drop rovero will go to you see it's not that it's
it's almost like this a animee say to me e can't you do one of you yelling a moqui don't you yell a lot man in our disentangler ye now i i let me immersis were in the gym and i
cam pushing some one like a maight that's in a work out of me come on you know i might raise my voice a little bit but i'm not goin to ell you go you know the drone struck the
type thing and not this man yelled what i do and they could see me be late how that could be effective but in these cases that's not the mood you're in any way you you know what
till it could be effective for certain instants in red yes and actually like i've been doing some little videos in the morning annand i realized when i watch him that i'm getting
a little bit er bressois the wan talking and it's not is not like a soggetto i'm just starting to talk and then i start reading naturally i start escalating my own situation as
i'm started think of it when i'm here i'm saying it it means something to me great southern know you're wasting your life right now i i start think i all that way as i know with
that there's some one that's actually was in the life right now and so it started you know giving a little bit askingly and so may be encyclographie too there'll be some situation
that asked that i personally asked on but it what else i'd been after all right kind of thing gateshead manufacture in strata yetive yet it's good like could you just kinda
explain like kind of the de logic behind it like see eterou do you see then he forages flow i know sure then you oetry usually one now from the abuse it i don't fingered on the
despotical into feeling even better a tall dangerous thing a garderobe also when your clicking through a mason you can also get jack away de which it may not seem like a big deal
and maybe it isn't but maybe it is free judging from some of the some of the reviews on amazon a pom rejoin after drinking jack awake tea i found i was overcome with the
insurmountable urged to get after it so much so that i was able to defeat all my foes in a short amount of time one side note i found the jackaway teases served over ice and
consumed from the skulls of dead enemies now you know i don't know what situation this individuals in right but obviously he is in combat situation he's got toes that need to be
killed and these drinking from their skulls and even in that really stressful virent you know the tethelin him the which is as cool i'm glad that it's helping him doing positive
things against the enemies of of good in the world also good evening echo and jacko i woke up wing a hundred and fifteen pounds the day the white tea arrives two cups later i
related myself and i was now roughly two hundred and fifty pounds so he more than debts body weight after two cups of of jack a white tea i take my tea was a little loaded and
obviously gave me more than the twenty per cent increasing gains that was promised and i i am pigalle promised anything and i promise that but i think it konseakenses and this is
the important as i why i wanted to make this one very important also cruising went up roughly two hundred per cent sowthers at ashbourne by for ever on you know and and there you
scientific cruising is of two hundred per cent which is poundies way the warrior kid i got the first hard coffee aonian my hands they sent me onderstanding me more but how i banks
grousin we've been talking for three hours that left a man that's a long time and was going to read all externi think i'm going to dorymen three hours but but so young mark is
he's got a jump off this bridge he couldn't swim in the beginning the book now he does how to swim but his goal to jump off the bridge into the river and he goes up there to do it
and he scared he gets scared he's knocking a defies can't jump so uncle jake who used to be a seal whose now with his young nephew trying to show the warrior way goes up on the
bridge and he said what's going on buddy he said in a composed i don't know i said i'm just i'm just you're afraid aren't you uncle j asked but he wasn't even in asking he knew he
knew i was scared there was no point in denying it uncle j knew it as plain as day yes i finally said in a quiet tone to embarrassed that i was afraid then to my surprise uncle
jake said that's normal what i responded shocked at uncle jake tatmon i said that's normal you're doing something you've never done before so it's normal to be a little hesitant
it's called fear it's a normal emotion and it's okay then he added well it's okay as long as you can control it this made no sense to me how my supposed to control fear and how
would you know you're not afraid of anything uncle jake sat quietly for a minute then he said i wish that we true what do you mean i asked him well you said i'm not afraid of
anything and that is just not true fear is normal in fact fear is good fer is what want you and things are dangerous fear is what makes you prepare fear keeps us out of a lot of
trouble so as nothing wrong with fear but fear can also be overwhelming a con be unreasonable it can cause you to free up and make bad decisions or hesitate when you need to act
so you have to learn to control fear and that's what you need to do right now okay that's sounds great and i would really love to make you happy and overcome my fear but i don't
know how uncle jake thought about that about what i had just said for a few seconds and then he said okay well the first part of controlling fear you have already done and that is
preparation you've done plenty of preparation to be ready for this moment to face this fear starting with donkeyer head all the way up to swimming all around and back an forth
across this river you have done little jumps off the river bank all of the last several weeks have been preparing you for this this jump and all that preparation works to help
overcome the fear imagine how scared you would be if you still had no outswim you would be horrified but you have prepared then why am i still scared i asked uncle jake simple he
said because they're still an element of the unknown you never jumped off anything this high before stood dedn't know what it feels like people are afraid of what they don't know
or what they don't understand but you have prepared you know it is safe you know you are ready it's just this last little bit of fear that has to be overcome and you know how you
do that i have no idea i told him you go just go i asked uncle jake now partly thinking he was just joking yes you just go you see fear lives in the moment that powerful moment
between when you decide you are going to do something and when you do it once you go once you start you won't be afraid any more you overcome fear by going and it is the same in
many aspects of life periodi talking in front of a crowd taking a cast running a race competing in judithe fear is in the waiting so once you have planned once you have prepared
and trained and studied there is only one thing left to do go and that's it yes that's it as soon as uncle jake finish those words he stood up looked at me yelled out who ya
jumped off the bridge just go i thought to myself i stood up stepped up on to the edge of the wall and looked down at uncle j who just come back to the surface and was looking up
at me with a big smile on his face with all my heart and lungs i yelled out o wearin stepped off the bridge passed my fear and into the unknown i felt myself falling for a while
and didn't wish i was in the water i came to the surface and had a big smile on my face i can fly i yelled i can fly so to lecture daniset way of the warrior kid it comes out may
second so go and go order the book for for you for your kid for your neighbor for your nephew for your niece for the school of the library whoever orders the publisher that's
making the book we want them to know that they need to print a bunch of these they don't know that right now they don't know how many kids that want to get after it and sneak that
they they don't know that and it's there not going to printing they the same thing that happened with jocolate tea right you remember that bathwater the frustration the nation
wide nineteen per cent drop in performance across the board he amantha don't let it happen here same thing in order that you can also pre order deep dispence freedom feels manuel
comes out october seventeenth seventeen seventeen m that's the book that you asked for so he can order that one too and of course extreme ownership you can get that one people buy
it and then they buy it for their team and it spread so picked it up for you or team up and down the china command extreme ownership beyond that if you want some direct action and
interaction with our company that you are out you can contact our company ashland front me lay babin p danel dave berean get in the game with you in fo at ashland front dot com
was lee if you don't know we have muster is your oroto coming up at the g maritana qui in new york city may fourth infest leadership strategy tactics again me late j p dave birk
and of course and probably most important echo charles is as pether is and he might try and hide but he can't because none of us can cause there's no green room there's no back
stage there is just all of us together getting after it in of course before the muster you can find us what crusher on the interweb and twitter on instruman end of this book which
is at echo charles and i iman jackwell in in fine my thanks to all the service men and women out there who in this uncertain world in it certainly is an unserer to day filled with
evil all of you that walk away from the comforts of home and into the unknown to face artemis thank you that to the fire fighters police and monforte ment ends in the force of
first respondes here at home thank you for what you do dan in de out putting yourself at risk for us and to every one else out there facing what year facing challenges at work and
challenges with family and canes with yourself and challenges in your head and challenges with life remember what you as a human being are capable of remember what your will is
capable of and ven he moving ford keep a tacking it keep getting after it so until next time this is echo and jocko it
