this is jacopo asked number seventy two with a go charles and me jackwell but evening o goodly sir casualties are in bound one of the mats has been hit hard and we have casualties
headed to feluccer ical my head snapped up from my work a quickly strapped on my nine millimeter and headed off to flusser ical the level to drama and surge cilicia on camp
velusia servicing the casualties and medical needs of the eastern portion of ambar province in iraq i made a habit of going to the operating rooms to see and encourage the wounded
whenever i was in the command post of two expeditions to marine expeditionary force met forward at pelusian my aid band and i made our weight through the maze of buildings and
walls of the camp something told me to hurry i quicken my pace then began to run i hadn't done this before and i'm sure my aid was wondering what was up as we rounded the corner
of the hospital i could see the up ordered homes of the mid team and the marine himselfs standing near the entrance they had their hands on their hips and their heads were down
this is bad i thought one of the reins was lifting a set of body or the from the floor of the hume v and it was covered with and dripping blood i quickly cleared my weapon at the
clearing burl barrel and stepped into the facility the medical personal become accustomed to my presence on these occasions and quickly brief me on this situation several wounded
one very seriously and the survivors were down the corridor in an office i hustled down to the office and quickly got a situation report from the team leader and others of whom
was wounded and waiting treatment it been at bad ambush and the reds had fought for their lives along side the iraqi troops they were rising then looking up at me with an anguish
you can only find in combat the team leader said to me in a hushed tone we think travis is dead i didn't immediately connect the name but i knew i needed to get down the cord roar
right away to the oars where the incredible surge calkins wore confrontal on the wounded as i stepped into the first oarder ical team was just finishing their work one of the
nurses was crying openly i been unable to save this marine and he had just died seconds before i stepped in to arm as i walked to the end of the gurney i was stunned to see
travers manon the wonderful young sure i'd known as one of my midshipman's why was common on at the naval academy i had known his family his dad tom a marine colonel himself and
his mom janet stallwork the family tribes had selected the core from the napolis and though i had not seen him during this first distornasse e'd heard repeatedly of his courage
and bravery as an adviser one by one the doctors and nurses left the ear leaving me alone with travis i don't think i had ever prayed so hard for any one or anything in my life as
i did wallon with him in that empty alarm his loss was very personal to me free years later while i was deputy commander it sent calm and headed ultimately to command the u s
forces in afghanistan i learned of an instant the previous night that it taken a lives of some of our magnificent special operators seals from selter they had been operating in
disabilite south of the hindu cusion afghanistan and he generally made the lives of the taliban miserable the entire time they had served there one of the finest young leaders in
this sealth's of the ethos of being a seal this now legendary strata of american special obscurity that night we lost brendon as with travis brendan's death was not simply a loss
to their respective units and missions losing them was a terrible blow to america which would now never benefit from the extraordinary qualities of these two men the irony of
their relationship and their seemingly unrelated deaths was nearly as tragic they'd be been roommates at the united states naval cademy growing up together at this most hallowed
institution of olaf our naval service they had faced the challenges of navy and head emerged committed in ways fecal understand without experiencing the powerful formative forces
of annapolis and in their intense sense of duty and their desire to serve one sought to be a marine the other a seal remembering the times he didn't take a fortune teller to guess
where this would lead them both to war in iraq or afghanistan or both and to war it did leave them extracting from them long separations from their families as they drew into the
full realization of their rolls or combat leaders but it also extracted from them their last full measure their young lives willingly sacrificed for their country than these
causes to manon has onusable service in initiating the effort to tell the story yes it's about war but it's less a history of two wars than it is about the human experience of war
and what this newest generation of american warriors has experienced the ties together these precious young lives and their growth together as warriors as leaders and as brothers
this book celebrates what we hear more more frequently that these young americans on whose broad strong shoulders we have fought too worse and who have kept the wolf from the door
in a numeral other places are the new greatest generation with less than one per cent of our population in uniform fewer and fewer americans bear the brunt of the responsibility
for military service and fewer and fewer understand the sacrifices made by men like travis and brendan and there precious troops all of us he fought eswara's now pray that in the
end the outcomes will justify the cost to america and its allies those of us left behind must insure these sacrifices were not in vain and that these lives lost will have meaning
and purpose now and in future and that is the ford of a book called brothers for ever be that ford was written by john allen whose retired for star bring cor general and the book
which is about tradesman in brandolini is written by retired marine coronel tom manon travis's dead and we are honoured to day to have colonel manon on the part cast to give us
some insight into the lives of these two amazing men comandmence and then ye so much for coming on a ramentcho to have you on here and i guess with a story like this we might as
well go a little bit back to the beginning and a lot of travestie in apostates en poncaser toumay remember the name tradesman on because one brinstan was on he talked quite a bit
about about travis and how much travis helped bryan try to learn how to wrestle try no fence bryan he did his best to teach you but it was never your best skill set but obviously
resting was a big part of his life and i'm going to go to the book now and here we go he attended classes studied and rode his papers but always thought wrestling would best
prepare him for being a warrior and leader on the battle field this belief which reinforced by the qualities he saw in captain dug zambeze a two time all american restorative who
attended his many practices in me to could and frequently spared with travis battle ax zimbach him here yourself into your opponent in he that's good vice jessamine an's nugava
them back a nineteen ninety five naval caterage had a big impact on travis in the young restores the greedy though seemingly invincible warrior embodied everything he wanted to
become a skilled marinoff who used the wrestling mat to develop himself into a leader who commanded respect travis was a high school and college wrestling star after a strong
junior or a navy which featured several epic matches against nationally rank opponents he was presented the naval academies wings a ward for dedication and leadership as a
precedent twenty rest going into his senior season travestita to simply win matches and neat he wanted to dominate and help lead the meat midship and to a championship so we do
talk about wrestling a decent amount because we're heavy integrating sir he was the star restated i started willerly he uh you rustling up through ice school but am like a lot of
these guys at navy he did a lot of different things did a football and and the cross his well but resting was the the sport that he really gravitated towards you wetherstone hing
that makes people gravel gravitate towards wrestling and combats forenent especially if you are guy that's in decumbente something that they ruralisation and so he's going now the
penn state opened it's like the two thousand and four turn mendosino year he's got a hurt shoulder that he so herd his junior year have gone back to the book here the prude the
prodest slammed his struggling upon it the ground for a take down with trapeses injured shoulder fuming squarely on the red yellow man his right arm was already numb and this
first blow left travis with almost no strength to is to attempt to escape in a sport built on hand to hand combat one hand is almost always no match for two imachine in an eleven
is zero shut out and that so that to senior year tough day tough here you know he had a great junior year and had a shoulder that was given him problems and the steaded getting a
second opinion he went on the knife and it was a disaster there so am start out a senior year a looking forward to a big ear and could never get the shoulder going again and am
actually one to pen state open with that bad shoulder on the howe did it and ah the reterned headier distant turn out well warm it's very very disappointed for him because he had
worked so hard towards getting to the nationals and being an old marian and he had everything going his way but you know the injury is the zapetero japhet and i can never put that
much effort into a sport when i was in when i was miracoli i didn't do it i might am i o i i kind of allosorus little bethelite bit all be but i never was that you know into a
sport and so i but i saw people that i knew and he definitely see it in in one you get the team you meek eyes and they put so much into that sport then something like that happens
its crushing i think that was a good little pick up then he got after brief womaneen the assistant coach gave travis a reason to perk up telling the future military officer that
though he seen senior resting season was over it was now time for him to devote all his energy to be coming a marine ye it's somuch joe shorty's now the back at navy went to air
force for a couple of years and came back his now that had coached down there but a great coach great mentor and by the way was a good friend at dugento so it like comes full
circle and i want to say that the jolwana been a warrior in a marantas national champan iowa three time finless for dan gable if you know any orastes he's got a deal catolonan
it's interesting case in the book here you know you kind of start off with that story and you can see some definite the strength of character will from from travis and then you
take a little back step and you talk about early and his academy a career it doesn't want to do it and then he decides i i don't want to say at the cademy it to go to a regular
college i'll mount in any leaves and i felt one of best things about this was you know it when when ye when you talk to about it and i'll go to the book here you know he travice
to you and says he i'm on leaving the again i met and like i said to beginning your marine you could i can't imagine you could have been any prouder than having your son goito the
navigate and then the disappointment you must have had when you said oh you don't want to go thirty more but this is what you said to him going back to the book look this is your
call and your decision tom told the son who he always believed ekelund and beyond but i think you're making a big mistake how did you know that one of the bad things you could
done was like for him to stay there which you must have decided in your head like a gay if i forced them stay here is gonna hate it and he'll be miserable and and you won't put
any effort into it i beweisenden your kids how much do you pressured you come to that conclusion that that was the right move his sartorella work with him you try to treat him you
know is a man and let him make his own decision give him advice coach and but at the end of the day he's going to have to make those decisions and now this was no different you
know i i was extremely disappointed but um you know he i had a buddy there that was a betan officer at the the nevalid and he gave more time about leaving and that of major
gardner ye yah lieutenant colonel gardiner and in cortege a hard time in said tom a motley em leave lingham for the holidays will change his mind and sure enough he came home and
said now i'm i'm gone i'm leaving a tory member cortical me up and he said you know tom if if he ever he did great hear you ever want to come back you know the probably
considerate i said coretti's no way is coming back he's he's too and i and sure enough you know i mean he came back to me later on that he that following spring late spring or go
through some other college gain dread old for that got a calf in the wrestling coach come on down because it given him so much trouble at home coach today you got a scholarship
come on down so he left as soon as he got out of the house and and oh so you let him make his own decision you just made him pay for it on that day valentine so that's it win win
i i didn't know that and i could not believe that they let him back in i mean that's awesome yes very very unusual and i if you're out there in your the negative in now and i know
i know he got quite a quite a few listeners at the at the naval catenated at west point is well don't think you're going to get out of there when you need it this stay there i
shall here got be worth it you ate befall drives man you know is one not told of a miracle now one it really was had an believe and he gets back in i mean i guess with his
wrestling skill because he did well did well academically did well on the rest and team as a freshman but you know beyond anything else when he quit it's interesting because you
he quit and he laughed and it made him really realize what he was missing her and when he went back in to talk to people by going back he had to basine knew exactly what he wanted
to do and they could see it in you don't i i i would have conversations with guys that were kind of thinking about their their navy career and there's a big there's a there's a
transversale mentally with people and that is if they feel trapped they want to escape the minute that they don't feel coppinger than they like old or go back in the cage she o
you got it you can get them mentally out of a cage which is probably what ah what lieutenantcolonel darn was trying to think goforth weekend and see what i outside the gates and
you are in want to come back into the cage but he didn't work out time now boolooral on the time outside the casein the high wood come to me and they say you won't think i am out
getting out that's a i'd say i wouldn't go now don't get out cause then that's that's tightening the cage on him i say ye man start looking for you now in the side you don't catch
go git a job this good jobs you know they got some good jobs you can get you know you could be an exactly tive there you know you could there's probably a good cubical that would
have a nice fur at it for you and everything i have in but i would be not even be a casic about it i just try to make him start thinking about it what regularly anywhere your
idyll pensiero sly good life i mean it's it's a ridiculously good life so the many start looking at the normal jobs in the world you want to get back in the cage so now he comes
back and he ends up with a new roommate now remain at the naval cademy named brindeley am going to the book here brandon and travis of carried the burden of being division one
ally along with their academic and gilling responsibility rarely if ever a complaint just after the start of the two thousand and one fall semester traverser in men up from early
morning run the rest arnoot ball player both had practice later on that afternoon but as to vary athletes who wanted to be the best they were determined to work harder than every
one else after talking about the star the enfles their mid jog conversation shifted to their backgrounds they had a lot in common including the love o sports and their love of
country both midshipmen had been raised calflike it families although brendan swizzle larger with brandreth for a toil of five i think till five siblings and so now we're
introducing you know brenda moody into the into the story here and i actually knew brandon slightly because when he was to see he went through the training that i ran out here on
the west coast for the west coast setman dis a stud the youknow that indicated and the one thing i i re one of the things i remember about him was i was not you know the the most
carrying an affectionate instructor as a as a when i was running that trading and he he know a guy would get little you know kindred out sometimes when i be talking to im about
the sitio that they were making during the training and and you would use he just be smiling up be like yet a sergot it makes sense sir you know what a milesius a stud just a
straight up stud and so these guys are now falleth used one and we know what's comin next september eleventh comes and you know our gantries under attack one of the book here and
the entire naval academy student body realized that after graduation they would become part of a fighting force that was now at war and you know it the whole military instantly
thought that you know we were all thinking of the ego he had we had em in two thousand four started to come home to us at navy you know we had to plimoth but lost in the battle of
falesa running when chester was lost over there around the same time um both football players in now now travis his senior year football teams coming out with the flag and they
got ronning's jerseys traper the bench you know when it was was coming home for all this and he had guideline coming back from the battle falua and talking about what that was all
about in being in the wrestling room rustling with travis you know was was all over and navy yet a total gave jane enervately like that in the silent get a we went from me was it
years and years since vietnam cause we had some little you know there was patamathonga there was some all ye there were some things that happened but those were little flashes of
of combat action and in all the sudden we were facing witsnow turned out to be you know a decade and a half or more worth a war unbelievable these guys out you know as you said
they are they're intensity is just you don't they they might have been intense before but now they're intense gon to be through the roof yet they know what's common it may have
two thousand at four bread and a traviata with their naval came classmates and were commissioned as u s military officers brandon would go to serve in the naval intelligence
community while travis would head to the basic school from reincarnates and cornice for gina so brendon didn't get picked up for the seldens right out of right out of the academy
which is fairly normal it's a redenham a very small number of openings for gastinne belcady and you can imagine how competitive it is to have a guy like brandon not get picked up
his crazy and to egos out to go good to go into the intelletti and then traversed down to a down aquatic for the little bit of a basic school and and actually this was interesting
and i i i wasn't aware of this but the laroussini's the delos happened after they d raduates their seats after they get commissioned it the way it read and here it was like it
happened after they got commission well as it was actually was the chapmans was after graduation in as at weakenss weekend who's that at all these ones so and in brandon at some
point the naval cadet rted playing across he had burned him was a football player went there with recruited for football and am played football for a couple of years dressed and
played in and decided that he wanted to go off for a cross um is both his brothers are planters any one out there and just pick up a stick as you sit orejita natural athlete so
gifted big strong and ah you know picked up the stick and but that time is a senor in that that champeth game if you ask any one who was the harnful that team it was number forty
brendon i mean he he led him all the way to the championship he and his two brothers were the the hard and sold the team yet unbelievable and to get the championship game o going
back the book against syracuse though nave followed with a gold syracuse one a third championship and five years and at over all title brandon was absolutely crushed by the
fourteen to thirteen to feet misspoke to be navy as day it would take some time for the loss o sinkin but brandon who had just played his final cleggan and every one associated
with the navy program knew deep down that the teams improbable final for run had been a truly amazing feat i don't think i ever felt as low man brandon grumbled we should have won
that game i know traversely d but don't do what i did to myself and wrestling what do you mean brandeis when i lost that match in texas i felt my whole life was over i hadn't been
that miserable since i quit the academy but there are bigger things out there think of what were probably going to be doing a year or two from now so sane thing you know a little
bit of glory getting crossed granite gory getting crust at the end there and you know tries lock man and this is true and i said is all time you know sports with a ball in the
referee and all that stuff it's a game you know and these guys are about to go into something that's no longer a game and that's what travers recognized and and help redinha going
back to the book now that he was a young second lieutenant training at the basic school in conical virginia was difficult for travis to imagine that the months after graduation
could be even more challenging but fall two thousand and four the harsh reality of war became more personal for travis brendan and their fellow naval academy graduates on
september second two thousand four marine first leutenant ronald winchester a driven popular former navy football player became the first combat death in the naval academy's two
thousand one class when he was killed in a roadside bombita in iraq all ambar province west an forty eight hours later traverses fellow navy resting alone were hit by another
freight train upon learning that marine second lieutenant breton harmon a friend intemate who had graduated in two thousand three was murdered during a may lay at a north carolina
state university football tale gate in that a story that at story that that brinstan told as well let it what a tragedy that once i mean you know you was stepping in to help out
in the guy came back and killed him and his friend was hit every one hard right was a really popular guy i in so coachero he ended again this is something that that brinstan
talked about you know would when they were heading to the funeral and here we go let's do it exercise this is discouraging to lift to exercise i'd like you to both close your eyes
and picture that your leaving a building a friend picture up and take you to a place where people are somber crying and there seems to be an audience then you realize your at your
own funeral right down a few words about what you'd want a family member person of face to say when reflecting on the lives of travisan or brian stand stand nodded and after a few
minutes of pondering what to write started drawing down a sentence about one day being remembered as a good husband a loving father and a u s marine drives went through several
pieces of paper before settling on one sentence travers manon was a man on a fraid to stand for what was right and as i mentioned earlier travis started helping out brian with his
wrestling and he inevitably as bride started fighting could mind a maniac sure dunamase and he needed corner man so he need to have the rest then corner man in so again this is
something that we covered with brine stand but for if he didn't hear it that first time there you know you got brindabun the fight easilier ly you know whatever twenty minutes
half an hour from getting in the cage and fighting somebody and travenion call in brian can tell something going on and and brinshore what's going on travers as i'll tell you
later branaes you tell me now cries looks away after the fight no give it to me straight brandamant what's going on and then travis tells him jablett was killed in falusaine to
gain your point is that these people you know real close to home an i and it was tough for for brian it suffer any one of said motacillae which is what you feel like i feel like
you can't you you want to help and you can't do anything your bat you're lithos miles away then that's what these guys are are feeling he had loved at a fresh tration there but i
think also at the same time that it build a lot of resolve with those guys and men they were determined to make sure that they handed them in their service and work hard to to do
all they could do to make a difference now there was a story told them here that i i definitely wanted to go over because it revealed a little bit unabortable to me that was a
little hard to pick up a little earlier and that was obviously had to he was funny as how and didn't mind taking some resse these guaranteeing situation and you know travis was on
the radio and he's given commands these given orders in their being listened to by some higher up training officer of this kind of monitoring what they're doing and so travesia
and forth on the radio at his gusterson training and then as traverses a button to on his radio to relay the final order allowed familiar voice suddenly overtook the frequency
lieutenant this is cayotes the voice said i'm not really sure what you're trying to do out here but you're not fallowing proper radio procedure sir cavasse paul alone endavoured
out what you're trying to do because i sure as hell can't tell by listening to your words over this radio the rising voice said do you think right or do us all favour and just go
home so okay driveth nks about that any just teases readiness yes sir to their continuing they're doing a little bit more chaises continued to direct his troops in the training
operation and finally the voice comes on again with an at maneness coyotes he said as dozens of eyes rolled i have of oiaesin son you have any idea what the hell you're doing out
there radio is dead silent for almost thirty uncomfortable seconds as every one waited for the young second lieutenants response no sir travers said trove said but i did stay a
holiday in express last night now i fiamil tary when you keep on the radio it's not like i'm just cracking a joke to my boss did just me an him no there's like dozens and dozens
if not you forty fifty maybe even a hundred people that just her useth so thou as a malcolme funny rictibus kind o showed the ninkasi it's great because that tells the guys he
lowergoing to get through this we're going to wear pushioned this aposiopesis from a first re kind shared that story when they came came to arm place and it was typical trapsein
he said he just like everything got silent to coost up and they said when they got back to the head quarters at all wanted to meet this boutenieff from from gooselike six got
quiet that was yet he was not punko hardy to situadon he keep redly couldn't help but understand that yet easterton but that was a good godinot i bet if he's a good guide he
putting pressure on his troops he might have just see my just set back for his radio and just thought himself respectivelee what we're coming out for the holiday and expressing as
awesome so now we fast ford we get to your traverses first to pointment and he's in alibaba in and with first recondition in he regas the first recondite batalions maintenance
menagent management officer a camp flushes responsibilities which were focused on making sure vehicles were correctly allocated field than repaired were undone we important but
sitting on the side lines while others went outside the wire to fight was definitely not what the marine had advision when he was back training so he got a signed as allegest
officer he did ye he was um he actually had a intil alter's first to which because they have the sniper squad and um he had impetro while then he said you know what i think i'd
like to work with the sniper so he switched it and he always thought could since he switched to the the end that's valiente up being a logitian self so he always hum you is
kicking himself for that but you know where he would out there started to work and logistics realize how important was the mission i think he's still a little frustrated for sure
but ah he started really in a great with ferritin actually colonel higgins the sea said look when you come back from this second tour regonnoitre a recompute so he was pretty you
know jaup about that and looking forward to to get in a refund button and am yet it's part o why when i was over there as a mittemeyer he was doing the distiches in adviser but
also he was also taken the the buttons out on petrols probably more than any one over there i mean he was that sort of the way he was i mean he was going to give ready so he is
like okay another patrol i'm going i got it it's a manobos logistics winds wars ye that being said i don't think travelest kind of guy and in logistics they truly do i mean if you
can't get bullets and beans you're not going to win the war that's the way it is and that's one of the great things about the main course the way they do their spread and they put
really high quality guys in every aspect of ring corps including logistics but yet i can imagine he was views a pretty frustrated about that a fresh trade and now the marine court
gives an an annual word to the logician of the year and it's the traps manologists on the ear or so very aoooya's all at assiou known and sheraton guttersheet share in a isadore
so sherehog this was another awesome piece of advice from from sharon you know who you know travestied out side know itis great to be here i'm doing the best i can you momently
get frustrated i went to alcide to wire and share it says lord everything you can every second you can study the tactics studied the people studied the culture and know them more
importantly no yourself and be vigilant not to let up on yourself preparing for the unexpected so that's just incredible vice you know yet and in desmalter what situation you were
in he you try and make yourself better a ignacy i work for for one of the senior seal admirals that wind september eleventh kicked off he was in charge of acquisitions at the
pentagon as a as a captain and you know cures every one going to war and he's you know do an acquisition to which trevison military it means let this is our high level aestica and
and something he told me that always stuck with me was you know he was the same thing as as as traversest rate of he here i am in the pentagon every day and what he told me was
you know what i said myself jacko this is my fox oonagh you know sir his fox always in the pentagon deal with paper and great with a fontan's what he had the dane knew that he
that was his dallas what he had to do and is going to do it the best of his ability and and here in this from sure carrathers sheet when a case well joe was a great man turn you
know and he always had soudanise for travestie other guys that wrestled may be for sure all this being said about you know legists being inside the wire logistics when you're
running convoys all upon those wild just excites army marine corps is navy seeds we have see these at remigio's in you now convoys to down heavily laid in a d streets so there was
all kinds of logistics as a matter o fact i know the heir a lot of female logicians that the ploy to iraq in afghanistan other spot be in a noncombat roll guess what they got
after a head to the right in the middle of it all here in a convoy if so speak it that back the book during one late night evening con voice through fluate deafening thunder of an
a d shattered the relative tranquility of first reconnoissance battalion patrol the group of marines had been attacked before but this is the first time the trades was with them
during a hostile incident keeping his composure while following orders of the more experienced officers travis his heart pumping and ears ringing helped the vacuate marine who was
wounded in the attack so again might have been in logistics but you're still those guys are out there are right in the middle of it yet exactly now ycome home from that deportment
of going back to book i raccende newly promoted first leutenant travers manon for the better as the marines mom dad sister and several neighborhood buddies all noticed he was
still the same traits who had willingly traded doylestown for one of the world's most dangerous places but after returning to the united states travestied with him in an aura of
seriousness and quiet self confidence that was unfamiliar to some of his closest friends and loved once when travers talked about life he acknowledged its fragility having felt
the pull of an id blast and seen dead bodies in the streets for a young marine who had just spent eight months in falua it was almost impossible not to mature no matter what
travers was doing he was acutely aware that every single day americans iraqis and afghans were fighting and often dying i love the fact that that paragraph starts off by saying
that that deportment to iraq change travis for the better because so often you know we hear and civilians get told in the the public it told that darde all these hollible things
to people and and they failed to realize that in many cases were war massuet er person will you could you could definitely see the difference with travis some ane he went over
there and ate months later he was a different guy i mean he was so much more focused and mature and and you know he had to chance to lead over there in these incredible situations
we have to make quick decisions and you know he ah he got a lot from it like a dissertation the time i spent with him and in the other thing about it i think is like appreciating
what you have minnesota so much from him you know when he was back here as it's like well this is the greatest place in the world you know there's no no doubt about that that i
have a pass everybody that the boy comes back and you at a minimum he are going to appreciate what we have in america things like bath rooms because over there you're our only in
a port upon his sprain or you're in the field but your importunities in the summer time we used to call him the blue sonettes they are bucalossi rain inside it's you know it's a
hundred and twenty degrees outside so inside the blue santa the it's you know a hundred in the sick to the trees and you don't want to leave the doors open cause that just nastys
leave the blue son shut yes on you come home from that you get to a toctor prikoff thing who at lindley and i meanwhile this time brandon he now has gone to one deployment to
south korea working as an interoffice in doing that and even in doing that he felt like he had you know a lot more to do and this is when he focused on you know the want to be a
selene's going yes i need to be a seal he he told his girl friend whom he had met while they were going to nalanipo to do more bended said during a late night phone conversation
travis's there my other bodies are there and i want to be there with them when amy reminded him of the dangers his friends like travers were facing brent was undeterred i should
be in the fight he insisted now there is an issue here and actually i i was or talked about this how surprising it was that brendon get picked up from the seals out of nabal
cademy and i and i forgot the reason it there's a really distinct reason call the boheas color but he was colorblind to an you can't be colorblind in the seal teams at least
you're not he seen first guy to get away for sore not supposed to be crinkliness and that's why he didn't get picked up a still remembered that call from travis he should deadsure
news for an indiscussed for the seals may shells discoont hell eldertonus in before he got picked up and his probably helped him in it in a back boanerges thousand six brand in to
ply the fluor where he gathered a and lies intelligence for combat missions including operations carried out by seals so actually i was in remote at the time so remote a terno
forty thirty miles from volusia and he he was working he must have been working at or intellect in solidelle was gotten we were gone prosecutes targets and he's working with
working with seals in that that must help them out back to the book meanwhile travers was making another visit to the east coast the christening of his knee maggie rose geese so
you've prison his daughter and also he found out now that he's going back to iraq and that this is another thing that he sharing that news as the as as your granddaughters getting
christened travested you hey i'm going back to iraq and he's going back with the with the one is it the third italian second petate first iraqi army division military transition
team mit tea i said that any opening so little little bit about the mit teams um i've talked about the very it levels of comfort that you have in the military or that we had in
iraq in and how you know as is and as you llanelly for the most part high level of comfort you know we get to a place we would bring we would build a gym immediately we would have
our cab constructed imfena one we would get you know we would get video or internet service we would live pretty good we get food ship than we would live pretty good now that
being said of course there was especial optas that all ayout the middle nowhere living on a fob somewhere and that's living rough there was some people that were even more
comfortable there was some head quarters units then had swimming pools from a say that again swimming pools so there is some head quarters areas you know if you got into the green
one and bagdad you're oondoon ment iraq i'm going to hauptstein pool for a few minutes a the there's though there's those kind of living and then you get you know you got in or in
remote we had the conventional guys that were living in the combat or post in the city real rough living and then you go one step rougher and where you end up with his mittens and
mittens so that he the sands for military transition team and this is when you are the direct advisor to un iraqi battalion and and in this case it was the three two wonderers it
said about the third italian second brigade first iraqi army division so this is this is a battalion of iraqis soldiers supposed to be six or seven hundred probably a long less
than that could i were generally highly undermanned but the mid teams pateley really hard job or it are incredibly hard job he it was you know we did advising to heralder and we
work with the races oders side by side and these guys did it not just on the battle field but with everything that they did helping him with their pay helping i learn how to how
to do the logistic side that you mention travels doing the mittens just nothing but respect for the mantinean atop of that we go out of the supines you know we had great training
and then we had otherwithe us midwife have a man of em usually of like six to eight seals with us and we got mistassinie out on one other man team guy out with forty iraqi
soldiers poorly trained poorly motivated yeteve right there with him and there totally imbedded with them so ye eat in the selfhood togobah horror oi remember that the yet the
call from travis when i first heard them as if like well the much more comfortable as to dad with travels with two hundred marines the the comfort level the comfortable
incomparable yeah between being with two hundred marines and being with two hundred races it is completely it's the level of rescue so much higher there was a wind there was a mid
team that came out in remaddened turning over to mitinti ongoing met leader in the off going met lerton over they got it back both of them got killed one attack that that's how
much risk there dear there taken with these these mid teams situations or the other thing about these guises you know they were they were gone out and in petrol with them and you
know they're going to train him the right way they were out front they want a thing with travelest time i talked to one last time to home i said travis you are editor make sure
you just tell the races with nest be done and step back and let them execute and is like a cat dat i got it and i knew i knew exactly you know what he was going to do it went
leave from the front not that's what he did you know that's what all those guys were doing they were you you are out of petrol you're right out front with every one else you know
when the navy seals a came back up our great and was an avishawella is in he said you know travis always there every patrol so so that's where he gets tasteth in in out day what
if you want to get some here in a mitten you know like you said you never goin to go out prostrates you know you're going to get after it there's no doubt about it so nothing but
respect for the guys that we were on a bunch of items in the body is outstanding guys doing a really really hard job yet tough tough on island and job will you know the end is the
day i was strategically it was the the ser trade and they put everything being the mid teams at that point of i remember two thousand six two thousand seven before travis left he
actually had a chance to talk the gentle mates came in talked to his mid team but how important that mission was so her putting a lot behind our guide that were imbedded with the
iraqis he had again for those views a denotat ic piece a little bit more our goal was to turn over iraqi security to the iraqis in in the only way to do that and we realized as
not one of the things that made people realize the import the mittens was you weren't run to do it you won't conduct them on how to do a combatant across room you weren't going to
educate them on how to do combat petrol even on a training field you needed to take them out and keep them in and forced them to go out and anything's cause the iraqis if evethee
opportunity to me their stay base or go out on patrol alone a new doing there their goal is to stay on as many of them men and so of of course there were some guys that were more
motivated by a lot of them were just then just want to survive right they just want to survive so strategically that's we had to do as we had to take them out and give them all
the job training and simultaneously pushed them to to go out and try and low or some of the level of islands out in the various cities so half at this time also as you mentioned a
brandon got approved for his for his latch transfers collateral knows that he's going to he knows that he's going to go about got to bodonian be a seal for at least try and be a
seal but i've been used pretty confident i am certain that one of the first things travis did hear these he's going began a couple more days laughed he meets up with renajo steve
can roll and assistant navy recent coach and they go to new york traversando beside to spend a few days in new york city were can't crawl at arrange to visit to new york fire
departments rescue one headquarters located and held kitchen rescue one had become a revered place over the past five years a small man hadn't building which was still fully
functioning had been the home base for eleven fire fighters almost half the unit who were killed in the september eleventh two thousand one terrace to tack as they were leaving
the fire house on fire fighter and form a marine tank travels for coming out we in a man i want you to have these hats and shirts said the marine corbett veteran no matter how
crazy things get over there you can always put one of these on and remember what your fighting for that he comes home and he's got that that rescue one hat with a with a rescue
one far department new york log on the fun and nine eleven o one never forget on the back that he says to you dad i want you have this and please wear it while i'm gone no matter
what happens always remember that this is what we're fighting for him all osram ber that that discussion we had on down the hallway and it's so impacted him to be there with those
guys in any any went up there to to thank them for all they had done and the adatte couldn't thank me enough for for my tour and what i was about to do and in he was you know he
got real serious about it then always remembered it was one of last conversations i had with him interesting side not to that story so my wife and i after we lost trapsen up to
rescue one talk to the guise from her up there and they saw a remember maybe you know somebody come in through and but it never really clicked for the guys are with but great
guise and you know we end up leaving and never felt like we had the connection that we expected and because travesed talked about it so much and a couple of years later i say bout
um two years ago so mortal ing about like seven six seven years later for the books out and there's a new york city fire fighter he gives his buddy the buck and says he read this
book set mentions rescue once at guy's on the treadmill he almost falls off the tradita was may i had since been transferred said tim sullivan calls me up in his imegine the book
i want to come up a bare with you of a yeah thouthern that's also the same conversation were you told travesty know he yourii er advise i didn't let the athlete the iraqis execute
which can be really hard as it's you know to be heard because they won't execute we can be hard because you want to show them how to do right and i often times if you don't lead
from the front knockane i couldn't have now no so now your son i mandate and travis go to get of a ball game and trego back to book as they reach a flight o stairs near the
lincoln financial field accent dave with a clear hint of humour finally conveyed his concerns he was concerned you now his concerned about his going over seas and he's as a
travisia now an you fell down and broke her ankle too think they let you sit this deponent out he asked travis chuckle to day's joke but didn't say much in response abif moment of
slightly awkward silence followed while drunk an eagle's fan shouted and chanted all round them suddenly travers spoke up you don't want the day traversed with an unmistakably
serious look on his face if i don't go they're going to send another morning my place a doesn't have my training if not me then who you know what i mean he continued it's either
me or that other guy who isn't ready so in the one who asked to get the job done so think of out that because you know you think back to the the time with coach shardanian
standing than there in the plane and travis i want to be known as the guide that always you know stepped forward and did was right if not medanos another way he say it right to
and it's you ali's not i don't share that because it's unique the travis you know i share that because it's in this whole story is really a representation as so many men and women
in youniform you know it's their story but it's a story to can be told about so many and that if not met and who you know we we we use that now at the foundation is sort of drive
mamanyara you know what we all need to be thinking about as americans as it had been up in doing the right thing it don't all do agree with you a hundred per cent that the eesa
lot of people to say things like that but you know to have an example that some one that's so clearly lived that is is awesome to look at now we're gettin ready for the ployment
back to the book more than a hundred american trees were killed in iraq december two thousand six gooding major megalon this drinking female off certai and iraq war and the iraq
war and the first female naval naval academy graduate to be killed in combat and by the way but she was stationed in remade i i knew her and she was killed along with a another
army a specialist named vincent amante there killed by big idea on route sunset i think it was and also another guide was with her again in travels patrician who was just an
unbelievable guy and this was a huge lost to lose to lose traverson in magnified a cane both of meditates a huge loss never never knew her but i certainly meant her parents you
know ye she's buried down and in intension sixty she was so she was just like a really just a huge smile all the time a real go getter just making things in a don't want with her
what you know i mean it we'd see i see applegate meeting says we are both you know walking with the one in e d and you know she was just the agoratus just really positive and in
she was the thing i remember most about her was disher myling inkose sattwa at a big smile on a face and and and travis you know what i'm going to do travesty on here some day you
know travis was the gay he made this this power point brief for how to win the war n iraq and it was stick figures and it explained like hey here's you her american here's this
iraqi and you don't know if the iraqis good or bad but you know who does no these other iraqis and it was his all these stick figures in it it got published against sarculate that
was trapesemints spoke arabic uh just a fantastic guy in and all definitely cover a derothor was a book written about him as well so ingroville on an on her at a grave sight in
section sixty atis be bold be brief be gone well she was she was indeed all those three trees a going on here now major dug and back a naval cademy rest lettered warrior whom
travers admired he was killed as well yet there was a sum shortly into a lost travis a couple of weeks later douglas there and bagdad was killed now a carry he was he a don'tknow
if he had knew him i didn't i iscanderbeg burst amity at the naval cat in me and had the marines and fluate came it hereof filling of clusia and yet be quite quite a leader and i
related no me therein to travis junior year he was back restin with travis maybe they were about the same size douglas a big guy and and oh so gibelin the bench the one and
screaming like crazy as trousers out there wrestling had a really tough mash he ends up wind and like one nothing against this kid finnart carolina as it trots who is that guy
behind the cinesias dug in back in on hodgeman is so there i tonatrish point he hadn't been killed yet he was he was but that the point that they were making here that i i i kind
of miss worded was that he was a classmate of a of megalocrates recline ut was the connection there that was a couple swat a couple of weeks a couple of weeks before before oh
travels arrives that you know he's getting this news ye now travers at back in for lusia back the book travels it seen his share of blood but never need a wash any from his hands
that all changed changed in january less than a month after he turned returned to housefront to ployment chain is fellow mit members went on come apparels verse every day
sometimes running as many as three missions over punishing eighteen hours span in pelusian throughout iraq marine soldiers sailors airmen in their acutest everything from hunting
and surgeons and weapons castes to disposing of dead bodies adding to three two one midst challenges were joint patrols with the races through some of flues most danger sectors
the raised ers would sometimes respond to the slightest sign of violence with what some ust members nicknamed the iraqi death blossom when a shot was fired in their direction the
iraqis with sometimes form a circle and fire in every direction with little regard for consequences including tragically catching innocent civilians in a cross fire civilian
casualties were sometimes unavoidable reality of war but traverses fellow the rings were determined to use every means at their disposal to prevent them while some men temmbos
understandingly became frustrated with the often untrained underpaid iraqis soldiers travis position himself as a mentor during lunch he would bring his child of the totems and
sit with nick and iraqi translator who held brinoge us and i racemes they not only talked about combat strategy but also simple things like soccer so this is just pure
professionalism nosorenus pure professional as lady chance to go over iraq in twenty ten and i met with the races at travesed teinte said that you know lieutenant man you would
always come over and sit down and eat with us and talk with us and he always part of what you needed to do right if you're going to if you're going to be there and be their
brother and and help them with the mission he had you got to be part of what they're doing and he understood that i mean it's uh not like unlike brandon boys you i mean you when
you're playing athletics yes sort to get that team work piceno's going to make it work you got all beat together yea tho it's i the book makes it onlike it fairly easy to do that
it's not mam it's hard there's a huge cultural difference between iraqis an american then and you don't they it's not that big of a deal but i'll tell you what going you know you
you're overseas the one time you can kind of relaxee you get to sit down and eat your cold you're in cowal and you're actually fairly well protected most of the time you don't
have to worry about anything you you clear your weapon before you go in shawomet it's it's sly a relatively safe place and you get to lac get your bear out all your american
friends and it's good to to deny yourself that and now you're going into because you know what this time you don't you you can't give full trust to the iraqis you're you're going
to you know e eating with them the conversations are still did it's just not dislike thing it's a big deal it's a it's a it's a big deal to make that extra effort and and clearly
the only time you know i'm pretty engaged in my job you betimes i at with iraqis when i was in iraq anmals upon it maybe twice then it may be a wise ye maybe twice you know it
because you know it was in a little but i was in a different position but maybe twice he and you know it tendered they recognize that oh phonin i went over they talked about that
quite a bit with me and how they recognized that now was important to them your me knew that he absolutely did that's the court is that he he knew it he knew that making that
sacrifice building those relationships that was his primary mission or at least one of his primary nations was to build relationships with these iraqis soldiers of the day could
get to know him they could build trust until that they would go out there and do their job so worm professional at all times this is another really good example of of traps
traverses leadership back to the book just as some us marines became frustrated by the raw battlefield tactics of the iraqis which could put all their lives at risks some iraquois
rolled their eyes when americans gave them orders whereas previous mood marine lieutenants had barked instructions at the aracaris tavistock a different approach starting with a
knock on the door of the iraqi lieutenant jelal u detonant i was on in fact speak with you about the upcoming raid on the high value target in the industrial sector traversed
through the interpreter i was wondering what time you think you would like to execute our mission i think five p m would be a good time to leave jula replied my men had a long day
and i do want keep them up too late okay traversait but i'm wondering if you might consider leaving a bit later possibly after sunset my concern is that our presence during
daylight could endanger neighbors who live near the house were going to strike not to mention little children who could be playing in the street respectfully lieutenant i wouldn't
want to be the one to tell their parents that their son or daughter might still be alive if we had waited a couple more hours after a pause and a sip at water the racing officer
nodded the rage would not start until eight p m so gineralship and i i talk about this all the time an air you know the real leaders are barking orders the real leaders of the
ones that are flanking and using indirect approaches so with the people that they're trying to influence and there is a distant phenomenal example of that gatheral here e mail
come and from travis said it you your senate family and an some was body sent to brinton his well he re go all my job is definitely going well after all the horror stories we hear
we heard about the iraqi armor army and their unwillingness to work with the men they have been very open and willing to listen to advice creating an initial relationship with my
counter parts was the right move and it is allowed me to help them start sheeping operations there many dedicated men in this army and it's been an eye opening experiences so far
the best i as if i i raced the best as are definitely dedicated to their cause and have a warrior mentality that rivals some americans however there are still those enemies out
there that wish us to fail there's a lot of work left to do but the city is definitely added different place than it was last year i really feel that is comitis at a critical
point where if the present situation continues to progress it could have huge positive impact in other areas also i found a good balance between my logistics job and my company
advisor although going on operations definitely requires a good amount time i am able to work with battalion which istics officer on a fairly regular basis i also appreciate all
the good food and gear that has been sent work out and your support have definitely helped keep me going as i said before were pretty busy by one as take a minute to think you
guys for everything and keep you up dated please continued to write i enjoyed your updates as well take care all talk to you soon sent prepaid traps yet was one of his on last
notes home but you can see i mean he's a glance half full type of guy you know where we're getting it down all work and hard for gonnarea difference you know that sort of alley
proached everything and and that was what is trying to share interesting thing also about the logistics were ill because when i was over there talking to the legist sky the work
with sort of a kittiwake said you lieutenant manias a horrible logistics officer in his tarantass never he was always on petrolia never there with his when we had ditheistic stuff
so as i guess that's expected itnow we're going back the book the next morning travis in his team mates or woke around five thirty a m two a huge explosion a few minutes later
they learned that observation post bag dad a new makeshift base they had been working to set up in flea was a pile of rubble they go to that location with gun fire in ishly
surrounding them before a secure permaneat established travis albino my sentit of beaubien and others spent the next eight hours and ringaring the rubble while their team members
controlled the crowd outside for all they knew the rest of the bombed out complex could have crumbled or the could have been ogrebones tied time to go off when the quick reaction
force arrived they went into the ruins any way carrying a large fast light travis crawled into the rubble treating perfusely due to the heat which is examples by small fires
burning throughout the compound travers dug through dirt sand and remnants of brick searching for trap iraqis travis albino in their teammates were covered two injured iraqis and
two dead bodies from the attack side their self was actions had an during impact on many of the iraqis who bore witness so you know this is even in america when there's
somewhereabouts winnowed a building is collapsing they don't you know it's really really risky to go in there and tries look no were going in there might be survivors iraqis to
billions he has no idea or may they were military goes yes no idea to know them you can rest his life just to go and help them that's we both lessen twenty four hours later
travisias were ringing after a idebound neath his vehicle the blast jarring pounding force loudly in abruptly halted as vehicles patrol through the cities volterna dustrial sector
davis had encountered ides during his first appointment and as recently as nine days earlier after insuring that fellow americans in iraq as were uninjured travelog down at the
sandy street when the crude explosive device was buried see that wire traversed to another i racien that's command wire and it stretching towards that building gather your men and
follow me he said to the racecourse to his marines you and the other guys cover us just in case there are snipers lieutenant why don't we just leave the iraqi said to travis
because they'll keep planning bombs around here and kill more of my men more of our men and probably kill some kids drive said so respectfully letenant on going over there to find
out who's responsible whether without you after a brief pause the eraquement got three of his men and followed travis as he traced the command wires origin rounding a corner
travisa man in civilian clothes kneeling over one appeared to be a pile of grenades which along with the attached wires appeared to be some sort of buitran without hesitation
travis ured up to confront the threat the marine doutte street heard the pop of traverses and two or three grenade launcher and the subsequent explosion several ran toward the
sound while other state to keep watch over the exterior the tall sweaty and sergeant took off running now being chased by a fearless determined marine travers had the a bad guy in
his sight and he wasn't going to let him get away stop travested an arabic wallerstein the suspect by the time the u s and iraqi b reinforcement arrived travelers was dragging the
frightened suspect down off a wall he had tried to scale in an unaccentuated unsuccess witteput escape after body slamming him with the ground travis put the insurgents hands
behind his back then made sure he was taken in for questioning the suspect if entally led the mind team to a room not far from a moyra which contained grenades and many more bomb
making materials without losing any lives a roughing more feathers in the soninlaw travis had help removed any weapons and another terrorist from pelusis streets yet so am when i
heard that story a share with me when the other parts of it is that when traps ended up catching this guy put a i guess a good rest the men should have done the ground oh the
iraqis actually went to take this guy out you know and that he's like now you're not doing that or were we taken him back an all an ah they figured well just take care of the sky
right here right now ye and ye they just you just got traversest it with a night eddy the way he must have gone low order which means i must not have deadened ated properly
because if you are to humbo can have with a legitimate id it at your vehicle on get your vehicle your chances for rival is great in and so to have this guy actually hit you with
an idea that you're lucking to shavie and then you catch him in then you know i bet you that i want would give i wish we could find out if the if the iraqis that saw this we try
out at wrestling moved her yes to put this vestorian supplex yes so eaheino had locked all yes i bet that was not a happy insearchable this also the other thing is get get about
this as it it shows you how travis had to read from the front because like i said the races are just content to say ay lesses back to bess you know less souleve that's that's very
common for them and travis has the lead from the front cassano were gone stay you can stay here but i'm going to go get these guys and you'll condachie him now he you know it in
he was doing that but he was also seen that the result of that was progress the these guys worse starting to take on more more and that was important to even just the fact that
they followed him and no betha's that's what they're doing and then what they do they gave confidence and they say yeah you know we can do this too and and not tell you
eventualiter over battle face to him ye going back to bokhara world away in california brandon was about to and bark on his most difficult child challenge since nine eleven buds
training so you know i just wanted to point out that while traverses now back and foe brendon his god his orders and he shows up at buds and you know he trained super hard to get
ready for it and and there we go while helping turned the tide and fleetest we ten a tradesman and wrote a letter to the intelligent sir one of his home town newspapers in bucks
county pennsylvania then here's that letter there are many views on our mission here however all i can say with certainty is that there are thousands of americans over here
working hard towards a positive outcome in iraq every day i'm here i see great things being accomplished under her circumstances from young americans i'm truly honour to serve the
side these rinser soldiers and airmen i'm not sure the average american sees the positive these service men and women accomplished or even understands the sacrifices of their
efforts however whatever course of action or leadership decides upon there are those in waiting ready to carry out the mission in support of our country and in defence of its
people and their freedoms respectfully traversando first leutenant united states marine corn yeaton's some setup totally for him in the heat and eveley knew where travers was
coming from very straightforward and and i being obviously i gree with him that that's a lot of people don't understand it in still don't a lot of people still don't understand
the the positive things at workeing over and iraq the positive things that the simple having lunch with them the simple tynree colateral damage you know that's been mentioned
several times you know that they arachides they get contenson them thisere hundred an sixty degrees they don't care where it hits and they're doing everything they can to train
them and and put some discipline on them so that they don't hurt those civilians so and the willingness you know you guys tell us what to do you guys give us give us the mission
and we are standing here to will get it ieyes so now they're looking at up a a a mission in an area of falua which is called the piazza slice and if you go look at a map of
footsill obvious to figure out where the peaches lives i did i did actually one operation my first appointment i rackon the peaslee and here looking at de it in operation there
they got some intelligence that there's a bad guy there that they want to go and get and were going back to the book after discussing the idea with several fellow officers
including travers major copiis right coldback major cubiti announced that a team would head into the piazza slice to follow up on new intelligence about the snipers were about so
it's a sniper that they're going after an enemyship they could find the terrassier who is shooting at us marines iraquois and civilians to american humpies would accompanied two
full vehicles of iraqi army troops in one home vee would be coviello and kim they would be joined by the driver staffage polpetti and the turones sergeant josh wilson moraine and
cigar sigmaringen sigcau sago bring and sea go would ride in the second home thee the driver would be staffed sergeant cadmore turgor corporal brighter and mohammed and iraqi
interpreter travels and second lieutenant scott alexander a friend and fellow mitterem ber were supposed to go to a nearby school with oraciones and hand out candy crane and
colouring books to oculis driveth excited about the mission because he cared about the iraqis and loved to see the smiles on the faces of the kids so i got two operations at their
about to execute one of them is to go and hunt down the sniper in other one is go doome bilton wins marks in months ended or can be kids now came as one to be other mit team
officers he's the ops oh the of officer at that's yer can is and we're going back to the book kim who had smelled ugliness in the air when he woke up that morning and had
reiterated reiterated his uneasiness just minutes earlier told travis that the smiles of iraq school children will be a welcome sight came was a brave reno repeatedly
distinguished himself on the battle field but on this day he felt worn down fortunately he intravenous enough that he felt confident asking his friend to take his place on major
cubie's petaline petrolite is it coifi had over the school instead came asked no problem travis replied his eyes lighting up because he knew this man he could help go find the
sniper are you sure civinini go ahead with scot to the school traversait we're all good thanks travice said i'll see you in a bit see back here traversed with a nod yes so am
never knew that story and were right in the book started to talk to chris about that day and he lisita's got something i want to share then i never shared before and he mentioned
that he was supposed to be me on that petrol magee with take for him the sort of come forward that story but he and in a travis and scott were really close and i know it had to be
botherin a while and he he shared that so so they roll into the pitale which again missus it just a disappinted your mind what it looks like it's you kind o hear stereotypical
combat iraq city small narrow streets you know drain the streets buildings really close together frets everywhere dirty run down wires everywhere it's just a it's can your
stereotypical iraqi combat city that's exactly what it what what it is in the pieces licinius there in their perimeter and boom he re got the book the enemy sniper pulled the
trigger blasting what felt like a metal pipe through a beano's lower left out abdomen the bullet which ricocheted off the corn as radio then tore through his left lung albino fell
to his knees dropping his weapon a landing flat on his face in the sword trash filled streets mother folker yelled petty who had gotten a fumsu from the dock a split second before
in an instant travis and colicky started running toward the wounded cornet casualty screamed the court the tur gunther of the other american home by he was the only one in the
vehicle that to see albino go down every one in the home piros iraqi a stoneman yell out response despite the sudden jolt of adrenalin their heart sank when they heard the gunners
response its dock the eld opening fire ambush caves reacted as soon as the first shot rang out he took off running towards wounded comrade as the thunder sound of american turn
gun fire rang out the once quiet alleyway even with the enemy shooting above from above travestita about his own safety he knew he dis could be his only chance to save dock at the
other american home v rang and see also took off in all benno's direction though they were trained to never run towards a sniper's victim the war or ethos never leaving a fallen
comrade behind had overridden their sensibilities travess whereat dock first grabbed him by the left shoulder copies running close behind clutched out beans right arm a few
seconds later come on dock travis yelled as he as he and the major pulled albino closer to homeville were now raining down from multiple roof tops which meant that more insurgents
had been waiting with the sniper to ambush the american iraqi and iraqi troops the mid team was encircled by insurgents and without a fierce counter in tack the entire patrol was
almost certainly doomed as dead limb ensued the marines realized that both iraqi vehicles in their patrol were gone after the iraqi soldiers heard the gun fire the fontveille
subsequently hit and i d while trying to loop round towards a better fighting position the iraqis were stranded which meant nine americans and their interpreter were left out
numbered in a confined chaotic space yet so on you know with travis that day in a epple dockin dockside when i went to see doateth hospital he said you know i just felt this his
big hand come in and grab me and pull me in and they were surrounded there and in um you know with ah the sniper was there for in a way umi don't know if you're going to share but
jukes also wounded there as he he came in actually got an email from chuck recently just to you know so many years later just a sort of talk about that day and what it was all
about but you can commagene that he the cloud of war chaos confusion nobody really knows what's going on as i talk to the guys who were there that day nobody was really sure where
things were coming from they just knew they were in big trouble ye that's one of the hardest things about the herb and environment happened in old varmints but in the aubaine
years shops coming at you don't know whether coming from three difficult to tell because the sound reflects refracts off the different buildings and you know the sniper or the the
shooters can be one or two rooms deep you you just don't know where thee where the weterans are coming from and it's just very very confusing lot of confusion from from all the
desespere with going back to the book here travis and cebidae ll be no out of the kills zone and closer to the vehicles from side where the sniper couldn't deliver a fatal blow to
their bleeding gasping corman as they tended to albino's wounds tradesman and segouin toward him at full speed another piercing crack of gun fire abruptly echoed through the alley
it an instant seal was somersaulting in mid air feeling like mike tis i just pointed him in the stomach and landing in the middle of the bullet riddled street all round sego
cuprous lot rifle walk claps in the ground a heckimal was on folding in an erie slow motioned silence seals wrist convulsed with tremendous pain the sniper was firing at the
wounded marines he lay in the street and the young land corporal who had just been shot in the wrist and still on benown to him also in the stomach which soon be dead if he didn't
get in front of that home as salad powerless unable to do anything but wait for the crushing blow of another sniper bullet travers pulled them out of the snipers cross hers
moments later seal lay next to albino who was still being worked on by covici so again you know if you got a sniper scenario and there's a guide down the last thing you want to do
is run over to try and help get him out of that situation unless your travis and then that's the first thing you're going to do by the time the confused lands corporal looked up
into the dust traversarono head already run back into a cloud of bullets travers dashed across the street not far from where selden hit twice and moran had barely escaped death
without blinking he blasted droned on to the one of the roof tops buildings sending chunks of concrete tumbledown when travis switched to em for round his suppressing fire was
equally relentless which gave kobiki and rang enough time to help the wounded with one roof top silent after stand in surgeons had experienced the crushing power of traverses
grenades and countless in four rounds the battles tied begin to turn see going out bo couldn't see travers firing but they could hear the welcome sounds of the american counter
attack which only paused to in travis needed to reload go travice to his fellow officers who moved into new positions so they could join him in the fire in firing at the enemy
traison east in the alleyway from the humpy's pastor side to the driver's side as he blasted away another roof top was now causing the same kind of pandemonian the enemy that the
sniper initially wrought on the americans just in front of segador initially pulled to safety by trade cavity dragged himself almost completely under the vehicle with only a leg
sticking out desperate trying to breathe while tasting a mixture of sand and his own blood i'll be no is almost certain he was going to die amid dizziness extreme thirst and the
crashing sounds of concrete the wounded coroneted as mother whom he didn't want to suffer in the wake of his death but at the same time i'll be no could see travers boots travers
his boots firmly planted in the sand while he fired it inimicos tions the situation was bleak but maybe there was still a chance to survive so you got travis it's interesting that
used the word counter attack and usually when you think of a counterattack you think of a platoon or at least a squad that's maneuvering to counter attack an enemy and in this
situation we got a one man town atack that day initiative is travis stepping up putting down suppressive putting down grenade fire exposing himself to the enemy to make that
happen i trying to build the momentum the other way because the momentums come in in so so much so on the other side did he got a sort of get out and get it on them it get their
rounds on them you to have them you know lose that moment ye in and just like any military unit the insurgents if they have the upper hand there on a press but the minute you can
press them back and you get the upper hand the chances are they're going up they're going to retreat because they don't they're not holding the ground they don't care if they lose
ground old run away they want to live their cowards and so they ututa away but you know if you don't do that if you don't step up and you don't take to nish if they will
absolutely on the road on mentor run you and so travers one man colter attack here and then and then he's yelling to his team mates hay go help out let's go with make this happen
back to book although the sniper would usually have been long gone by now the cfort seven fire from other buildings caused so much initial confusion that the mid team still wasn't
sure which building he had fired from like a voler circling his prey the enemy marksman continued scanning the alley before spotting travis whose firing away on another roof top
so this is a cover moves situation to where the snipers taking precision shots but the guides can't really identify because they're getthin from a bunch of different locations as
well back to the buck of cross the city first to tenant kim was handing carians to smiling aracids with second lieutenant alexander though camp wondered how traversin the guises
were faring inside the piazzale they had been through so many battles in the last five months without a casualty that the mid team seemed indestructible as kim knelt with a happy
child he suddenly heard unintelligible screaming from the radio inside his vehicle contact yelled a voice possibly stafferton pay the driver of the humedean was originally
supposed to be in came look straight at alexander who he had heard the same friend exude and both men motioned to their racicot of parts to sit with the kid to while they checked
things out the transmission the transmissions were broken but now the sound of patty's voice screaming contact came through coryston clear basing a single word about one to do
next came and alexander jumped into separate vehicles with their respective drivers told the iraqis to handle the rest of the school supply drop and sped towards the toward the
petala and its unknown turmoil as they listened to broken radio transmission and try to communicate with perry who was frantically trying to contact camplin request a quick
reaction force the marine silently navigated through the piazza slices narrow confusing streets not completely sure of where their mid team brothers were pinned down they knew a
battle was raging but neither marinha any idea how serious it was nor did they realize how benonce had been hit after we being around the pet's slides the two vehicles turned
right on to rout elizabeth near the black water bridge heading east and the seriousness of the situation slapped camminando in the face normally busted bustling packed market
place was completely empty of tumbledown across the street the section of fougirot have looked exactly like a deserted town in old western spaghetti jesus christ alexander said
where in the foarther came heldentod some late heard gun fire there alexander said pointing at the besieged alley way were the two american homes were still being riddled by
bullets as both marine stopped on round elizabeth facing east the marine's jumped out and ran as quickly as they could ducking rifles ducking as rifles continued to crack towards
their comrades came then confronted an image that would stay with him for the rest of his life travestying near the back of the driver's side tire of the home he had been riding
in his eyes wide open but glazed over with emptiness kensane blood but it was obvious that something horrible it occurred in that wretched violent alley for the first time in the
entire deportment sheer panic seized kim as he ran with alexander up to covici who was kneeling by travis while finding firing his nine millimeter hand gun at one of the buildings
after running out of rifle ammunition kamas firing his own rifle where do you need us to go did the wounded capitian did them out of here who else is hit alexander said see goin
dock cubick said before moving to another position to continue firing swinging open the passenger side back door for covers he fired kim saw see who had avoided being shot again
but was still in great pain lying in the back seat despite being on his back he was reaching down to the floor trying to find more ammunition for the turones there's left wrist
was breeding profusely the major orders is out kansai denied help i can make it seal said you gotta get within at manon i think he's dead my vehicles right over there cimsan
pointing toward rotalia beth go now that reinforcements had arrived the sniper was gone and the insurgents were pulling back see go mustering all his strength accident the hump on
the passenger side and hurried to kinship where he collapsed in the back seat he knew even shot in the stomach by this point and wasn't sure if he would make it but even segreto
the intersection even as seawan to the intersection the wounded marine thoughts were focused on the unforgettable scene he had just witnessed secedin see travis get shot by the
sniper but after dragging himself to the driver's side of a vehicle but lance corporal was shocked to see the first leutenant lying face down and motionless his arm stretched
toward the curb which feet facing toward the bullet riddled vehicle we see god pulled himself toward travis and asked him where he'd been hit he got no response he realized travis
was seriously wounded in started feeling underneath his fellow marines body or more with his left hand despite the hole in his own aching wrist he found a bullet wound on the left
side of travestie he whispered in travis's ear he travis said sig seek who normally would have addressed him as lieutenant or sir i'm here for you travesties pond even without
realizing that the sniper's bullet had struck the first routent from the right side and who egsited at the spot he was covering with his left hand segne the situation was grave
when sat when travis began jerking with convulsions is he dead could be the elder to see old while continuing to fire any positions not yet but he will be free don't do something
but lance corporal said his voice shaking seal turned to travis whose eyes were still wide open i'm here for you segle repeated over and over again into his ear as soon as came
and alexander carried their own responsive friend in the vehicle could be cranor and dove into the smoke filled home be where he clutched traversin begin trying to identify his
wounds stopping the bleeding and perform separ he ordered petty distorting towards camp feluca while wilson wilson fired the last round from the turret this is probably convicks
last chance to save his fellow marine as for vehicles sped toward camp lusia father john gaytan a marine court chaplain from pennsylvania sat in his tiny office on the minakshi
american base he was reading emails from home while sipping from a large water bottle to keep i dreaded on the steamy sunday afternoon a few minutes later is fallen rang we got
two wounded in action and one possible killed and acts arriving at the field hospital and northward on nurse reported as the marines ran over to the wooden complex he saw a group
of marines came alexander cavity marinetti marquette wilson and brier halted like a team on a football field as he jogged by one of them turned round and looked at him povana the
redness in the eyes of this marine who had obviously been crying it was clear that something terrible had happened any marines would type o positive blood reporting mediately i
feel hospital room for a voice said over the loud speaker as they tore off as they tore off his bloody fatigues before finding the wounds on each side of his ribcage and trying to
recessit him crowds began to form in the hallway outside the operating room where it was quickly spreading at first weeten tradesman on the heart and soul of the mid team was
badly wounded yet he so gave it all you know gave it all that day gave it all every moment he was over there in working with the marines work went graces and and ah you know that
that last event he ran out of me in its a talking to the gunner and am start to ask him about what what he saw trying to figure out you know the i got what was written up in his
warden just trying to get some insight in the gunner should you know we tent was calling from marama so i'm thinking that travis i saw when i was over there he had all sorts of
magazine so i don't know how many rounds it on guessing around may be ninety two hundred rounds he had on himself any actuation a lot of fire said change the momentum but i you
know he knew what he was doing he exposed himself he had to do that to to get out there and laid down the fire and ah when i spoke to the gunner will son he said you know we threw
out a magazine i turned around when i turned back traps as laying on the ground so maybe he was trying to get that magazine and and loaded into his weapon he had had run out all
isaian and lancarote guys the and like you said i mean just somebody had to turn the momentum he at otherwise they were goin to get over when and he knew that he knew that if not
mediouna he knew what he had to do i know that um posed lost they had i got it let her from cubick shortly afterwards and he said you know where using travises words to go on
because he they had lost some guys in he had pulled the team and it had look we got it they'd want a tionet to keep working together turn a tide and so he used that session that
travers had with the team and said look you know what traps with thing you know we gotta do we got to keep platino not they did father john and no to travis feet and said a prayer
as medical staff tried fever sleep to revive him only the marine could show the doctors some sign any sign of life so after that as ition in charge announced a time a death
further next minute the only sound heard in the operating room came from the hallway outside as doctors and nurses watched in silence father john standing above the falling us
marine broke the silence god the father of mercies through the death and resurrection of your son you have reconciled the world to yourself in saint the holy spirit among us for
the frigidest of sins he said looking down at travis through the ministry of the church and god great you pardoned and peace and i absolve you of your sins in the name of the
father canoes and of the holy spirit one by one marine filed past her fallen brother colpetzer officer a desperately administered spar in the home was the first to walk by moran
was next and wilson marquette had brighter when patty looked at the fallen first ritenne face he saw an officer who had given everything to the marine corn when alexander
approached the operating table with tears streaming down his face he put his hand on his friend's head he had no how the mission could carry on without him came approached the
table with weak knees in a broken heart he paused to take one last look at his friend who had saved his life by volunteering to go on a patrol i knew would be far more dangerous
than a school supplied drop pausing for a moment came pondered the story that was already spreading throughout the hospital complex without thinking to wise travestita squarely
into enemy cross hairs to direct gunfire away from his patron on able twenty ninth two thousand seven a line of the iraq war were struck down by a single bullet cutthroats a
ordecai masinderan being that couldn't be controlled though the fallen marie loved ones would undoubtedly suffer every one else on the peteline petrol was still alive indeed by
fearlessly protecting its marine and the iraqi serving beside them personated travers men and had done his part yes so clearly and in writings his sorta as a father obviously
really tough to throughother and and you have talked to the guide to erith him an en relived that up at the other side of it is it's a little healing disaster enow exactly what
was going on and what the guys there were there with him he fell about his actions that day and so um you know i went through a struggle times i realized it dum you know unless we
we tell these stories rise countries not going to know what these guys are doing to get a make sure that we get the word out there and there was a big part of it is the sitting
down and talking through that day big part of a de struggle for me in putting this book together in and and you just i mean if i ittai would say the miracle that every one else
lived but actually just travestita every one lived in a situation like that surrounded by enemy a sniper multiple but enemy positions firing on eve got nine guys and two hunts
that is not a good situation to be in and it's going to take a miracle be get out of it and the fact that he's the only guide it was killed this incredible and its clearly you
know do to his actions clearly a man again you have yet the enemy is elevated positions to nettie did on the roof tops and ye so ye i mean it's important he obviously to tell the
story of people to know the sacrifice and i mean a lot of a lot of people listen to this that are active duty in the military and that sort of aggressiveness on the battle field
when things are going bad is going to keep people alive and obviously you got to be a courageous courageous human being to do that but the alternative you know in this case would
have been incredible marble i got it on several tegus for there whether i was the dock when i went to see him at the estate about the impact of what travested or lieutenant was
there and he sent me a message and chides no doubt my mind that travers saved my life in the life of the entire patrol that day so i mean the guys that were there were with them
they know what i income was a longer after this did you start right in this book while about five years afterwards starting at down the writing it and i you know there's a story
behind that too right i mean i am the last time i talked to travis was a week before we lost them and it was an unusual call because no man was with my wife and this time i wasn't
as boultby myself and he i guess he felt a little bit more open a share with me what was going on and he was he could sense the there was a lot happening and he had a message for
me kept sharing that he said dade seemed credible what i'm seeing over here it's incredible what these young marines are doing what i'm seeing every day their fighting in the
streets they're putting it on a line i don't think the rest of the country knows what's going on he knew that cause you go back to camp flustern on the v and see we're watching
back here and then beyond petroleuse of see the incredible things that were going on and was a huge disconnect friend and he he got cut off several times in that phone call and he
kept came back and each start all over again that he will you you really he really got to get the message back to people it's incredible what's happening here now the american
people don't know the incredible things he's guare doing had so i got cut off them the last time he and i always signed off to tell me much the love them and it was the first time
that i missed them at figured ocatillo hear from next weekend an we got to knock on the door then next week end that we lost traverseroit mar your only son so proud of him that
figured okay most natural thing for us is the rolled down the shade locked the doors and just tell every one to go away and it was because that last conversation i had with him we
knew that was going to be media and sure enough there with her was not pull my wife and daughter together i said you know what when they call us we're going to talk and really
this book is about talk about sharing the stories i've been on that mission since the last time i talked to traps he gave me that mission to do this and so i was pretty certain
early on that was going to do something and isly i thought okay i heard about traps in his marines and in foshono they turned the time so maybe that that would be the story we
could talk about how these brave marines and work together with iraqis to make that happen and then we lost brendain on i realize you know maybe it's not that story maybe it's the
bigger story of our navy seals and our marines and every one that that's putting on the uniform and the sacrifices their maken and so am that's why it sort took me a little while
i mean we had with lost trapstones ven well as brandon and twenty tame and i had just come back from from doing some of the stuff over and iraq started to think well maybe it's a
different story and ah when you do a really you know but amazing job in the book of talking about the how you how your family how you've you and your family you know doubt wiped a
loss and but is there any thing that you find i mean did you find it to be sort of fair apeticidos look we have a new mission our missest word out and tell this story in
varnishing it and and let other people know what's going on i think it was it definitely helped you know to know that we could do something with his loss you know get out there
and if we could do something to to bridge the gap between the country and our military and her gusseman women servant in uniform he now certainly gave it something to get up every
morning and and have a reason and now we start thinking about his message you know barter that if not methane masses it goes back at last conversation i with him because we
started telling his stories my son in law shared that story with the newspaper and all of a sudden that if not meanin who is sort of caught on and people start to say you know
what i like that was five simple but really really powerful words and that's what we use now as our soltali for our foundation if not meadowy in through the outer you you went
through your loss of travis and did you get closer with with brenda that or did it maintain or a got a lot close with friedemann absolutely a brand was in salting when we lost
tribes one still remember that call with with my wife ah but yet he would come and visit us and and ah still remember when he came back and he came right up dar place and mostly
people felt on comfortable come in he to visit the parents by themselves to they'd come in groups but when brenda called up surely after he got back and i said okay well you come
on up with brandeis i'm coming by myself and we spent the night doing shots patron had our bar and talking about stories of tea and travis and her friendship and well was it
another thing was traversaro brandon had just started buds ye and you know he was saying hamando home for the funeral and and you and your wife said no you do what you gotta
you've got to git through the training you know you can come later year which is well we we knew he was to sort of struggle with a loss in a big big way and any one at to to be
there and you know he is sharing that with my wife real strong and ah you know he knew what traps want him to do is the carry on and and so he did that you know and he he he sure
did that and in a big way out there and san diego yet brandered trusted by and you don't fail at around bately you don't have orosman crushing but lightly ah they wanted the
things one of coats at they piloted her that he applied during buds was one of bantering favorite quotes was won he rarely spoke out loud but always kept in the back of his mind
be strong be accountable never complaint yeh that's supranational tely in that attitude going in he ended up being the honor man of his but class into the honor man is the guide
that's basically the best performer in everything and again you're going to but you've got some competitive high level aletes in there then be the onomancy got to be a bit of a
bad as there for some of the guys who were there with him share with me that it it wasn't even close feeling you know i mean like he was blown everything away so he was he was
possessed as they look they share would make it a that's out like that's old like he was definitely getting after a and and and you know it i won't even say i imagine i actually
know for a fact that losanti must have felled his fire beyond any one could be probably had her right there was no comparison to compete with that you know why he knew he had a
job to do and so much so that when um when he got done and graduated in and my wife chanaan i were at the wedding with amy and brandon on that he called janet over and gave janet
his navy shiltren and yojis did it privately it was the way brandanes gave it to her it said you an couldn't gotten this without traversing there with me every step that a way and
i want you to have this and i was at the other end of the the room he and i stole remember johnny coming up with tears in her eyes and sharing the story with me i was just sort of
the type of gudbrand and was now as i be as another thing that they that in the book a talk about us he got the honor man pack it in like ye like meal to topers and his attitude
as he this is all me you know this is on you thanks for support over the years and then given the trionto to wife gentiment a humble humble guy half that always gave credit
everyone else and and you wife gave him the black bracelet that had first lieutenant travis man on yuscaran hero leader killed iraq iraqi freedom twenty nine april of bosavern it
in then it is said to be hard for you could nor your depecher with brandon on the wit were bred and gomposed brandon and he tells you guys and his wedding so you're there
celebrating the wedding and all of a sudden he says a something tell you go oran and forty eight hours yet was it by the way coming a flue that he tell you that he's going to
flosi the he told a square his headed um you hard to believe you know he's there so brain such a great day and then to find out that his hindoos and flush the i think than you
know you hear about we hear so much about our guiding uniform and what they are doing but just sort of think about this those types of sacrifice as you know we don't hear enough
of that stuff in a what the families are going through and missing those special times you know it's a is it big big in back all the way around while i was trying to remind people
that the the heroes that we talk about their heroes and their people to after people like everyone else with wives and families and in that they miss their their home they missed
their family they want to be at the dance recital and the basket ball game and the wrestling match they are not just these you know foreign objects that distuning be fight men are
people and i early trying to mind remind every one of that and this is a class example here is mary in his sweet ardeneth naval academy no spending time with you spend in time
with his family and these leave for iraq forty eight hours later honeymoon velusia yeah big big sacrifice for these guys and he does that deployment to falua in um kind of boilers
of here's a letter that he wrote home on that miss manion i was great see you guys at the wedding i'm glad you guys were able to make it a man while to both mean amy to see you
both there i'll do no caver here since since arriving i've been tasted rieving all the evil at a valuation in the wards for the command as well as work in the attack operation
center i'm sure you've heard about the decreased violence out here and prevent a iraqi control taking place in outamaro see how much different it is over here since last time is a
true testament to the work that every one over here is done i've not had the opportunity to get out to combat out post menon on the trip out west to alawee myself and rob sarver
another you you as navigate y oh for guy who new trades were waiting for a helots up we struck up a conversation with a young land corporal this young breen was a mittenmeyer and
it mentioned that he just come from companion when we heard that i let him know that travers was a good friend of mine in a college and a roommate during college he said that he
did not know him but he toher great things about travis he also said that there was a room at the cop dedicated to him with pictures i was thought you would like that stories once
travis's ll influencing the men and women over here love brendon he eventually made it out there rob shared with me but oh he made it go so to noumenon that was commanding in
flute or is it no not on it was north a coma oka if you ever been through corn i didn't go through carats um comes when i was over there the few me at the camp lusitanica is not
too far away from camp ousia and little little north of game so the aranian said the one the name he opposed after travers which as you know again for the recognition of what he
put on the line for them ter awsome it so but you could see for from that note that what brandon was facing in the infoliate even over what but a bit of a six month period or or
something may be longer than that but it was completely mellow compared to what travers was in turn you know we were disaway head at that time ye it's it changed dramatically at
that point for sure it is a brendon had a fair leaf mellow deployment comes home and then goes back on the pointment you know again like you just said new wife you just went on
the pointment doesn't matter where singeing that's the way it works two three four to payments you the off yes sir now we're talking he goes back this time it goes to afghanistan
it'll you know just a little bit about about brandon's leadership with a tall band launching its annual spring offensive brendon and his platoon started to see more action in may
just as he had predicted his email to tom and janet surrounded by jagged cliffs extreme po property and acute desolation which many of the younger seals had never experienced it
was brandon's responsibility keep them optimistic focus and sharp considering that the seals were sleeping on a fog in the middle of nowhere thousands of miles away from home
setting a pose of tone was never to easy task rather than barking out orders to the seals under his command brendon was loomed og then left the seals as they were at the loved
working for the twenty nine year old leutenant because even though breaden was now sir he still thought of himself as one of the boys so he knew you see a verisimilar type of
attitude yet his gusheth to talk to them then you know everybody loved burnin amuses a great great leader ye the yeno doubt like i said the biggest thing i remember about him you
know was no matter what i was saying to him no not an attitude but just like a positive attitude i'll say that ye he's getting towards the end of that deployment liked right
towards the end of that deployment and goes back and forth emails were they on monday amaban exchanged emails six months that amy dreaded were coming to a close and finally they
will be living together again as husband and wife renderable contain himself during his last reply before his last mission can't wait to get home and going along over deviation
with you i call you when i get back from my one love you missie me so they were all out on this operation brandanes mon is a port of operation sea serpent and on going joint anti
terrial was to watch over the village of atala in the mountains and south eastern afghanistan province of zamel as on other tacked go over watch missions on this one brendan and
his team would serve as guardian angels much like when travis held the roof during after a carinata in volusia no matter what transpired to the darkness below brandon in his seals
a quip with nivison equipment would be watching quite in focussed tenant brendon loony flew above the skies of afghanistan on the fifty ninth companion of his force overseas to
ployment as bright moonlight shined into the chopper through the wars own soaring mountains the words spartan health leader reflected from the bracelet brandon always war on his
right wrist moments from landing on top of the mountain the seals and soldiers aboard the chopper on hoped their safety belts and prepared to dismount suddenly a terrible piercing
sound stone every one aboard the helicopter which rapidly tumbled down a jagged steep cliff before pointing into the darkness the frantic moments then sued were horrowing dreadful
and tragic so that friend in d'think of that it is fifty ninth combat mission annie two weeks from coming home and the new group comes in and close the one guide that says you
know what i'll go with the new guys in and show more out of ben it went here the whole time i don't want them going out there without any one and it's pradeline in all and he he
jumps in and in a helicopter went down and only one survived exoritur over operation as what we call it that's when you you're taking the the new guys as you said at the
deuseldorf taking them out you know you're just yea one guy the tauredon this before we'll just do a turnover make sure you guys no astapping and give it a vice we can and like
you said you're you're ready to go home ye and somebody's got to step up and do that and and like you said who's going to do it well brandon's going to do it yet and you know
after after brandon was killed and you guys you know amy had had said she wanted brendon buried next to travis yet you know you have yes you wonder why things happened the way
they do but we never had that talk with travis like what happens if you don't come back and when we lost them my wife and i were like well we should have him near us here at home
so we bird him close by us and outside of philadelphia penn surely after that we heard from some family in france that had they had a serious conversation with traps and he city
wanted to be in originating happen to so i called down armantine said die ya we can we reinterred we can do that just let us know of fear want that to happen and will make it
happen so um we never got travested never had to headstone had a wooden cross there and we kept talking about it you know when it's almost three years later and my wife was the
one that was most reluctant because she was visiting travis every day and she descried come to grips with making a decision and then we get the call the first person that that
benoni called with my wife china when she got the news and we were just devastated and we got down there and aecae into town she said you know i want i want brandon next to traits
and only to now she knew she was a travoises knew travels wasn't it an edomachi forgotten and the shock and i know how they'd goes you're just in total shock and um at that point
i could just see it in my my wife's eyes she said this is it is now we need to do that she was ready to do it and they move mountains to make it happen i mean they the partner the
army and ornate moved help us move trapdoor two weeks and am and then we laid a benenato monday were with the risley said let's do this the same day and it's like well now i is to
sit bretana with us like a quiet ceremony so we did it the friday before and this quiet ceremony we had em we had all the marines from um for manetho down at where the officer
school was there a hole named after travers they all showed up and of course the lunette about our service members but the strength of the families there were they insisted with
all they were going through that they were going to be over there and there were there with us so we lay traison on that friday and then renine following monday and secretary gate
was there and all is maybe seals were there to pay him respect and they put their trinitatis you know is coffinieres time obviously an i just like a sucsaded close out the book
here with the words that you spoke on the day that you in turn travis arlington i want to think the lode family for their presence here to day i hearts go out to you as you deal
with this incredible loss brendon represents the best this country has to offer we mourn him now and we will for ever the passing of this american hero there are so many mixed
emotions for us as we move travis to this place of honour brendon's loss fills all our waking hours yet were moving travis to be next to his great friend and together with all
their warrior brothers and sisters who paid their full measure defending freedom this solemn place leaves us with a sadness for the sacrifices but also extremely proud of these
brave americans who so unselfishly and courageously stepped forward to confront the evil that faces our world we the families of these defenders of freedom can't begin to describe
the void the fills our hearts but we can tell you how much our sons and daughters loved this country and all that it stands for we are now therefore so travis as we lay you here
to day beside your brother brendon and with all your fellow patriots we will always remember the self was service and sacrifice and we will continue to rally in your honour with
the call if not me then who to make a difference for others and to always step forward to do what's right no matter what the cost god bless you my son and rest in peace with your
warrior brothers and sisters first pretendant travis manion younited states marine corps returned brandon moody united states navy warriors for freedom brothers forever yes so you
when you think about section sixty and all the lost there and you know symbolically there bentonite great friends and they are sad by side an army tentative there you don't went
on out talking to people i say you know you don't if you haven't taken your family that anisim putting on the list were indeed seer or make a special trip to des to go see
arlington and and teach her family about that sacrifice it make sure you go to section sixty where all those hearers of to day have i reckon afghanistan are is always something
that's dishappoint sixty and after that that a september when we move travisia followin a falling spring the navy seals found and killed those amabuna en and then a couple of
weeks later the president spoke about travels in brandon as an example for the country in arlington and his memorial dedes we were down there with the onistah but again there
their story is a story that could be anybody story there so many in uniform that do so much and for me writing his book is is telling their story but making sure it part of that
bigger story in the people appreciate or men went aiutarmi all they are and with the stand for both rugheaded in story anand travestie doing good right now with his name and you
know you guys started the travis manon foundation tells little bit about that well you know is a charterer an we want to make sure we made an impact him and we got the word out
and imparted that was my wife's said you know i'm goin start a foundation and on one it to be there for a veteran make sure i'm support in the families of the fallen and the last
part of it was was making sure that we do something to support that next generation all leaders so she started a character program character does matter where we get veterans in
front of young kids and talk about character and service and integrity and leadership and you know my wife started that we we had good friends that were there we lost trapasso
know what you got it set up a memorial fun and little flowers and we did that and before we knew it when we turned around and looked at the bank account we had money coming in
from all over the country and we had two hundred thousand dollars my wife had two hundred thousand dollars and she had those five words from travis if not made then he and she got
going with that but those two things and she came in every day first started right nor kitchen and started work in it and now she worked it too when we lost her most janet five
years almost five years to the day of the travis with lost to my wife the cancer and i guess she got no you take about that that sacrifice the impact on the families and i
remember doing some research after we found out she had cancer and said as she had to significant stressful vent the less fortyfive years yet you know she lost her son i think
about that an then you think about brandon's man who recently died a cancer or gap black miss mam i died a cancer you know said the impact is significant across the board for our
families in and our ore gissings in uniform so we got going on night and in my daughter's picked it up since and she is doing a great job with the cheswardine a lot a lot of great
young people hameline's another one of leaders of the foundation and she had up operations in washington d c we've got an office here in san diego i have got one we just open up
no lanta where outside of philadelphia washington forgiven up an office in chicago and we've gotten off ticinius texas it were working with our veterans and in helping him through
transition work with the families and he as before is this was this somewhat telling the story of little bit therapeutic and you know doing this foundation and and pushing that
forward was that therapeutic and myler believe it is you know and we believe he only has a grieving period but we know that travis would not want us to keep grieving i want us to
say a let's go you know pick it up and get out there and and do something and make a difference and so we we do that you know that's a we do every den we get some of the families
chance do that too we get fondleton and go on expeditions and help those that are in need built houses and its really great for them you know it's great to see them out there
doing something in honor the lost one love one and make it an impact for others what's the best way for people to support where can they find out information about the travisan
foundation and in going our website travis menindie work oregon a lot of information there were around the country doing different things we've got offices in some locations but
we've got activities almost everywhere and um for us it's about joining the if not metito movement you know make any difference where you can and he can do that a lie different
ways also um echo speaking of supporting things sir if someone wanted to support betsy frinstance this pot cast i would they do that well few lest oily lifetime this one a whole
long spell but you know we start with on it that the good way that's a good way to sport yourself to bed away which i think we already know but on it these are supplements this
other other stuff to work up stuff and what not but ah are good on it or comes last jacko's ten per cent off garden to wear was asking me oh what i think you was asking both of us
what are like some supplements to gain muscle lossett purpose the ypsilanti answer them it it wasn't a supplement you know here he was like one of the best of her and that's what
i thought too it it's not the supplement for it it's like you got to git on the correct work up i do that some woman's help though and it's going to take certain sometimes for
whatever results so anyway transfer that question get on a muscle building fat red loss or co met con and i hate to say it like a body building routine you of sanguinosa a
wallingford e like high hatteras the leaderdemain realities tom not iaetus pliments will help and like well we say the ciliege on the croil re it cause good a yeah an a so long
time as a man father in law he he will always tell my wife no grilli's did for your joint will maintain your and meanwhile i crilloire bouder tight ration actually never really
was into supplements without so why would i need to cry i i'm looking for for getanittowit to my onawares ct on the grill oil you know it is obviously my father lost all that i
mean so i get it but you know you don't have to indirectly tell me about it man i wish i just would listen to him me and all i keeps you in the game way longer we better anyway
get on the crivice yeah station to ye ye at all can you not really i said to it ye get on that part of the pond on it yet on that on it an it do consist sacklet ten per cent off
of anything you get on there the same good stuff on there by the way you can get addicted to the website itself consolante resting in informative if you like em interesting and
informative i didn't see linerdon did it very much aged a no comeaway tinged stuff on there i also am an lictor wal that does it in before you dear i'm unhoping goats to the
website opatas out come quick on the amalekite few of em there on the front page and find him quick on their before you do shopping do you shopping as normal whether you're
getting the book any book or anything else totther clicked though that linkin it supports his pieces little bit um also subscribed i tunes go place ditcher all these potestatem em
that the good way to support leverage if you in the moon right i say from different yeah approved propagative oh also on you too we are putting exorciting now on a regular basis
right would you ride give you a a out of ten if three point to it see that's better in zeroeem subscribed to you so you will get some exert along with the vio version of this pot
cass if you're into looking at what charles like what tom looks like or what i look like it at your watch at one too there are out of controversy with you first pronto because
echoed dozen look like what he sounds like apparently he sounds like a hypocistid year old anesthetist all on think ye ye something more long ah okay so little did they know that
i may have in folly so here then they figured i o twenty year old head that ye know the day but yet you know if you're just in that kind of stuff all but the extras really are
helpful cause you can share em in people we actually watch him like them my brother sends me this actually in when i also about to say this like maybe two three times ago when i
ended up for whatever he's enough jasam a vobla hey watch in this and that i'll be like for i'm not going to watch this video right now it's like five ten minutes long um exults
like nine minutes something too much for your too much for me and he and the thing is nimishas not that long but the point still stands you can't descend somebody episode seventy
two of this pocasset's almost three hours long he watched this requited the ring sinacure exactly right so she a it you know it especially if it's just out one little chanting her
aspirates more high lit himself a after aaaaaaaaaa with another amazing for in an age so even you know so yet not all that's on you to by an put em in a little play lest too so
you love some people are like ali this point and then i leave you to the next point and you nancoke economy ellet's school i think i go you know also jocasta store is called
jocatore jocko stored out come and look for it fortis wet side really its website with a store and i put those wall papers back on there i re your nondoing is i didn't technically
an take em off is only switch platforms they just failed to translate series the platforms fault not yours lionnette dishonest on the one and you know i blame tack from the go way
see him or there diet all were in a canoe that's all there i do of start dot come hiking in the jucatan there through there oh if you like to shirts those run there disciplinaque
freedom the reason i think that that's a good shirt my pen it is cause of course the layers i get it but it is one of those simple little things like it's not and is not like to
extreme either it's not like echo when he designed the shirt echeandia a flying tank with dragon fire coming out of its mouth sea and a soft and a sculler little let witnessed all
over the whole faaraasee as he lay all you much but as he is so original like is as the saying like all at your deeds for break is if you mess with me in those tantantara sayings
that will only hit may be like one out of a hundred times you know man so one reads it if not that one incapable supernatant on any of them laceration' beout it is for it it's
it's prelacy better term understated yet powerful the tinpinnies other shirt on there um you know very as a messages and with those messages come layers and what that means is you
can look at him be like okay that's a cool shirt but there's more to it so if you listen to this picentini jack you'll be like all i get it i mean ye o catilina just on the wet on
the surface there's another larideau oratorising you know i'm sure askatoon rather going to come out in lesson when we also good way to support this pieces very good way to
support yourself in your journey jurney doer to people still you toward jerrard and co on the i never felt comfortable using the word journey then you weren't going anywhere
ramiloiarivony but you know it's one of those things that you can hear people saying it kind o sounds epic but then when you say it it sounds real stupid i felt like the war
during filikina if you're on your journey to what get up early be more discipline get a better diet discit your health together get your whole thing together this is what will
help you there gives on this journey it's not going to be you're not going to be heating every day like killing every day going to have some day is going to be harder than others
so if you have trouble for example waking up early one day is what you going to be you going to search psychological warfare jocelin on it too or amazonic cast to us albeit tracks
and you put on your phone whatever you listen to the track that's going to help you get out of bed dolan's called wake up was the cold weenter after watering overboom so instead
of the the instead of the heating the nose you hit or put as yerrington clear with your wife or where we sleep with but put his errington's voice he tell you why you should wake
up and get after it and you that's conventionis disseminate who is there was like one revealer i don't know this one hundred per cent success ray there's one guy because i there's
actually three checks to wake up the first one wake up the second seclooded you just do you didn't get out of bed there's a one guy get out of a lot of evil that has has made it
to the second track every one else first track were death yea toronto can't not get up and again that's a rare case you know that guy he probably had a really hard night the night
before looking into or looking forward to really really hard day and that's why he was considering training wheels right yes now in all that a spasso like all your wife i like
spot ye it's very yet trailing like without it you know do you know this just for you know something to get that man on the anesthesia big goal i got now on a wake up for one year
maiserie something like this this likeing goal with a bench all imanga it i'll probably get it but in the small case that litsy i'm not strong enough to day and in a sleep
whatever i got a spot there boom ta then i'll get it fantine samian ware there it is i googoorewon this goes for four waken up early skipping worked out that's a big one it might
be inceptor out but that's just it my experience she asked me i'm tired of the day a what was it what what do you say to yourself when you get tired and you want to quit you don't
want to do anything any more and as said i don't say anything to myself i just keep doing it next question eh see what that is that that man you will say if you're an auto you're
like one of those village we on a feel like not doing this i yuliwana quit me just consist of quick automatically known to maionnaise her tirandel i'll take in trust chinizelli so
ye have only as a good as a god to work were far jackwell in it's good for waking up early if you have a day that you don't want hotpoint slip on your diet let's face it we come
home for hungary nothing in the house except for some donuts oh snap the shans are eating in the donuts and go up a little bit let's to face it actually a life on what do you do
there exactly right the first alaudae don is your house when if you do in the event of you having done as yet listen to psychologico sugar coated lies that's the name necktie and
and the psychological warfare album numbered two is being slowly prepared at this point is bitten blustered asking me for specific tracks little areas of weakness and life i e
also jackaway t you can get on it amazon dot com after you click through if you don't want to dead left in excess of a thousand pounds don't get it get a different kind of tea if
you want a dead lift eight thousand pounds guaranteed get joolius i would i want it does it cause tagaro yet they onterstan i gotta get some of that soberer and was i give you so
tolerated or what no no not yet the year i do have to give your heads up there is we haven't done it yet but we have to put some kind of a fertile tearing on his leniently several
drinkers have impregnated their wife had hashery after drinking janaway he can some unplanned just got to be careful is that what is discipline you go from on the other side or a
sorehead and gethin at that you know what i mean you got to ye as thinketh if he is with with you with your loved one ah wathery kid yes on its available now now onso order it
amazons gonnas preciating it in in day or two so get ahead of the rush get it while you can because otherwise it you're not going to get it and all the other kids are you be
destroying your dreams with their stray and power that they also pre order disponibles freedom feel manual tetons out in october of course extreme aldershot it i get that one of
your one of leavin you can get a copy that for you and your team also while you're on amazon you can get this book right here that we reviewed to day brothers for ever it's read
it get it read it you know written by britton l here and again we went over fraction of it to day there's so many lessons learned in it take it up if you need leadership training
beyond books you can come in tact as landfront wear ship an man's fiesolans applying combat leadership principles to business and life email in folk at acol and front dot com also
the master coming up round the corner mary ogrin marquis new york city may fourth and triflers strategy tactics and when good to extreme oneship dot com in sign of for that day
alison of finer having in texas by the way did you get that available now where in texas austin texas smart and spied on edicate over there yonder cabmes there we will be having
little sessions a session at least there it's been discussed with the folks at on it very good were all so hang round on the interweb by the way on tower on in stage and on the
face bookcase i charles i i a jackwell and for the travis manion foundation on face book and in strigam you can search trasmene travels menion foundation on twitter is at h m
foundation at t m foundation if you want to check out the travenions and on the inner web itself its travisan dot war echo you got intinesse had his one eighty four men nay to
what do you walk around it lentulus gafarel felt late blandishing a lot of wind every his pride at two ten two faithites weep is a house right barakata big guys at one eighty four
college restorer sure forsake all i bottle injuries yea tough tough tanganees like the most umanda ic but the most like the genet heavy weights huge power but they start to slow
down light weights their flinton super technical but they don't have that eteretat than the one eighties fours the middle was so tough there to lie to ye they got on yeah they got
both battles some gloomiest thank you sir you echo do you have any of any any cold inclosing comments yet why just um i want to thank you guy thanks chaco and a go for em here and
give me the opportunity to talk about the story a little bit in thanks for what you guys do to to talk about leadership and the lessons that you've learned jackian the navy shells
and shareth with others and bringing new insights about our men and women in uniform i mean you hear so much these days about the troubles that our service members have in a word
ter miss hallam the rovigo they've got pitt but you know we will be also should be talking about is what an inspiration they are the guys had put on the uniform the men women or
put on the uniform aren't inspiration for this country and and thanks for what you're doing i get the word out there if thanks for give me the opportunity to talk about this book
but but more broadly that the story of our many women in uniform and how they live every day with that if not men in whom otto thanks absolute honor sir and you know sir one more
thing before we closed out i i know you you you you are talkin about a letter that you had that kind of talked about some of the leadership prints that do we really letter in the
military and really make military beaters excel and it's a letter that you got from one of them rings that that work for your son degoiser entertain that i'd know her i am coming
out to talk to you and had the book published work a couple years now but i just i just got this letter ah true coach shared you you talked about coach harden and now this this
marine was with my son serve with my son poked up with coat short at one of the resting events and side you know colonel man you give him this letter and am he here he is checking
in ah after ten years and he says a thing he liked to share with me cup things things that are not well known by people other than those in my myself that serve would travis in
falusaine es with things an able to hold on to but if in wanting to share with his families well i apologize for such a long silence it seems to be the best opportunity for me to
share them with you by passing along this letter annie he actually passed along the bracelet he had travis name on a bracelet worn for the past ten years especially as he says
with a ten year anniversary coming up a talked about he had the back story is from columbus ohio he joined limacon the men travis in the rest of rangaar two thousand and seven as
they wrote tated into work with the ragamuffins at the time i had my two year mark in the car but had not yet have an opportunity work with a true leader with so many with so
humoring assiento the mitten travises mighten later trousers a true leader and some one that was easy for me to look up to and respect he had the perfect balance of caring for his
marines without baby in them this saplin without being too arch being laid back were not involved in missions while standing will still leaning from the front and once i got time
to get to work done and we talked about that as i progress through my military career travis was a leader that strive to be your son said the example of how leader should be read
the book and enjoyed learning more about him as a man not just to marine i also enjoyed caneton brandon and there incredibly where friendship it made it easy for me to connect
halliway's a person back home and how he was raised so he said it wanted the shirt to story so i had the high lights of this but first story he found conyers in tucked by travis
having a sense more so here you go it february ah there are out petrol turn out to be uneventful for the most part until they started returned to the outpost as they were turned
they were returning and idea it was in his sheetes initiated in ambush started thankfully the idea i d did not that it d'artois it was attached to but the one but only the
blasting cap and knows of the shell blew the injured to soldier and am another race soldier was shot while rushing to the eight both were non life threatening once the ambush
start i began rattery radio and back to request cafour although travelers not on the retro he managed the fine a way to get on the cupola as a short bush subsided to cure showed
up traverses presence come any nerves that i had the entered arachnoean taken back to receive treatment with a remember most about the situation was the travels about travers the
brings a smile on my face i was standing on the north side of the road and chases on the south i remembered he began to cross the road and a jog just as in araceli let out a burst
asako east to stop a vile all from approaching as soon as the burst went off travelish trip to cross the road doing a bower roll and coming back to his feet with his home a pushed
back on his head as soon as he reached me on the north side the road he said is everybody okay over here i replied yes sir every one is okay are you okay sir to which he responded
he but somebody should get that pot hole fix in a near death experience for at his pot a laughter as my leader had just start and started by an ragiam one shot causing the fog
baronial of arrastres salivated a humor rather laugh at yourself in in the other story shared his is is vot disguised birthday my second story traps is more sentimental but my
birthdays able third impuni twenty one that night we all slate where late for over night observation searching for possibly des but have been pulled from the mission to remain
behind i thought nothing of it went to bed on the second read it to be on the cut turf in case anything were to happen amittit it was woken up and told i need to go to the sea see
because they were requesting me over the radio i shook the cobwebs from my head and walked at coster calling to the patrol on the radio i was greeted with travis travers's voice
in a whisper simply to wish me a happy birthday throughout the manasaputra in stand wake all my and search it for its it kept me and mine and as soon as the day transition from
the second to the third he called over the rate grate which my happy birthday a week later i left my rack the mid team and travis i will never forget that i ever forget him yet so
he just received this the other day and he has still her from guise that he served with and just little things that you'll care and about your people in a good sense he humor
leadership trace that we and all us ordered a crazy hell be beans made this big their come you hear mawoori far as good leaders you know like all the good leads they have these
themes that that economy like you he got to be strict but you can't be like a slave driver you know it's that balance act and i guess it's that's why there's distaffe leaders
because it's so hard to do you know it's like some some people think or just going to do a man extreme guy you know omberto extreme but not like that there even a guy where their
extreme personalities like travis who can push himself that hard to be a national level wrestler understands leadership to a point where he knows what it means to call back to
base a while you're out on patrol and wish a happy birthday to one of your men he asked the southsea to put it to a coat said he to balance neck in an werfer every one is sort of
figure it out you know not one one situation for every one you know well sir banks again for for a coming on the show in the sharing this story thank you for your service in the
marine corn of course thank you for raising such an incredible man and marine and hero mason and once again we see another another tale another legend of bravery and of sacrifice
from these two arrowic leaders by still on a mind every one as always that these are not a magined legends or myth the esential stories that were made up to reinforce some ancient
parable these are the lives of men weemen who stepped up and stepped forward and gave everything for us and in that sacrifice we see the unmeasurable suffering of the families
roughit pain and yet filled with pride to have known and to have obdurate light and the love that these men emanated in life a light that will not fade and will not grow old like
the flesh a light that will guide us all down the righteous path toward the good regardless of cost for them we hold our heads ere and you are best to make the world a better
place by day did we will do our utmost to emulate brindeley we will be strong we will be accountable we will not complain and in the most trying of times we will ask our sales a
simple question same one the travisan asked when he faced the darkness of the world if not me then who from time next time this is colonel thomas manaia and jocko how
