this is jacopo cast number seventy three with a goethals and me jack aillik giddying echo gideon it has been quite a few episodes since we its cue you answered some questions from
the interest we had serges had a couple of books and just kind of sled a little bit on hues cut ye let's rock let's quest number one christendom cousin one jack do you have to
make a conscious effort not to over react to situations or is it natural flash in grain now i would say at this point it it fairly ingrained and i don't overaction in fact some of
i just don't react to stastistics are going and i'll just be sort of okay yet now the head you know listen to what's happening listened to the people freaking out and i don't yet
i don't know very actual lot of stuff that i think it's pretty great right now and i i would say that in order to get there you know and are to chin move in that direction because
that is the best way to be again i'm not sing to be robot i not say you have no emotion and you should never never show any and i'm not saying that but you shouldn't you have some
control over those most especially from a leadership or spector ratoneau your ralieuse tive so one of the things that you can do is when you when you would call starts to hit you
you know picture that so what is his look like from the outside do i look like from the outside when somebody says something you that's traumatic or is going to call a disturbance
or is going to cost problems he methinks is okay i wot am i goin to look like from the outside runaway am i look like to them if there recording this oh her head like the
recording this and wargentin down and watch it at when they first came out with in the sultans who was started started recording people as they entered rooms in as we did you
primarily close quarters combattero so you've got gus and tithones in her making very quick decisions and you start seeing what you look like a and it adiicere now that's why
that's one reason why you do it is something with you distorted the tape or or mama you watch the tape of what some one's doing if it fall they do that every sport right they
watch the tape see what you look like she what mistakes you made so when some one hit you as something that's disturbing or is going to cause problems picture that your being
recorded and you're going to have to watch the play by play later ye with your team and look at what how much you lost your temper how much you've got frazzled and what it is
after you were so i that's what i would picture or or as you should start to move in the direction of a macana get frazzled by problems i'm just going to listen i'm going to
recess i an to make decisions and forward he pretty yes pretty simple dangeau play when they say played life colloid tape you know land when informed in meeting they miss you know
big screen rejecter get acota little later point or a exactly fill went men when you mess up and everyone's looking what are you doing near they paused it and it shows you like
mad mass up you know man it fits like you they put you on the stage and just thrilled tomatoes at you what if you like there is a you better though e a great polly agree and in a
way i told you i used to do this where it had to do with more like getting mad like if i find myself getting marry know said singing over reaction pen where i'd really shame
myself kind like and not to barrassin you thought mad kind of thing so you would be on my mind the whole time where any time i felt myself giving made it be on my mind like all
look at me and being one of those guys for a oskastein but is in your own head kind of thing ye in it it really boys out o some o talk about time detachment ye beat that's what
i'm talking about being able to picture self what i looked like right now am i appearing to be a panic stricken loser therefore are come cool collected leader that's goin a step
up make a good decision cessation and move forward ye what's look like back it winter that and what about if your life what a butthat about if you're tired like you didn't get it
leslee for fear serious or in a hay i no factor novelette you know he theoterih people get irritable in a tired yet which i actually find amusing yeah a but that's a real thing is
a real voyou know you don't know you know that means you need if you if you're one of those people that's going to be in that mode you need to be aware of that and you need to
focus even more on not overreacting taconics your dartlike that's a good thlakalamah what is it baby to start crying yes and that's actually kind of the point there where you know
i i used to be one of the before and kids you know how when that the kid is acting up you know your friends kit is about and then you're like all on a bread a kid but the parent
of the kid is always like all his just tired or she's to satinlike you thought was alive why an't i was hetter do know your kit is a brat that's what you you kind o think you know
you get not time and grin always judging you no i've been mostly in ukthas off and after a while you first you when you have kids you start to realize i am and is a difference in
kid behaviour her and made must be fundamental consider one year or were talking about you know it's not like he learn to start crying when he tired i like when you're taking just
less facient he's even as an adult you're been tired and you're like waiting filandiere you tired and your waiting for something and it's not coming like his quick as you you
expected or what you're to mar here's a promotion which with waiting or being held up or when i isis how i realised as control freak a kind of is going to the airport he rerunning
late near port you can't control tsarina take and and of course if if i'm on time for my flight waiting in the teslin for five minutes is not a big deal at all if i'm late for my
flight five minutes isn't eternity nanepashemet and therese in their slow and it's all on me it's all make as i went the airport late so i give the airport early cause i don't
like to have the feeling of things i can't control so monado the best to mitigate it that's one of those situations and if you get all tired to the you get all angry and start
crying like a veteran get more sleep and or and or cause one of you don't have the choice you get less leave so put yourself in check and try and get controlled those emotions
instead of acting like a baby yea i put in in the order kidbrooke of the lines is marked these all bumped out in and the line was he started crying like a baby and and in the the
editors will like you know you might not want to say that you will caniba lashing about it lie ingratiations babyish and i said monacal you're kindlike a aminadab is cry and you
know when you are a ten year old kid you shouldn't be crying like a baby and it's him say about himself you know save they were a little sense about that one the one i got a deep
reformed the line remained a mark in his own words broke down sir cried like a baby there yet as cried like a baby technicly is not the same thing is just normal crying for stuff
there under a oestries why they say ringlike comedy really probably cause babies cry for literally everything right anything that they're not have about him be because either the
note talk so if you're crying like a baby you charier lilting or you will find dere you go but if you just crying over you know poitier even whatever the move is your letenant
different you know what i'm saying neminea that's the good thing thus be he your iterant west any advice for a second lieutenant one month into eyes and a couple of months from
standing in front of a peal tea putting peter there a marine fell for if you know what i almost did answer this one because i answered it all the time for every different person
that's going into wearisome answer one more time just to make sure in the make it brief room make a lick but if you're going into a new bearship asia whether you got to be in
charge of a marine corps pulton or an army potion or a seal potion or a division at a company or a sports to whatever you romanauth principals are the same right were going to be
humble to morn we're going to lessen were not going to act like we know everything come we don't cause well knew there is going to be a a a gunny sergeant in that burton that
actually does know all one of you don't anigosity acting like you do you're going to take gestion you're going to you're going to ask for advice or in a head being vice when it
comes your way now you're going to work harder than ready else that that goes out tangoor everybody they're going to respect that and then when a time comes to be decisive and
you've taken on board to the various impletor going to be decisive one you've been decisive that doesn't mean that you're going to hold on and burn in with that idea that decision
that you made you can change your mind sometimes that the one thing that always reach me out about politicians when a political would change their mind and i when sal that a flip
flop or they change their mind as if you know baringouin comes to light and your attitude kin kin evolve yearin ion can evolve that's not that's not a horrible thing to me now if
you have somebody that's flipped cropping there fundamental principles that can obviously and and if the reason for them doing that isn't for new information it's because they
want this person for me that as that group of people to overeat then that's obviously a different thing but for you to analyze your decision and then let it mature and change
that's not that big ordeal and i and and people get paranoid that that your troops won't respect that it i said we recoming for the west or ordering a change my mind cause i'll
look weak not now you actually look weak by maintaining a stupid opinion or maintaining course let the bad that course or bad decision so said don doatest be humble be ocasion you
have to be or when you when you need to be and then one or remember there's been all these other leaders throughout history thousands and thousands of years that have stepped up
and taking charge of stuffing nater it so you goin to make some stakes so everybody the people that are that you're working for made mistakes to that gunrest made mistakes you
know he wasn't perfect so you're going to make mistakes natantia deal make retake what do you do on it larnorm it moved forward so that's what you do with the new leadership
position and golovin the button commander potenciana clipsome ed that to you want to be and that's what you got goin get it see sim popian thanks for your service ye that's i
think that's one might pine is that the this question and i answered that you just give that i don't think that gets old because it's all hard on it and and no one feels
comfortable you actually let me refers that the people that feel comfortable oratoire there generally in the least ready and argante the worst performance because there there
there egos big and they believe that they're going to crush it this guy this second lieutenant he is humble he's aware his maloaman what can i do how can i be ready for this
that's that's perfect place to be at ye like a helped ye lay laystall that story a couple o times were when he was the executive officer of a seal temeraire team if he called out
and i was running training so his selta's going through training and he would call you know the pucuna of the troop commander and he saynorita up there and if he if they answered
where crushing it by it lay with say a tetaurosai he knew i knew you know he knew i was running training the one and any one was going to cross the training afriend so if there
answer wasn't you know hey the training is really hard and were doing our best were learning a lot those guys headache good to go and i'll go see him you know in a week or so if
they said they were crushing it he took out in camp he goes to morrow i then when they get out there he taitsong on it ay as margot i so the a that attitude of were crushing it is
generally an indicator of your probably not doing the best job i so stay humble tidiate of how they're gonna move forward to you know like their attitude worse i'm doing great ye
no as i then yoorgin great none amusieren weekend better red so the man you say i'm doing great you going backwards next ousion how long did it take you to get promoted to a blue
bell and how often were you training during that time so real simple question it took me i think about nine or ten months to get my bobeche and when i was at that time i ah i was
a yeason i was in the training department and i had a lot of opportunity to train now that time clinton years not a lot of money too to train that in his element so less trips
shorter trips last travel so we were to stand round a little bit more no war going on on tamamono we were we are whole a little bit more and such anata i toutou at lunch i would
sit over to favorites and train the lunch time classed and had it back and do work and then we get down and go back and i would do the beginner cost and then i would do the
advanced class and an i would roll dean and he and james neilson and cragged and the rest of the guys that were there at fabio's at the time and we and foused to kick dean and i
off the mat and like man oclock at night ye tak it to long and he'd say why don't you grab can a life why do you do it we said is training the juditha we got a life it's right
here in the nessis if it did and so is mostly at fails like you know you said you'd like train with your you know your guise the trained or whatever was there that going on he
yeah anybody that wanted a roll of me i got the same policy that i have right now you want to roll yet but wrong i will i have my dear it's in my bag right now if you want to
train will treat you know thursday afternoon and it's two o'clock and we don't have any work to do and you are turned to we'll try it so the alas do not all the time and i the
thing is once i got blue bolt eause i think i got blot pretty pretty quickly and but i was a lueur a long time because because i right as i was probably getting close to getting
my purple but i left i reft california and i went to ragniec once got to virginia beach stepped into a new dog joe with a gustavian sure and you start a train with a stare and an
i'm to be out right and so he's got a no learned me and the figure it what my personalities like see what my pretension is as a person and i trained really hard there but i was
also gone a lot travelling and that's why i travel out on the road and i drain with guns on the road and he went on to playmates on the ployment and then it come back in a town
and so i didn't get consistent enough with him eyes with him where he said he this guy's ready for his proper belch so by the time i might have been close to him thinking okay you
know what i need start looking to him for purple boat went back to san diego got back to san diego and not now i checked back into fabio's well it's been two years more you need
to hottentoosen yet i was almost like i was at the bottom of the of the tacked in terms of time and rain even though i had been a blue belt for a long time so kid i ended up being
a blue belt for a long i want to see it is a bluebell for me be like your jean i was a good monotone me wrong sir of course it were and but you know the long as i you will you
will you jump around from school de school in the instructor dozen no you well enough you know dozen see you want a regular basis and can assess your promises thing with jujitsu
he my opinion you are you don't get your belt there is not a level playing field for every person so in other words it's not he these i skills were quired for blue belt and how
you get your blue belt and in you learn these other for you know these other hundred and twenty seven other moves and now you get your perfumer's three hundred and ten moves to
get your it's not like that at all he ain't in fact it's also not hay how do you as a blue belt dugast this other group of bluebells what it is an end of the sound a little bit
cliche but it's it's really how good or you against you anserinus if somebody in new less say you get somebody that starts you get to when there older you know may be their fifty
five years old there got a go and they train until their sixty two or under training and training a training their skill upleaning injure their haven issues they got a work they
got a bigger of my doing on a thing and they can't be their hobby is strike here not focus than they can we train so much they learned the moves they get better ten years go by
there is a chance of their going to be back bout bay on the fact that he as a fifty five year old person that came in here and started training in a move the outer and hide he
plied him according to your athletic ability in your physical capably at the time hey it's been ten years which is a pretty rough number for like meal forgetting your black belt
so that's acceptable but you might get a kid with that is a really good athlete that in two years can destroy that guy and not getting packed because you're you're saying what is
your potential how good can you be as a black dog that as a question so really it's almost the compliment the longer it takes you to get your belts that mean is in my opinion that
means a better you're going to that means the better that your instructor think you're going to be ye that my that my thought and not everyone doesn't like that you know some
people think oh if if this purple about can be that purple tel this pupleeper yea and if this purpoces to brown about paninto give his rombault to me think people think that way
you think that way the perleece beat the brown belgrade around out naron o yes so situate womany umher so many of those little things like the reason and instructor might be
influenced to give one i mean typically they are not gonaive someone a belt based solely on the fact that he taps out that you know brown the out so but it is influenced by that
iritis all their all these weird thing there's stuff like some dion the watching like a two bluebells and elsie aneath ng and terms into a desk matanomorous are actually
youkahainen of a guy with a communication on all that inanellati mon what it what can injuries elbow you think i'd look at the elbow ye may be like croisade have the copper one
comers a beast man yet a year is a beast you know you can not tap to a foot walk you can not tap to you can even not tap to heal or if he look and go really sidewise but you don't
have to comerade probably got out siminolian head so terrible to watch like i seen is like yet there emil their knee and stuff in a helloo and that is like a tang that noyette led
the came on when he see the guisarme just been that way when man and i i did it post that bide the someone socially i would never post ideas like that in fact i don't like to
watch that i died that i is that what i did to your shoulder according to the success or enamorata where solder the frediano be bold and i out do that i know it sounded nice and
traumatic but it didn't happen yet i don't think you've ever almost sesostris yeah by a fortnight is a as people getting in turteluse on white give guys belt or a higher belt like
some instructor example will be influenced now by a to give a day harbell because i want to have more black belts on near me oh you know we unenigmatical and typically that i'll
have a light to do with sales i like where i can be like hey i have you know a team of ye an arcturan the sales pitch you know you were if i can't be of seven seven backbone mat
three world champenois good the that's good so people might be influenced by that in the noble okabe i'll give beast two guys or belcolore back at or whatever now there's a and
then there in that seeson you know i mean it it is good to have a ten locket in your sociate you are that is gavinies and but then there's the opposite too or guides will be like
if there then this typically happened in their competing so if coaches like a i got these five bronelle obviously on the level of black belt knowledge performance all this stuff
but when they go in the tournament in the brown bellowed that orange we got go metals gold tea men every time silhouettes sat samasata so there's the others all those things in
regard to the belt i said this for i am going to say that the bell really does it have to do with how good you think you are or how good even you know you are if you're like hay
i'm tappington i'm a white elfreda wipeout and i'm hanging with the purple death on tapping blue belts and brondel target i'm giving them and so i should be able to beltit doesn't
matter doesn't matter at all and ain't you know it's all like an exaggerated doesn't matter at all mesa little bit i think nor doesn't your skill is valued by our instructor
that's the reason why you can be at a certain level leave come back and still not it because you're you're instructive you can be guineaman everywhere then struck her asevalado
that so let's exactly what happened with me and i antwasa a negative thing it was i houwening for to young we gotta see her or not joconde's not as long a being neither back in
your get your purpoole yes because you've been training for two stray years a matter this hay you interesting too is this obviously this applies to people in the visits won't
people trying to get promoted and and the more you think can he i i'm banner at this job than this guy i should get there something else going on or something you look at it the
more frustrated you get about not getting that promotion not getting taken care of not getting notice just do your job for hard you know the don't worry about the promotion the
person promotions goin to come in most cases no so i don't on my loss i will even frame it where i would think in all cases there are exceptions like everything else but in in
alceste is the situation i and think about this too when you when you in regards to like your belt it you get to belt if i'm away belt jackal your minstrator and i'm like hay i'm
winning all these tournaments all of them gold not a point's goal by submission i'm taping up lovelinesses hay joceline me my blue bell i can't do that you let it's not up to me
even if i beg you i go on the internet i pulled his petition at it's not up to me seises the thing you know you hear in mortal arts like old jerama's like you will learn humility
and you will learn discipline and they would teach it you know by teaching it by talking about it in deserts real look you will be humble and when you far up and say where's my
belt that's you not being humble lets you not you know to say ay i need to work harder and to keep getting after it yea and so here learning that lesser that's part of it
lessingby know how again i i i i've mentioned his performances is because some one is auditores just because they're black belt doesn't mean they have the same doesn't mean they
have like the best morals and values a dozen men that at all there can be people selling belts their people that sit alveley will for to take ten privates with me a thousand
dollars each and then wainola's how you get the black belt lay cool and oh no cool is as a bunch of things i that too you know all i want you to go open a pilot school for you
somewhere some give to your black belt laterano that good said that way you can you can give me my you know the well per cent of your annual earnings takoosha happened and there's
you know even worse things that happen but the the bottom line is in a pure gittens you should be or canard in getting promoted as it comes perorate yet potentially the permission
elected indirect way of talking i albeit at i actually actually it if it does apply to me at a hasabala less than any one cares or doesn't care of cori think everyone cares in one
way or another but i i saved the apprendre hood with the approach like just like i said focus on getting better folks on the learning that's it the belt is just a symptom of your
learning it's a diffent eventuality essentially same thing or back to this the fact that one having to do with the co the person only the instructor on the lipsitt is set about
you know if i can come i've atinkle and i'm not getting my blue belt what's up it's not up to me something that's traction matter what same thing is if you you are like a
prochaine hey echoes your blue bell and i'm like i'm not ready for this lovell's i am i can't even do this well i can't give the belt back i can't like take it off in them put it
you know i mean i'm sure there's some kind of exciting there was a thing that happened on time with them with intent to was not a long rose your he that's on amigo but none the
less the you i can't give it bating you get when you get on oratorio it see put it out on an start surging after a hard has nothing to your opinion that's it that's the point here
see it you in straining her tray yet goes on times people get their boat in they stop training yet that the end not in any he was to think all emit there was a point in my life
where i was like concerned about that my arm you know bed in this guy noon say when which belt were it was not recently by a nut but do that three weeks or a maiesthai i remember
and when i think about that time men how is it learning that much at all i was just focusing woe good i do so like you know your game kind is closed off you don't learn much your
coon'll this stuff any he's happy now and you hideous not learning yes exact right t get you any dismisses up your hole you do sixpince because you had that you have that alidade
element of stress it's not good do that don't even have to up belt i think tessaglia power that isn't that as a great policy ye that that's the best policy forbid do non ask him
train hard and you'll get what's comin to you eventually the sunday people ask you have when you can get your blue bell there in you don't people will ask you that whenever i
autonoae minstrel it imitate me whenever get the red and black beiaardier knouting this yet good next question is what's the best approach to managing people that out perform you
at ating this is simple question as well what you do in this situation as you give them all the support you can and let him run i'm i'm happy if some one at perform me that's
great you don't optician from him see what they're doing he trysted the word if i'm a lorship isonomous doing out performing every one great out and we take that how can we teach
devrions how can i give them support taganrog in faster this is no factory may i love it you should be surrounding the more people you can bring on your team that help perform you
the better or you're going to do true jack using money next canon axcepted a hard though you know and i know you're going to say such redecorate the dime i got to say i am a
iodinous we know it yet honor presented will you dance upon somebody that's doin better than you it's on her present ego while would you not support them there helping the team
win and your helping every one do better why would you not sport them beasure beat hearts yet i want to be the guy and you know what you look like then you look like a jealous by
little baby wore the day baby you aililla you're trying to hold them back and every one can see it and ever can tell it just don't to be that purse have an that's a good point it
there everyone can tell that it wondrous going on he at soone of those dichotomies is is that people can be so ignorant to think anyet so perceptive to think ye so and the things
like that there so perceptive to echoless jocko outshine him not that's why it's ten ahold him back as not a tenement that trip yes we'll can wait if we that deal oh he's gonna go
instead i ay i want the deal is your great no long and even down to the slow ittle things like that you know he of you know and we'll say john is against your subordinate right
your jealous of him cause he cause he's don't and when someings john a compliment about how good he did just little looking on your face so obvious you don't know and you know you
say some people are are a people are so like ignorantins in so perceptive their ignorant the stuff on a place to them die somebody else is like a eyeholes out all day good coin
like when people negotiates he point he ad to example were named dropping on you you know you adooma joshing cateranos or it's like it's easier to recognize the one other people
material they do themselves you know so funny sue in there's if i name drop i immediately feel like a gas loci just disgust heidegard i that's so bad yes yes so so bad but it's
hard to finding out she you know you know specious just taxing back and forth with thought timperament her day named joining a set a you know that's a that's a arm excessive name
dowen you see the first and their lolatelli out on no what's it westacott's just sexes got a textile you're right in oi'll see fair jonadab lour kicked it oatcakes that like gum
like so advanced name dropping where where you say the first thing like that but langelik amateur named dopping is first and last neokori was actually black belt temerin yer first
name plenny actually more like a one right whitfell i know it's just libor ventilate it is with the high is there weight appropriately named drops o how how do you do that i'm
sure there is opposed their name is talking the other day so this is a similar situation i stockinet some people the other day and and and the girl says you will you know i all
yoshinaka about the east coast and she's a young wont canto college in cambridge and it was you know a good place and i thinking myself i didn't i you all were to go to school now
we'll leave it at that mobula was sort of a high level of you i left in cambrics one with the college and only one for callista about going on out there right right so let
sisowath at a high muffel a for it or was that just a anesone sation yeah munthe been just met a been just her not wanting to sound like a you know hey ah you know rites she
didn't want to see them essentially one a name crop for the reason that people normally named job but here's think there is it a watatic effectively in like legitimately if for
like a bentornato and that like if you if you cause named dropping typically sleeping on it's almost like a weak attempt at breezy over you know on ticonderoga or you don't for
villikens their little credentials on you know but i think if you say you know i was specified and it was actually orogano don't that any make it like a point oasis like that i
know i wasn't just any one who was your roland about yes you know exactly so that i think that's an effective way because it can a kind of conventa your humility there in but you
don't relate in with my boy joe roving whatever cananore like i'm just noticed a big deal i beg of the inanimate anyway colewater small right next wastin it would be a good
approach to effectively what would be a good approach to effectively leading the team were instead of taking ownership of their responsibilities and working towards team gold each
team members just trying to be the base mocoso couple things here be you want to let them be the boss of their tasks rightangled so that that makes sense and one of the ways if
there if he obey the boss everything maybe i give them a little bit more as much decision making process you can as to what cast or what projects dare in charge of sentimental
little bit like their in power to achinames them feel like their importal all repolarisation there's a pretty significant distinction because once again people will reckonize if
you're just letting him do it to make him feel good about it there in a notation janotha should decision you gave in the choice of one thing fatello poisons so you know maybe let
them really expressed there a tory and leadership on owning what it is that there owning to nabut the question says they're not taking ownership of their responsibilities so let's
make sure first that we are not that that weird giving them full rein and full ershi of the responsibilities and were not micro managing in their now if that if we're beyond that
and and we got people that just want to be in charge of a whole thing well cool that's that's actually awesome you are to be in charge of everything in echoes it is that our team
and you want to be in charge of everything hey guys check it out right now this next you know project that will work in echoes going to run it i'm going to sit back and by the way
next project bill year running and next project fred you're running now we're all going to get to actually get in the hot seat and e'll tell what you're going to say not the one
you see some people at g a y in they wanted to sit in the back and shirte don't react to we want to be responsible for defense that it is then to rest right away you're also
what's goin to happier body is there all gone see that this thing that looks so easy from the back of the room is a lot harder than they think that's what it's like running a seal
mission the guy in the back that's never been in charge before i go i should just do it like this i and that guy to okay he are you on this and then you know in six hours they
came up and said he yegorovna ted do conflict with this other units alcalde i thought maybe isn't it is but you you actually put people in charge of things if they want to be
targeteers of thinks it's great and you know don't let him fall her trade don't let gettin one killed to let him ye'll get in one injured or losing a strategic ground where i goin
to do that but we're going to let them have the opportunity to step up and lead ef they do a good job swatest now you've got them you get riotous actually put them in charge of
products now you have to my romans we not to watch over them this this is a no loose situation as happened actually one of my one of my ah parton's going through training and one
of the patooan ders came up to me which put in a pot of tone to training he cupped all my puncheons to run everything is it good let him run everything let him run everything
that's far fect then you can focus on you know other things don't worry about it but go right we want to be running everything we want but lose all montague on charge here no let
him run it and it's just it's it's it's the the reason the thing he holds people back from letting other people run things isn't security the if i think echoes going to do better
job than me why i could you can do really good job in your gonnoisance like i do a good job aminocles of my billinghausen agoo you're goin you go had to stay in your latherers now
you may find if i if i know if i'm secure my leadership a man echo oh you want to run this but also here you go here's a plan on you you know here's that here's the poor followin
you put the plan together and i'll manorbeer here looking down road on the next project and it looking for our next on then down the road going out and getting another client
bringing to the game will there make this up no factor yes seems like count or into a dive isn't it yet if you want it you want me to say who yours are you keep the people in your
lanes yes they go queenly which you do let him out of their lanes you let him in the year langlet him run some stuff up bill the new leader to beautiful thing when you you know
when you're insecure you want you don't want them to shout shinyo you know you can tell that where i think it's natural though you know one people maybe a little insecure you know
that it or if you're not as good as may be you hope or a think it's naturally be little bit in scuros he is like her's how in my experience anyway where i could tell where or
being in secure where if someone performance thing and you're kindlike you can feel it consciously penhoet they don't do that good your all but man that i know restagnating you
that olegario know you have that feeling of you should you should definitely you if you have that feeling check yourself i can yet here i am hoping that my own kin member it now
do you aneta's best of bad situation real bed you an i hope everyone do great yes and yet you don't disshapen on the ployment and i talk about it in the book extreme eldership was
you know the dealt between commander he was worried that this element that had come in to work in his a he was worried that they were going to be better than him and take his job
in one as it here if i take your job good i find a new job for you with the so much work we got work to do don't worry about it now em how them take your job now and i'll find you
an a job he turns out the there eagles were too big and they couldn't let that happen but that's the same situation in a got somebody that thanks goote your job and do better than
you how plump and then find new work yeahs cause we're trying to help the team right there is a mission there's over all mission and if echoed something better than me hey here's
the turn over here's the lessons i learned you better of this and i am you keep running with it i'm on to go find something that i'm good at or are that i can help that's his
supporting the whole team the wind and yes silanti in the pod cast studio it so easy albanais hard for people to do that ferelius really as yet fullosopher you dealing with your
actual feelings in the situation were not dealing with our actual veelings is arising which but it doesn't that mean that it's that's good you know you will you're given a fresh
like views you are young now you are detached i am to yaourt like and a more detached and you portington red flag right if i'm holeing that these guys go on the mission and fail
that for red flag that you're being selfishnesses about your job and what you're doing and if someone can do a job better than you let them do it that's going to help the whole
team yes it's like your us in the pot cast room were like you know if you get a guy in the maze the maze of the motions and were outside of the mains on top we can see the whole
made firewood in the maze of the monacans were on top we can look at the whole scenario a whole maze so we can tell that guy what to do effectively you know i go you just describe
the tachment there you go down with warteachben is like that that's what that's what i iterative me i i can see the man and i remember learning how to step back his ataban looked
to mace i remember o remember learning that and going all that's all the gado ye and then i repetait from the training ground the battle field and then realizing that that's what
you need to do in the every day interactions with people and a special with it on the business world that fingers cool about when we started athlington now i was the witness in
holy i going to a meeting and i would be to tache i would be up above the maze of emotions and turmoil and on how i would get to see it and then i would start bringing the
leadership in an look at what this looks like to me and i go o o a said on a like dawntide tae onto the video and and so then that's are you er we into the video look what it
looks like from up above the maze and now you see you see what you are doing here in your meeting you had everybody so intimidated that no one said anything you just gave up
fifteen minute meeting no one responded in any way anything you said you think everyone in the room agreed with everything you said not a chance they didn't say a word why is that
you intimidate him you bullied them and now here at getting feed back and deronda execute the plan that they don't believe him and that's probably less effective than the one that
they have come in from the field yea congratulations congratulations no nockawando his office it of congruous like you so i i was in the entrapping about us in traffic and in all
the e of the two lanes right so misturned laughed on the light there the lines of their going straight so whoever the person in front of the person that was next to me both gone
straight they were taking to him so the lady next shenannegan all creline i pull this allay so of course i look over at an she's going crazy she looked over at me shall like do
you believe this come thing all by not meanwhile looking up myself you know other people are on the tergestine at his lady's going nuts you know so that example of being on the
outside looking in her she thought it was justifiable hunkie horn looking nuts but meanwhile were not the looking at her in like brooknook and you at that situation is you didn't
have any where to be conceit well that a red like hot know you don't saying though she's a first on that head and left for like work late as she reason to be in shrubland baba
black on that that thirty set that that ten sachet the second at forty like through as a new era for her in session not to just like our tolabon the airport if i'm running late
for the flight to a take five minutes it could be no factor or could drive me completely and say well then those her any now on these days the when i screw something up i don't
get frustrated like that you know as were daintiest washing i i oh my god i i look at myself a god gave leave our left late do this i'm i'm an idiot ye i won't let that happen
again i said that in nineteen ninety six n i haven't hated letter happened said achime now how is outside the man i erything i know so i know it she feeling not the canot going go
green like go stunned the go universal yet so i understand the feeling but look out you look from the outside you know did she check herself at all now when she saw you now see
looked it to me for some emotional support air as if you believe this guy you know get crazy with me kind of think thatwise look ye man sighed diet that's what i think that's
another a understand the difference between feeling and behaviors well you don't like i feel i know that the fishing thing i can be but don't be havely that come down person next
eton what have you learned about yourself or learn in general over the course of the last seventy plus paces so the the biggest thing that i learned that learn in the past seventy
pocasset more to learn that her lernaean of information out there that will help us get better and smarter and more effective as human the amount of information is is pretty
boundless and also you also see the repetitive over and over again that costly come up and reinforced themselves now with that i i think that seeing these repetitive themes but
each with its own little angel give a vegin me a better home a better understanding but i guess i don't know what other word to use a more granular understanding of of human
nature and of leadership and of war and of life cause you get to go nothing to us better than experience but you can't experience a thousand years of life in reality but through
reading and understanding and see what other people have gone through you you do get some level of experience in a now you just went to he did at wathte after with with ashen
front went to the cutio with lay on j p and fusion aslan front we do leadership and men to resulting in some times we do feel training exercise toward take people out and we teach
him how to shoot and we teachings fundamental tactics of fire maneuvering we give the missions to accomplish and so you know you yet i know you just went out to do your first one
and you got back in it that you said i kind of felt a little bit of what it's like to be a fire fight and then you kind o backed off like well no i didn't i didn't eat i'm not
trying to say that not now actually you did feel a little bit of what it is like to be in a fire fight because you saw people maneuvering in you see you are getting hit with with
plastic rounds that i here and you knew you need to get down and you saw the people getting frustrating you saw people get in fostered that's that is is it exactly like come that
no and there is also a tow that the step up to real combat is huge cause now you're goin to die if he is grew up but there is a glimpse and there is a there is a a certain level
of understanding that you absolutely gain from those scenarios that you put into and is the same thing when you read a book and you read it the right way and you get downeton from
it you you don't have the experience itself but there's no doubt you can learn from it so i think for me that's the that's the biggest thing is really reading with a lot of a tent
to pull us in out seeing the multiple lessening the different things from different angles and have talked of this before you know when you learn a arak from seven different
instructors they each teach you something a little bit different in something that works in some detail that you didn't see and then on top of that when you earn on armor from the
bottom and from the top and from the garden from the closed from the open guard and from the cross side and from the mount you every one of those different angles that you learn
it from you get better you get eat each one of those angles makes you better at the other angles too so i think that's the biggest thing for me is just learning how much i didn't
know and then taking what i can bring on board and assimilating it into my view and understanding like i said my view it understanding of the world of human nature of war and of
life ye been it's been fun for me and educational agree the thing i mean i was it approach the thing from a different position but you love the no complaining think or people like
no complaining i think that really got reinforced in me it's one of those things where what is it who said a yeldeth do or do not there is no try so limited as he ever you'd know
it at youldash serious and paramecia do or do not thrinacia sedillot of other coshleen the less when um you don't when your task to hit something or your but an old wife asked you
to do something or or whatever either do it he don't do it don't do it in complaint about it the whole time you know where that and that's a common thing horsecar i don't do it
and then they'll do it an he'll come pat about while they're doing it or after they do it or before the year before during and after the eat so it's one o things were indolent
complain in your izumo say this what a kind of learned over all and it's it's weird because this wasn't necessarily a specific lesson but it's just a kind of just gets in
corporate into your brain where you just got it don't even complain in your own head you know you don't want you when you don't know suardalan leave him sleeping for what about
all this other stuff than i do and in this i don't even do that began tasted with discoloured you compared to two um doing paperwork there you like yet but you good you don't
wanta do paperwork on no one to wellwater you have yet but you do the paper and you do that to crush it as you say you do that people with the best he can of rosecarrel so many by
got to sweep the floor i had a you know wash dishes i got whatever watchin' going to do this the best i can want in fact take pride in that you know take pride not necessarily
even in washing of the dishes as a yearnin noetically just that take pride in the fact that year they got who can wash the dishes that good you don't depend on me hell ye can do
that give me more stuff do it more heinous that last part because you have other things to do sometimes flush the same evening your cast with do it the best you can for i mean
that even some kind of cliche like olive for that gerrit to really have that happen cennino mind where you regard it all your tasks with you like em or not that way where you can
do em best i can it's it's movement's all life improving situation de yeah and going back to what i was to just on this one you were talking general mates he he said the other day
there is an article about him because he is extremely well read and he has a personal library of seven thousand books and very smart very well educated very well read but what he
said is very somethin i said he said you know i wouldn't get i'm not going to get surprised because what i'm going apace on the battle field some one else's face before many made
a coup comparisons i can't think of him off the top my head but you know when i saw this when he you know he said when i saw this for the first time i remembered this historical
it tuition when i saw that for the first time i remembered this historical situation so i never was surprised by what i was seeing because i had seen it before may be only in a
book but at least you have a heads up and that's what you're looking for and what's cool as if you extrapolate the war which is well were doing on this pocketing the war piece of
it and extrapolating the human nature piece of it and that's going to give you a broad look at the way people act the way human to act and interact and that's wot i think has been
a really good for me i just really the other thing is when you you need ectoderm and you get better at it just by teaching it i understand it more well for me by writing the notes
and putting men upon cast and then thinking about which direction when to go on a talk about i volunteer no no i've become things that used to things that i may have known
instinctively before i done for ten years just like when we wrote to monotate was things in there that i said i you as was writing what happened i like oh yeah i did he hear i so
do it there at this is where i learned to put every thought about it until and i even go and beat before that when i took over the training for the westcotts i would when the
first time i rode down the laws of combat the four fundamental laws of combat it i had known those i had i had acted that i had performed them for years i had never written down
until i took over training and saw paton and said these kids aren't too indeed things that would make them successful no my rondon that was at me and once i rode on down and sort
of sackbut him and so is they may even more sense and i saw them even easier when people would make a mistake so it's i think it's that what's been good for me is it's been a real
great mental exercise an so thanks every one for listening and making me do this pond cast i want a week you know whether i like it or not he and actually yet and that's another
thing where you know we almost went to one parastat weeks and anne i was just talking to a a body mind of tanoma that i was talking about he was that one a few guys when we i kin
was thinking about the idea of of you know going to one port gaster two weeks and we were driving sees mien great guy great leader and were driving and i and i said he you know i
just we're driving to go do some work was working with his company and i said in omitting about hey don't may be doing a pocketholes two weeks instead of once a week and he was
driving and i was just a passenger ain't in almost sunny you now he duskinesses i i i i i i i don't i don't think that's a good idea i alsacian he was really he said look you know
you can't do that you hanwellian listening at my day we are expected to come out a way they've got or was it a eyescope is less look if you're going to do it then you need to be
gaining us so hard like a six month morningside can start to get used to and i that was one of the things that swayed me to say you know what i need to start to keep a hold the
line of a park as nometer think what you is hard okay ye ha jacko mister sitting around saying hey it's hard due anyways near was it was kind of hard so through the tahitian no
old eline jocko i'm talking to you jack the races which you preach you know what i mean eh theists hard you've got to read a book you got unrocked some too so what do it anyway
sick the it is bring it hankering and had mike for the poncas continually coming out on once a week now at the leelang but it oh it one or the other thing kindlike what your
saying econium you can either do it and get it done they this personally in my extreme be from experience were you not like you ask about about something i can what's the states
on this or that so it's either done or it's not done nowhere you can be oh you know i would have done that but in a dead all this stuff all that stuff after you said i would have
done that but like that does it matter at all even did it are you didn't do it if you're like you panaceas either effective were you in effective curing and the more and i think
it has a lot to do with his hanging around you more where i tell you about something and you'd be like okay as this done or whatever it is about to be done or or where are we on
this and then i'll say all yet done then if i go kaoha this kind of look of okay like solid like thumbs up kind of thing but if i say no it yet because of this right when i go
into because he has this kind of weird haze that goes over you like you don't get your nice your nice low and you're not like wood being your not like that at all but i can see
the little haze go over you like you don't care at all about these excuses that am about to say where these justification than a romanite thereaway on now i just know is automatic
it is that either it answers yes or no and if it's no in it should have been done then next time i see it should be done and that a flindt everything and i make the analogy were
monothony outstay where my brother be like hay by miss in like wine or for benito wine section for it's you hugesson is cold but cold this you know it's the capernoited you call
it tethiake beef turkey shack tertanio bester he sex yet boys should be but not as i know it's wine and if you go in there any one some specific wine and it's easy to go in there
and be like you know what this wine section is too vast a either going to grab any one i see and that's it or i'm not i'm not going to get it to pass me with his big tom just goin
hertelius reality got me to treasure hunting in the wine section and so not to do that but i had it in my mind to my no i'm you want some wine you want this one a woman get it if
so cause when i come home on patron yet when i come on either i got the wind herdin get the wine and you want to be a time kenneth wine he no matter what you're going you sis i'm
tellin you i applied that to everything if i that is something important you know jes wine is important landensport gaze on the less ye all good things we got from this port
casting a wild concert next question still he owned up his gold but this part as when his people that the hearing from people that have done made some awesome progress yes an
that's awesome that editha's that is actually the best thing about the pool he isn't here in from people out in a field that got promoted got a new job moved to leadership
position lost seventy two pounds gained twelve pounds of bleed musselmans on what we whatever those what whatever the chief men was at undergraduate day that debt stopped a biting
his nails right like the yield think much of it but he said he is nails for you know thirty four straight years and tried the little nail polish that goes on there and you you go
to the hypnotist and you go to all these different things now and you know what you don't finally said i'm not going to bite my nails any more or it not going to do it i got
impose my will ye fustian of so here and everybody that does that kind of thing is awesome that that's definitely the most that so i guess i'm going into not what i learned at
this the general over all roll ward of the po cast it is to talk to people that have made some significant progress in their life and they are tribute that progress to listen for
chesthigh i always reattribute when they comment about it back to them because i didn't stop biting your nails and you i esitated you bound to you did i didn't get promoted you
did the that's you ass not me that's you emmenense it's cold that you got a little little little boots sir from the poast me these soft ompenle differently that's awesome but you
know you out there in the field near the one that's making it happen ye were sitting back here maybe for vidigueira liemo one on but it went beat the king at school but that to us
it's proves what we talk about on her all the time which is the human will is so strong there but be promise people go through the right they didn't know that they had it and in
the don't got to get recognized that a you've got this strong will that you can you can you can use i was i was i was listening to an interview with jack back of tenacious dandher
talking about when he first discovered that he had a good singing voice and he was in high school he tried out for some school play and then he sposed to sing this park and he hit
that do no and we need did he he said to himself like low you got this thing captiwatin i didn't know i had this i got this extra gear that i can kick into an ibex what he says by
the wet you scatter gear that's what i think people listen to parast they always on eisegonto extra gee they got the thing and a ladino bad had because they never had tested
before and never talked about it notaras it to em they didn't recognize it for what areas and almost un they realized oh i got this human will that is stronger than my weakness
and i'm just goin to win gait watch this nail biting no more in a jelly donant happening to get no genitor to work is not going to happen ye and it's i think it's the price cause
i'm one of those people straight up where i was surprised at how much how little actual will it took to make these little tales and an it's good because it doesn't like these
books and stuff it puts it into perspective where these guys are really exercising their will for with these crazy things and all that is is it isn't illustration not it that it
it didn't even take me hearing that to understand that all it doesn't do much will to do work out when i didn't feel like it it did it he did it take that for me to recognize it
that's that's just an illustration it took me actually doing it and be like the wasn't hard at all it seems hard and his another reason why people don't realize it i think i won't
as people dine because everywhere you look you always seeing like the the the for a helpful tips to stop biting your nails or the more all these like external thing a honath name
o into to good a hypnotist know do something outside of yourself at intensity take tasting nail polish on your finger i live makes you not want to be all the stuff were really all
you have to do to soyosoyoto do it do it you know you don't do you want to stop by email acasto my on your nels and if you really look at it like that where will i keep you you
would have said to me oh you don't feel like working out go work out if i would have been okay i don't feel like working out so so i'm gonna go work out and you just keep it that
simple that's all you got to do for you like o a your den with workhouse noise easy i'm onto do that next time you oskaloo forward to doing it and every once in a while you act
look forward to exercising you will you don't like you get look forward to certain work out sometimes not always fred sometimes i'm not oh god i got squatted in i don't want to do
it but some of you equatore some as you can get the same feel you out e about mobilizing yourii ye it's like that nataly right that's exactly what it is that fact one of the
reasons i listening to a no braidagarth have that the troop reprojected cat oenone with them what our bill arbeiter are bearable are yet anhusei just know him in it is no azurite
just don't fortiter yeah yeah i never heard his name pronounced so i don't know at the hope you know as these and they were tethered re talking about em you know what music you
listen to in linton when you work out and stuff to get nuts and be i don't listen to any music and that's one of the reasons where while that's why did it of akkolead distract
myself from the pain you know in let me listen to this musigny fired up or to make me feel good kind of mentally and so i can get through the pain of you know on an onaccountable
or whatever i don like de do listen to no music but it turns out i liked that better now could you just feel more in touch with like what you're doing oh but oh here he is one so
i'll do what i can arkindale front squat but yet hold the two cattle bells like this dear like a fort what they called but ah saw du twenty five raps a twenty five so it's hard so
when you get to a out twelve you like oh you got it you know you kind to start to hit a certain type of wall and then when you get up till like sixteen eighteen year like you know
so what as a result of that i would play little numbers games in my mind so i'd count backwards from six six five four enigmatical in a petite and it'll be done soon kind o thing
but lester doing is like no montacute one two three four and you'll end in the vinesauf like a pang when i'm getting up to twelve of my on my gosh the pain is coming and it comes
and you like dan and then i set a flame more mental games like this just come down from here cause so the end is you know in sight not of the count up now and when you count up
the numbers going up give you this weird mental picture like the pain is coming more now because you're your deeper into the thing you know and it's like this matifat like hate
view sure to endure let after a while you can olfert that you got a little those higher numbers you know it's like bring it kind of thing and it gets you it essentially gets you
even more fired on her hegolite ling you embraced on the the pain that interring does the inability of the average person to defend themselves make them more susceptible to fear
generally in life and conjugate pretendoit reduced societal fear having a surpolous answer but yeah i mean obviously if you can defend yourself it's going to give you more
confidence in the world an if you don't know how to decent diffendorfer you're goin to have more fear in north that's just the way it is and i know that juif gave me a lot of
conference in the world because when you're looking at some one you you at least know you're not a pushover at a minimum you you know i'm not going to go out easily so yes i think
if you don't know how to to find yourself at all i think you definitely going to be more susceptible to fear that that kind of common sense and also the the thing with not knowing
when you don't know about things you you are more scared of them be you been compensations because you all on the imaums as all the time and if you do an occasion of the occasion
you should put on boxing gloves and box and even strike during decies do that stuff so you recognize what it's like to be a fight and then you have you'll be less afraid of the
theonoe it's known were always very the known will now this is known now the other thing is the better you are with doo and very you are at fighting the less apt the less likely
you are to have to use it because because people will know that you by the way you're acting that you probably not personate should be messed with and the other thing is i think
when people actually know how to fight they put up less of a front about who they are about it or nackley because the amen from fibre you i'd got a promising maconichie you in the
street like a house gone no migdal i'm not feeling like you're going to take advantage of me now cause i don't how to fight so i let it you just to asorunusi you know cause
they're not trying prove how tough they are coacoochee ye so i i think that's pretty obvious you know that's the the many benefits of juice from a personal evenin for as for
social for i would also say yes it's it's helpful because we could handle yourself on a personal level right then you can handle yourself in other dynamic situations and you more
aware of things and you are better at staying calm regesta home a you get in bad situation if you panicked you you're going down so hang you getting put at torealise do you get
used to it you realised that you needed to attach and oseige out of your head and can't panic and take a claustrophobic used to get claustrophobic and you don't really get cost
poictu much any more a lenient up and and also with judson you know mixed martial arch training boxing moirette you overcome adversity you know you over come adversity you have to
and so when you know how to overcome everton the mat or in the cage or in the ring that's going to help you in real if overcome adversity so i think that those are real simple
reasons why did it is good if you didn't think i thought you silas good i do in scripter giverney adenen really does a lot of martinico put in their emparkment you just to
brighten with boxing at the same with with the more tiefe same with wrestling is the same with judo sometimes i forget to mention joieult you dosal so very effective martial art
so i think all sins are very helpful for personal overcome in personal fear and giving people confidence and there for thereby overcoming societal fears as well i visit this kind
of a sign out with with the glitter let's say and this more place to this concept kind as been coming up recently where you don't your first danger yet where you i think you and
me in kind of art time where we started you to to weint look at it in terms of like planting i didn't even know you started to giannone ty to the offanto say i for ninety two all
away to botot and ought to atone date but i'm saying if you like old school detower but you partly started you to do because of his crazy if you're one of these people one of us
that's why i surgested ocracy one you have seen one to you know where we looked at you to to as okay if i get in a fight with some one i want to be able to win the fight even if
he's bigger than me he wasn't because all i want to be the next world champion you know concerned about how to effectively hold you know the most points of my goniatites yea or
when i pull guard like the the coolest like flitting like can do whatever and i'm not saying like that's what it is not not saying that but there it that is in the game now and so
sometimes a result of this sometimes you can go with no juice experience you don't know that twice grace necessarily you haven't unowhat is it what compelled you to learn you to
to you just hear great things like you know from door whoever and you like her own to go learn you get to this is the best fighting thing according jackaloorie what up then they
go in there and then let's say the first day will learn em you know just an arm lock from the bottom or in something that if you don't go in with the full conducts to what you did
to is it won't translate ovular a moving you be like weight how how am i gonna go in a fighting there and you this a cool that's a cool move it's kind of like you know i
withinside your kid i'm sure a finger lock you like that's cool bright how you goin to get my fingers attledon's like all this day it doesn't a fight of a suit so sir just an
answer i just did a little like tiny ah instructional thing for some people that hadn't trained before and it was siapo a charity and so's all good but you know these people never
done it before and i pouemo know the mountain cape right hand and immediately you know one of the cries a you wappetoe they do this because he's doing this right here okay so
bring it back in every one at animatedly have to disappeared here is the deal i'm teaching you a new language he so far off taught you the word to rita's the only word of talton
even taught you a cause that would that would be a contest of self fearns which you don't have right we don't have any only know vainest but at the hall you know and i should have
been as you said i just talk you the word dope yeah because e e you can't lie actually can apply it ifere this when you just learn one thing it's it's not meaningless but it's
only it's almost if you walk into a foreign country and the only word you knew how to say was purple in their language nor goin to get you very far all right it's not not and
that's the same thing so you're right in the context of like a singular move digitis worthless fra now barrowe i learned five moves and new at the rear naked joke the arm walk
that camera and no one else knew anything it will you can say five different words in a world where no one can speak you have power or not the way it used to be now it's not like
that any more everybody everybody watch as you say they we watch as you see and so they have run seen in our walk before everyone seen a rear nakado then you can watch on her
icarian see it's a simple move you can see or you put that on somebody so yes you are correct but he you've got it you got to do more than just the contact of like a singular move
cause it yet it will be very useful to you yet so when you uh alarmer watching you the inergy who would come and take a kind of energy but he he kind of knew it apparently he took
you gits he kind of call evilena's fishes you want to get on top right now stops is position oh he can't get the take down so always pulling guard kind of thing and then or he'll
be like okay establishing poison with a mount and he's going to east going to punch him until he turns over and then he's going to choke him and he's calling it any desit right so
i remember thinking o kay that mount position very very powerful or if he's on the bottom you want guard kind of thing he can see you know cause he can explain so when i first
started juglike an actual class i knew what guard was i knew what mout was i knew those positions and why there important where you don't like if your if someone's mounted on you
were whitestraw all be mounted on the prison like a really hard to get out he's going to struggle and an if you turn over or even worse situation you know so i kind of knew that
so new that actual context and a lot of people when they go into gustus because they hear about how cool it is they don't have that that that foundation going in so if the man i
think that in often ask for it or what but i think one an instructor is when a new person a brand new person donizetti they've they teach that like this is the mouth this is why
it's important now derided at the muster where you are i i i canonical hiyu can hit just like set and then that'll provide concatenate the end o you taught a move you know of
submission or whatever then is like a key in mount this is one of the many things you can do anything i am bytheway when i am many i mean infinitely eyes ye so ye think that if
you and i guess this girls are till i anyone who who goes into their judicasse and learned this happened to be on the day where you learn like some kind of arbitrary moved given
the fact that you don't know the foundation it with a foundation any move is going to make a lot more sense is long as you have that fondation importance some bimport ance of
guard everdene of unwholly are the things of course we all want to lend the submission in one school submission can i get this gianotti met disguise so nothing of poposes know
will it detherves pulling my hand were erasofines hiding another person it's not just was not magic in it i say jodonauth not magic it's not magificent the person got to resist
the pavlovs i didn't it doesn't turn that i magic until you have it all to get ye then the terema and then you bestow it upon some one does it now for ye italianised such traita
little bit george is a pearl belt elsie belt and man he is he's one o alme butterfly garding small too and he defied me around doing butterfly or sleeps in like straight arm locks
and stuff like from the bottom like pro what is a guido age yet and one time he was like some one at walworth when you rolling you can kind of talk to people while we were all in
you know specially if you rowing whose advances well cause you n have to focus on what you don't enthing so this was an introduction of that concept where i'm rowin george he's
carrying on a conversation here i not inappropriate lieouwen water that it was some one was asking him like he like hoteo did you do that kind of thing he's like well tis what
he's doing and while rolling he's kind o commentating his rolling and his like so and this sets up the sweet which i rebonded a woman at the a and he kissed me with the sleep and
shintoism dash who it is that's why it is kind of age magic began as tonic manetti i could make this coin disappear on if i could actually do that that would be magic as if i can
take your arm against your will and straighten out and there's nothing you can do to stop it it kind omai si yeh when so why say any titanis what magic is though right in when you
make it make it appear like illusion rahere you amorously about actual yes actual magic yet no susie well yeah i know oeternitatis is seen that way when they they don't know when
they don't know i how you did there how do you and had it all her on your certain so like a similar to the making a coin to spurt relationship yea not color whatever possible i
lolatelli did that he battestini that didn't get it do the tune i neeson i doc i've been living to your eighter since i first heard you with him fair i've been considering to gito
i am to titisee ever since hearing you guys talk about it so passionately however i've had a shoulder i v had sold shoulder surgery laborer in the past in lentises with bissette o
nights and i'm worried that grappling sport that a grappling sport might make me prone to injury again would you recommend you get for someone like me thank that advanced for a
ticket and providing her advisedest er form of jupiter actually and that i don't talk about very much but i definitely a feastful thing for situation like this that to loring
digitaria learning juge learning the moves drilling them gaining the understanding of how they all fit together and then only sparing in like a really controlled environment and i
by that i mean highly skill instructor that isn't going to hurt you or let you get hurt doing something stupid and that will provide you with enough resistance that you know moves
are going to work but not taking it you fall on level twenty seven you blood bath battle and unfortunately this situation is kindled is very likely in a sinister sirou have too
where you get somebody that made that an injury you are may be there they they are in some job where they can't get her you know oh riganson the or old eperson that doesn't want
to get hurt cerinthe milks i've seen this people to this before what they do is they basically take you just me take private dujeous and may only roll with the instruction they
learn moves the unhoped together that's that's one way to do it is you just find a good now you over night mister is about the duke where the judges structor feels the need to
prove himself which is just patetica if there's no way when you go in and you tell instructor hay of got a bad shoulder i've got a bad knee i've got a bad nack of indaba back
whenever you tell him and a look i just wanted i just gonna learn the technique and and and burn how to apply them in a very fundamental way i'm not here to compete i have no ego
on a prove onything as one to be more kalale the diggers refer should be more than happy to take you on board and and and let this you know do this you can also do it if you i
mean because i did outprate charging his very expensive we you also do in a group setting plot what you have to do you have to keep your ego completely in check unlike anything
you've ever tried before because every idiot and by every anytime every human being on earth all of em you take that person if i take a person that was a hundred and forty five
pounds whose never trained any judith or resting before and i say okay you know you want me to teach you to to her on an a put this arm lock on you and i take the arm and i say
okay so to what it feels like when you get on to wake there instinct as well you are you getting my arm there you won't be able to do that in the fight it but fighting always got
a fight it so every one an ego gets involved so you have to just completely put your ego and check pecking all i'm going to row with this guy over your battle in litigation and
you just get her that's how you get hurt now especially if you're preexisting injuries so you have to do that yes to find the right training partners that are completely mellow
and at nothing to prove no very relaxed and an experienced and jugis if they do catch something that's going to be a little bit awkward they all ye mates let you go no we deal not
be deal with all and and and you do that and then you slowly very slowly escalate over time once you know when undestad you get soon ye start to go a little bit harder still
keeping her ego and check in all that now if you do that you should be able to get into dugitigrada doctor in another condition of your labor tarsome don't have the authority or
the or the what the proper credenciveness do you give you the go ahead but if you do what i just said there's you should be okay now the problem is that's hard to do what i
desastre erybody cause everybody's competitive and you gits a very competitive thing and when i think in better that men taycosama you think i want no one i have these guys in the
other day of these guys are you know the senior executives learning you just you for the first time didn't know anything and i tapped them you know how i talking the open the
albogasio tulip them out i i i i will told them to go through them but just a practice in a onnoth they do they do six minutes of it they come ageral back in the middle of their
sweating all some of the pairs are sweating because they were having a level seven bataan those at esere again forty five fifty fifty five year old executive type people but to
anemone went to fight all so that's what you got to be careful of and you know you don't want to get warrior you don't want a worse injures you on a do alter you will have other
sports in backed you know you might enjoy serving her whatever plan another export basketball and you run it i now you can't play because you did you get you out on an about to
happen to you but you can do to gittin controlled way that you should need to get hurt but you can need to keep your dam ego in check go yet it ain't let then that that seems
obvious i think but the apparently is not as obvious lionato now labor or such of you had surgery i've had sent yeah if you had surgery and by septenaries use owing it like if you
do o a a yes okay e got to do a separate program but you do re have moonlike you'll improve that where an that's a really mean thing with these injuries you know people will there
have back or their shoulders stuff that they get sergey they get it fixed and then but it still you know what you're just going to have that for the rest of your life and a thing
prose you focus on real like the straight up work out where a man to push it because it's not what we have the few red happy re habit but you you hate you focus on that like its
actual programme like a work up or grim take it ury oh oh you can tell a lot impinge rid of these things fully especially like a ten nights by septenary of my bisect straight up
torn off the bone surges course i want to be from to tendant night is but you just man you get a treat it like it's like that's another thing of your body you gotta develop me now
covillan day and night as you know so i man old recommend that big time where an you'll be more compelled to do it when you find a of fungous in your shot i could be like getting
after rolling way better if my shoulder like dust felt better and man you go do some extra stuff like all these little rotator movements for he shoulder because i had shillong
like during the demonstration you know sarnaim then it demonstration pulls my shoulder out will just kind of hurt for my dodoor from a member ryan glaspyth hurt my shoulder than
serge had it the next in anelace couldn't do any pressing whither do those little bat like uses robber band nanan i'll use the cables at the gym at twenty per fitness and man it
broadbrims it back in tendite thing if you get there in stuff like that do that man and it'll help it so if you didn't do any kind of rehab and then you just jump into jugeait you
can be wimondesola me here i like it's ugindo sport and you're going to get twisted up and have you scared of getting twisted up and you are a new concert pianist ye for your a
surgeon the you need to accept the fact that this is the this is a full contact sport and you can definitely get hurt you know and we have we have we have an actual surgery in now
we had several doctors we have an actual hand surgeon and you know doctor letran gee no gegesa full speed in full all the time black belittle back out by the way and a rider to
but but yet he knows the risks he's cautious he takes his fingoes is ye take the precontract on and then you except that there is a level of risk you know i train fur twenty
whatever five years and i hurt my finger you know like whatever i couple weeks ago an a and and and i just heard the another finger they don't be a happen so what are you going to
do emanatin that's a that's a that's a possible kind of an option i guess ye it's kind of option but you can train in a method that you are little less likely to get hurt and you
can go so far in the spectrum of not getting hurt that you that you could really get that possibly her getting her to an absolute minimum yes you're the nattering with a black
belt in structure and your disumpate and you guys have a really good understanding your generated a prismal ye yeastily you that if you let that keep you from doing it i think
you're doing yourself more harm than good and that god pray anything outstreats is like an if you have to go to the post office but you're scared of the statistics of carcases and
you consoling know not but uasail that thing you know i got to get it done truant question got a altoting never hill whatever the heavy when you're stepping into a leadership roll
and you have some one on your staff with notitiae creates clicks goes over me and straight to my bosses when there's a problem and whenever had went whenever has concerns voices
them among team mates and not directly to me how do i continue in my role how do i set myself myself in a atoyac this problem there you see we out to years billaton ship if a
person you know you got to get a person had you got to find out what's going on you got a find out you've got to denial to him you got a bell that last you'd be to talk to about
why they're going over your head you then then you know what when they say well go over you had guiald you i didn't know that you'd only get that fix and you built a pole trust
and then they say some other problem you get that one fixed and then you say hey man you know it's you know it's kind of hurts the team is when you're telling the team things that
are negative and if weak ould work together to you you tell me what's going on its negative and then we solved the problem were going to do better team in that's that's my
goldbeaters a team and i see that you're of leader because people listen to you and when you start saying negative things they started thinking negatively cause you just
influential person and and i antithetical over people of something that is going to be can be very beneficial to what we're doing if you wanted to be i want you to want it to be
but you know i'm not you you have that i don't so let's work if you could help me move us in a position to art could be more successful that's the kind of thing i would do here
and and the other thing is you know ask him straight up a one of my doing wrong as leader what can i do better where can i become where can i make more things happen so that way
and what you're doing is your letting down your guard your letting them give me opportunity to hopefully be honest with you about what you're doing wrong and then you can give
them to you can correct those measures now there is a possibility this person is a jerk and when you say what am i do wrong he go back in a this guy's evanuies do i he's just
sea's why you need to take it slowly and i feel the situation out in an make an assessment of how they are going to react to the things and build a little bit of a little bit
leahi tap it all with that person before you go in to what am i screwing because isangaladi cockits even know it he's doing he's asking me what he should be doing so don't the
person secureth up at sir that's where i got to pile relationship first it's like building a relationship that seemed like a very common theme far stretching solutis very much so
you you you take the extreme example of i'm a a hostage taker and year my hostage and i am freaten to kill you what are you supposed to do building of me you aren't get me to see
that as a humor that's what we're talking about the same thing that's an extreme example yet but this is same thing going on here it's a real examp athe way i heard this was story
of his on the news i forget how old the girl was his a kid though a girl kid and he's all she did was glad to this guy who kinducter and he wound up letting her go do you cahessou
alyattis team member that's great clicking do in all this ages of it because he doesn't know you you know then he's he's just going i don't know if you know joculary to me he
hasn't hang out i don't know i ease he's that do i just just so vitesse aration ye some once asperation on it to blab to a moment build a late chipping worgan let that little kid
go ye you know i remember working the night club where you know you have different boxes diffanger they were different ships or whatever to one guy times mat gilmore tall tall
gealous real i do not for whatever he takes it i should could just relate to him you know i was just real nice and another way talked with kine not funny like a comedian but tis
kind of you know some people in they talk it is kind entertaining you know every time every one will don't you certain words that's just cannoned to them is like a like the you
know we feel like him and all holding and he would usually work on friday saturday right he's close was kind o high up and and there's other guns name and on the less is this
other guy and this cat he was like the fool on kind where he he had this air about a worry eat im the the manager of this club kind of thing and on off time he he beat like a
party or something they were cruising or whatever and he talk about how ye you know i'm in the office doing these sexual things with this person and just you know real produce for
october will do she kind of guy in and once i muse a there is this pole lois long time ago there is true you can't go up stairs there was like three levels and up so you can't go
up says like this high and kindelon you can't you wear genus stairs are just the address ci head into it yea now now you would not be ill come for sloanshure or no a on the you
won't even get in a fund of apparently oh it's so one day on my of night i had jean on i went up stairs real quick just to talk to when i friends cake nuts and cause he was up
there and so stockian this guide his manager the one i didn't like he was up there and he'd be like he was a cat the rules applied every one you know be godown stairs so like all
you i'm just i will i'm using talk to him he's like the rules applied to everyone got down stairs like not be nice about it all so my art whatever the offixae when extent be next
week he comes in on his night off jeans upstairs or whatever in as a joke that being a dick as a joke as occasions on elsworthy any like he goes his alawal my title has a bit more
letters than yours does yes see said to me so you know i'm not sure where we're going were very no that elsie that's an example of him not building a relationship with me i
certainly did not latimer when he said that no he was either not he would either i compromised with me the first night the or he would have he would laugh at my don belianis good
point whatever or both he probably would have done both he still friends with machinery the way m okay next wise in light of recent events what is the best course of action when
confronted by an obvious abuse of authority resulting in personal injury due to it innocent person through an instant persalt anato an innocent person that that occurs in one
present at what point is it acceptable to physically engage with the assailant even though the assailant has some kind of authority for a stiuation wait what what's the um
larisaean reconvenes once person on the airplane getting dragged off an initerate was over mightily yeh yeh over booked flight is so we any obvious i guess even put more
reconvenes you know a few if you gaelic officer ianthe's dearest you can have a bouncer you don't sure you have plenteous about your night club days besides his wearing genito
area elsewise big ilation's so so here's what here's an ears my answer that's what he do and when one othing happened first of all the people that are in the situation are wrapped
up in the situation there there emotionally mentally wrapped up in situations situation as escalated they are car in a storm and the year not in the storm your outside the
sorarans people do in they see that ongoloo tell me panic no they pull out their eye homes and they start well orangetainted what they do that's everyone does he oh there's a
fight going on world star let's varaniad even pressed the you know my will yeteve aloud fight on their watch so yeah well case you you learn from the soaking for lack he seemed
human nature in in videos so that's what people do so what you actually want to do as sad a poling out your video it is you want to try and get them out of that moment emotionally
you want to talk to them like a normal person engaged with them you know hey hey sir you need to call down that's just a police officer he doesn't mean any harm a a you know
officer that that guy's not a threat to your itnow you know just take a step back and looks like he's trying to relax you know you want to talk and disengage him get in their
heads to out of those bad scenario sir and you'll be in a calm voice say some things like i said say something in a officer there's a lot of people that are videoing this right
now you know just a lot of people saw what happened so let's it's it's you on't have to do anything else you can let's let's get this person under control i can give you a hand
whatever you know you just want to you and and of course wonota is there initial reaction in me back at you but just back away or if you show up your you don't know and and so you
need it absorbed that i say a look i'm not him not give you any threats at all to yer to help out i don't want to see no trouble don't want you to get in true you just want to
talk to people and get them to to get them out of that emotional storm that there in old sides bold sides because it's a really nasty situation you know when you don't listen to
me when i start to hurt you when i grab your your wrist but say like one of those like a police pain compliance type moves and i grab your wrist and i start to twist it you as a
human being he the natural in instinct in some people might be instant complied by lot of people at the instinctive you grab and arthur the umbria yes i shall on your resistance
your sitting to what i did the unyongo harder and harder i go the more you resist and you see where this is going next thing you know it being you in the head cause i don't know
how do youse a sho called unfortunately because un some areas athoorein so again as the outsider you want to pull them out of that you want to talk to them you want to get them to
see that outside of the emmotion al storm that there in both sides both sides are in emotional storm physical intervention you know now we are talking like this is a serious step
you start stepping into these snares an don't be you want to be very very careful about stepping in news one of the situations and even that physical escalation should be or
physical intervention should be just with the sole purpose of of the escalating right you're not walking over and you'll grab in a guy no an you know it's like a hand on the
shoulder hassertor ah you know kintore you are hey let's just calm down let you will a give your hand getting this person under control young you don't want to get these people to
were now you become ecusson as you do that you just ended the storm you you part of the storm a a even though you're trying not to be your your your entering mistaris you got a be
very very cautious about what you're doing there and you know at what would i do as situation where i saw someone getting you know beat to death you know i'm going to do what i
desayuno now might i go liefer side a lot of experience and maybe i can handle such a ration in discolated physically yeh an you know you see the sometimes where something we ask
lading the innocent civilians will come and help a on officer secure of person so that those there is a waste to do it is you just got to be very very cautious when you do those
twined that because the the other piece of this in any gain you see is on on nut you don't know what happened to get to this point you don't know who that person is who the
perpetrator is right the perpetrator might look to lennont but you don't know any background so when you're such stepping in there you might be steppin in there to defend a person
that you show person or person that just you know got caught doing something or person that really did resist the cops hard and do do some damage so i don't i don't know and i'm
generally going to side with a with a precocity manticora respecting that they that they're doing the right thing i answered a step in there an sarvants is not going to generally
work out in a good way um maybe can help them get the perpetrator under control but um yet to to make the assumption that because a composes you appoint of violence that the cop
is an outer control crazy top is not on accusation you know most likely that the wrong assumption you you cops are not walking around waiting to to to beat the crap out of people
as i will her do it they want to do that when happens it it's something something is generally that up to when we see it in a case that isn't like that that's why we see it rather
now news you is now news ye so be very very careful about that again you know most of the time you know just try and desolated verbally ask if they need the assistance ask if you
can call nine one one form and get more sistance for them as if they need any help to to that you now do that take that approach if you have to physically intervene but especially
if you have some experience you let them know what you're doing do you need me help deniaiser that type of thing i'm sure we'll get a feed back from from some cops on this one and
it'll be good yes yet feel it will onontio to the found sir situation when guy's wood you know a fight would break up so in a club and a fight break breaks out is more chaotic
than you know in the street when you see to gay's fighting so it's a little bit more dangerous when you jumped into the fight to try to break it up because if you just jump in and
grabbed the guy the guide doesn't know if you're trying to break up the fight or if you're usurious on other actor he exactly right so he's in sarch swing in or whatever um and
that's not to mention any of that guy's friends who seize you do that in the dark you know all this you on the dark nellie's whatever so will he might hit you whatever and then
you know pattlecombe it it can be dangerous so if you jump in there with before you even touched the person you you're already saying break what out always say either break it up
or or come down like comtois regulariter you in touch em and they hear that so when they feel you they don't feel upon trout it's like come down town done they feel you kind of
it's more of a light to give it er compared to the the guy who he's fighting with so puncheon of rustling movement yet sick your fractious and escape me a good reminder to if
you're on the outside and you see something like this going on fight if your own that plan he see this this ah this passenger getting roughed up yo ha a a passenger just calm down
do with their tone you to do as do it they're just complied with what they're doing to do you know just relax let them coff you just stroll as you know you can take a you know i
definitely heard a cop say this actually i heard to the guy who was on samaritaness ice you are got in issue with an cops don't you bring it to the court at at your lawyer's
handle it you don't handle it right there is you're going to lose the other on lose that situation you're going to end up her you're going up injured cinye bad sir syria so same
thing tell i tell you if you see someone getting getting roughed up then a gay man were all watching just comply just do what they're telling you to do and take it up to with a
lawyer later destroying get that person to calm down cause i e that's you know chance his arm you're the price officer he's arrested thousands of people for his hand on thousands
of people that person at getting rough up the they haven't they've not been arrested not i can guarantee you that younited faster probably never better rested in his life so here
is an like i said you start to pull me i'm going to resist i always people don't pull me to put a bolabola got an instant going on so in say someone said hey listen just listen to
what they're telling you you need to just calm down you don't want this to get me worse that type of thing ye talk to be full and get them to detach a little bit and i'll be
asleep the united situation as it is this brinier situation worth the gate that's the passengers fall he should a just went with him kind o thing here i mean this all did this
saonaiades all i know but i don't know anything about it alverini saw the guy gettin raced out of the plan that's it that's the only point that of gigantic out of the plane and i
saw the good grace he yea the gracious hoyotoho yourself in that aerie i he is oh yes it's on its dialog story whose they are with that does apply in now if you're getting
arrested or or or taking off the plane or whatever and you choose to fight for your rights right then and there the amen is that a battle that you enyo got to do that you know and
there's consequences to the men you got to do that it's like keeper the expression if you want to be against you got to do kanioff okar it's actually canter shet but but but but
you're not for not advising i'm sayin if you want that beast then you're gonna get that ogalalas so so ye do it but like i say specially with like the the tops of their arresting
you in your life you violate my right sam in a fight you right now for my arias yes if you want to be ukabu it's you're goin to be more you're safer for is often more effective if
you fight for your rights administratively later on and am so no not a pen on attention there but um the oh the cat the when you are helping the coper whatever it's the same way
as if you're bound sir you can identify yourself ennating to like or your sane and it is easy i think too in the colonial ability but at rights to be like all these coperate this
guy up an i see this on you to volatile where the cup just beat up these guise you know so these are bad coperate but it's like anything where when you how you say and made the
news because it's this bad copstone your mind you don't all the good cops in the degeneres all that but they're not on elymians after not on you to get exactly an even if they
were that doesn't stick in your miarenti you since missus usually lineae that in fido of a police offer to his job me okay ye and want to watch that they want you somebody
screwing up and they forget about it it's de totally not in their mind so yet anything scrutiny being screwed up or anything that just has this emotional impact the mitigating
like way more common than it really is so i think it's important to kenoke that in my always yet absolutely next if you have subordinate that hasn't improved after talks and
instruction but kent but you can't fire them because of the union what do you do i radarate good out and i'm in get them to focus on that and ilias a leader that's tureas a leader
you got to make your tea members if you got tenebrosity can't get rid of for whatever reason and there not quite doing what they should be doing it a not up to speed what can they
do what can they offer to the team when i find out what you're going to pesantes on that satisfies some disruption because you know achokin move ten bricks a day and everyone else
is moving two hundred and were now every one's all mad cause echoes not work and not carin his load well i'm in a olowan him to look for a job for him where he's no one sees him
carrot not carrying bricks right hay as sad as he and that you're going to organize the breaks over here in account tiernan break your weak yes so you're going to be britoner
zoomed do i'm just going to change up in a final with they can do that's what mates you have to do is leader and by the way machination him i might not i might not invest it
tontine but i'm going to keep sane you know if you are to move from counting britton breaks which got to do is rich gotta do you got to keep working you got to keep getting
stronger to work on your dead left worthy know gain a little bit stronger she can carry more breaks so thet you know and that happens doesn't just happen cause a union it happens
for one all different conditions the military you can't eat you get a guide that he is in a situation where yet he's not going to get we're not going to let him go and you don't
we've got to keep eamont of people in country okay so this guy's wanted people in contorno lowed to git in a coat my bucketed maybe you can compratela can be the best brick count
are we got yeah you might have to do a little iceolation to interest isolate him a little bit but it again because you don't want people thinking oh echoes over there you in the
air condition then he isn't due doncas loanda can cause problems yet in jock's just let it out to a allaleinhorn you know so you might have you got you figure the sou how do you
isolate them a little bit how you make sure that they're working else maybe you can only count breakspeare warior hours you know do in some other thing to make up for your slack
in the brick carrying category yet fattening as a leader when you get somebody that doesn't quite do what they need to do and you can't get rid of them find out what they can do
and take advantage of it using the best of their ability for sporting the yet can a seems like him in giving when you said that i mean this might dumont much but it's a situation
where you are making the best of it reason what i found in life when you make the best of something you don't get plagued with it because it little to tenaros one you making best
of it to your not so when you're not it's goin to be burtingtonians moving ten bricked after a bother me every day don't have to by the way you're a still going to move the
ermanaric we're going to get the same amount of work done ten bricks under to edicate ver but meanwhile you're getting tortured all day because you that the fact that economies
many breaks or ease their condition room whatever that's bothered me everything there but if you understand that were making the best of the situation that's not going about
either were mining the best of it oh it's the best situation very true better attitude you make the best of the sitch nectori ego is the enemy and can you take that too far i can
joke about myself all day and be okay but also i don't want coworkers not to take me seriously is the last actually kind to questions it's talking about go and at socketing around
right i wear those or to efening lane bed like self deprecating nay i and so can you can you be too humble and put your eagle in so much check that it hurts you yes actually you
can't you know hey koos a going on and charge em i'm really horrible at that i just don't know what i'm doing right then that's not ed i you'll asiki said to her the ring loetari
and i tell me going in to check in and say hey eyes i you know i just don't iosco here just got out of the base school on no anything really i don't fall i i no ballatorial it
about suited her kin you be over we humble yes mythisticum that you don't know everything but that doesn't mean don't be well prepared it doesn't mean don't be confident that you
can figure things out at dozen mean you can't ask god questions right it doesn't mean that you don't report in without knowing the nomenclature and the fundamental right that's
going to inyoko i joadai but he knows what are missions ben he knows what a misintent is he knows why how are basic process is he already looked at all that he knows every one's
name ah i'm prepared i i'm prepared so that's what you want to be that's not saying a noyoudont nosegay or no no that's not a'talking about so don't be overly humble most people
the reason i talk about the other one of be hemolysis case most people tend towards letting the binat as a most people tend towards so i tend to talk more about akeepin jack when
you are jacket causes be leros are of looking bad they say well i noted do this i never see it for i don't how to do that never seen it before genelli hey guys hey about abington
charge this i know you has been doing it for a while looking forward i learnt from you and how you executed and and driving forward and keeping ticking asked in this mission
setting we get matthat hum it that's a lot different then he gies i have no idea what's happening at too much i so don't go there be humble but not not passive putrein shack but
don't turn into a baby or i the death second part of this is cashibos gilkin around too much in that you that's different from too much ego and absolutely you can joke around too
much now of course and we talked about this a good team and i good leader there having fun pehave fun with everything that a doing it i always had fun i was at forteau all the
time i'm having fun but it's all you do is jorund all the time then when it comes time for the joke to be over people will take a serely so that will be problematic you i had a
rule that was no joking on the radio but so if you were on orado you aren't allowed to take my jokes no don't come radio and what's cool about because you don't and task in a
bruiser when i was a potencies a system concreter we had fallen all the time we laughed we jove o we had a blast overthing we did no joking on meridian you didn't say that was a
rear no joking on the radio and what was good about it was as i think back to that what that translated to was we're not joking around in the field and that expanded look one were
briefing were not joking around it was a very clear distinction of course did people have we had things happen altafiord oh my god this is larf course that happened but the
general ninety nine per cent of the time ninety five per cent of the time was a werinhard were working we are serious that's the priority depone feel yes did i laughing i feel yes
but the priority and the norm was we are going we are serious and we are of that the priority so don't joke so much that you don't get taken sersaon i'm i was with the senoreena
off terming an officer re stars and we went to go brief i i wasn't attached this uniform they went to a brief this unit or or we went to go receive a brief from a unit and in the
brief in a power point side these guys had been put a lie in that was an inappropriate side and it was a rod joke and and it was really funny i i i thought it was really funny
hell i think all that's pretty funny that these has dinaousal the sly they had enough there and it was completely inappropriate and and and vulgar right that's what it was they
didn't know this general anna and he was a very straight laced guy and didn't appreciate that kind of huerne have like the welcome side benecia came up was his inappropriate
fulgarit full azette was as it was it was there was inappropriate for a lot of it that and any no it was like there was a chuckle in the room and at the same time there was
nothing but silence in the room i could feel the discomfort and an instant i like i said i thought it was funny and i knew it wasn't going to go over well so i saw a is not good
and the reason i'm telling this big long story as i have another rule don't put jokes into your slide in power point he no jokes because you can you can articulate the joke could
you go feel the root she what's going on you can get it get a taste you get a feel for them if you if you walk in if they would have had a chance if i could have said for ease the
first slides up you even been met the general here for for five minutes do you want to move that side to be like oh absolutely it given out of exiguities a serious guide and not
you know one to be that now wants to be seen that kind of thing it didn't take wasn't hardest you pretty easy book to read but you have that opportunity there was no hold on or
going to do leave this side is no bear was to welcome it was though it was after the side of you now this is where we are or it was the welcome slide and i said so to jokai now
jupiter slide disciplines clean and and of the risk benefit you tell a good joke hey that's great you get you know to credit i if your joke is bad and considered an appropriate
its negative thirty nine eunana yes no or it yet then again i'm all about you know you are you want have fun you when your breathing you want people to be entertained and have fun
when you don't want to have it appropriate stuff no i so that's that for both these for both these things mijok in too much maybe into serious and i you know is my ego too big or
by being too humble you it's balance to dicoteles in you got to find the right spot in the middle e got a check yourself and you got a you don't any of your team is joking when
they shouldn't be joking des what dear leading the wrong erection is if you're denis sambur and dozen have any spirit you are not having a good enough time so you got a find a
balance there same thing with ego you know or people talking with you in communicating with you and being open with you and telling you when they disagree with things are as no
one talking to you as if that's the case your ego so big that they don't want an to hum so find the decameron a balance between those two then that's a good when it if they're ah
if they're not talking you i'll do because you know how i at work you talking with your friends you know and then then somebody comes that person come who here like of you know ye
for whatever reason he mouserly talking about them or not i but they come in your cot you got to stop become position you know the that's like a little indicator you know if you
roll up to it you see people across the room talking and you're like heat elosia cool conversation or whatever or a gosy i'd a pot whatever and you go and they stop talking and
they stop like laughing they do stop talking and they give you like small talk or whatever the eendian ye ye it's an undegenerate actually eat one of those too if people having a
good time and you walk in and they stop laughing oh de taka and if you you walk in on her having a conversation as they don't stay as you know don't want to talk to you your lives
there probably the april like your begets appenine face so but you you go in check were got time for one more one more that jocund do you ever get worn down by everything you're
trying to do and the things going wrong and things not working and having to work so hard only to come up short what do you do that of course he of course of course i get more now
of course i get fresh straight in with stuff of course things don't always go my way and of course i come up short sometimes of course but what do i do when those things happen i
keep going it's as really that simple i put one foot in front of the other i moved forward another an another sentiment i write one more sentence i i i place one more brick on the
wall i got through one more work up i i step out on to the man one more time because because worn down isn't beaten and frustration is not going to kill me and the things that
don't go my way they just turn into targets that i'm going to attack harbor and when i do come up short okay cause i just learned one more thing that's going to get me over the
top so at those moments at those low points those times when it seems that the feet is starting to get the opera hand you don't need some grand plan and you don't need a pet talk
and you don't need a miracle we just need to keep going deep going just keep going and don't stop regardless of what you are hit with because if you don't stop yourself the
nothing else can and nothing else will and i think that's all i've got for tonight so echo he went don't you go ahead and talk about how we can the sport this poast if we want him
if we want to fence support yourself if we want you which we do by the way so i up an on it an it supplements physical and mental weather so i think i you know i don't know if we
failed to mention this or we just been mentioning it a little bit less which is affabilitee like we haven't talked about obatat much recently been taken it by the way but not talk
about it um this is good case so it's a new tetecala new tropic or new tropic something we topic i'm like the help you bring newtorn bone directly so to forms the instant sapoteae
up with you garreteer whatever dudont you horserider it it doesn't you yosemite it on its own right rather too flavors but who he often there's peach and then there's natural
spite and take it he too flavors taste exactly like what they found what their name that dates taste like peach yes and natural spice in all natural spice kick to put it also
gottlich bigot o natrolite it's what i was waiting i didn't know those people i have both what it is on this one is all is waterall face beatrice de it to but they have they they
they taste sweet right so you don't need to miss you regenerate and you shouldn't be raving terranan way counts just poncasar rank in water eneon but we'll say so so electorates
and none the less make it with whatever you want man um or just portento your rights power that's the thing compared to the castle so whatever you like now the one the potencies
instant so i goes your brain quick quicker thus just in a sumption none less and if lady does which is cool so you know how i yeow're talking to somebody and you blink out on some
something like somebody's name no the soteriology me work yes entitas indefer wait and before we were eglantine a eowawa were according to live clientes acquaintance i did have
enough help or bring no tell it before we were recording thing no i well they is either way that's what it does you need more offering no no i think you do i think i am right
because i took to these and i think that that i'm care none the less doesn't even matter because what it does is it makes you do that like wayleal don't even do it and i'm a don't
i mean maybe that's a deficient something about some kind of deficiency on that happens you know what i call brain for a married abingdon you don't get procuresh leg as actor you
brain essentially you know how it gasconades you don't you don't do that you'll have to think of words anywhere they just come home for now i don't want i kind o don't want to
ring herself but i will anyway because i don't want to give people by us what i don't you can tell a cognate by asserts but if you heard people like your brother joses when he
takes alfagrano dreams get all crazy he is it that's another thing that i have i've seen i've talked to the people that that get more vivid dream it with the alphabet ah so that's
another thing just to beware of ye now just i want i don't want it what kind of colonists that that's not a cut of a availability by us because i set it now your waiting for
insinooate visiteuses the apparatus all red red that's like that alice bofe ye i guess we duration it something you tributary all yea to anyway that is a bisogna notice that your
dreams become more vivid in i don't notice it but i've heard some people say are your agatated indagatis one of those deadened it before even her in well i used like all that like
a good thing he didn't it wasn't a complaint to that's the thing lustration but yet i like i do i have lustre i have savage knife arioi have to wake up in our seniorities in
elbing field savage nightmare ye don't need that we're not going to visit soon hopefully that doesn't happen to you fur the benefit that i am going to claim atenshun do by the way
in a double blind placebo test official of foreign help with your like recall like your memory and all that stuff which that essentially what it is when you think about it you
when you charged woolard bull that reconoitering that's how offering the afoot to do something where you got to think and talk a lot which is an every man gin that alphabet and be
glad you didn't i i took what i used to do a lot so before i before i knew how to switch to manual mode regardless i would take a pre work out and alabama it helped was money yes
actually come on my better work out on that little formulas i just kept doing it but you don't need do something over and over again whether it heasyoasy or otherwise you just you
tend to lose that yet are eyetalian all the time ye is yet in a way of illinois alphabetage in old time rigon the regular lad he in the blood yes on my moraled with like the the
direct effect of albani my memory and recall it was more about the kilmoro i got you know that all who see bo by the way it's for layman be not though that's the thing or maybe i
was just thinking more woolston know this more enjoyable work out gold ave been that perhaps an be maybe not something less stick to the evidence in the proof you'll recall stuff
better a memorem things better scroll day a ride well i'm also like at that strongbeerum ber few weeks back on the eratostratus now you have your alone the dthe facts strontium
sontheim his thinkyou read the same so calcium is death a that's the the flag ship element mineral elements whatever calcination that gets all the credit for your bones sicyon the
strong to is like the step child like is far as recognition but strange is super important nolook when you get old and whatever but that's what that's a strain on interething
strong tea yes you think it's strong bone make you one strong which i think that's unpurposely little plan or you think so at reeves achaiya take that strabo i did it cause as you
know it by sibeery ten in a moisture off from a bone so if i'm still lift after the curls whatever i said it i don't need that thing ripping off one tender it is only problems one
issues got on that strong bone also i take cruel oil jack you take rill affirmative i think you've been taking for oil longer than i had ankinson i say i think i mean i know
macrom even though i've been here in about great things about cruel from day an so anerton the croil that helps with joints i give to you this fear said this before i will say
again i give you the feeling where in his physically as that emotionally he egerton is a hero feeling to if i slit your finger you're going to steal attrato this letter yes and
not a good i'll get you feel like like if your sitting down for a long time and then i grinned up yet why you talk about a e what i stationarii stand up all your uncurl so you
intestine stand up if great trainers here like we were like a few weeks ago it great turns like he wasn't on the crill we all stand up after the same amount of time to ours is he
will be compelled to be like a make that sound not crazy but who be compelled to make that's how whether makes you not he's got a feel like make it at me i won't you you won't
crow makes your joints young again folker you and help to yes what but if you you all seriousness if you are like lifting weights going hard yes i royetta cruel ill i mean the
ward on get it do that on it dot com if you want temperato he go on it dotcom flush joco she best creel too as i think you can get lame ciliary maybe not anywhere but in other
places will say but the real deal that good stuff is on it to one lame growl from nine gril yes you are littered cartaret's true eolie em siouri steenie it you can get junk a sit
like the reject as i ain't paid like cheaper austero luciscope good price anyway and it emerson off for on durham flashed cocassier of none the less back to us say buries you can
get this young kind intreaties junk or sabers and then take good i say he buries brought the differences like you can tell the different big time it's like night and day thanein
with the cruel who take the good on man forget the lamottes my opinion anyway good in other good way to support but cat monklike all you do before you do any of your amazonian
click through the website jocko's potassium i got a little hint from somebody in the field that said he when you tell people to do amazonlike what you should delleston there
significant other delict through m for instance in my case my wife buys more things on mason than i do i'm in the game i'm supporting the pot cast or but what of my wife doesn't
know about the click through right she needs a getting a game ye desierto just you do it get your family get your wife get your dear husband they're not be game get him in a game
yeaters lot of time i a lot of them to the other spouse is buying the stuff on amazon yes and they don't houseporter right they don't know about that website or they're just less
than pelote forgot ye and you don't really technically you don't know if they're forgot or not you know if you're clever her disfranchise i knew the irradibit but i heard it to
reinforce it or some people they will click through and before they do shopping they get that you little yourana favourite save it to to bocal it book marks both to me in an top
so a bominis there it's a it's a front of your head now a good way to support small action takes what three seconds is that i that i and huge supports like huge reinforcements
inforcement actually that's all strong supported it watching bigaroon you like sodium when you throw it in water anyway subscribed to the pot cast if you want i do carelessly
gratitude example you can think of a ounainetai were good over here ye can think redooced you want i do stitcher goolahs placating providing platforms and you know you'll get a on
the list you know each click on my pocantico it'll beat beat the noon updated every week fleckings quick preplanned the search any more you don't need do that you go on there and
you aleme see this pocasset search but cassatt tibetan on you you will foam suction not that big a deal but i even less of a big deal of you subscribe me just quick on my porges
bone up dated automatically right there so soiseubuda a picasso good way to support every few if here in the mood chuckled something extra dog and i had liked that livery vieill
free like it that i don't want what you call that muzzle like you put on the dogs to feed out homonoea the were not tread a malanie how tiron a muscle over here for some days and
it's a good that you exercise at no molepolole and i think that posishun extent you any one who's listening and one the part this widecast at what i think and apparently that's
what you think too and i like to obviously yet so subscribed also so scripto be awe of you to gentle i know i say every week and he say again i'm sae this week we have you to co
video version of this podcast is on that you too chill which is cool obvious right but with strong recommendations from jackal from others only they recommended that you cut out
little excerpts put em on you to even make a play less which i did in did o did all that stuff for there's exerts on their feintise to three minutes of jocolino on agin at home
jim what what equipment makes a good home jim you won't listen to that poem available there how should i approach college bolt chock was at visit there so these ex i think they're
that actually the more it kind o look at him and stuff i think is a valuable situation in you can share me asian people way more likely to listen to lexington you're trying to get
one up you know eleanore so you do subscribe to that good way to support good ways aport also jackassdom palled jocatore if you want to wear the shirts and represent without the
noon's we got oneion there oh but regardless of new ones old ones with ever just go in there see if you like on he get one good way to support and boom the shirt also hates rash
guards with your not my words other people's words were pretty do so you know a furent activity that you like range of motion or any one to represent any one support get a rash
guard that boogord em for digestion but that if ye if you if you sure if you you know do cross fit macons what not sickling run marathons inlisting all things that people send me
pictures of them doing in their ashtaroth's on going down this with other stuff if you do all that perfect for that too very perfect can something people are perfect to a perfect
are not right the vine it erway his wines on there ah some patches salgir regulation size and color um who is as well all so maybe the travel moon there may be not not a less full
of more but the troublehunter next time also o jocatore outcome i think i said that but you know there is a reminder joltram the watseka good way to support and support yourself
psychological warfare what aological or fare is i know said it before him sat again psychologic orfer is an album with tracks not music tracks jocound if you are you know i'm
starting to not like the word self improvement irony don't like that word right yet kinda langlande to we agonising the ah it and i'm to the point i'm like midway through not like
in it both you the phases is like to bloomy here something like okay that's going except a wool man fades like that's cool but i don't like how it sounds one i say it and then the
last phases you don't you just don't want to hear i'm in even so but i'm going to use it you don't for just for the greater good if you're on a self improvement pat journey
journeyeth ones words dash you know your waking up early your doing work out now consistently your consistent consistently eating good where about studying or reading getting
smarter to yestiddy reading em you don't writing even anything creative you don't pen when you that and that's the thing that joseppi they're like hash should do this i should
write my evil cori should i should do a journal every day or wotever you know and they'll do it one day and then they just won't do it any more you know that's the thing so an you
bet i regard the what you doing these tracks i got your part these tracks will help you through this at times of weakness if you're trying to get up in the morning and if that day
you know if you had a long night and a hard worked out that morning that you're looking forward to or not looking forward to and you like you on on a disconserlate skip the work
up you listen to a certain one or two or three of these tracks it's joconde you through that moment of weakness and you will work out you will wake up early on perceivably with
very few if any exceptions also on amazon the while you're quick and though you can get em some jackalent which he has some pretty good effects i i just pull a couple of use out
this one here says drinking jocka's white tea as had the follington my life getting after it up fifty five person extreme ownership up named to present and also by the way cousin
all danaan red an eight per cent on that angerton also dead left when from three twenty five to five fifty five twenty polonaises of five solid that's good improvement i only get
anyone who for all he went in a row instead of instead of i i yet good there's another person that drink the tea had thought that this was important because it's could happen
other people olaso this person bought some jocolate tea for myself and my next work out was so aggressive i got a strongly worded letter from the u n see saw stilites self i don't
i don't like seeing you at involvement on our work out but if you're not careful it might happen and also is another person had talked about front squatting at but you know one
person to has been drinking jackats now front squatting about two thousand petellin schockin deal a double triple quadruple placebo ultimate test i fall as i see embers ye don't
be a ackwainted and it is good also right now what warrior kid it's out we've been waiting for it i been waiting for it boom thinks every one for picking it up getting a copy if
you haven't got it yet get it you know what you probably don't be bayonet if you need it may be think you don't need it so let acer be exterior you now this is young mark he
couldn't do any pups he could do napoleon fifth grade counting false sir getting made fun of her laugh out in case he can do any polyps his uncle uncle jake he stays with him from
the summer uncle jackson selem uncle jake get im on the work out program what you and i kindlier to as the program yet tom on the program and it's been a few weeks now and uncle
jake realizes that marian doing negatives he's been doing assisted pull up and he's been doing the peer mads but just a hanging on the bartonage things getting ready her and uncle
jake realized an now he's ready to do his first poupee says to him you know kay you're going to get on you can do your first port to day no go to the back to the book vere you go
he said giddup get on the bar and here's young mark i was filled with fear every time i had tried in the passamented how hard i pulled i could never get my chin over the bar now
with uncle jake standing right here after all the work he is down with me i just didn't think i'd be able to do it i stood there looking up at the bar well what he waiting for
said uncle jake i slowly stepped up on the box and reached up for the bar the bar was cool in my hands and i noticed something that i hadn't thought about my grip in the past to
my grip always felt like it was going to slip off the bar my grip felt different now i felt strong i concentrated and then after taking a big breath i pulled and i went up and up
and up and soon my chin cleared the top of the bar as i had done it i let myself down solely and dropped off the bar i lookit my uncle he had big smile on his face a big smile he
was happy and i was even happier i felt so good i looked at uncle jake else as i curled both my fist towards my shoulder like i'd seen weightlifter doing magazines and i could
actually tell for the first time in my life i started in to get some mules buffing huge but they were certainly there mossman mark i shouted as proud as i could be then i saw
uncle jake smiled disappear hold on there mussleman said uncle jake i didn't know it was wrong but something was i think it's been early for a celebration early i just did the
first polpo my life i think it's a perfect time for a celebration i told uncle jake that's problem uncle jake said a problem why is a polluere not the poet mark the celebration it
is way too early for celebrating but i just did my first poupee but your goal isn't one poupoule goal is ten pups you did an sure you have a reason to be happy one pull up his
better than didn't hero but it's a long way from ten no matter what you're doing in life you can't take your eyes off the long term goal as specially to celebrate you can assess
you can try and figure out some lessons learned from what you did right and what you did wrong you can even do a little celebrating for the small victories but don't go overboard
you need to keep your head in the game so come over here gimme a high five and they get back over there and start doing more work on the polota this is only the beginning i walked
over to uncle jake who brought his hand up in the air i slapped it hard and he said solid work to get back over there and get after it yes sir i told them this the little mother
little lesson for uncle jake can't get croppen you make the little chievement got a keeper i on the ball self that's it check out that book order it we the warrior kid it's a
kid's book that's what they're telling me i think we all gone a little something from it i know i learned from right it corseleted book called discipline equal freedom for you
manuel and it's were dilating right now is going to come out octopuses it isn't a work out book it isn't a philosophy book it isn't a fotograf book it isn't a diet book got all
those things in there but how do you categorize it were going to powitt it in the book store where is it going to be where's it going to be on amazon you now here's going to be
where it's going to be in the get after a category and you know what tone only book in there so you can order that one you you also order three moleship of course if you want to
lead and win you can get that book for you and your team if you need some leadership training alive you can contact our company asolando aslantwise ship and management consulting
business we teach your company be led with the same principles of leadership that we learn in combat so if you want to get us in the game with you email infula asolando calm we
have the muster zeroooooo up at the myriorama quis may fourth and fifth leadership strategy tacked i if he had don't make that one desha's okay taxis july thirteenth and
fourteenth at the omnibuckus and spot the meteorite up the straight up don't come from the spot and not gone the spot if you can make the one in texas san iego september fourteen
on fifteen follow on operation been there once will come i back to gain come get your leadership tamon improve yourself as a lean as a personal will see you at one of those
masters look forward to it when or not the masters we can be found on the interets on tier on insterment be harassing on that face as he bore but echo is at echoes and i am at
jacquelin then everybody for listening and force supporting and for asking these questions and for helping us do what we do to the military personnel overseas all of you are
deepest thanks and appreciation for your service and sacrifice stay safe the best way the stacades to stay aggressive to the police fire fighters tent verse responder tenesti
sharp training hard and standing watch for us here at home and to everybody lessening life isn't easy in it's not supposed to be sure there's victories and there is triumph but
there's also loses and set backs but those losses in set backs only win effie let them so don't let them don't let them win no matter what happens keep going keep getting after it
so until next time this is echo and jacko out
