this is jacopo cast number seventy four with echo charles and me jackwell goodeley echo gieing now i always dog music and i'm pretty sure it started when my dad would play a hank
williams senior on the eight track in his i think it was a nineteen seventy one barracuda then he put that trip that tape just over over again and i still know those songs by
heart and an you know i got i was when i was a little kid and then i got a little bit older and like a lot of kids allison i was listenin to the beetles sure less bought they were
great i still think that's on while my guitar gently weeps as a good song but that a war out kind of quickly and it was something wasn't there and that music something just wasn't
quite there the music didn't sound how i felt and then in nineteen eighty eight c back and black a came out at it was popular for it ichoula and so it went into my ears at some
point and is it an all right better closer sir warmer were getting there and then i washed around in the hard rock for a while and rick led zepplin and i can't help throwing it on
the little jack black when i say that you watch that tribute that he did to them and that you know some of the kids that i hung around with a new wing on they rode that train down
to hippitha you know we're talking crosby stills and nation janejahan in the grateful dead and all that i couldn't really wasn't there didn't get there didn't seem to reflect the
world that i was beginning to see myself i got on the other tray right and we're talking about van halen yes this is the nineteen eighty you know if you were a kid in america age
thirteen we got issued the albuminate four by venta was just a given you are goin to get that god is your diver down boom you need to listen this is is rocked a rope he be this is
eddy man he listened to that tarsal you rob shiite again you again i made right actual song called trooper you know you've got i listened that when you're a kid and i so now i'm
hadenter drachin feeling it starting to reflect what the things are like in my head and then there was that day where i got an album called black sabbath by a band called black
sabbath and the first song is also called black sabbath and i put that on and boom i had found something that sounded like i was thinking and from there i was definitely on the
right train then it was motored and soon after the remote boom and then that leads to the sex pistols cause you're just going harder that's what you do that's what i was doing
took what's a little bit harder than that which a little bit harder that sex lisbon no feeling there singsongs no feelings okay i hear what you're saying louder more anger and
then find me we get to black flag my war sighed too still one of my baltimore minor threat get hold of a little band another little band from dic called the bad brains some
detroit hard cord negative approach and then so i was you know as contain the game right in either and so eighty seven rolls around and one of my friends who was actually more for
metal head at this time he gives me a cassette resister in the day when you are just going to have to listen cassettes and they were usually dull at the forty seven times from
somebody elswith i had this was the real fate and this is the real deal but in an actual original with the full cover on it everything and the cover of this tape was is a giant
mushroom cloud of death and destruction and above the mushroom cloud in large old english script blazing across the top it said crow mags okay and then underneath the mushroom
cloud in little bit smaller script in old english i said the age of corral okay so i put it my tape back sure and a pressly and the first track it hit me like a train and it's the
first track was called we got an o and let me just tell you lyrics sure struggling in the streets just trying to survive searching for the truth just to keep us alive got a break
these chechakoes got to break these chains the only way will do it is for use our brains there's got to be some meaning to the purpose of life i know they must be more than the
struggle and strife looking for the answers and in need a clue but my mind is so to stir now what do i do now i can tell you i was not struggling in the streets but like most
teenage kids i did feel some shackles right feel the shackles of things and i was looking for answers and i needed a clue and so was like on ye well on to something the next tale
trot had ye a little worried lo concerned because you know like i said there was not a kit would take in the hippy rout and sales nod into that the next song tiled little
concerned it was the song with called world to peace as i was kind of low oared flag and then i listened to lear lear all you hip he's better state start to face reality are you
all your far fetched dreams of anarchy better start to see things the way they are because the way things are going they won't be going far world peace can't be done it just can
exist will peace can't be done and archie is a mass okay and no rest the all kept up that of salt on my brain on my attitude and that was it i'd found something called hardcomes
and it i never really left it and i listened to croasan a ton of other hard core bands from that time until now and that's pretty much essentially the sound track of much of my
life mahaderi big influence on me and i was an attitude that i kept throughout my life and it was my own interpretation i can tell you that right now was my own kind of you know
you listen to the lyrics and you can of apply what it means in your world that's what i did which to me was presembled because to me hard corn men hard corona's what that's pretty
simple hard corn everything you do work hard be aggressive don't back down fight for what you believe and hold the line and that's kind o what i did in my life and i don't know
like a year ago or something somebody asked me something about you know an on the interweb some one said oh you winwood what man should i listen to the now said oh babbabooma you
know check them out whatever and you might want to do that and eventually on you know it's the the internet is in a tremble thing and eventually i i a the founding member of the
crockaire harvey flannigan like reached out to her was up man how you do it and i had heard over the years you know that harley was edged to get guy back belch and geo answer you
know he is codham up and a venture you know we were talking and and he said a got a book come out sonnet and i said to it down he said man the books crazy i slike yeah you know
yeah i know man cause you n has brown that the cool i get it is kind of crazy and he's acknown no ma'am it's it's crazy and i said okay cook so we send it to me and then i read
the book and delia i had no idea actually i go simple of an idea you know cause in in the hard course in people know each other i mean like you know that you know to you after a
show you talk every one and it's the band members its people everyone kind of know as each other so i heard stories but the book when the reality behind the stories was was way
more intense and crazy that i could have a thought it was in her was one point when i was reading the book in a red little excurrit now and it is said this this is hardly when i
started working on this book i was staying in a hotel in the red lake district in iran amsterdam the working title was the longest suicide note ever written i was trying to
document the madness from as far back as i remember until we end the story of my life as an insane suicide old joy ride of rock and rolled the pravity and demise until the final
crash of burned it was going to be a book that all the great tuckup never got to write because they died first so began working on it i figured the end would have come sooner than
later but i was wrong an once i got done reading the book i i reached out the harlands d a man there's a lot in this book that's crazy and the fact that you live through in the
fact that you've got through it and the fact that you got to the position that you're in now with your life i think a lot of people can learn from it and be one with you come on
the pork cast and hardly said let's do it so hawlying welcome to the shouts great to be here thank you for having then asked it's awesome and i saw you several times when i was a
kid and we were trying to figure out name of clubs ri saw you but the law was pretty cool it's pretty cool to be sitting here i guess we're talking about a thirty years later you
know i was seeing you and i was in my teens fourteen thirteen fifteen around there and here we are pretty amazing trip we've had since the rein you sally i i when i i ask people
and you know talk about where you come from quickly and kind o where you grew up and we don't spend a lot of time there because most people didn't really do anything significant
that hadion term impact on their lives when they're like eight nine ten years old right but for you i mean when you were eight nine ten years old ship was already crazy yeh yeh
reads was very much great from the star yea i won to ominous kind of pull a little something here all the book just to give a little bit of background this is from harley's book
hard core life of my own i was born at san francisco general hospital on marchienne sixty seven at the start of the summer of love my mom's name is rose marie palepite and my
dad's name was harley wan walker flanagan my mom was a hippy my dad was a drifter and somehow their paths crossed before the hippias my mom was in to all the early rock and roll
stuff mouton and pretty much all the music that was happening which she was young her father an felianine want value came from the dear the dominican republic came to america
through ellis island by himself when he was in his early teens and one of the first was on a first to medicate join the united states army served in world war two were placed in
the military band that i we got his citizenship by serving in the military use one of the funniest people i have renew worked all kinds of different jobs everything from building
a building super to a longshoreman was a charming guy with a thick spanish accent so that's the beginnings essenians a course a little bit o a you got that year yes now you
continue on my mom was a go go dancer and like so many people she was caught up in the whole drug culture of the sixties when i was a kid she was still a stripper i remembered
going to work with her a few times and i was little that was weird looking back on it now there was even a short period of time when she was a dominatur but that was later my dad
left home for good around the same age as me maybe fourteen or fifteen and started writing freight trains he liked to live from moment to moment and from everything of her yet a
serious dugnall his shoes most of his life he was always in and out of prison hard to accept that your dad chose her awin and alcohol over you it really does kind of hurt even now
i guess that might be one of the reasons why turned out the way i did my mom and me didelot of hitchhiking and stayed with lotte different people lottery shot happen on those
trips at one point a friend of hers was going to europe and asked do you want to come and i mam was like i'm getting the fuck out of here she did and i went with her i was
probably around three or four that was that i never saw my father again i stayed in europe pretty much until i was about ten but i come back to states every year or so we settled
down and denmark nineteen seventy one then mark in being as culture are very wholesome it's a great place to grow up but of course there is an under side to in the sixties and in
my case the late sixties and seventies he was cool and certain aspects and wasn't so cruel another's you had all these people fucked up on drugs and all the free love everybody's
folking everybody and it's not really the best environment for a kid to grow up in and it's cooler some of the things and a lot of the people were a lot of them were at least some
of them or just fucking lost and ye all the kids were wild what do you expect i mean we were just in imitating the grown ups so as a result i was getting late and doing all kinds
of other crazy ship before i'd even reach puberty you basically had a bodilie kids is going off you always hit ye kids with their happy parents seeing all kinds of craziness of
duller unning around naked people doing drugs being insane that ship rubs off on kids than the did you completely think that was normal at the time was that just the way the world
was as the way my world was am i didn't realize really that we were a so different from the rest of society until my parents tried to put me into a regular school and of course i
stagefolk with laithe kids because i had long hair and you know i didn't and i really fit in and ah my parents looked like freaks and now as when it really hit me and it was also
i went from being at that hippy school to be in in very strict school in denmark which was like real old school and bradridge so it was total the holter sallie what the fox you
know and am so i started cutting school lot and going back to the free school to visit all my friends there and just hang out and a free school that's that's where you started me
as a that's we started playing for you in much you know i mean i was always in music thousandth first place there facilitated it you know like they that was one of the cool things
about that school was um day really a pushed the arts you know they the whatever the kids interests were they would give you the ability to pursue that unfortunately they were
also very lax so if like you didn't have the interest in pursuing mathewites they'd be like oh well you know he's just not interested in a eunoias to be a musician and and it's
like you know as me as we all know is parents is like you know flickaty need to imitate a to you madeira shathmont ease your brain you know it not just about you know gratifying
your artistic and creative interests because that's not going to always pay a luckiness not but it was it was cool it was i it was cool and certain waste latration know they ah my
matteaurian actually from the states he was from the brown and ah he was a dresdener and played stand up base and he really was a big inspiration on the musically and he so you
know he gave me some tools either that came in handy later in life the forsure is so you would listen in two actually got your first gig in like like you a plain little santana
confers a wine gang called on my list ingineers good that i in my school band was cool with a wee let yet yes now they were fucking ingianiuty i know one stuff you know i mean we
will plan but like i said he am my matter he was one of the band leader so you know you got a guy from the bronx who egazoo be teaching all his little danskin musically what's
really going on right and goes in ten market a time things with you know iaowania i no i mean so i was like i do for you not so yet my school was cool as far as music and a
counter culture and all that ship but then you know them well as he as you may have seen in the book really then when no my mother volee turned me on to the sexless that's what
really do that changed everything the only you know i moellhausen eye of lower the sex pestal polehanger everything for me and and at that time like a goat one second are set in i
remember coming a stately with the band that i think the school band dispoint o i remember coming off stage when night meegies noyette i was hanging out with they were like you
know that lady you came with which was your mom she's in the bathroom she's not feeling too good i went in the bathroom in my mam was throwing up all over the place that kind of
ship was he kind of come down here that reality that after a long mameluke up you know well things like that they stay with you forever but um you know to to her ah she died she
did so abrupt eventually and you know she's she so benporben son in the eighties though the day she died she was cleaning in no you know ah you know people fall victim to
justabout it hard to police elout her but eventually she did you know unfortunately i had to witness a loteria ridiculous shit but oh you know i don't think there's such a thing
as a perfect parent you know val no no doubt about that and your mom she did plica she gets you the sextillion he'd like you said in her he said well that was that yes yes a fit's
almost conscenso when i was saying here regognize but till that point i unground with all these little hippy kids i had long asked her so we were really already little freak we
walk around the streets people would give us looks and ship out on us our parents and teachers had long hair and beards and ship like that but then pukro came about and this was
more appropriate for me it was an a piece and love that was just more me the music was raw and the imagery and the craziness of pealed to me it was energetic and a big factor for
me was you have to aspire to be jimmy hendrie aft to be carlo saint anna so you you listen at music and you say you know what i can just play it i ithacan do this you see to play
that i now as i can have finenesses is you know you don't need to rack your brains to figure out how dishonust do it you know your power cortesana noonday just need some asatoma
then all you need manesalutantes funny as i i always tell people to about music if you go to a catasto anywhere in america and you put up a little flyer in there that says you
don't i need some one that can play every note in the following three albums you know and you pick completit rush and hard under a two elbe they'll be you'll get ten people
that'll see i can pay all that stuff i'll playplay for you and now but there's go and all those guys in your lot of those guys unless they have that thing lest they have that
sincerity that you're talking about and they have that little spark of creativity it doesn't matter how technical you are i don't have a heart you can be technically amazing in
heaven not one one inspiration here ruined you know and oh i mean look men you know the remands were you know some of the worst greatest music at knowlesbury fur complain and they
yoke so they rose all that was still and on dosaratha you will still hear play it like major sports per arenas or and whatever i mean you know yet you know usivulele dan and that
is it is and not yet you first band him called little big boss we had in reference to you on a imannealed artelni much the ben cause the other two guys in the band were at
alsatian so looking back they probably named they have me have you thought was like i guess al ready to sortiront to play with a man now you playing tromsoee hammering all the
troian then you guys moved back to a back in new york yet and you'll go back and forth bateren my mom we lived in europe ah but we would come back every like year or year and a
half or so to see ah my grandparents and and my aunt and stuff and so we always had that connection to new york we always came back and i i know and i i was here during all like
the pivotal moments in history in new york like inormem ber sonata which was huge a you were here you know i remember the black out which were also huge if you hear i remember the
garbage strike which was also in the same because you had like you know twenty foot mountains in a barbiere flucker am in a city stank i mean you know i i remember all the the
madness of new york i mean i moved back here for good and seventy nine like a guest fattener february of seventy nine it was like the week said died actually the stimulates were
supposed to play max's the one week end that he was playing any guy before the show but um yeah you know it was a much different place tack then you know you guys know you know
what a you know loto who have only been here over the last twenty years then they have no clue the it is a different place and and i mean you know in in the book you've got crazy
pictures like you and andy war hall ye cause you were just you your inordinate that was running with the ell now actually he to her that it aranya knew him she now ahadee in one
of his movies when she was young when she was like fifteen or something and am that picture was just taken it at the class show like i give to run into people like him at
different clubs and stuff this was back stage and a clash galicia played and we lantulae your both can i was so i was actually twelve and that penitent yeah i mean i was that all
clubs all the time you know i may know it was actually it was a innocentina back on a cause like i mean when i when i an i did a thing with anthony board dan a while back and he
was like an hour he'd be like i remember stand in front of clubs like maces and trying to get in and you know and here come this like twelve year old caelia through the footmark
the balance was well just like let him in like it when you know like he belonged in there and i'd like ootacamund here like a latinamericans a servant him like he's the pluck of
mayor you know hayonwatha king back it is so yet for comminuting i mean i was i was the youngest kid that that you don't round on the club send back ten and then you know as time
went on you know my band the stimulators really a adlott do with it the the crowds at the showered getting younger and younger as because like you know we started pulling a very
young following they don't go figure there while you're old in the band and on people like to beastis they started coming as a before they were the beast i boys there like they
were dis fans was friends o mine they were like some of my best friends grown up and and then a lot other people who went on to start a lot of the first wave of new york heard
corbans were fans of istimele kids were all like you know in their early teens when they used to see us play and then they went on to startle the bands that on you know set off
that now in ewelling did you play with the stimulated shore ah i have only played with them from like seventy nine till like eighty may be the beginning of eighty one and and i
was done with it because at that point i had already you know the bad branscome to new york and i was already and i was it all that first heard quare that came out from you know a
black flag to circle jerks minareted of course bands like this charge from oversea from england you know and all that she was starting to really oh take over my my eh my soul it
and i saw as like you know we can't play or the fugitives to poppy it's to like it's her he is just not it's not where i am and at that point i had already you know the life i was
living on the streets and the wife that a the obadier reliving was not really the same i was just hitting my teens and as we all know that when the problems began that's when you
start daintree so yes and the music that i started writing really reflected the un the feelings that i that i was having an you know the iconologists the environment but just you
know everything leading up to that point and had created this person that anna and i was really violent neighborhood the was really volentieri i i ate a lot of ship or being white
and in which i as ironical you know i'm quarter to manigan and i'm carkilated or but if you look at me especially you know in all portreath wipe boy and also i really ate a lot of
shit i really don't know you know until i started fighting and actually started getting more so i have sat with sir getting more violent that started to earn me a little bit of
respect and oh i guess the fear and in the credibility kind of went hand in hand like when pet you know people knew that they couldn't talk with me i started getting respect and
now i don't really think that's a really healthy for a young mind to associate popularity with violence and or aggression in yennie york at that time and like you say an i i used
to come down to new york some time where it was younger and it was completely different you know in the in the mid adsheart earlier that but for me in the mid eighties an you come
down here it was completely dead and i were sitting here right now in times square to square was full not one note and and there was like a takeover two steps somebody be often
you drugs you know i i'm here when i'd cut school and just watch people get picked pocketed blotched to hooker's turn and tricks and the guy selling drugs and the people getting
into trouble and that it was it was tamara's fucking free for homes sarely and where you were living you were living there were stray it was anyway on hers it was way where i mean
i was talking to i stevie day we were talking about you know some of our experiences and not just in my area lone i mean there was about five or six gangs within a you know ten
fifteen block this this you know everything from the hip men on my block where we fucking really odd control into the hells angels on third street who back then were like with
jedaan fucking joke i mean you know i mean i could tell you some facts stories but you know you could tell me focussed on grittily know i just it's it's hard to ah i people go to
new york now it's just completely yeah i realities it is it's impossible to really get it i mean the best thing you could do is look at like old movies that kind of the friday
captured the then you got on exes in the book that shows the neighbourhood yea and there you can tell you can tell they look like a worn yea a man i wouldn't know but it they look
at close to a day like a was out in hagoromo a lot like the words no i made to i was living in a squatly literally had no running water no windows no widerhold were you in you
like moved out i on your hilalien i was like fourteen you know because basically i was getting into so much trouble in school that they were about to basically take me from my
mother and put me in like spot for it and it was like foes you know i'd lost interest in school and and all that she is actually funny out some one wanted tell you im when i was
fifteen actually just right down there and there was a cruiting sentry brennet whole bid and i fifteen i i tried to enlist in the marines in acasia at that point i was already i
was very i guess a lot of pent up aggression you know and i will replied he i just want to fucking you know i probably shouldn't say this i promise sounds bad for the military but
i just wouldn't be kill out this way i just wanted to fucking kill and i wanted to be able to like i just was so fucking you know and it didn't help that my mother was a hippy so
you know just it's natural for a teenager to rebel against everything their parents leave it i mean i had like footin recruiting you know catalogues and shot under my bed were as
most kids probably had you know the play boys and shall like my man would find my regyards anyway knows that an linoleous you know ben outsailed i have raised by his son to be
those soldiers he another for an if he fortissimo like i suleimanieh years year a hundred perrier through the years there's so many guys in the military and you meet some guide
you're like a a'goin you you know you learned that last name at first but then a cook you know you get to know little bit you like you know oh what's your first name and they'll
be like all my first name is rainbow tofano o she had a mayouma parents were had an satan and so many kids rebel against her tears so i'm going to really i'm going he
infinitatively came and so your unreverent right into a renewed rebel and i even say this you'll for me you know hard cor was a rebellion he yet in and going in the military for
all was rebelling against the the norm you know was every one's going on a good be a happy smoke do ah go to college got a job and i was like no got to go be a command on just get
after it and tunnison was fucked up because it's like had i followed those instincts you know i mean you know in some ways my life would have been in probably a million times
better i know to what i had a lot more you know ah this saplin i would have a lot more focus i would add more positive ship you know going on i would learn some skills and ship by
at the same time i wouldn't a forkin written edge quarrel i would have written best wishes i wouldn't have been fluence a people like you to but you know to go above and beyond
her the pluck i could ever for can try to do you know so it's like i feel like it in my own way i i managed to do my service to you know you manitowok although it was a disservice
and lot ways because i didn't spire a lot of people do a lot of really luck and wrong shit you know but but none the less the inspiration that that it was real it was genuine i
think that's why thirty years later people still give a ulaut that record and one and people still out making money on that record and you know people still cover songs of that
record you not and it's funny because his tone you relays me that line up that played on everard only lasted for one fucking record no it's amazing how short it already lie yet
you i know and it's like a any nose something special because till now thirty years later people still talk about it and not many people can say that based on one fucking
albosasso that's good ship i got asking to go i got er talkin about your neighbourhood this is just kind of a sample of what you were living around an end back to the book i
remember one night lying there hearing some chick down the street getting raped and knowing there wasn't really nothing to do it was like a helpless feeling you knew that if the
cops got called it wouldn't matter because they probably wouldn't show up and if they did will be too late and they probably wouldn't find her one night my mother's then boy
friend got the tip of his nose onest off by his zip gun he had a scar to this day just because he was white looked a little freak eaters walking down our block i remember coming
home one night in my aunt and my mammy aunt and anne gustafson the stimulators base is got jumped by six dues with golf clubs and ship trying to pull her to toronto her hands he
don't really think about a group of guy's jumping two checks and a kid but that shot happened they didn't give a fac you've got a figure a lot of these guys would hang out and
half glue and shit and when you half glue and you smoke a lot of dust you get pretty grim and wean towards violence so there's your there's your surroundings there's your
environment ye i made you know it i'll tell you man it's it's oh it's almost harder to hear it being red back to me now especially in your voice but but it's like you know it's
real and it brings back a interiors so emotional responses manner as reading that i was just thinking of myself because you you and i you know in the sea there was always guys
that had dog ightenhill ever had titles in as a reading you know you and i both know if you take a pit bull and you bring it up and you beat it and you've torture it an you heard
it that dogs can a be a mean evil master and if that dog brother can get brought up and get fed and get taken care of and you know sleep and get street to get in that that dog's
runnin you just thinking you you take a a person a human being and you put them in environment with at what they're living with that intercedat what around them they're goin to
tend towards that direction yes and is good be hard to break out of that ship it is you know and ah it's you know look around at the world man you know i look at it all the all
the footing gets everywhere look at all them you know all the you know blodelin get outside of this country you know the live here so people i don't realize how well they have it
ye live and even you nice to laugh i was talking to my friend melemele and ah we were say i'll say me no one understands what the facts don't we on that way west course gang
banished i mean these guys hapai of all they don't even have to deal with wintertons and they hold out like yards and garages and fontan barbecues and ship or like we grow up in
like apartments with buck and rats and roaches and you know concrete everywhere here and you know what the fuck you so pissed about that you need to go and shoot at each other and
kill each a youth funken board i guess just ere you know it is an interesting dynamiter in new york city the way it is at hand in tidesman even now that it's like you know
softness for could baby shit it's still in ten eh venoni i i just i feel confined when i'm here you know her now now that i ornative grown up when i come here i live in can i live
at a worn and you're right i got a yard say and i got a bar as you essay neighbors have yours in evagoras and and yet it's like you just you have space man's to real thing and
animals you know you kept put animal mephitica to get passed off in every noight million people in new york whom i little tiny cages but it's her kitten is off his fellow you know
the good majority of them broke a shit eye ah but this whole time as you're doing this at the same time you are still you listen to music you are going a shows all the time and
like you said the bad brand show up yell parochines gancanagh were as ground breaking a as as far as for me they they they rocked my world as much leslie a sex pistols like that
they is like off sudden as a new chapter i ah you know a way you out you run about the bad rats of the bad brands fretted n't know is a band from d c and they were pay for all in
changing music really generation of music and neither all kinds of bands that reference them like the bands of reference to adress for here's where you said about the bat rains or
when out one thing go it disburse who don't know they were not only one of the innovators of of what we call hard core upon but they were all black and they were from the sea and
it you know there was not many black kids on the scene there always was blacked on his sarsaws butrinto was always everybody you know we always was always mixed diversity on the
scene but they were like the best they were the tightest they would the best they were the fucking they were the ship man and while the times when people first heard their first
forty five you know just because of the the style of a music people didn't even know they were black and they'd go see them maybe like o ship he's guys are blakeney may not seem
like a big deal now with talbot for in nineteen you know eighty here you know and yet they would just be flucker was a ship man and then they got into rosifying is a and that you
know even further made it even more bizarre from much of fuckin roses from the sea plain hard core to you know with the fuckers that an a playin it better than everybody like
fucking smoke and mother fulgeron ah you know i finif you got to see the bad brand back in the day ye you're lucky the i mean i i remember seeing a bad brand in just being just i
just i mean it's it'd be like seeing that james brown back when he had bootsoles on face like back in the old life when he was like all over the fire was used to like in a
artisans brown meats johnny rotten er you know here here's where you said back to the book you hear a lot of crazy stories about thar har is the the singer from the bad brand
throat in the adansis crazy at haran act at times back in the day you as inspirational beyond belief he in the bad brains had the entire new york cartier see hardcastle talking
like fucking jamaicans for the longest time everybody was at fireball had hysterical the man's life the mob were so heavily influenced by them that the base player started growing
dreads and wearing a rostat a whole continent of white rose started popping up on the hard course they took things to another level it was impossible not to be inspired by the bad
bridge the only way to describe a car would be like james brown beads johnny rotten meat bob marly he was such a dynamic front man a arcadean ing back flip and land right at the
end of the song nail it right at the last be it was like a my god did he just plan that i remember one time at a seven which was a tiny club within the first two minutes or so of
their show he had already knocked the sheet rock selling out and bent the mike stand in half the amount of explosive energy that would come out of that mother folker you couldn't
help but be blown away especially since we were all young and here was his guide that was in shape he used to be a javelin for a back in high school he was always athletic she had
a bunch of scrawny punk rock mother fakers in the mistuss up there that was an athletic power house going completely apeshit sand he could sing his ass of and he could hit notes
charcam out there with a purpose like he was on a mission that we show i saw of theirs back then was amazing i remember i saw my in boston one time and he was like going even
there as i guess like fire pipes or whatever a sprinkler pipes and he's bleeding up and swinging on those things in jumping off when the crowd it was not as a mother tussman he is
even half the show in the crowd like he was yes you know but then you can't you can't the is this can even you know ye ma'am they were something everybody has that moment though
that that period were they really you know will not everybody but everybody whose like intense you know you know you think about your life you could think of that one peered where
you would just on fucking point you know and they learn roussette and and like last week carinthia let his wateaus with it but ye there was very when they were disposing on touch
an end you know beseech our now ye have seen him over the fuentellato to him a last time i spoke to him and and he came out to my house was probably a round two painleve or two
peasant ten and you know he stapely enow he sit he's scots miss yoshitsune some seriously he has like a mental issues you know i i mean i don't know what his diagnosis is in my
gonstan here in pretendin it's now but you can tell there's a clear change to gain that gun from a ye out is a guide now there's something yet as definitely clearly something as
lionardo know and i i you can't display it all on drugs because you know some of us have done plenty of them in her fine so i manometers something in at the afterall in really
dead you know the plan well you know i don't try don't know how a don't know when or what they're doing and playing a mean and god bless em men mean no doctor no you know he
suffered a stroke and a heart attack and he he had to like learn how to use his hands to get it and hindered a benefit as show us of a record that's available are not pledge music
the only place i can get i can't even buy it in stores in and forty eight per cent of the music goes to help him just help him all he now to whatever he needs help with you know
cause god knows he's pledged music yet you do search pledge ye clad music halifan again and on watson will come up an see that one of the sons a club friends like you and am but
any way yet i mean there those guys were in animalia never be what it was you know i am glad that there you know doing the thing you know what not to but i think oh my memory of
them is from that period he canopied how many messeigneurs i am no idea is all them so we times i saw a mountain west coast and you know excuse me yea i saw the tana or here but a
or wasn't weems was going to like all youatt not as cool no aniseeded always singers who have really to do great deeds great singers but it's really hard to follow in some one
like a footstep i mean a dolorous well that a rough folloson so meanwhile you did a trip to england this the first time you saw skin heads before well what i saw for i outalisso
my head shaved in ireland i had seen skinhead one time before in one den but i didn't know what the fuck they were in was a cyclist file like i could tell that there was something
they had an interesting look like that you know and but the shaved heads thing was worked out me and o ye so i i met skinhead in england in the seventies but i got my head shaved
and belfast in nineteen eighty and here's what they told you going back to the book i always remembered what the bell fast skins told me teach america about skin heads the first
few friends of mine to shave their heads and included adam yach we you know that is you from the beastly boys and a few others who aren't really skin heads in the stereo typical
fog way they just like the look in the music i mean we were all into the early as style music cocky rejects and bands like that even though it wasn't really called all yet but two
tone thing was happening with all the scabbed jumping off like the specials and selector and madness and they were all popular with the skin hanserl on but there still was in a
skin head seen in new york just a few friends of mine who were upon it both in a couple of years all that would change so obviously the ah the the typical person when they that
dozen follow the music scene at least at at a deeper level when they think skin had the immediately think sort of the ah the branch that went off and and do the most press which
was the the neo nay skin had but the original the origins of the skin heads is actually black dudes rude boys scopas like de specials and madness and debts kanowit you saw an ye i
mean i actually talk about a little bit of that in the book i give a little bit of the historical ah information just to give people a clearer idea um yet but you know of the
media is let latches on to whatever is most sensationalistic you know the trio always grab the worst aspect of of what people are doing and on you know yes i know that it is you
got it you know there there i mean not all say one more thing the new york seeing it always been more diverse than most hard coursings but always been spanish kids black kids
asian kids a lot of the early new york hard course skin heads were spanish ye milagro agnostic front which if you don't know agnostic frond is probably they might be considered
like the other definite one of the biggest sort of skin had bands from a mere and they were absolutely the first real like new york skin had gone you know i mean but a y you know
an escoban we lodge ran yeoman the ego was portoran as was house from the mob and so a lot of skin as he came round later even back in the maceda's you had the bad brains pure how
by influence or one of the first real new york hard corbans and they were all black yet think where you just pulled up outhitting about the diversity and the scene in new yearne
york is he always been different from other places as you know you you know it but one of the things that's cool about it here i could say you could say fairly divers here in the
oration i discoont o o i bet you to i don't you have to look at this but is new york city one of the most diverse places in the p on the planet it is coiffing as been out of old
canon one thing i noticed that you know but you can eat any type of food here without you know shoshokee that a year ago who having so i mean we had and i moved here like three
recognitive the adityan know east had gang on style on a dominus ye don't blinks and see she sir i by gang them style actual gay oh and meanwhile i know at this time back to the
book i was drinking a lot halting glue taken pills and lothefull and one of her else this whole time that's what is prevalent in the seam yronne york was a very much on our seeing
liked to get to up and c they were they invented straight edge he know they would they wall about a being clean and sober and and god bless o and ah you know that caught on like
wild fire and in other places you know at the strait egemmen spread and what not and we always went the extreme opposite we we will like a wet now they had a song or don't drink
don't smoke till folk we used to sing you know we we drink we smoke we fogbound and am yet much of a look in idiots or i may you know what unfortunately you know at that point in
my life and in the hard course in in a whose often cool howl fucked up you could be in no i'm sure it's that at that way in a lot of the world and a loud of youth culture and an a
lot of you know cruise and gain culture and an now i don't mean to fear rise but i'm on to do a little bit of flat five any know like cultures back back in the day or or some
culture even to day it would you want a prove that you are will sacrifice yourself from the tribe a little bit like i'll go hunt that line or i'll go out and do something that's
hard and all take risks for the group and i'll prove that that i that i don't care what happens to me yet i i i should have been wollaston that hey i'm going to prove that our
care with happenet watch me drink his watch me shoot this watch me smolliren whatever no i agree i think that that instinct that still in us doesn't have a place to be used
properly and i pay you where i got that philosophy from in the seal teams man when i came in it was like the way that you kind of proved that you were tough was drinking and
fighting right you're incoming everything to a lickin acain want will enfilading live i'll drink ten yeah you fought to mother fucus of five fucine monte for and that an it was
yes and when the war started it did not like that stopped because that stuff still goes on but it definitely in my mind it in my mind i was thinking and wish still drink i must
tell partition after it but it was different man it was different to all of a sudden be seen he look you know i not of myself as on the battle field i need to be ready for that
and so i i when i fly that too like all of society it seems like a young kid like you who is fifteen sixteen years old how do you prove that your tough how do you of your manhood
oh you think you can drink twelve you hollerin earing it yes and the jampan yes and and you know you talked about like the straight edge movements guy interesting for they live
good to anoother stopped facing the even to his own very thin swung that forenoon it of how to do even fostat they were tough they would go out and fight and beat up people that
were drunk in ship like that that hat he will or did happening in some scenes of the case like inducts guys rose they always tried to be more piece deletete bit more consciousness
but in a lot of other places you had bands like iago i got in trouble with a enequem on the year about he one of my body from d c this berkenhead those got wonder holystoning the
set me a amotape and a catassin new band and your life is of so i was a cool it as three in i i like it all as i ride him and so we went some brooklyn me and my bush when he
donabo the seam and we went baserk cause and he wasn't feeling in you had had a ahead like longer curly hair and and he sent in there an put take pay the first song a week's
coordonner thing was nightlike to s a u e a m a critick what he says so he knows him not bolshie hears as she said something along the lines of like let's leave our left leave our
mothois and are eagles at the door you know if you're going to dance be cool something like that and so then i was like to what i do now i was hexameron i want to break off and i
couldn't so we as i remember when he started going that round know what god bless no matin as all here you got a lot to tackle is poking cool yelled and in one and and he is
always had its integrity and as he as he matured it you know is his way of thinking yet and i don't want you've got a respect if you help a line with what he did he is recalling
never sold out you know what had so off for one is fucking with it and for sure he had not burrator now that i ought in use to break his balls for a relentless leguat does i am my
faif i like some one reaction a really flock with them whenever i have the opportunity through you know so i am a falkenheim you you kind o came up with the name of the clear
accae up the fromage and you started like taggin everything with you amid i write in a where he did you you had a kick as beastlike when we talked about my first the hard core
band called bronson's children first thing we did no music and we lay insurance not even he had any airier so i you've weather do say they just a right in what actually playing
music and i was as diana's we were going with this one so you start you start common putting together the the band and then the thing started getting a little bit crazy you bet
someone up who some friend of some one else and all of a sudden you are that you had like a price on your head i was actually before the croall osteaopath a and were nothing yet
and that's actually why i wound up um had not california i do take a little brig from my neighbourhood a yeah i was pretty intense man this dude i there was a gang on my block
while the hit man and this is back and in no i remember them from the seventies through the eighties i mean this is when they still used to wear collars you know patches on their
and fact the portoran ganga looked more like bakers like portion bikers without bikes rona then like a latitats and janes in like mc boots and you know they were like the firtops
and new total old school you know like you know of wolf tales and ship you know like a fur collars and it's like ridiculous ship you look on the old you to be an old photos of new
york gangs of be like all okay that's what he starting about pianya yet these guys were fucking they were no joke and they at one of the hit men was pig man and he you know they
did it they they weren't called to hit me you know because they you know wrote it so i hate you know they besides selling heroine they they did hit and a pikeman i'd known about
him my whole childhood he was like a blower he side it like you everybody had heard of him but no one knew you know cause if you saw him the most likely the last thing she shall
you know but he you would wear pigs mask that's why i was called pigmaean and he would pull up at his blue over and forkings with a shot gun and it was that simple and ah they
actually kicked in a friend of mine's door and put shotes in people's mouths and guns to their heads were as hardly and one of the skin had apartments looking for me and now they
came to my squirt ah put some one into a corner but nice to her throw its which partment harley in and pig man was cruising by my friends with the mask can and didn't see me so
kept driving i guess so it was real and ah i'm like isolation you know me i'm fifteen i got fucking pig man looking for me i mean had fucino joke this is big man but for you go
pagan you than i'm like tellico on my black and like ship man my mother lives on twelfth street you know what the fog did on what about her all the world about your mamma but
loves you mom this this said this not personal man is money on de alveolus but you should get out of here man you should hang low these are your porto rican brothers telling you
that ye had a gude blacked as alone me for your school like people like you know my friends on cools and shipmate you know like the yohiogany hears of migration come will ye tell
abuses cause you beat somebody up yeah i i i used to i used to get in a lot of fights and i used to also you know yes i've been some one up and it turned out he was a it was
disguise was a one act owner of one of the after hours club on the lower side and alone these after hours clubs like you know save the robots and the pyramid and all these other
places they had like no they like they will be late night freak clubs where he let go like till six in the morning and they will all be doing blow and do in coaxingest that's how
they knew the hit man because they all used to all the club free he's to till the drudge from the porto ricans and neighbors so we were condoocin up their business too because we
will like fucking up all the all the new free that were starting come the glory side all the new white people that we will like you know of to you we just made his mother fucked
safe now you mother for his of think you just as a gang but as like you as the woods for in pupilage bourhood now you know so he you know i was in as soliman i i after admit that
you know look at back if you know if ever can i had up ye after be able to say yes i was in as oryou know but that shot of me big man was no joke in what the california should die
off i came back do you went to california and i wasn't reading that part of the block and here what in god's name is going on yewsholt the fact ye man are well we will living in
an abandoned bury ah there was you know couple hundred kids live there probably we were all living in the actual vast that they used to have the rubber coated square rooms like
with a man hole again in and out of and you know we live in in the air vane and yet was fucking crazy man everybody was fucked up on drugs everybody was run away everybody was you
know it was um what amazes me about the eighties is the lawlessness you know in new york and in san francisco you know like you could really get away with just about fucking
anything and they would be like no police involvement no reprocessing put it all i mean you get into a fight in a chicago on for half a lucanor like boonara do you another and
back and forth you know a gun full flight you like i mean you would lockintar fighting on even you then up on first avenue over on seventh street and back over a street and back
down that having no way in this like mad screaming and you know stabbings and bottles breaking and no cups you know the etoile de you know i mean she happens now man you far too
fucking loud on the street here he had a rest on this yeah just as a well you fifteen years old you live in an all in a in a fat year in san francisco with a bunch or every one
running round everybody's mathusaleh for an shot and christel left right from sanhedrim look with as it in their eyeballs eh gal how that even life how do you proestanter were
thing is is like your surviving like the ayer getting food some out right i see one food shoaling pan handling and maginel i know ye sagard and out figuring it out and asked what
every one in this fat these men or do ye well i mean there was only a couple of us that were out muriel gizzie me and marked agger and and a couple of the people who were like
hard as is everybody else was either out pain handling or turn in tricks you know it was like you you you know you were either out mugging someone sugandi began for change you
know and now they went did you just think like okay this is what life is like ye that's what my fusion i mean i remember like eating it so kitchens you know with like adults and
on like fifteen and and that being weird and like almost getting into fights with like dudes who were like ex kansou know like dudes word just got out of prison who were like to
them they wish still in the prison lunch room you know and to me i'm just like chinanpin food she and ah yes it was it was pretty intense you know i mean but to be fair i had a
great folantin you know i mean i had a lot of fun you know that the departure of the violence the drugs i had a fucking blast how would i recommend an evident now would i wish it
on my kids or my worst enemies know that i have a great time i yes to i had to have how i focilat it i don't know but you know i guess it's i guess is that like when people talk
about well when people say to me all i think this is the same thing because i'm sitting here on alantean i guess ye an not to be laughing if i'll like the young of ling about the
intense situation and i been in it's like the adrenal in the fucine do the last time i got in like a real fucking craponne last time but third or fourth the last time i hate
really bad violence situation like a tone it's in the book when i got head like that i fucked up is due to his in a gang and next day i know i got like thirty dudes buckingham in
after me would pipe bad but apomathein out our windows and i'm running into the crowd of them to save a friend of mine now see like do i was bucking like high for a a week off
with you shenanagen when i finally came down i was like to hear my face was the man i couldn't die you know but liefer litely a week after that shall alike yarotian anany know
that's like but that's a difference between certain type of people like you know i will run into a fucking violence to save a friend eh and late fuck and people that i grew up
with well folkington out i've seen people that i respected buckin run and leave their friends behind her halesome bill pussyship pecially when they are thinbeard askin it
detonated in tatiana bitch you know and am a man and not you know and that's one reason why i'm really fucking for out to be here you know because it's like you guys one of the
things i respect the most is some one who will put themselves on the line for some one else like when you will put your own life at risk for another person there's nothing a more
admirable than that so hats off to you guys and all all the military out there you know servant this country and serving their brothers disasters their families and everybody you
know hats of man it takes a lot of folk and balls and i respect and i'm not you know even langford meant you know and i'm not a big fan of the police in many sir abbie become
friends with a lot of cosine a tin or doing to get you jon'than is a lot of figs for the palatinate ver you know i still have my reservations but i respect again anybody who is
willing to put their life on the line for others and for the greater good and you know and i i really nothing higher or out enough they are well like i obviously i i got my work
with the police and get a there the same way man there there and i got a stake out the one i heard as jobs in a line of look i i i say that with you know ladies i i mean i like
i've grown up always being on the shady end of the stick when it comes to the cups and you know still to this day even like when i'm trying to get something achieve than
accomplished night trio go to them for guidance they still look at me like there they want to slap the cuffs on him even for i help me out you know so you know but you know i
undeteriorated i'll do understand you know i i what they deal with on a regular basis i i i get it but i also think that allowed a people are attracted towards lines of work that
give them a a a position where they can abuse their position you know i think that he itha's on his human rail though i may let it at ioco to a ride along with some cops man i'll
you it is or it is i couldn't do it man by it hopes just the what they deal with on the daytoday basis what it does to their brain eye on mandeliere asked job it's a horrible
ostindien it's like there's a certain level of ah you know once you've seen some some ship your always on that edge yeou know anne that fight that fight or flight you know and
unfortunately they don't have the choice they have no coleridge we got a fight so as they can not get on and they got to protect you don't have to of course you see oh i'll be
wise the negative thing of yet complementary in to work within certain guide lines and that nitianate time they're they're going no hay sir please put the bat down put the knife
down that evidentiary hard as job hard essedo now again i got a you know i also got a play an i got to keep my one foot round it in the streets i still have my year you were a
year your condition is from you shy oped yes that the man who were as you are on the auguries and send now that's how your condition is it is a heathlike when they when they see
you will hadn't now they see see now well you know in reentanglement thou button you know e e you know with the fucking what they would i do when the cobs take you something all i
do it not of inanimate look of her the next nariako soudainement i see my reflection elation for that of upolou ye had to do is say yes sir how fucking difficult to day and you
know mother fogyfied ye ah may we have any gotten to like the crags yet every who the crow mag so ye like put together the first help you know what i mean he sit so you guys
finally get together her regal back the book had been three years since paris and use a paris to guy was a he was a atostors on the crow bags packed up and started writing
november second nineteen eighty four he and on february sixteenth nineteen eighty five the comagene high five studios on twenty seventh street and parked avenue recorded twelve
songs the age of coral cassette which is released on c d called before the coral yet that was the original very little orenbare we actually went and recorded the album age quarrel
so that to eighty four ye that that's going down yes and that a good recording i have that after a i i actually like it a lot better than the almost telling you before it i can't
illagitimate my head that i expect little things that aren't there and sad like the first one better because i think it's this more wait is more well how that he the it's more
explosive i think it's more true to what we actually sounded like when we played live you know the the other thing or the other one had you know a lot of productions shifted i
wasn't too happy about but a so now this is where no you think the stories been crazy so far echo of the still you in it to bussineses being crazy now it goes just takes another
kind of when i i consider some even more more bizarre turn and everything we talk less far so going back to the book i was into vegetarianism but it took me a while to get in to
christina at first john this is the the singer from the croix one of the singers at saying to grow max john an me used to go to the trucks were they served free food and tom
compton square park which was a big hang out back of the naebody used to go there and hang out a lot of hard cork hid did i mean i was living in a squat i was vegetarian i had no
money and her was free vegetarian food they also had a few preaching centers on the west side that me an john used to go to to eat but still i took a while fur to give a folk
about what they were saying i was there for the free food i wasn't looking for religion i was just hungry and trying to survive we would always show up late john would tell us
when the good time was just to get the food after the reading and preaching in everything but over time i really started getting into the philosophy in the beginning people didn't
take john and christmas seriously and was kind of something the hard course he laughed at but as my friends and me started getting into christna it started changed so you guys
started getting in than harry christna ye yes i whichthey now frinlan back now tell me the fundamental filosophy i mean obviously harry prishners are vegetarian beasant want to
like her you know animals actuates more to it than that it actually not wise because of numerous dark folktale on their well give me a little alienate only eat food that offer
able to god an you can't offer go the rotting carcass to eat okay this is nothing has to do with like hey we don't want to hurt thing and there's all this caractur you know
everybody likes to you know and not make the more careful themselves good or bad so that's what i'm saying like this is why this is why ditmore board to pierantonio relator long
heels i that's the thing is with the amount of karma i had oldening but this is weetheen more fluffed up and twisted because you got me in my friends who were like recovering skin
heads recovery of putting it now does to go out and get in like you know twenty fights in a night you know but nineteen people in is you just because you know just walking from
the east side of the west side what you look at bad you know you all night just fucking wild and you know and then all that ship with pig man in the senate and did nose how many
other things you know how many bodies i found and came across and and you know how many how much madness i had it experienced you know like we were talking about his knowne some
times you know when you deal with life and death on a regular basis you know sometimes you like you know god we start calling out the guying you know what the fuck guide is and
your dislike god help me god you know please you know did me help it's this the call of of desperation you know and am i wilner been in to christianity in this enaretta dissonance
of bullshit to me and and her i was actually hearing some things that made some sort of sense to my teenage mind in a cormeilles other things that like will a resonating with me
you know and it's like i needed that ship you know i needed some sort of guidance and had i not had something like that i mean i could have been flockin bodicote have been would
ever you know but i needed something that was greater than you need some kind of guidance of your money to ride in said he in a iapeti needed hope all hope eh you know and when i
started going out to their farm for a little while like they were getting up we were getting up at like five thirty in the morning and meditating and watching the sun come up and
like it was like this hole you know it going from white being like the hunted by the gangs in my neighbourhood to that it was the like i can't even really explain it it really it
was like how not a foinet it edits the life was like you i am at peace in others the sounds like poietiers like who you know said that but then that the more i was involving it
the more i see you know that people in eligio and general wear are typically a bunch of fuckin hypocrites you know you get a lot of people preach and lothian they don't all fuckin
follow and all rules don't really fit all people you know every human is different and that not everybody can follow the same guide lines and and when therewhen the things start
becoming just belief with the fuck is belief anyway it's just what you choose to believe you know unless it's like this as a real you know this is really cutting my face that's
really blood this is you know i really have to eat food and breather belief is just that you know i i no i still have the now my spiritual inclinations i still believe in some
sort of ill like to say the word god any more cause i i i i don't have that over of view that i know any fucking thing i just now on a noi got a love in my heart for the people i
care about and i know i owe to try to do good things you know of them enough bad things i'd like to try to prevent some people from experiencing what i experience and at the same
time i would like to share the the great experiences that i that i had with people you know the well one of the one of the great experiences one of the things the great things
that you share to people as that done at that that alma'll go to hear going back the book the age of coral some would call it one of the most if not the most influential new york
hard core and cross over albums it was accorded and mixed in under one hundred hours over fourteen day period january february nineteen eighty six at east side sound by steve
remote and chris williams on our manager and so called producer but it was really steeds as it comes round and you guys put together the age a quare missus the the one that got
released on a big lies like the first heart up to file yes it was he i probably one of the first hard core records to ever be put out on a real major label like something that
wasn't like discord or or slash records or something underground the end and now this is you guys are you got start a git a big draught laugeron outside of new york city we were
starting to tore at this point in doing you know and be our first big break was torn with motor head and then we got a you know we went on to play with many other metal bands at
the round that time pia the whole cross over thing right telling the after those you don't know cross over when he talked about it out that's the cross over from a hard core to
metal and kinanas really engloomed le head started discovering hard red when people liked italicised wearing be shirts is coming to see the fromes yes when people like anthrax
started daring to come to see bigbo know and that's real but the heart corban started getting more but alec oye because like metal head started shaving the heads and getting in
the heart or like the catlike yourselves you had been lit in a yet an haletante were little who started getting into what unopened started getting more athanasian we we evenly
down i mean it anoenoe people laitun ship you know i guess if you don't have her that kind of jokingly but i guess you know it seemed like there was more the opportunity to
actually make a living bigger oneguine you know actual record deals you know antara panteon great baas panterloon of my favorite bands probably you know die bag or fuckin love
that dunamon of the worst tragedies imaginable a domus is molification stars my fucking psychotic fan i mean it's like you know like the fog man there that was awful in there it's
a a i me not to not to talk about not to get into the you know the whole crag beef in this and that but i ganting will say as you know it really bothers me that a time bag died
like that and that they never because i know they would have buried the hatchet by now and they would have done on amazing onion tor and they would eat they would have just kicked
the shit out of every body and they'll never have that opportunity now to you was robbed from us and to know that my band or such a bunch of stubborn immature looking old has
holes that he can never actually embrace each other purely based on what we did achieve together and how many fans would be so happy you know cause once once you gone you're gone
and you know it is very rare that four or five people will have that chemistry for a moment and in life so you know just based on that alone it's pretty fuckin said that you know
her and it's weird ronan you guys have catch you guys you guys you guys were on the fur she air i mean yes and and when i you know when i remember you got um tring and i didn't
see you on the age of coal tar cause i was a really fast tordown for i julian had in upton see you but ah i saw you on the best wishes to which was the next alponeca out and you
guys will big i mean useful if he is a kind of put in perspective for people like i think but the places where i saw you play and the kind of a national brand is the house of
blues if you ever render house of blues i alopece that way i have big as a house a loveliest play that i an okay i didn't know you actionable that kind of venue so that's in my
mind you know that's the onlooker's a band and theventeen your playing places that size you can make a living and you and if you keep going and statons tent you know you can do
fairly well forefoot now this is the case you know age a coral comes out you guys propter you turn europe now you're getting after you your fill enough places a best wishes your
fillister headlining best wishes but you play with motor had two before ye you're supposed to pay with black abettin ye by the way that would actually be the ultimate show of all
time i mean have to fucking a grief from going my serebrennaia that lack it fontanier yelisavieta while ye they were evomition at the that ten and when you have the foliation all
i oceanside to know i may it on the flyer with black saranoora yes the crazy thing is unreadable couldn't believe this you come home from those tours de men and no you have no
money there ye and you hear this is his kindlike a rock and roll mith right oh the guy signed the contract of the producer and i watched a bunch of both a programs about this and
what the whithread es do as they say he looked your hundred thousand dollar advance for next album and then you go asimov you a hundred grand and you start spendin the back charge
you for your studio time and a promotion by next literally at the end you you have an encounter you all them twenty to twenty or houroyous work in a pay it off yet he lengthened
with interest and so that a kind of ship that was happening with you you and you come back of these tours your famous cause also at this time now that i think about it you and the
cromach will i call the caroline the men will magnetised all those stupid metalanien you turn the be like skid row on one page and as i achesonian beg me on the next year so you
were there i mean ye while we were on the cut old rightabout the break it you know and you're still broke still you have is tosswill be living on the street i would i would become
efterladte figure out where is then or i'd be showing up at my grandmother's house tooralye you yes we got pretty facino you know you don't know what you don't know you said so i
like the antinori and oh you ain't got no guidance now way looking out for you you know and you make a lot of mistakes set and also a back then they had a bunch better monopoly to
the yatton really the near the howdahs you say oh you don't what i'll jus make my own record and all i'll be able to distribute it through the pier the ant who ned and they'll
aetheldreda would have been helpful in those days as far as you know but am youknow i think that the internet and everything is also really condofuri up because it's like people
don't have to have any urtlingen to their roots any more it's like people who don't know anything could just goblet it and pasted and call it their own and the next thing you know
they are an artist and it's like now you notulen artist your refiring cut in pacemaker as ever ashly experience the flocking thing and you don't even know that history of what
your imitation that you're into it right now see your imitating an aright now the other crazy thing is you know it was hard to get like these records when i was kid yet you had
you had to know you couldn't order them youayah like get somebody that was goin to go to new york and hay if they have this homceopathist or you go to gliebov and you eothen was
like that couldn't just but nowadays you can if you say oh the chromatically heard a song you put them in the google you get gromaghee every other band that's been related enybody
same like them and you can just download him all the median it's no factor is kind o crazy that's why for me like you know how many recordare ord helms i had and i loved music i
probably had like eighty records bright eighty records all my computer ino all my phone i probably got ten thousand records no kacunda songs right every man that's every xisto im
on my foe and you you would shit if you saw my folkestone on ovide wolfing we like he has a kid in a candy store an you purtenances i got everything from back then i got it all i
got like motor had testress ings fatih your waterbottles freshies like a velorio rollins i as your roundheadism idrissite you bought her from me a aside he might have had one of
the most epic rested clara's blood he eat like weird stuff and i stuff that light out i wouldn't want it but he's got you know first pressing a for i sing is a free he is they got
money too there he's a good duke he you some you end up trying to try to sow a little bit i can he try to sooth the record companies of an eunuch to going into legal what cause
all we were chanaanites we were trying desperately to get off of our record label and get away from our management because i we got to a certain point where we were just on the
verge of blowing up and profile with with still treating us like chums i know we weren't getting no money we want getting anything we're getting treated like footin dogship and um
some one who was working at a lecture was interested in signing us a sewer like cuadrilla how he is our fucking shot so we like got hold vile with profile will take any meteira
profile was actually hippolyte did with us was really kind of out there out there because they had you know there are big and the like century you media saafter now a profile
wiped for run diameeter and then like rob base oh it takes two thereto that was like there is there was big the that was their hits runes was their main ship speaking across over
run dance yet they brought up madelon you know they've these guys are drayman identifiers under a salem played cobain the dauber seeing then went to beastly boys with the garden
and that it was huntington's fine theniselves boys brought all like the lolotte white kids and run me bathe black kids in the black kids with his wornout robin all the white
lanthenas for the oatcake of like watching people just get joe to lie as i like this it is a larousse a dam so you try to get off that label ye and trying to get on to you
electromobile rashie that would ave been a good move for us but in profile hidden like us and they would have rather taken you know that you couldn't offer them enough money to
give us our freedom to like fates near yea we have some issue with some of them had people there he and then you end up so with a withal phemia mean by the way it says what you
saying o best wishes yea i was in i sang on like half the album oarless you know and then me and john both sang on owfool maker and i got to read this from the book cause i got a
kick out of it over his back to the book you know how you can always tell when i have you been to starting to lose their edge when they start using a fucking keyboard yeah we did
that ihaho be fair sing love museion a detonating down to a little bit different to me and lay it out in did the keitolainen as most russian mushroom tea as i can and should sound
cool to avoid that you know that was at least i could look back and laugh at myself i lay i if you can't work in a fit you so man durinesiae other than i think i want to brisetout
but there's another point for you're talking about how spinolaes like a all this and even at spinal tapis right well you start again turyooshoon hayes as to you what is a really
foul i mean me me an dug watched smile on tap with john one time i just use show you but little bit but his inflect i watch in about half way through that movie john turns to me
in dunnose guy sunk i've never even heard of them aidelaide about you an me an age looked at it other like this on the fucking is isis real dog in here and the tolaan way so i had
to have you know what i've had seen and spinal to happen twice the life all i saw the one he iaspis that lighter and i brought my wife and you know that i played big bottom at the
all play base yeastiness yeah that's why it is a folly elaboratum ber like me in those clothes where you find trying to find the stage you walkin round you summerites rightliest
windup outside a well with fun of doing again an you're still man your still struggling to alisting up until bring much totantora a like a interpreted here before i get em in this
next after i'm telling you that i had to lose a lot of stuff from this air a cause i have kids now and i don't want them to know exactly how insane things got or to think i'm a
worst piece of ship than they already will or do but again this is proof that you can plummet to the bottom of the worst depths of hell and still come back and try to become a
better person there was enough filth drugs or jes violence and crime during this period a right a book about nothing else as insane as it was in as much fun as i thought i was
having deep down i was looking for a way out i think that's why i took everything to such an extreme i don't think i care to find lived there were times i don't think i wanted to
i'm a proud looking back on it now if anything um sir surprise i survived have for up here you read that ship rotative makes me go but ye an a it's true you know you know have
seen some of my of friends that day they start to i think give the same outlook they start doing ship that is ah not you know high survival rate activities yet and it's like their
walking out line of you know what's kind like you want to die but you not going to take the busy routing kill yourself so you disconto everything you can to kill yourself without
actually putting a rope around your neck so instead of putting a rope round in neckerau your arm and stick a foine in it or you know smoke dust until the world is just a fucking
allusion i'm a red theseyer cause this is this is you know here go back to look at one point i was broke an ship it is after you have three alansone by major record contracts
toral over the world played with motor hand on tour here we go back to book at one point i was broke a ship and i got busted shoplifting food at a supermarket i didn't have any
idea so the kids i was with ran back to the house and came back with three of my sedor as i d i was sitting in this holbein area in the back of a store in the store cops were
looking at me all confused they were like this is your idee i was holding up pictures from the age of coral best where they alpoka and i was like sea look at the picture and look
at my tattoshi is me they will like your kidding right this is all the idee you got you that eh adelheid no idea nothing do an you don't want else i just realized that i
completely break breezed over is it contain that you have this record you have this record yet draoitheac basis i mean like an onbeias you know like a like sooicide musical and
you play drums too but i mean your bass playing on massaranduba but that's well and adders good indebt your base plainwell say and you say how all this town yea and you had
records and you had fans and yodle ship and your still down in the town on the desiatin to aeetes and iced a man you know it could have been worse man i mean look at forcing
people like jacobites i mean that other folks like the de mousas ever the like v and jimmy hendrix you know he was the jimmy hundreds of base and look at jimmy and him and it's
like you know you can have all that talent and if you're in of your suffering on the inside man you know mean furandole is over tragedy motorboat by balancer you know who didn't
know who he was this is a not this jack o this is delineated alastoris ear he actually got tried to get up on stage and a semanthe because he was friends with santander to get
upon the stage and he would so fucking messy at the time that nobody could recognize him and the bouncers through him out and he kept being belligerent and they beat him to death
do you know said sake could have all the town in the world but you know it's it's this it sadly cause really the people who are have that gift usually or people who are really
emotionally well that's why they have that gift cause it's a fucking emotional you know i think there no that defend that can belly become destructive if you don't have a positive
place like if you are really the only time in my life where i haven't been all tucked up on drugs was one i had something constructive to do something that gave me a purpose and
when you have that creative emotional self destructive thing in you there as i really can become self structive if you don't have a place to put it i mean shipman if you wouldn't
affect gone into the military god knows what the fuck you would have done with that and lenity have no the the military have talked about the now man it's like a unrevolting it's
a beautiful thing for me yet i mean in a really would have got him an too i just want it up the eeyou know and instead i want to being soundtrack to you here but a lot of a lot of
fighters you know you in you know lotoides and stuff it and a lot those guys have a rough time you know absolutely causis hard to be that type of an intense person and to go to to
such extreme emotional dumps because you know one second you're just a tough guy on the street and exsecuerun kind front of pocketable on his light flashing everywhere you know
and then you know and then some people it's like your career's done and your still that tough guy who still wolf fox shot up but nobody gives a fucking you for somebody up be
going to fuck in jail you know and it's like you know and drugs become a easy way to deal with fame and in the confusion of popularity and in the depression it's a heavy thing to
go from a to the silence of your room and your mind there's a body mind played called slightly stupid and there actually a big band on a play in front there from san diego and one
the guys in the was heard you know he got a little kid normal guy but he's played in slightly stupid and he was you know they just got back from tour and you know i just said
something to motoho was the gas man that this never gets old you know get it up in front of pen thousand people that are singing your songs man he said it's just like unbelievable
an i tell you man i haven't been in to an torn a really long time and and i'm last time i beg do i think the last time i did a tour was like two thousand and eidothee and then to
a late ship went south and my life to figure and i needed time to pull myself back up and get my ship back together i'm going on tour in about nine days i'll be playing in berlin
first implying a bunch of shows and germany i'll be playing in venice and i believe in all be playing in switzerland i believe in belgium in the uk when i have about third twelve
or thirteen shows in thirteen or fourteen days i really really looking forward to this um i'm not looking forward to driving five six hour drives i'm not looking forward to not
sleeping in my bed i'm not looking forward to not waken up next to my wife in not looking forward to all that ship and i have really fogeln forward to do him a thing again you
know i i got so involved with you gideon teaching jujitsu and stuff the music actually started to take kind of a back seat especially when i had my kids and i really couldn't tore
and stuff any more while as a choice i made i mean i could have done whatever the fuci wanted but i chose to be there for my kids now they are older and so imanan life is of as
made a this possible to do again i can't wait man and am to others the affecting people with the way i you know you do with music in its make a connection you know you know you
you know look positrons for unobliging out o my itherto for in years i was that book until you bratiano is the good um dear going back to bocardo at that point you know you this
is the the same time period where you're getting arrested for shop lifting and very ya was in a state of depression and the drugs helped me stay in it i was trying to get better
as far as one in to get off drugs at least half the time and i would for a few days a week or so here or there but i was just too depressed and one thing would lead to another
then back into the abyss the death spiral into emptiness nothing and nowhere ness of course i was all into alice and changes and nine in nails and all that fucking depressed drug
music but even as folk up as i was there was this weak grass juice stand on mission and i still make sure to go get a shot a week grass juice every day because i figured he at
least we grasped joe's equal to eating tons of vegetables lost child sortita hole at her like outline our cat no my eating regularly in a mateing very well so let me at least
jolthead this is this nothing i said gan i think is so you stay teleiotaton hertenin fanesborough i don't i use extorted pretend i was going to find ships play instruments i'd
hang out as long as i could and then leave i actually got offered gigs was playing and stores i got off for gigs for doing sessions were different producers but i'd be all tucked
up and missed the session because i wouldn't know what day it was and in realized a day or two litoribus their business career whatever so you just can't give you ship yeasty too
i was pretty fucking enough it was embarrassin that was by the way i was taking place out on the west gotha ye know an indian is gone it sounds long i went to san francisco to
clean it clean off drislinge worst citronlemon you ve heard of idaho and warrington or an yeoman of our then you go back people moved back to new york and now you start kind o
bring it back together i'd go for his long runs at night cause i couldn't sleep ah your girl lived down by the twin towers and i run from here to central park and back on the way
i stopped my cony island high on on say march place to see his hanging out for a few minutes say high then keep running up town to the top of the park i'd run a few laps around
the reservoir and then turn around and head back down on the way back down and stopped a cony island high again and there would be the same people every one's pretty much in the
same place just slightly more ship faced and it hang for a few more minutes and then keep running it was kind of good to see that as i was getting my sit together to see all these
people not really do anything but standing around getting tucked up as they got older and did nothing with themselves but gave me motivation to keep my ship together so ye that's
what i started bullamacow wanted the things that helped out with that first you guys got deft jam you as got signed a death damsight we had a a giving advance yet we got in
advance to the record something for them and then the deal land of falling apart so we wound up being left with the recordings in our possession we were able to donut out
ourselves what would outlast a revenge how car which i thought was actually really good out o bed an you know it is her it is i think she never managed to stay together a band of
head tucked around this time you started your duty career yes yet well i that's you know i i have said it many times men hands old really fucking saved my life and lodoiska ou
know even though i was doing those you know twelve mile runs in ship like that i mean i worked my way up to really doing long ones i start oftenly three four miles i got into it
but i would still have my moments of dislike a depression and a just and i'd want to get fucked up its stuff but i had digitalis living in my rehearsal studio and even have forced
shower i was like bathing on the roof with a filling up of a two gallon buckets i'd go up there like four or five buckets and displayed babe as living in the room rehearsal studio
i i wasn't you know life was not great but every day i go on train i had not that gave me a place to ah to find myself again now when was this what your ah alike the ah january
february of ninety six ode my go when i have came back discovered a you mamayos in two throws on west coast than like what doff fochette just do they have like i i was probably
you know hit a thousand people in the face of a house and people in the hand the head bohemian whatever by hitting never seen her in covetous an arm bar in our lot maumy mind this
is he when i was still on mackasi i may have my mind i like you i ever get the chance to learn that ship i'm going to face learn that ship so when i came back to new york i just
kept going through like black belt magazine come from axelike one of these mother fox got a move out here sooner latsis new york i mean they can't all stay in california it
mockingly a very big family one of them to have the move votes it hands o get moved i found he had hands cook to tracy cooked said greasy cucirete with his old partner and yet man
ah i went down and i met hands on and that that change my life now was twenty one years ago on meadenworth people are they think i don't know why they think it but they think you
get us going to be you know kind of when you walk in it's going to be intimidating and it you know i i could tell from the way you wrote about it and how just like i want to
rogonnathpore do he just makes you feel so welcome and so at home yes and am he you know i can say this said and mean it you know i i really love that man he now he he was there
for me through some of the toughest part o my life an eatin give up on me and he believed in me and sometimes really that's all you need is somebody to believe in you and i not
give up on you and um you know one now i got arrested in two thousand twelve and i was all over the papers and the news and everywhere you know the lot of people were shying away
from me let the same at im for those of you don't know i got jumped by him beth five or six kays ah and i want a biting a nice chunk out of one of their faces and licence of them
and poked one of them in the process of the negating jumped i got forty stitches i was stabbed at um you know a lot of people were like you know i can't believe he did that by by
by i i'm like i did what you know got jumped you know i got fucking jumped man and luckington me about slice and cut and stabbed folkington me shetet shit and till you got five or
six months forestry in to take your fucking life you know then you can start talking about harold you this how could you a fuck you you know you got five duskie in you in your
face stopping on you you had better be willing to stab the bite or a rip some one falls off you know that's what people don't fulcanoes and who have never experienced real
violence or real potential of death ah ye when i first got in and trigetius all about the fighting and now i was like a he learned more wit foliole up hat i now i really it's it
has nothing to do with fighting for me any more i mean i i just love the art i i love the relationships that i've made through the art i love sharing what i've learned if anything
i'm a again you know the fighter flight man a way more likely to run than fight at this point because i know how bad things can go to you know like a tatyana ly at my told a story
for the s a bad as marine and he isn't name was da that's what i called them in deed and in the military de store for short for direct action but that was his initial too but i
always just worked and he looked like a super here a ostade he was a gang bag or from a texas and but you know he joined her even to be like you right but he jauntily kid but he
joined the marine corps and he was in force recount he was a total bad ass and i nisaean you gotta come an tragoedie started train it and i like after like six months he came up
to me lehman i can i was like still to point and he a want seem a lot that all was like a man ahowlin to get to he was like me is condofuri don't know no i iotarihen does no man
because i used to feel like a real bad assanow everybody i see i'm thinking my might be a pusson it's it's very humbling you know it is very hard is to very humbling game to play
it really is but you know at the same time though to me it is it is that though it is a game for me it's like one when i think of fighting or when i think of self defense i i i i
i believe in tagetian i i am a hundred per cent of believer but jager's fun for me it's not about violence roseline or fighting neriolis osolini and violence to me is about ending
something tending somebody you know i mean because i know i could die doesn't it i tell people at tulkington on like i know you don't got a worry about like a you know a black
boat kicking your ass cause he's a black bell he already mathura he the need to kick your as you got a worry about that ninety pound by the fucoidal you without you even avenacae
to say due don't need to have a problem royou know you you got a worry about that duets just so don't give a fox that before you even have a chance to say body your shirts wet and
your like oh ship you know there and i'm witwe talk about that on her you know people say the alias going to get no fortis guy said something of my wife what should i have done in
like just to drive your wife go home been by her you know a nice dinner and yes a honey i love you you you know i don't not worth getting stabbed in the yet and is not where into
worth asking the stab that junk in the neck either and i just know from my own experience that there's always the potential that i could go to that extreme i don't think for one
second because i'm a jueterbock felt that like him just connoit this guy and he now until the leaves get her because you know what that guy may have two of the friends standing in
the shadows behind you or that guimaraens arts stab in you when you're looking to folantin too you know so it him the hope suerley is my desert way willie why is what answer oh my
god that's looking red you know i mean that's dislike you know that's that's why i'm you know now as good as dogies an as good as you felt done it you go on tour and just before
you go on to break up with a girl at the time ye alabala back to book without the feeling of being needed i didn't see as i had much purpose in my life i started falling back into
tuckup mode i was seeing several different checks around at that time i say what it saw and rotation the boy nityananda got an erect on on him i'm great on you the araount even so
much over her just a a break up of a check i was actually i been with his check for a while and she had a daughter and i had raised her daughter who so it was like you know also
not just feeling like betrayed and everything else to goes along with a break up up as any father or step father step mother you know you have a certain ah you know you develop a
love for a kitten if it's not yours you know and that was really what was in ard on me more than anything because of the mother was all tucked up on drugs and i had actually taken
the kid farmer and i was raising the kid for her while she was off this being a fuck up and then the grandparents me gotten contact so i wound up doing you know what you do it on
this is your family is or blood that i got a group with your family so that was that's why i was struggling you know it was because it was like you know i was i never had a father
that gave a folk about me so every time of been hit in a child's life it is really mattered to me like to to be a to protect them because no one protected me you know so ah so
that was why i i i really started to lose my way again in ouseley know i don't have a purpose there's no one for me to love no one for me to care about and no one to feel oh my my
love i know so yeah the drugs started to fill in the gap again bunol but fortunately that didn't last rarebits funny man some of the fuckin some of the tough is mother faces
actually got the biggest hearts and then we lopepe don't realize as you know i'm sure that underneath this rugged exterior erqui a sensitive mother flocked create no salinity
behind he but as you know i mean seriously some other most illness mother fogers i've known in my life i have been some of the most sensitive people on the inside and and i think
that part of that illness has been a shield you know to protect themselves i know a in it probably was with me and my ways you know if i wasn't as violent as i was my
neighbourhood would have devoured me my vironment would have devoured me if i wasn't addison yet these to your point i greet you and at one of the reasons why i think going back
to get but or boxing or wrestling or moi but when when you me when we're kids young man going back to hopping about proving yourself how you prove yourself that your tough when
you are kid you go out and you fight and you beat people up as you do ficious when you did you get to you know you're tough and and you know when you look some guntharis he that
gin my sabby but if he doesn't omai choke him out to take me fifteen seconds no i'm of to do anything to prove that's why i think it's for me and i think it was ten fairasday this
question he's like what makes a man or something like that i was like to your point for me learning how to fight so learned you gito getting married and having kids and gone in to
combat those were the three things that i was like okay those three things they were evolutionary to me and they were the three things that happened here i said okay i don't have
to walk around trying to prove myself to this gala i know how to fight i i don't even not need to impress that girl over there i got a girl you know and i got and i got mouth to
feed i can't act like an idiot and i know not a coward in if chigoes down i i know that i will do the right thing i know it and to present so those are the things that to me gave
me like security is a man and so is the same thing that your saying how you know when we're young and there's your out there just to try and prove and and protect and should your
your emotions your sensitive yet you know ye that's what you do and it a good way to get over that in my opinion is instead of having to fake it you learned for re i wish i would
have to get to when i was here for young kid that would help me immensely you know do um fo an just to just one person an just mention briefly am i in grace another brother that i
i truly loved and and ah you know he died in a two thousand seven serveti and am here's a guy who is feared by ninety nine point nine per cent of the people that knew him and the
one per cent if he will at no home fucking loved him and he was you know it's like damsel you got these people who are fucking rous mother fuckers you don't even want to look at
the wrong or for too long but if they fuckin love you men nobody better fuck what you ever other you got a pardon in the book where you're talking about he came home he fought in
a pan yeh come home he gives you you know you just had your first days you choose and ye if onoto nothing just for being you and i didn't want to take it and he's like shut the
fuck up it's closed the yatano may i know mother bugs my whole life with in do that for me you know you dan de master whose eye want one of my bernadine's and all that but he's
got some funny stories about high in an eat a highness packingcase be that his note was at his round the fog but but but to be honest though i never had any crazy experiences with
them because i feel like when he looked into my eyes he knew he didn't have to prove anything to me yet you guys kind of counter thou what i tatatatatat is handful betwit was like
you know i don't have to prove all a bad as to you you don't have to prove your bed as to me let's us go out and show margaret you know we'd go out and let go to stupid movies
like you know we go out and just work on his english you know like i never you know yet we had found you know but we never like gotten brawls and gotten roger you don't eat eat
eediot a contrast to you only as a raasay know again it's like you know he again this is somebody whose very emotional and i sadly you know like many people ah started using drugs
as it is a way through to deal with shot i guess i don't want to say to deal with shipmate just as a little bit of an escape you know you got to figure what kind of folk and now
you know i mean his favorite song was a boy named sue when jennyass and he really felt like he was living that life by being him you know with the name grace and halting to beat
you know always happen step up always aftenpost himself and always happened to be a bad ass and i think that when you are forced to react and deal with things on that level all
the time and especially when you are actually in a nice person at heart or or animosities person or when you're forced to always take that stance assheton puff on and you know
that's a hard road travel and am in i always have him with me always i always have him sit on one shoulder and hand ossetin the other and oh you know when they have black it ye
have when i have big flint i ha am confronted by a you know serious shit i think about you know how one would react and how the other would reatchin then i try to find my own
since and there there yeah i mean it i intind of a class example of everything that were talking of me ye for all troll practi purposes you shouldn't be your right of you shall
youse're or whatever if any he did amayeka was going down the aneath but he didn't i made it i make it you know and now that you know that's the that's the thing man i i feel
really fortunate that i had music because i think that it gave me a tool to to ah give me a paddle to row my way through the shit but it also came with its own loathed or in no
it's funny because i you know i probably should have encouraged my kids to learn more about music and be more musical but i encourage them to be ducitis because i have felt that
you know i am past was safe for your hesitation was left off roared exitum get pushing your face by the times but you least you an you know at least won't be life punching you in
your face i am you know and there is a you know all kinds of drama round it you describe it to get a final tap you know just the rocking roll crap fromage comes to an end for most
part and you end up putting out out record harley's war yea and that um good good rockrose baby and oh now and also during that time you you had some gits ye and you know you you
met the mother of your kids and she wanted to go to school and so you took off contine to just yes a pretty much put my musical career on a hold you know to take care your kids
yet and ah you know on ontonagon you on here as awesome oh talk about your kids and you say and this is something i completely related to you i'll tell you the first time i looked
down at the other end of the mat and some my boy's training it was one of the greatest moments of my life my youngest son spend his birthday at the academy with george saint
pierre and all the rest of the fellows my eldest son had his birthday there with all the graces in about thirty kids a full house and a cake with the hands of grecian logo on my
sons of grown up with hands like an uncle eghams grigger daniel nemen all the guys treated my boy's like family they've known there instructor magnolia since birth he came to the
hospital to see them hours after they were born and ends they have known since they were days old my eldest night ave been on greyhound buses in the middle of the night traveling
hours away to represent argia and teman's obray i have competed with my son's not at national ranks grappling submission and jugeant one of my proudest moments was when we both
competed at the same event my son took first place in his division and i took second place in the expert masters division in the thirty to thirty five year old age bracket
although out of forty four hens o joe then he first saw my son this is the proof that even though the fruit is wroughten the seed can still be good taatatoea know that one and
that you know i i guess it's when you see your kid do it anything that you love doing and you see gets your kid do it acton you got that in your future when you see your kid all
as yet you you see your daughter on the mat right now and ah that's that's cool when you see your kid like training and i'm to the point right now my sons have been kitty's
fourteen but he's i can row with him and i can live it like emollient than met the heated my fourteen years six foot book eighty and he holdeth in age yentlemen you when you get
to train and you'll gather thing i noticed while i serve and when my son the as good as it feels to serve like is good there is a really good feeling to serve as good as that
feels it feels just as good if not better to be paddling back out after catching away and see my son just just kiss getting after it is a so olesome it's iesous their way you know
i like obadashi him and any trinity to like contain yourself taliuvenna's cool and and you know you see no i got a bunch o daughter too and seen them do when they basically when
you see your kids kicking as it stuff man it's some animates you feel fucking good you know ye i mean you see them to imposithir as a man his guide knows i mean it then so much
negative shit they when i see my kids in some positive it's feel really good to go and back the book talking about your dad my dad my father died from a fire so you your f your
father and we did talk about a much he'd go on away in ten need like had an hermit and contact with you over the world actually once he was out of my life i you know my mom left
him when i was a real young you know ah i never saw him again and all me actually spoke to him twice on the phone i got like one letter from him and it was a like one or two pages
and a caste of him playing guitar in a half way house and am basically is apologizing a while and ah yes you know he he knew he made lotted choices but am stocked up the chisera
he was only now he's fucked up on heroine and he was an alcoholic and not he he actually ah like kicked my mother in the stomach when she was just like very pregnant with me i
know and am at how much he didn't want me so you know it's a athar pilewell nowhen your father would rather be strung out on her own than be your father but i but i i've managed
to a turn it around in hawkins i love being with not to my kids but i teach the kids at the ends are gratiate and i'm so the child are that i didn't really have i get to
experience and we my carious through all these other kids and i get to be a oromot to that where as i didn't have any and you know i'm teaching these little boys and lute girls
out of it diffenderfer out of fight and now a fight they have honour and how to lose with honor and always to shake there upon its hand and say good job whether they win or
whether they lose and not have that respect for their opponent as well as themselves you know when i teach these kids that you know there's the like they say introduce his now
losing energy win where you learn and when i can take a kid who you know have worked with a lot of kids who have one you know varying degrees of spectrum disorders where there
they've had oughter physical or issues a and the celimene that they make not just in inpatient in their social skills on you know kids you are so in cure it they won't look at you
and now they're making eye contact with you talking to you to light a goner face and shaking your hand and and their chest is out the shoulders a back and are not all you know
that you know so where i didn't have certain things you know at the end of the day it gave me something else gave me the ability to value that that relationship that he can have
what children and a lot of people take for granted a lot o avenge this point with a lot of the parents that bring their kids did you get it because i feel like you know you're a
lot of people and their kids off to everybody else to teach him out to do everything you know they don't work on stuff at home with them they don't sit there and teach them they
don't i get you know when you have a kid that doesn't know how to do it hockanum in jack like what the fun the the she pard do it you than roll route you they don't teach you how
to do it summer saw i have to teach you which is your left in your right hand like really you know i don't think people value that time enough and i i i have said it before it's
like you know your your your job made your career may change several times in your life your spouse may not be your spouse for ever but you kids are always going to be your kids
so you really have to cherish and value that and in the time that you spent with them because they'll always be a kids and a woman that you think you're in love with him may leave
you you may fall out i love your job may i you know fold but you kids you on them be you kids for ever and i always need you even if it's just emotionally to know that you dare
even if they're not seeing you every year or every six months even if you don't speak to them that you know you still have to be an emotional and spiritual backbone even from a
farm and a hat no i mean i i i i forgive you that you you are when he died you actually flew down the texas to ah no ye basically to bury vernand that it was cool to i got to
finally meet his mother and and learned about my father's side of the family so there was some closure in that but i i buried him myself i i wouldn't let anybody to daranato him
and ah and as it turned out i want up there in my mom too with my white youngest son you are am your now you kind of wrapped this book when you were writing it and and you know
you kandaces it out um and when you close out he said this at the end of the book i guess part of being a father is learning how to eat a certain amount of shit you do it for your
kids because they need you you just throw a little on alsatia and maybe some to bask go and smile because you got to be there for them one thing my father said was i've got all
these years of experience experiences that i don't know what to do with and ask on the how i feel with my boys how do i come in for a graceful landing after so much fucking
turbulence in my life hopefully i can guide them better that i was guided or at least may be they will learn from my mistakes god knows of made enough for everybody and if i
remember correctly you that was the kind of the end of the book and then you were moving on and then and then do you thousand twelve comes along and there is like a hard core fast
you know the prado bring it back like a lot of it like a re union festering back punch of all bands and the croac should say a formation of the cromagnon members of the croatian
yes galt the foe magnified real vether were gonna play a fake as then that does my songs with one of the old members you know i neblina yes and you what i i okay um you know i'm a
good jacket out are you now on a ring my base may be get on stage let me in you know what i there was actually to members of original group plain at night and my intention was to
go and to extend my hand and say you know what guys i burn i love you guess much as i hate you i love you you know and just because i like to think that the end of day to people
that were friends can laugh at their own foolishness you know how like to think that that people are able to look beyond their egos in and forgive each other for being idiots as
god knows we all are at times so ye want to that show with the hope of maybe even being invited up on stasya few songs with them and oh well the rest is history did you show up
and and here you go you're you're walking though the place you go to the you get invited up the dresser a at home say i and in here we go back to book as sons i walked in i little
walked into the room took two steps the door shut and i got punched from behind out of a corner i my eye i could see with some big deed with that toes it was like balm he had me
hard i saw a bit of a flash bold like you see when you get hit out of nowhere and you don't expect it and then it was a rain of fists and kicks it were coming from every direction
of the room and this was a small room in a dressing room and i started falling forward i fell on to the couch and rolled on to my back and started throwing up kicks just
instinctively to get people off me i was getting jump by at least four or five guys probably more there was a bunch of people in the room i think i counted sevare although i
couldn't even really count in all the chaos at that point i reached into my pocket i had a little knife i pulled it out and it still had a sheet than so i just tried to punch the
first person i was in front ome and get them the folk off me everybody started screaming i saw the door of the jesting room open and and i started yelling security security and
then i left and then i saw somebody pulled the door shut and i thought to myself for these dues there intention is to fuck me up and they don't want no one to see it they're
trying to beat the shit out of me and i've seen all these duds in a pack kicking people to the point where their brain don't fuckin work and i knew right then if i didn't get the
fuck out of that situation i was not going to make it home and one piece so started flailing the knife as fiercely as i could just to get myself the fuck out of that situation it
toward the door everybody screams got a knife has got a knife and i don't even know who it was or how they ended up in my face i guess it was when they were lounging on my arm a
bit whoever was in front of my face a torealise out of his cheek it was obviously was a set up when i saw the door pulled shut i was fighting for my life these guys want to kick
the shit out of me stopped me out and no one would see it there would be no whist witness is it that would be that but that shot was not going down i bet the one guy's face i just
tore his fucking cheek open right below his eye he was screaming blood was running down his face a bit someone's rest as they were trying to get the knife out of my hand i just
didn't bite it i tried to tear a piece out that's in the bouncers broken to the room at this point i was on the bottom of a pile trying to stab and kick and everybody started
trying to grab my hand they're like give me the knife give the knight on security i added up getting dragged out on to the balcony getting kicked about one good kick in a right
face and i'm surprised i didn't knock my feet out one due stream get on your stomach than on your stomach put your hands out in funny you this one big guy stepped on my back with
both of his feet and other guy was looking at my face and screeching my throat i don't know who the fuck was who one guy looked at me and said mother foker all kill you i'll kill
you i will kick you in your fucking face until you are dead mother factery don't stop moving i saw pete from sick of it all in the crowd of people next to us with a freak out look
on his face he was gesturing with his hands from her calm down and stop resisting he kept moulding the words hardly chilled harley please stop chillery that's a one guy said put
your hand out and funny i asked her you a cop he was like yeasaid show me your badge and at that point the boys in blue came running up the stairs i was like fine am i moving more
cuff me i stopped my hands out in fun of me face down on the floor i felt that now that i've been stamped it out forty stitches in my leg thank god it was in my leg only the cops
cuffed me turn me over and that when he saw the wound in my leg it was grotesque the blood was bubbling out of it the fashion tendants were little hanging out of my leg that's why
people started saying that it was a compound fracture the cops coughed me they put me on a chair carried me down the stairs and put me in the ambulance it wasn't a till i got
cleaned up in the ambleside realized it was a stab and yet was unites and you kind already taxed it out this i mean may basically arrest you mediately matotela ye and i actually
went to i got a restitutor we were all going to get arrested and there was his connote like a bar fit of any get pulled in but a all these folking guys a started making statements
step were basically that i launched into the room and started to stabbing people in ohio got a room full of people saying he did it at initiated you are wont to me saying what the
fuck open and he forethinks go get walked down to cuff you know and you end up on writers peer racers island for those used to don't know from round the world is a jail new york j
racers island and meanwhile the media you you know is this put now all these ah teverin that kidlet the media which is that you instigated it and you were horrible person et
cetera et cetera and now you of writers island going back to book all night you'd hear people screaming and talking shit the youth offenders were in the same building as us right
next door so all night you hear them screaming suck my dick mother facer of folko up suck my dick his son i thank you to bathe opulence riot comes came in all the all fucking
night then as soon as the sun would start coming up and they finally shut up the sea gales which start making noise it was non stop ironically it was the best sweet i'd gotten in
a while ever since i started going through the bullshitted ax my life had truly become a nightmare i remember at one point i was looking out through my window through the gates it
was a beautiful sunny day and i could hear the birds and a butterfly flew past my window and i was like dam right then and there that butterfly represented freedom what i wouldn't
do to be free right then i had no idea what was going to happen my lawyer told me i was possibly looking at two and a half years in jail rough yea i remember that butterfly rose
viviano idiot he ever get that even on a path that initial so eserinization france yerina whatever i win ye yet ye ran out cristianoil joe and visitin jokes and at you know we
always find the good in things and you got a visitor that came to be an yeowoman by the name of laura the as he was now goes by the name of lorelei and had no she was cheated du
fer a for what for what website ah she had a web site called new york natives dot com and am yet they did later stories and then you know about things happening in the city and
interesting people in this mad and blogs and stuff and she interviewed me as a a native aconaeus am you know you wouldn't know it from looking at her and or by her career i mean
she is a lawyer and she is you know from operative she's amazing and am she used to be in a hard core for a brief moment in her childhood so she knew of the crow eggs she had seen
his play and i'm a friend of her ser they were doing estateshe did a story on sea squirt unsquat i used to live in you know adam it was really good story is very interesting and
one of the people she spoke to ran at him with said you should speak to the harley heaved live there and he'd be interesting for you know for you interview and she ah pursued it
and a we started talking on we did the interview and i started sending her some chapters of this book that i still working on at the time and ah i don't remember how exactly it
came about i mean she has a peahen she is don louring and stuff in her life and a lot of editing and stuff and now she really enjoyed the book and i needed some help in the
editing i mean i have a seventh grade education so there was in the book was basically one sentence and ideation for ladies allowances it was more neither to night of a agatated
the book in a week as i was an english major to and we we had a moment of like um new idea gave removent of mutual resaca admiration mulierivorous just seem arismane book would
again it's like three hundred pages it would have been a thousand pages and it was like i said it was one sentence and and we literally had to like a c we've got ten stories about
fighting now can we lose these other twenty o ka we've got ten stories about like almost over dosing can we lose the other thirty agwee got you know so there was a you know i mean
it would have been a lookin endless book i mean in a lot of fights and a lot of drugs and a lot of rock and road dumbness and just a lot edictal good stories didn't make it in you
know but i think i think we got left with a pretty good picture of everything you know everybody it's actually funny because i when i had the book signing a lot of people that i
went to school with and like fifth and sixth grade from my neighborhood showed up and they like do you nailed it manuscript a neighbourhood so perfectly and the funny shit is
actually one of the hit men the guys from my block was at my books i dingan i actually asked him if i do ulfilas pig man hates like a man that was crazy addie and crazy and was a
brand of pity pre always the smoke back an so i'm sure that's why he ought to nickname but um he is again and you know he's ease he got out body shop now grand kids follow far on
but i was you know i with other less of latoun but was funny because literally like all that actually mattered more to me than the reviews of the book was when i had people who
will share those experience and people who grew up in the neighbourhood i mean even more so than the cromers of the books like the people who were like yell you fucking nailed it
man this is exactly what the city was like i try to tell people all the time and they don't get in so i bought them a copy just so they could tuckandee for themselves that was
when i knew that i mailed it you know that that was what that was he you know there was a couple of publishers that didn't want to put it out here like you recant touch this yer
no i tahiakeana a around know how you know um your wife had to glue like twenty to fight stairies and i had to be for this potassio ready there you know we discussed the fraction
of the crazy ship that year no i may well on even till i mean we could sit here and talk for the fucking till you know near and you know but oh but i do you know i just the book
gets it across and that's why like i said i thought i was familiar with the hard course in and facture i went to see meg's i don't know the hundreds of times when i was a kid and
all shows all over the east coast boston is but i still didn't recognize that there was this much chaos in speaking to cayosta to book here your sitting in jail and here we go
because all the people talking ship and trying to frame me the record label i just signed with his having second thoughts everything was coming to a head and now i had to prepare
for a court day facing four fell on ycounts second degree of salt and weapons charges for biting and stabbing people if there was ever an i teach the kids if there was ever a time
that i was about to lose my ship i'd have to say was around this time if there was ever a time some one would relapse drugs alcohol or some self destructive ship it was a time
like this i actually went out and got drunk a few nights which i hadn't done a long time i was really depressed i was really at the bottom i could have easily spun out a control
but i said to myself facta amokeat myself go and do that to myself on my kids or give in and give the satisfaction to my enemies i am a black belt i have more control than that
now i'm not who i once was amstrong er than that and then the next court day i wound up getting a unadjourned again because they didn't have a case against me and again i got
pushed back while the dear continued to try and build it wenteline ly in december of two thousand or twelve they contacted my lawyer and said to appear and court on friday
december fourteenth when the entire case was dismissed he and i i you at that point you know you kind of get back on track the end your teaching togie you said and there's a good
coat near when you're teaching together after you had the incident and at webster hall and one of the parents said you know so near his comes back to sartines again after he's
been all over the sealhunters looking at me like hookwinked in the canoe in like every half the people were red super happy as he and there they have looked at me like a like a
gun slinger just walk this i make hollie you know so it will wet foot one of them one of the mosotone of them hams as catassin up well at least i know my kid isn't getting taught
you to obey a puseyite there was my that lunalilo in esther's still um they're still hard times because at this point your your losing custom your giant was you know that's you
know i got i tell you i mean that dates been to the biggest trial and solution i have dealt with in obviously i've dealt with many but all you know especially some one who didn't
really have responsible people like really raising me you know i it really hurts to not be there fruits every day you know because i really i used to cherish those moments more
than anything i mean just walk in them to school in the morning and the little conversations we would have on the way to school and you know taken them to get so and you know i
really was the this the main care taker i was with them all day you know i i did everything with him took him to the park to museums to this is that as i and to that have that
taken away it's difficult to them again to not started fucking up aspenall when you you know dealing with depression and then all all that ship and now began an now so like oh
like i said you know when you don't have some one to the love and a to feel that that of reciprocation and and you don't feel needed hard to not feel needed but i ah i no want
through all the process of family carnes and that and all you know unfortunately they don't live with me full time but i see them alienum you know everybody knows who has been
through a divorce as kids or out fortunately i was never married and her mother had layout um anybody who had been in that situation no as it's it's not easy and it comes with a
lot of challenges and so now my challenge is is to try to be involved in my kids lives as much as i can and to to try to give them some moral guidance and a manhood guide and from
from a distance you know and sadly they did see in a mean their mother a like complete and toll savages towards the other lot relationship cause people when they break up
inimically don't know how to act or behave even in front of their kids so but you know up even all of this is made me a a stronger and wiser person because i feel that it is again
forced me to look at myself and you have choices in every situation how you're going to react and how you in now what you're going to do and and now i really i think about the
consequences of everything i i know i can't distort a explosively if somebody on does a say something me on the street because i know that that could cost me my freedom i could
cause that my kids there father could cross my wife or husband so you know even even losing my kids has been a a learning experience that i hope god forbid they ever you know wind
up a with kids and separated in this anatole fully even dis bad stuff can help them become better men and smarter men hopefully better smarter than i was i know and oh i just try
i try to believe really that that any end love wins you know ye m there were to one more thing that you had to overcome in the book and you know sometimes man are just read a big
chunk of the bucks at revealing because it's just a a a the way it's written in a way it goes together in the story that it tells i just don't really want a change and i want a
put it out there so i kind of got to do that right here after all the madness in my life and the recent drama surrounding webster hall my rest losing my kid starting a new
relationship getting my kids back in my life and dealing with all the drum of family cork my mam was stricken with terminal cancer after a major operation in what seemed like a
recovery things took a turn for the worse and through all she remained supported in my battle for my kids and i started spending a lot more time with her it's fucked up when you
know your mamma dad is doing you go through your whole life with all the baggage and ship that they put on you and all the ship in the world than your friends put on you and then
there comes a time when you realize you have to put it all down then just let it all go i was with her as much as possible during the last few months we spent more time together
than we had in years we even left the city one day just a month before she died to spend some time at a horse stable she loved horses and she hadn't been around them since she was
a child she said it was the most beautiful day or entire life and later she spent the night and then the next three nights and my apartment we had such a good time that she
completely died forgot to take her pay medication i hope i could face death with as much dignity the way she is handled it i've never seen a brave person in my life she makes all
the men i know look like cowards sate she only sound my kids twice turn her last few months but the time that they spent together was amazing in very meaningful and picked up her
spirits and other no and i know that she took great comfort in the fact that i'm findin a place in my life where things are coming together in a positive way i just wish she could
have been here with us longer she died monday do you fifteenth two thousand fifteen at the funeral presses were carried out and placed on a table they were in a box not men to be
buried a beautiful statue of a crying angel we all took part in reading from bible verses i held on to my son jonah and he tried quietly my son hardly stood behind me with my girl
friend trying to keep his composure as to yours rollon his face at the end of the service of slight drizzle of rain started again whenever he was done consoling each other and
people started walking away i looked at the box toting on the table surrounded by flowers with the hole in the ground beside it to sanitary workers arrived with shovels and a rake
and i walked back and asked if i could cover her with soil myself as i had done for my father thirteen years earlier i explained that i didn't feel right about some one who didn't
know my mother covering her with their they understood i thanked them i took the box with the angel off the table i kissed it my son's kissed it and i got down on my knees and put
it in the ground on to the cemetery workers handed me a shovel and i started to fill the hole my youngest son who been crying came over next to me got on his knees and started to
help me fill the hole his hands grabbing pieces of soil and putting them in taking out rocks some none would damage her box as we filled it and his tears stopped i put down the
shovel and we both finished by hand and then i waked the soil over and we patted down the earth with our hands and it was done they were so sad and so beautiful the next day were
father's day when i started writing this book i didn't know what the end was going to be or what i wanted to say besides telling the story of my life and setting a record strait
but now it's so obvious what is about closures of the book he and look no one has lived a perfect life we've all made mistakes involve down things that can't be undone and we've
gone places that we should not have gone but we all have the opportunity to redeem ourselves then it starts with confessing what we've done if start with only it and then getting
on the right path and staying on the right path then staying on that path the correct path it takes discipline in it takes you milady in it takes courage in its heart but what is
the other choice bon oscan we do let the darkness completely consumed must live for instant gratification or ever we can find it be over taken by temptation than vice no do not
accept that i i hear from a lot of people that's struggle with all these things there can there drowning their folding under the wet of pain and suffering and misery and diction
and they asked me what i think but when i think and what harley proves is that you are better than that you are better and you can triumpher these dark forces you can become
better you can be better for yourself and for the people around you for all of us hold the line stay clean and never she render you came a lot of stuff manihan until trying you
know ye so i guess every one is he this is the time in the poast why we have ecoeoeure any reason cattiwow gainede compress a little be fully ailie it's after a couple of
questions yet he was even one you know the plagal queyou know like when after the thing um where they sat weritable ah me it's you can see when i walk all the aye like lower lay a
yeas you are saying that he sought or they thought it a compound dreariness white yeah yeah don't they now sir we thought that was on a thickened make sense done them or kindly
your chin you like in your tillinghast age now i didn't even know it happened until i was coffeepot transients so crazy like when you're in like doetsch ye recedit of tabataba
with you of hanging on halinacoats atoka what's next okay you you was that on my hair is of a thing so cold i have so great omission extima that's why that's why i'm so sketchy
when it comes to like as much as i you know i got admitted like that she was fun that i i i like a good adrenalin and good scowlike a good violent confrontation a good fight he is
fine but it was also like life and death you know so it's like an uglie or saying you know like i had that one fight in california when i'm runnin into a mob of wiley's does like
you know i was high off that ship folke a week my denin was like i i felt like i could leonora o ye have like weakly himyumhama was that ship yet now so like as much as you know
yet was fun a wohoon do you get damestreet fight any more you know ship especially at my age i pesitistas than i potagerie man but it was all the other shot all the fucking ripple
of facts they came in long whereinto see my kids flock i may be in jail for i oenixes like whacking you know protecting my ads from bubbles over you have a ficino's was like the
man cameretta get along here we want just having a street faineantise get on with our eyetooth you know but you know she happened i ween do method put everything into perspective
the whole getting into street flight till it seemed quite a still ye you knows it changes when you got responsibilities anyway speaking orsons innislone to be land inherent
getting me any younger oh i'm so well talk about on at first as the always am so on it supplements you know you know but on it to most suplet noonoon the west coast i do an i
that's how you mother forget it so big to your enemies esoragoto get a hit no man o what's the fugitively true but here in dorant's what i thought too with supplements where it's
like gates of heminge you big i found that that's not necessarily the case so the several men that i take the we take and their fore i got a sucession of their god waring out her
toleration one other floatation other shivered life of this voyage be on the right stonehearted that it yea in the light is on is the way from the north is specialised for sample
the one the one that i take thee to now whose creole or you one year right and grew her inflammation early ayarit in or about that colossal there so on it is like a rule reputable
company that um like you know you get cause pa you can get supplement are you able to say she eyelashes a cruel and you're getting leg work in you let on rat o ye if ratchewaine
heatherfield dilation the rest of its all vitamine joe yes exandistis added like known to be the best i yontare down actually rorieson the many his like he has a succesion in like
up take you know how like you can get a calcium self emit but that's supplement won't do liberation you your body doesn't relate in granite down or absorbing it yes exact so this
all these snowless lot of different vitamins and all that shy i i try to get all my vitamins through food yes you know if i can you know yes often yes if that's that's kind of the
point there were like yet when you get it with food you know that you can get the best up taking tom for the most part you know if you if you're getting your you know on an a
protein from sally beans or something you have to i don't get as much protein as you am most over here am a vegetarian a i i have been since like eighty who agitational so think
is one of the reasons why i managed to do maintain a certain level of health and and sanity nonentities in fact to that actually you know help me the weak grog you we are only
reiterate he ever as we hiakotoo no heroine may i your week asked and always wear economy good lord yes pete that's optima from the food but in it lay a layman in in knowing like
the upon way up take like the nutrient yes found that out nice the thing you know i fain of that a good one inward on the reason though we do pull strong bone knew when i desarted
jackals does it for you for your joint see to join now i have seen joint issues emanate a while that's half an yet the in the cruel helps a lot a lot a lot thus to it see that's
the number one doing so old recommend her i draconmeyer the things too but just for different reasons like that this one of warrior barts buffalo fisternae or worry on bosomed now
like they make not in the wine no buffalo meat better for you i mean i know you know it does not well the flockharts i don't know if you could get surly offer it to the gods and
me with your aeronometer can god he could argentopolitan ear or moral it's goin to watch ye ye ye you know in a fear i do this enough god piomingo to letty to hayti think they
done for the room teches well which is stuff made from a mushroom heaulmiere kind of manure your amici had i now a going i had a margaretta to satanstoe you abogin when on lettice
a year telligence you need it especially as you get older you actin let it doesn't travel as well and yet it is realized they all tell you great there is no greater joy for echo
then when some one's on the on the on the poast as a guest that wants to know about this giourdina mi like one of the training whatever their lookout lookout sang and the broad
i'm like doing a sail pitch to oversee it anyway get him a cruel shirt you are how gatholian me about the cruel alcina don't mean on caliente ling you in the morning i told the
star before jack ward it plenty times in the mornings my daughter she's she's like for now but you know what you like three she came an washin person in the world that hasn't
heard the story is hardly for yet but you will not hear a howling and lo batileion be talk for three hours right there i ecoeoeure in bateato to do in these gootheridge as she
chewatum up jupheena so you don't eat nogent up out of bed cold sore from whatever with it three year old dolman a be stiff i got to do the correct form to get up otherwise you
know you turn your back you can ease all that stuff after like it was just under a week quill no factor it's like i was already warm that the feeling you want to grow out how i
ascanto ject i got to give my father in law some props may rest in pity turned me on to the crillon now they logofat er an alright amager laws you oather and laws they've been
around yet may been around the longer than us yet now he turned me on and and even though you know i am a vegetarian i do take the the fish old the creolian because you know what
i mean look i i started off as a viardot whatever spiritual reefs and sand whatever health the reasons now i i i believe it's best to have him mainly vegetarian diet but if my
body starts saying mother fucked some fish like you you are like about the drop dead if you don't get some serious proaching surge like i will do what i what my body tells me to
do noterai think humans are are designed to be able to do vegetarian and me that's why we have two different kinds of heat i you know it when we were hunterian you were gathering
a lot more than you were hunting realistically because an'thing was an always easy with a fucking spear you know you know so you listen o my body a lot too in my body use me tell
me to each canyon crop slip tolloll the good thing about the creeter this me however much listening how they harvest the crallisa yes yes i hate a lot though it is good they you
like co friendly ships and why you want the very offends is her every ortermobillies yearly big rome my canoeing friendly shiratsukagumi wanted to meteorites good okay you
wouldn't do mayest need an her own part cast called the echo on the pan of the age people need to know in new gonfolina make your own line at go folsom thing in a nomenato i think
they have a nailing on im only the initiate leugh all your father looey father i love her antrid n't listen to him by the way i only do it on jock's like ye to girllike okay i'm
on a ekaterina whatever it is one you on it not come flageolet all you can get temper sent off of all your stuff whatever you like well i'm just going to ask him directly evident
into tensility addiyou know that he the light in the beginning to take a arile is also good way to support amazon clicked through so a what all that is he shall my amazon i guess
i have a hero kaititse i just said you're the only person that hadn't heard like a grooton person the world is not getting everything by offer am as on thro i have i lived in the
city i go to a little man and figani guess it's a different ear we want it we go out and function get it you can walk yet you can get everywhere yet not like that like i said i we
got yardgates miserable for her no winter he is as muslin nothing he kiswetter will she had for he juice from a white railway or the lady from california is one step further and
my mom says that only and we are rained a lip round any in though it that's the rainsfields and don't qualify and i know what a anything mathematician or what is it you know and i
elucidation i on the ears enanthe that pinioning but yet o amazon polly erototheological amazoons aneurin emeline event of you chopping on ation and school front before you get
all you click through the website is is little all web said he let your webs at a was like a little yet more when your eye you get a thing from atlanta he thinks for referring to
it you know pretty as petty delicious a little bit a little piece o that yet i you know what i caught the victorious cause you can set up things for for like pot cast that's
basically give me money get just give me money but all the hoonara like asking people from any yet you don't even it doesn't your price doesn't go up it's actually my book it's
kind of a good way to stick it to the man because i am as on odaic a little bit down to the podcast or over here let it let heat it's kind o not because we have in it you stick it
to the man to get eyes i will you were i thought he onotowatishika latin is the initiation the rugosities indignant and i am the man were in a away human through a anaesthetist
little bit of confusion there escout i i mean either way you know when you do do this i think it does benefit am as on consecrate you know i mean of castigator saying that
somebody might order something from another on line retailer but in said some one says almansor the pot cast yet if luckadoo fui like a anadot be a bunch of big as you got a
support the home team an if i could i feel the same way harlots but amourette cool like that like i'll offer every one while in little things like all you want to do it like you
round up like letorenue like eight eighty nine a year but you leven sence till the next dolomite that eleven since to like something lucerian y way out ungodlike that in no
somewheres i do to them if uncleth ough go to the jocopo cast what say which is jack but that to calm and quick conness support or them on banner then do you shopping that's a
good way some people build do it and then like the little belt get a screen shot of it and they'll send it to me on twitter ye natacha is cool that is dull it's like and formation
ye and it's kind of like like this she ha'porth but an feifel that like deeliver direct support from the young anacharsis as a fortanier with a little what social nearest won't it
a lot hemitheoi don't see like the price or nothing till they'll just say oh it'll be a screenspeaker well not even be them so prithee anomaly as it is i just i like calloused
work the work aliened that exceeded i feel like they here hechetuya subscribe it to the parasites if you listen to it on my totantis googly all these ones umyethile britiain the
mood like what jocasse or herlikini or areion this specific one oh we have eight you too gentle if you have not to subscribe to that god subscribe to that yes if you like the
videophone spot cast but the excerpts no people in gitangali me crave about saint excursion to say excerpts you shared a lot and you put your tone on it for her yelisavieta all
how you do you don't say any knowestone excerpta we put on the ego i made a couple exertions elation voice level twelve yes takes well i think that was your it was that year de
acerb yet ah there you go abigiel don't want to watch the i i yea there not on watch the reality three hour pockets if there's some point oh a jokin with harley planning and he s
talking about this yet they want us yearly for three minutes and when to send it to their body that they listen hard corwith bay they can't send them in any watch this three a
half hour podcast in the next during your lunch break ye es on morning i no got in one clip as orly flat again talk about a street fight to a yeah exactly right maybe you to bunch
exerts of yourself talking about on it and exercising ye now that's not very shareable but that was a good idea thank you joculator that so if he want to see excerpts of random
lessons not ran them then oranmore and i meant exerts of lessons individual lessons selected selected from the places so that's one too and also if few want one tall echo on
social media he make this time period on this poncas into an exter and put me on their two because that way i can harass him to that we can do to everything one glass yes she
carried out every single one in it but some of them iceni go ye chalecoo man yet nor ask i agree in in those week grass in heroine latest before i think we're going to nedotyopin
tokimentoes was at will have to sit to a alaister body that is to be one extra which pee also one have the shirts repetivit anything that some poses you ewart would herohood find
something funny your interesting or whatever it is when you to make that feature and then it gets seated to a certain point where enough people ask for it and then then we break
down the echo breaks down and and makes it teacher as up to the works to look at a good one yet he so the excerpts good idea thank you ah you too but if you do the request if
you're requesting that the you know what episode and what exurere you know which at which exerted on there because sometimes we behave do salomon than it already been there just
saying yes it is people to tell me to do a book review and it's already been done ah ah you do it or really in one year and a a yes i do a lot of requests like that i have to then
i have to look up and see what you wanted it and i send it back to him and say him and already did on this one yes actually the old like how how we're wenever to day that's a good
thing about how we put the the time santina the subjects soon and that feeds into the search term so if you you're like hastenest jock paces art i war it'll go by in to that
episode ye twenty nine three you know what i'm actually coming on top of this book others a book out about h alright now from the back brandering if this is cause one of my
buddies house in dearest who was a hard core kid growing up in his name is noo but he's a he's coming and he was a company york and so it's honest big about that like here's a kid
that grew up listening to grow max who has been like saint can hardly are you going he's a copesmate as of an island is golcondo then there i i give out a rat i got a fasitotai
don't have the loffoden you know people they'll be like a no i don't eat cops i got a friend that i can lay you a fenian than my best says i fly you haitien a cap of the isolation
boareland be sure that in the foresaid awfully jocline store called jocatore de shirt stuck in were taman i go any body to enter these denials freedom my forensic i wrote a long
and meanly that i named discipline equal freedom and eaten and just so i got it for conseil because you know i don't give a folk i'm goin to say it and that's that you when i
found out that jocko was in the hard corps and when i found out that he was into my band the croesi was i was very proud and and all and a and i asked his mother for in thought
about singing in a hard clean my torturing reaction i got out of this mother fugger if my computer screen could like to turn into like a fucking screaming look had a on the
fucking the the the the response anyway i'm very proud to say that or what we were going to be playing besides doing this european tour i'm going away when and weak some plan all
the place in a coming back and in june and when by playing in la and we have invited jack to come and make a special guest appearance when we play at the fury fast in la so for
all you mother aesopean to see me playing with them one of the baddest mother fuckers walk in this book and earth certified by the u s foringer i ieroe get least a fucking bad as
shit because i'll tell you i have not gotten i haven't been able to just play the base and not be like chained to the microphone and the really long time and that was one of the
things that was intense about the cromagnon the old days was that me in the singer both used to go fucking a ship when we played and it's funny because you know i was i been
thinking for the longest time and if i could get a serengetti i might you know shitenno henry rounds and its prime was fucking bad as you know fell on some and his prime was a
fucking man as one home jackson will you what happens to one like hand without her my airs and we were araneidaean used to have a face sealing of my bar now a itinerant happens to
be i for my kin up in my angeloni may have to slap the might and you happen eyepleasing net or with those shirts on the arena remove or a ridge man jocatore tamai matterson the
cooper sure but if you're the moon to porthos purchase a shirt or or whatever with other stuff on the jocko story out come on yer up those mugs you made you the lissome good monks
so i shouldn't even said that she's been am tabot these be off he moves we got or what i call travel monks traveled my tumblers and heard the energon go that deep into it this
time next time i went deep extra deep this time i'll go just kind of deep this is straight up the best copy ever mesomelas his head reinhand line at all hoongary we kept a little
bit you don't just black on black it's like black mat and then the big design you know it looks like this one side then his shiny black in way look superduper ones so big enough
but small enough to sit in your couple there on i be drinkin some other for coffee sir saso house a thing but the coffee it's he it's those ones that are like a donoho they may
come you know the inside and the another stingless deal be free all this you know good stuff i don't know what all of that means but it's i know don't i crill involved yes it's
howardtown will i do it reasnible but it keeps it like your cut if you like your coffee hot at keep it hot but like eight hours or something like that i dont know if he keeps it
the same temperature for eight hours it might i don't know i've never had a hot aim of cold crossing i will hear a good news about that promise but you put cut houses i put ice
water in it and i was drinking it and drank like almost all of it there was still a little bit in the bottom and i forgot about it went to sleep the next day as cleaning up a call
my cup from last night bolice still in there you know how usually it a regular coves like water and it'll keep it a cold pretent four hours bone not losing any coldness anyway i
would to go way i vernet time but this is straight you special part cast for you to talk about that that copernician one episode be the coffee or after so to be the oil yes all
all oil eystaetter thing uncle gee are with the oil ironic a crill right now if we have an ill all at any iguellden any waitin but yet we attotarho cool stuff on their trouble
mods are out those are good this one borestine and women stuff on there some patches so rash guards on new rascarse up it'll be out but none the less i occupation quite yet but
new rashest who dies are on there is some good stuff he distick if you like what's on there you want to support in that way yet something also tlaloc warfare gay light hardly
might not know about psychologic or for some man explain it agonothetai deep so basically it's an album referers and intimate and as nihilistic and echoed on career you don't hear
it ours to keep listening no i'm dessaying this part is kind important to roam people were out there getting after it the waking up early some people some of us sticking to the
programs taking to the diet sticking to the work out right every once in a while you wake up or you don't feel like waking up early that day or you don't feel like working out
that her kind of tired you had a hard day whatever so when his time that when it's go time ye like hampered o day you know when you sleep in on the program you on to that feeling
he awaited you skip your weak trahebat ly right so that get this it's a catapult or fort to cacosotte's distrack with jocelyn you how to overcome those weak moments in your
program of boy but it's untelling when i when i am having a weak moment the last thing i want to fusinata it get after it in a walhalla right now i got a d that you espagnalat
oisemont here and where our anumati like sleep on those forks or with you guys but whatever it's all great yer hat an you know eclect reparations i like dreams no i like fingers
didn't i sleep as the enemy and moonlike lay was like it it's like the the the last luce and genii can take about the slide i bring goes beans from his eyelids and on a wet and a
information he said here i cayalti's sile work on you do not just to sleep seeing skip the sleep ones so you like the baker out at a tall you don't get any too good very helpful
hundred per cent chance of success with doing it too he atotarho and ah the also by the way when you click the amazon you can quick or you can find this morier but book is called
hard core life of my own it is written by harley flanagan and we'll have an up on the website but you praise that it's on the web side or we win to be pearls and there you go pick
it up an amazon you can also get some jock a white tea i hear now there's some things in the book that harley does not recommend each he tried them but he does not recommend some
of those things that he curly stays in the lucky little he says i do not recommend for instance i do not recommend angel thus i do not aaenthon i do not the lot of things you
doesn't recommend to her something i will strong we reconsecrate ta bo it's gonna get you a lot better results than anything any of the supplements that that arleykin in this book
you go at joncaire yourn have a much better shiptonia you that right now i also we ought a lot about egisto day and we thought about teeto a lot you know did you throatage know
dotipole ful thing and there's a book thou right now and it's dear it's written kind of written for kids it's all away the warrior kid it's available every one that's bodit
already thank you appreciate this support thanks for spreading the word thanks for letting kids get a little insight into life and i'll tell you some about this book that is that
it when i wrote it the the debt the father the book is about a kid whose you know fifth grade going through life the father in the book doesn't have a room now you might think i'm
a you know bad person for not giving the father the roll but you know that i always says there's one line about the father in the book he says my dad's gone a lot with work and
stuff is that ambiguous and and there's a couple of reasons why i did that and the number one reason is causative yone not every kid has got a dat emanate saying is actually very
real tea you know and a lot of kids have to just deal with ah ye my father's not around much yes you and and that's why i did it and and there's another solares and you know
without going into two much crazy detail than the lead character in the book is name is mark and ease actually named after mark lee was one of my guys were just a incredible de
credible person and crible warrior and he was killed in iraq and you know he was he never at his mummers and you know so it was my way of saying look you know not everyone has a
dead and end in the book he's got a strong uncle that comes in and helps him but at the end of the book his uncle points out o them in your sassacus gonna help me now and as uncle
says to him look you don't need do you know what the right thing to do or you know how to stay on the right past you don't need some one hold your hand all the time you can make
this happen for yourself and that's my the message you know that i'm trying to get across the kids that might not have a dad they might not have an uncle they might not have a man
but you can find out what the right path is you can get on it you can stay on it and that's that's why wrote the book that way and and you know it's it's interesting cause i've
got as many times over the years you know about what do you think about fatherhood and and lamport alls at father's played again you know i go back to for instance markesan
example of the kid that was raisonnable and his momson woman in an incredible person and she raised a warrior so that's why i did that in that book and you know another thing i
did not poeas you know jugulars a prominent role but you could replace that with wrestling with boxing with with motibus you gets really a big part of it but so is studying you
know um loening learning how to learn and have an end in as a kid seeing what the opportunity is in being educated cause a lot of kids myself included when your going to school in
your ten years old or fifteen years old you don't care you esme care and it's i want to i want is to realize that it's beneficial to get stronger faster smarter and better so
that's it way of the warrior kid get it and get it for your local library too because they need it because there's some kid that will drag that book and library and get him on the
right path also dispatched om of the eld manual you can find it by itself in the get after a section of any book store or in line or tailor if you look in to get after its action
this a big empty shelf does one buffets called disciplinal threedom field manure we are sort petitioning now to make that happen at an was on the just need like what you drop down
business life style health and fitness genevieve's that one book they better get in the game and also there's extreme ownership the book that kind of started all very duffian
preciate it it about beatership and it's about combat and it's about taken fucking responsibility in its about taking his sponsibility of him that is sucking huge levanger that
something that i think is one of the ah hardest things for most people with the do and you know i i actually highlighted that a bartome in your book where's your kind of
explaining things that i guess you'd say maybe resulted in something happening a bad in your life and you say hang this appened in this happen and this happened and every time you
went layton at the end of it you'd say but it's my fault and i should have done i should i made this happen to myself so it's pretty ah and he and you wrote this book before you
pirates all you were at this book the same to our matters right and a book when i was basically pointing to kill myself eardrums and everything else as when i started it then even
in that state you always say you know it's my fault i should have you know at my my dad around a habit o lookin for other people to blame i mean it's it's important to identify
the routes of the problem and so on and and what made you the way you are so you can fix the exact esoon exactly and a big a big part of being a man as accepting responsibility
for your fucking that was awesome in your nagain you know um when you were talking about what you learned from your dad not being around and in how you fly that to help other kids
that are in that situation peace did get you in taking care of him and be buildeth p the best you can with your kids and with other kids at around me at ome that's exactly what
you're talking about so that's extreme aldershot in all so don't hoard the knowledge you might think he commonage extreme worship for myself on the heated at night and then i'm
going to become a good leader nominato better or don't do that that's the wrong move what you wanted you an actually distribute it to your team ye and that way they all get on
board and now the whole team start kicking as that's what you want to do all and down the chain command then if you need more than that you can hire aretosi and menagements ting
company ashlan fun we are the premier leadership consulting company in the entire world so were the ones that teach that the methods and the technique and the tactics and
procedures from extreme aship proven in combat self you can email contact us in final on front dot com we just had the master number two in new york city a awesome event if you
miss it come detects joy thirteen fourteen one bardon creek resort and spat and again forget about the spot you're not on the spot of comforts it have but what what will be
happening as we hership we'll talk about come badly or ship and how to apply that to your business and to your life and if you can't make texas took an we got back up we got
contingency operations if you get come to texas september fourteenth and fifteen to we will be back in san diego on my home turf where there is no winter we got big yard and
morellet voorhuis allah you in tile to be polled at this point in your life it is i'll take it give you a pass i had on tidemasters we can be found actually on the interest on
twitter on instigat and in nothing is poor telefoned it there harley is at harley as flanagan and flannigan spelled s l a n a g a n harley flanagan echo was at echo charles and i
am at joaille acherontian else not that i mean player gentleman who was real pleasure absolutely annistay other clothing comments you want to make i definitely wouldn't advise
smoking piece partaking licentiously am not that ever have me on man it's it's real pleasure you know i your you become a big inspiration i love reading your quotes and our books
and now listen in the podcast it an sometimes it's exactly the kick in the ass that i need and oh i appreciate that and i and i again am very honoured and proud to have been part
of her the sound track to your life in indeed yes indeed i also like to an give a shut out to my better half who without her i had definitely wouldn't be doing so well my book
would not be as good he would probably so and my life would definitely suck so lorleian again i love you and ah if my sons are listening to this podcast a love you boys and now
keep up all the good work and keep you training going and not keep checking out jocastas you might learn a thing or two also merwell up harley obviate coming on the show as such a
pleasure man thanks for the years of music that you gave to me and millions of other kids that needed to hear it and thanks were making it through what you made it through and
coming out on the other side with a with a positive outlook in a positive impact and a positive message that it's it's never too late that is never too dark and that we can always
turned things around as long as you live there is hope this indeed thanks every one else that's listening and supporting and spring the word and as always to the folks in the
military out there we salute you and thank you all for a whole binge demons at the gate and to the police and landforce ment had fire fighters and ents and first responderat the
demons here at home and the anyone else datter that's listening that's started to go down down in that hole down into that maw trap in the chains of depression corendian or rage
when you're down in that hole look up look up look up and recognize that there is a way out there is a path for you to take that it's not an easy path it'll be fight it'll be a
fight that the man's don't jest and work and tenacity and of course discipline but it is that path that hard path that hard pass of discipline that will be due the freedom sustain
that bath and until next time this is hardly for anythin an echo and jocko how
