this is jacopo cast number seventy five with a charles and me joaille good evening a good evening we have shared the incommunicable experience of war we have felt we still feel
the passion of life to its top in our youth our hearts were touched by fire that's a cool from oliver wendell holmes supreme court judge lot of people know that but they may not
know civil war soldier served with the twentieth regiment of massachusetts of volunteer infantry saw action all over the place peninsula the will genestas wounded at the battle
balls bluff also wounded and antietam and also wounded at the battle of chancellorville so i think it safe to say that he knew and understood war and that coat right there is from
the beginning of another book about another man that new war major dick winter that we've covered dick winters before his book on this poast number seventeen beyond band of
brothers great book was of lessons learned but there's another book which is called the conversations with major dick winters life lessons from the commander of the band of
brothers and its written by guinicelli coal sea king seed who was friend dick winters and who actually was the cooler behind that book beyond and erotes so what's cool about this
book is it really parties out some lessons about lorship in a conversational manner what dick winters the things have be thought and that blesses that he earned which i when you
can an opportunity to learn for something like this you know what i do i just be quiet i listened and i learn or in this case i read and i learned so this is also a guide if you
have a scene this series on eh bo band of brothers just go stop and just go watch it it's i don't know where it is a twelve sir twelve episodes there all awesome every ask me all
time let's realistic war movies that one band of brothers and then the pacific all both h poteries their both phenomenal tend i recommend you watch it you an a lot about dick
winters at all that and he and the guide a place dick winters does a great job and the way they tell the story of the realism that it's just an awesome series but here we can
learn not interpreted through a movie but actually from the man as he spoke it so he regulating a bar to the book right now from declares de day was my first time in combat so i
there let us talk about that for a second he is your first time in combat which your mission de day one of the largest military operations of all time that's your first day in
combat get some acrook i was meanly prepared and felt that i had done everything necessary to prepare myself for this precise moment and you never know if you will measure up as a
leader until the minute arrives when you face the enemy for the first time baptism by fire is a soldier sacrament there is always doubt hopefully in combat you perform as you
train so i can't imagine that baptism by fire by day again get get some sense of another good movie paving privation the opening scene of that is the same thing and that's that's
one of most intense parts of a movie ever is the de day when her hating the beaches its crazy to watch the wash it cause it'll give you a feeling for what dick interstar about
just imagine all these preparations that you do you're getting ready and guess what he re comes little mission called de day now they all they that was their initial operation was
during de day but then they fought all over the place and again we cover their sin in beyond banderoles but one of the most intense part of their campaign was that bastone so even
out de day was hard the things didn't get easier once dead was at as much as i'm saying oh yeah i did he was crazy gasaton wasn't even the hardest part for them things got worse
back to the book most of the soldiers and easy company also felt the fast one was the most challenging month of the war stateent bill warner later claimed that he had been scared
before but he was absolutely petrified at best one for my perspective past on was the most miserable place of being my life i was wet through and through and naturally being a
pariter er i did have a change of clothes no blanket nothing and it was a cold son of a gun things were all snaffled walking around in the black of night not knowing where we were
exactly wherever body else was houses burning civilians crying wringing your hands and behind every bush a per per up perspective enemy we took our greatest number of casualties
during that campaign easy company was never the same after bastone we lost so many because we lost so many veterans who had fought in normandy and holland to toy bill worn air but
comin down hobler and many others so this is the s where i i i started thinking okay leadership lessonland right here i operated the italian command post that was situated
approximately seventy five yards from the main line of resistance you might not think seventy five yards is consequential but it gave me the opportunity to think things through
and divorce myself from the chaos surrounding the front line and to make calm rational decisions under pressure that is the toughest challenge for any leader so obviously were
talking about the tachment here and of talked about the fact that in order to detach you can move off the wine like six inches a not kidding is smaller group on an a sup to he's
talking about a battalion seat hundreds of guides for so seventy five yards as more appropriate but if you're running a smaller unit like one company or maybe a platoon you've got
thirty forty guys if you move back off that firing line six inches an a foot maybe you know maybe three feet or six feet you just step back and you get yourself out of that fire
fight where you can look around that's what you're going to be able to do you're going to be able to detach yourself from the chaos and the mayhem and make calm rashness on under
pressure yen that's such a big deal like for when you do that when you detach and then you can you know you have a clear avision and a lot of time that answer a solution to some
paid problem is just so simple remember that story you are telling it the master where you know you're in at your guys had a injured neath he could participate very one to come
along so eustathius ide and he's like one just would you stand back and put later on one day one of the get on one and peleles and whatever the call was so the story is there was
a guid at actually he was a delicate into you prize you took over my position he took over the tree or commander is and then i was running the training so once i was running the
training you know now i was over all making things happen and he was goin through the training a different blockading and he broke his neck broke his neck and thank god he didn't
hurt a spinal cord but he broke a vote bray in his neck so he had to wear one of those big crazy neck braces then he couldn't actually do the physical training was a lot to bear
an wait for a certain amount of time but you know lucky us able to keep his his job because he was very experienced and so we are going through the land warfare portion of
training and is it a man you know i know you can't participate but come out with me you know come out and check it out and you know you can see you guys other watch other perform
and you can you know i teach him in stuff and learned from from what happens so call he comes out and he was actually one of my men a wom my best friend so of course we can what
hang out anyway he ran the ocelots you know of course we had the chance become out hang out near the desert for a few weeks on a do it so we we get out there and and you know
you've heard the stories about the training that i ran it was really horror and evil is craziest loan were doing that you know we got we in that case we have these really high
speed layer later tag item than you got gipion you got explosions going off to god just totalement and his guys kind of froze up and they're all pinned down in this little sort of
ravine valley type thing and i got guys i got my guy my opposing force so the seals that are pretending to be bad guys puttenhams there all up in the mountains shooting down on em
and kill and every one and his guys as worship is just kind of frost in their sting her not doing anything and you know he says to me eight can i help them and i i kind of thought
about it for an age ago had a givin you know tell him what to do came a prompt and and he just you know goes down to the leader one of the leaders and says he get all mine and
peel left and so that i look at em an what i get on linneus it's an ordination movement where all your troops are pointed in all different directions as yet boom you take contact
right all line and that means every one's going to face icy face not direction to their couple guys that are doing his curt a couple of gutter dog lecture but every one has now
oriented in the same direction not in in the next call that comes is paft boom and their almanser moving you know in a direction that's going to get them out of his immediate
threat so he tells he can says the guha can all mind p left hum so the guy looked at him and he just yells out get on mine polevaev one repeats that command and then everyone does
it and within a minute ter their home free it beat like one minute once he made a decision yet so and in so so they get out of there and he looks at meanings he is an it's so easy
when you're way up here now way up here to put in perspective was four feet behind these guys to tolerate we were up on some mountain top and credible how now where were we were
there we were standing next the guys and we are a little elevated cause they are laying down and we are standing up but it's it was not inconceivable that you wouldn't have the
same perspective if you just step back to me be you and shuffled over little bit and he says it's so easy when when you're up here and i said brown you remember when we went
through training and he says he anisada it was always like this for me and it was i was i would always just poise fact just enough to be able to see what the solutionist so yes
this detachment that he talker about an agin in a italian situation where you're going to set me five yards and i peningtons situation you know i actually see people do this your
in a year ameaning and as every one around them around the table and there's some problem that can't be solved and literally step up and get step away from the table the de step a
getaway from the group is there all moved up and group think everyone thrown down the same trail they're thinking about the same stuff and there's no new ideas because they're all
right there in this vortex step away from the table you samenesses away from your computer to you get us some point where you're just you don't know where to go with some
proveoking for some kind of a solution to a problem just step back did a back see more you know ye in writing a long tems they'll suggest just kept the end don't worry about like
an i just go to and how you want to end and then certain kind of open your mind up i'll i'll make you sort of forget about this problem right in front of you you know you and give
a kind of an over all we you and you tore the solution that you know can be found yet even in argument with wife or something like that how i will for sure that's a big first sir
of his when you ah you definitely need to do it there and treat your ledageree and gone all right and this part been covered before almost vocation you know or going to do covered
again little piece about disappoint i did have a routine a routine that was instilled into me by colonel sank at the coa colonel sink insisted that officers always shaven the
morning regardless of the situation he would say acheve every morning for the troops if you want to shave every evening for the women that's up to you i followed his orders
because i realized that i had to set the proper example for the men i needed to get their attention let them all know that i intend to be around for a while and that the situation
was not as bad as they might think i remember before second patalania for i had awakened early and shaved before i ate breakfast i later discovered that i had caught my face a
multiple places on colonel sink came up the check on the patala's readiness before the attack commenced he took one look at me and smiled i realized that he was laughing at me for
shaving on that bitterly cold morning in hindsight shaving his ear dark thirty and freezing temperatures with pretty ridiculous i so you know we talk about this all time got a
shave got a maintain in many gated daily discipline in all things but what's cooled when i the reason i want to go to the skin as because look at waygonain till the troops he
saying i know i had to set an example i needed to get their attention and make him realize i can we're going to be for what that you and going to go daily this is no big deal oh
you're worried about this stuff i'm still shaving over her so waken up as zerfahren shaving and and you're worried about the uptowner good to go and you need to maintain the same
despot so that leading by example clearly is a big deal right there and maintaining that routine maintaining that discipline now speaking of this plane back the book regardless of
how discipline and outfit is too much time when your hands to little activity and too much alcohol make a volile combination so this book kipson a little bit but i put this in
here because it is this is actually talking about when they were done fighting and now everyone was kind of idle he has an idol people on their hands but it related to disponent
locket in a little bit back the book to be taine was no longer a combat unit but a garrison opponit was more important to keep the troops gainfully employed to prevent boredom and
monotony that would lead to a break down and discipline and we that occurs soldiers get careless consequently the first thing we organized were callous thetis and athletic
programs you know i was joke about you know when people saying i have some kind of problem and of deburieh the a no a good solution to all promotioneering calisthenics that i that
i might get out of it eligible recall this is is is another reason i put this in i vividly recall watching the men stripped to their waists or only wearing their short as they
played baseball the sight of all those scars may be conscious of the fact that only a handful of men in a batalion luckenough to make it through all four campaigns without at
least one scar some men had two three or even four scars on their chest back arms or legs keep in mind that this was after the war so i was looking only at men who would not
seriously wounded next we set up rifle ranges and sharpened our marksmanship close order drill and troop refuse or once again back on the training schedule i also established the
schedule where each of our four protons garote every seventy two hours to a skeeoge in the alps forest reaction the purpose of using this retreat with to let the man get away from
the routine of a military schedule so first of all one when i got to sell he one and actually was wise when i bought a first crop there but there was a a master chief at silphion
that had showed up the in nineteen seventy one and nineteen seventy two to seal the man and filthy one you know you had a hundred and fifty guys a roughly on the team at that time
and they had had thirty four collection of vietnam at suliman and wounded was a donno how many wounded but was lot but this this guy who is a master chief wani met him and he was
telling me that when he you know at the silted you know you petite morning to like a sport same you did you get to work and you work out and here is that he's a new guide right
and he's made my pet and then they go on the shower you know to to to wash off and this same thing he is like looking at every single guy scared up wounded bolases on their chests
bullet holes in him and he kind of was saying to himself damn you know missus z the spent trial by fire for these guys but beyond that what he talked about here clearly is if you
and i'll tell you this especially with you know eat ten year old nineteen year old twenty year old nails let him join the military if you don't find something for them to do
productive eroticine some of the dean's not if you codocil be fun for him to her he found form or at a good time but it's not yet there's a chance they could be doing something
better then what you're letting to do now of course he talks about the fact that he's given to still got no time to go out to the stead and and break away from it a little bit but
you just got to be careful and how you do that you got to be careful how you do that is i can back fire if you're not careful and the first time i was ever kind of detached it
from the elton on i was when i went to training the training department at at silton olesale training sallowish sounded and it was algiers a training so the first trip i went on
with a platoon because i was always in a patio the first trip i went on with the platoon and i was outside of the parson and i was you you could say i was an instructor in the we
weren't running around calling ourselves instructor instructors we would call her so acolyth cat ra i leave it as a oh yeah carioles we let go the ficial turn to me as it had in
before the training contra is it when we were at training self because the instructors are kinda considered the buds instructors to gueret the base of train en weedall want to be
buds instructers we were the contrary so and i of it i made this is just visiteuses up cared coorses coratius training sell i wish i have been a public things but i just flowed
into him is a lucky young new guy for a accedente gaiety more we but is true though right is not like you just give yourself a title that will not on wear to carry ideating contre
ye yea only he i knew to to us to contrive her out with us to be called her so ellythik won't you know like with so you open a judge and then you know your teaching people and
then you're like okay ye i'm the instructor and then you say in no whit like professor that's better the wise that it's not that i didn't make that known on of day halt you don't
for years and actually i think roger having talk bout it when when he was on the poast he was on motheh was contrary sure it's been around for ever right that's why i just like
professor it's like it's true and it's a nierestein but it's like it just sound it's just better in no it sounds better in ganganelli's coat congran yet i like connote one i was
talking at all so high as the moors in the contractor the first time and we went on a trip in her trip where they have good times to be had where we were it was as a place where
there is so to train but there's also good times and you want picterin this norrisian heard while bang degenerates i go weovil an we let i think it a better term than the turn
that we discussed which was partying right rollers good we had we were parting i like wild to fettered in tails all kinds of other thingvellir while a wilding out or wattenweil i
ever really hear it i unlettered but when always at me clearly i know what it is i ain't his book too well acknowl day so we went to his place with a seal paton where there was
good training and good wilding to be in and i remember the first time that these guys you know we get there we work a little bit and in their going to go out in into the town and
i remember thinking myself they'd been in the field for a few days and they were all fired up young frog man and i was then in self houses even in a work like there's no there's
no possibility of this going well that if they had no every one find because all these gods their ready new enow there ready to explode the you're goin to they've been in the
field they have dehydrated even the fields for four days or five days are all dehydrated and they completed the operation they feel good about it now unlet in town and then yeah
you got to be careful not senario so under put something yes we we would you know sometimes you just say look at you ever you want it but were pacing to morrow seven underd so
then every one knows then in the end why old through a point taken to be out a foot some kind of a governor some kind of a baroness hears a cool he where dick winter you know he
talks none of talk about this before but just just tape about his view of one america was doing at the time back to the book the united states went to war not to conquered
territory or to subject their fellow man but merely to liberate a conquered people from the chains of tyranny there is a certain nobility in all that to day we are bombarded in
the news media about how everyone hates america and how this country is deployed around the world world war two wasn't like that and i am proud to be a part of it so the gain of
said this a bunch of times the old we went there and lost hundreds of thousands of people in europe and in and in the pacific theater and we took nothing we only gave some
thoughts on teaships from dick winters leadership leaderships defining quality is honesty to honesty and fairness and consistency i was able to develop a sixth sense during the
war that allowed me to size up a situation rapidly i could look at train and be able to see opportunities instead of challenges by leading from the front i believe i thieved a
high degree of success so i thought that on a very very interesting combination honesty fairness and continuance you don't hear those a lot about being a great leader i mean i was
talk about the number one attributes is humility and i i definitely believe that you milty is important but honesty that's clearly a thought and a concept of leadership that i'd
think that misses a lot of people i think and we talked about plenty of cases on the pot cast here where we say oh what if this is going on and i say look you want to be honest
with him you know so i've definitely said that before but i met arsinoe because i'm learn a little something from dick winter to day but you know he admire had a case where some
one a saint a m when i leave this job on the takiner job and what could i do said tell him say not and we kind o went round an othello to tell me tortosa love to have this it's
going on i'm goin to be i've got a bad opportunity of an take it causes and in the long run you're in the long run it's going to be bear going to be better off if you're honest
with people and so obviously to think about this quality it's something i've i've thought about but not as clearly as this as as dick winter saying that's the defining quality as
obviously important something that i will talk about more now definitely believed that boogaboo it more now if you seen the movie better brothers or the series banneret er they
they do a good job of showing to beginning when they form up and there's a gun there's a guy leadership position called captain so bell and he's not a good eater and they do a
good job of portraying why he wasn't a good leader in the series but here's what dick winters had to say about it back to the book captain so bell commanded through fear and
intimidation that is not how i leader should conduct himself so bell was not just unfair he was mean spirited his attitude treated his special bond within easy company that
allowed the men to identify with their potions more so within with the company which is more normal and most un military units second lieutenants by their nature are clannish
groups so you got a company commander and these got three usually three buttons underneath em an each one of those is run by a second lieutenant so the second litanies of the tune
commanders second lieutenant by their nature are clannish group some of more serious donaters but for the most part they wander around a military post as general his now one said
in a rather aimless search for excitement easy companies botoner of which i was one day are best to take care of our soldiers sooften so bells dick to torio behaviour i lost all
respect for our commander the day he announced to the officers in easy company we will lead fefer not by example that that's just the opposite of teevan leadership principle that
i could ever conceive is to lead to fear instead of example lineman when you did well at a nobody o that but if you're dead says or if you save your kids do what i say not what i
do you not go heard that for sure for sure but is it in if you had put the fear on to that do what i say not what i do or how or out yeah i'm going to get out the bell for the
kids down south they say yedo and the oppose swinish i get up a swipsey know not all the time but you know he said that beshidesh where was you for that's from brooklyn new york
there you got no switches in brooklyn new york in here to tell you on quite do orgie found is on one made me go get my switch he said go get a slit out i know what that means by
the way at this point oh carlo kit yet go get anon from quietant say switch you know apparently other people say with sienna which men can a more mad ferodia brief you on what a
switches he needeth in inbecile digging your own grave you know way you know very severance very soon or back through book it made such an impression on me that i recorded his
words in my diary under ordinary circumstances a junior company officer attempts to reflect his company commanders leadership style but easy companies e tenants found that they
simply could not emulate the image of so bell and still live with themselves so ball had no friends within the company and few within the regiment at the end of each day he went
one way and we repentance when another hoping not to run in to him at the officers club he lacked confidence own ability as an importuner he was he was completely honest but he
couldn't read a map to save his neck his knowledge of tactics and fireman ever was extremely poor so arable situation and this is this is one of those things where he tackbun how
everyone know one hang around him right in and of her leaders say oh good beaters knocking to be like no not in to be weldin and that that there's some truth to that right of
course not not eve's going to love you but there is also a difference when no one like you you're not doing to your job you're not doing a good job at all and you know i i hung
out with all my gasolene through the chain command every one to hang out let's go us go listen the sang out wasn't running away from me at henceforth not a good sign yet like one
day say i'm ill here to make friends yet that's another collie right in to be friends no but i actually you know there is i heard to offer a officer say that in the military
shoalest no cur you and not they see like eight not a popularity contest which is not clearly or go to make decisions are hard for people to swallow but to have people running
away from you because they don't like you as a human being does not a good position to be in here you are not doing a good job as a leader you need to reassess what you what year
what you're doing and how you're doing it and this is kind of reflective of what dick winters attitude was back to the book easy company didn't belong to me it belonged to the
soldiers i was privileged to be a small part of its history officers and commanders in particular are merely caretakers that the parish ere proserpine me is more than enough
reward so there is isota totally different attitude right and there is something weird that half enswath the military yield her a guy as it a contradictory states a dichotomy you
hear a guy say my soldiers or my marines and there's two ways that that can be taken one of them is very positive my soldiers i am going to take care of my soldiers they don't
come down here and talk to my soldiers like that or he you know i need to make sure my soldiers have to hear the thing you intend to make sure my marines have and that's a they
mean that in the best possible way there's another side to that which is completely negative which is these are my marines meaning you own them meaning i'll do what i want with
them red and so i've seen guys on both sides that eden you can hear a good you can hear a good leader say my marine speak in her a good eater say my soldiers you hear good beate
said my seals and and think of it a posy and you can have a crappy leader say my soldiers my marie my seals and you just think do no notes to first and especially when you get
dick winters who is you know universally respected in his ain in the military and definitely in his potation and his in his company and he is a guide that say look it was theirs
that just tells you that's where you're herships etive should come from yeah i always felt that a better way that instead of thing my hat one of the few things that as far as
feelings go cause i i i i experience that a lot more pelele my best in that you know and i see you're doing it like you're just the boss and the owner of all that i hindostan and
o kanitu wet it felt like an feels like with people like my soldiers you know vere is a lot of room for like cuscus men these are my brother's eye you know my guide for i say
they're talking about like something else like a big one oh like the bartonias work with every one it will you'd have one and say well i got this and you know my bar and it en
they talk to a customer you know there there i can what kind of button a bad could they have yes well my best side cut is you know this and that ben they'd save my you know kind o
like i'm the master of this whole don't mean here everything here is mine and that i can bestow upon you in feeling that always kind of will they do do it at a definitely in the
military with inanimate objects not yet soldiers and marines and and sailors they do it with an enmities and the ouiatehouan royou know they say why are you on my parade deck
right yet any gives you the feeling of like an is really into this pradenack i mean any know where you do arching and i say can off my parade deck and it instills a kind of
personal pride about something so i again even that one can go both ways guesses really you really have to understand what your intent is behind what you're saying you had a
careful i i always i i shall sub conscious about that and i do the example my jim he right my jim when i went out of a victory of the man which he no we have partners in it's not
solely my jim will but it's my jim where i can train right but sometimes some one will say something in all fear to change you know and and i could say i train a my jim he
emanating like i i tueletti in a vantrasson oleaster get clever answer i trained and a week you won't that please the ayamonte oldershaw but yet you feelin that my all you get a
they enter for what i care for careful that i always thought if you sit hour you know fresher even in a bartenstein what we have it's kind of like us as it as an establishment
renal kind of thing i'm part of that when you say are your part of it and also a kind of still puts that forward like i'm kind of giving this to you are offering whatever i am
taking some on maship but it's like i'm not a boss of this thing it can a few that way that's what i always thought doing him an if you like in your situate if you were like me
now some of the hay dowry train with a wall at argimints kind of ambiguous as well which kindness seems more humble in a word is like oh yeah you could be just a member but it
least your part of that community you know cannot thing or so yet use our will and an hour for that hole was in one careful yes willis cheerful with my marine my soldiers any
insontes that's the most positive thing you can possibly say these are my shiels ay don't come down here and and figured up of my shiels out befiedert situation not happening you
know what i mean your protective tarbro ther you you you have ownership of them but it's no it's in the basilar as opposed to look all deploy my seals wherever i see fit to put a
foot a red flag on that due to face her red back to the book i think of easy company every day we sustained a hundred and fifty per cent casualties between the night that we
jumped into normandy and the day a hundred and fifty per cent captures sasha are wondering how you do that how you do that as you have people getting founded multiple times and
coming back to the front and when your replacements show up they get wounded to so you you know you've got whatever hundred n fifty people in your in your company and over the
course of time people get wounded and leave and new people come in to take their place and then your wounded is well not till you get up over a hundred per cent of your people
being wounded the result of sharing all the stress throughout training and combat is created a bond between the men of easy company that will last for ever in assent i don't think
i ever left company e i may never again see the type of men in this outfit but to me easy company will always be my company in the sense that i will always remain a part of it to
this day they remain my second family i still looked at these men with great respect respect i can't describe in words so there he makes it same thing like he feels uncomfortable
saying mine he has to put a a quantify on it and then explained a not that sense but always the part of it that is i it's mine more about leadership back to the book a leadership
is difficult to define the talk about leachit west point every day leadership start with honesty dedication and having a man who is dependable and fair the few never deviate from
the standards that you stablished men have faith in you and you'll be out front to set the example sergeant albert once told me sir i'd follow you into hell i take a great deal of
pride in his remark so get we're getting his bearship starts of honesty dedication dependable and fair so important so important a being fair and he needed you see that a lot when
it comes a dulling out punishment when people make mistakes are you fair you know does that person really deserve to lose their pay for ninety days or go on bread and water
whatever kind of punish me you're going to bestow on some one is a fair and people know things are far not pepina's reasonable he think that you know and people sam a minute
making example out of out of somebody in for alities it'd be that for different reasons mary like all i've been letting people slack so i got a l got it make an example out of
somebody that kind of reestablish the discipline antenor maybe you know as the boss or whatever you really don't like the specific violation like you just write just one year
things you know so you make an example for that resort do you think that that's fair they can be but it's also a touchy subject you tell me i personally think let's say i'd been
given some slack and people been showing up a little bit late son of a little bit late and i'm kind o like a he man you know when you be a little more in time and in fine the one
thursday gus shows up late for a meeting and i say hey you suspended your ground did your you know you're after work this week end i play punish in part southard that doesn't make
sense right at this makes sense and people say oh you know i'm not could not being consistent cause people been being that however if i were to say a guy jagged out bilges walking
in right now and i relented side and i'll tell you what this work to get nuts we've been later later we start slacking here where is arsakian other places we can't afford to slack
right now our missions to important from now on if we were late if your late showing up to this meaning are you late to an evolution or were about to do i may drop the hammer said
don't be late is after ye fair warning explanation as to why that's fair in my opinion just goin off the hand on and smashing some one because you want to make an example them
that doesn't make sense to me yeah not to like it i don't do it yes it makes in a ieuse yes if some one if there's a clearly delineated expectation that's been set annis violated
for whatever reason and you are going to crush and destroy to set an example and actually were a report where he talks about that an arter isn't example said and that has to send
a message of ryno that can do that i've done that with my family i hey here's the line if you cross it you will remember you a very long time that you made a bad decision yet and
my other kids were not done that to some a one of my kids that has made a bad decision they all remember all of them yet they don't want to make that mistake yet seems like you no
one roseline no not not as off like it i say he give in of ample warning where you kin o give in the tools to a make their own defiler and a thing even if you are changing a
policy or whatever you know harshening all this stuff as long as yet you wornness that scenes like fair and a huge one which i always kunath was if it applies to every one you
know like it if this violation this punishment for this wily shop applies to everyone sure it just happens to be disguise he is have he's been he happens to be the one that that
committed the wily ion of whatever but this rule this policy applies to every body yea and also when you when you explain these things you don't blame them if you notice even what
i just said you know he ysidro lothair i you don't say look you guys missinale i did make a clear why this is important and therefore you guys have been so now i've been letting
you so i can you guys have been showing a late that's a problem we can't have that promittor so you just don't start point the fingers in everyone yes and then hammering the
horsepond is in no not a good idea speakingly you should back to book i believe that some men and women are born with the inherit es that make them good leaders writing to his son
john who is a cadet it west point in nineteen forty three general eisenhower once said the one quality that can be developed by studious reflection in practice is the leadership
of men i agree with i leaders are not born leaders are made and they are made by solid effort and hard work physalie contradictory in their because he says luck some people are
born allies that make a good leader but you can learn to do eater i totally agree with that of always said that some people have the qualities that make a good leader naturally or
the lot some of them right smaller really articulate some merwell be very cares matic very dynamic loud have a lot of presents those are all characters except will different it
and different people in a few havelot athos you lenahan a natural le easier time being a gold beater beason you get people that have some of these qualities but there edith and
then those of the worst could he can get people to follow him even to the oratoire going as bad as rational the interesting hardware studying right studying leadership i you know
to day i already in something he increased my focus on honesty as the lear sicalu yeah i'm always studying always learning and we all need to be that's how eager i become a better
leader and all the studying that i did when i was growing up in the team was just i was watching in thinking about whitesides were doing what they're doing on is making them do
this good leader wiswall why does that why do we respond to that well badder why don't respond well toward he's in i wasn't sitting there consciously thinking about it as she now
in san some days i was actually consciously thinking about you know consisting in weight why is no one wilfulle this guy how is he acting that we all want to walk away from him
why is that happening and then we get a good reader i say that this quietest gesualdo ye i guess i did consciously do that and study not from books but from was to try and learn
and that's all you can become better here's a little note too and and you want her about whole mine if you aren't a good physical shape forget it you are not going to be a good
leader well certainly in a military environment that is sure said arthur some civilian leaders that aren't the best shape heather are with those leaders be doette job if they are
in better physical condition yes they would excite that that seeing that starting strength a coach riotous my post i never talked about it but i posteris olooya strength is good
and people that say that physical strength aren't good he says you know i forget the exact clote but he's basically saying i i know physical strength is good and if you take some
one that says physical strength is in good in his important and then you add a hundred and twenty pounds to their squat and then ask how they're doing now they're goin to be doin
better it they're goin to be doin better the more you can dead lift the better you're goin to feel she don't feel worse than you can denteronomy don't feel worse who it scrutore
you feel better and what will why is that there's a million reasons to wife confidence overcoming a challenge and you actually physically stronger your mental clarity goes up so
yeah of course being good shape being goodshaped if you're worried about your health you you're not going to be able to focus on being could meteran the military or in any job
where that hemans physical exertion you have to be a cold shape otherwise depilation your fan apart you can't be fallen part on a patrol you can't be found apart during a during a
combat swimming operation where he you know i need disimprison far you're goin to swim fer four straight hours on a combat from r operation if you're weak and you can't do that
you think your men are going to respect you they are not i'll go and answer that question for you the canonite hockey coach she doesn't even know how to ice gate you know there
are coaches that had never participated in the sport that the coaching her good there is i mean you look a regagnerent mix marshal acouchis never been a mix mortial art spider you
have but in the infight then you know dear certainly does yes but he hasn't actually fought so how can he be a good coach what about duke grew fast he never thought him a man has
he oh my my oh alida move yet we know he's a champion kicker but how can he be be such a great coach and i may yet cause he can connect the dantons stuff like that and of course
there is you know there's exceptions everybody generally speaking and pless you talking about a little in more broad thing like a leader like who who we goin to like follow it
yeastin of coaches i mean you coaches are are not participating any more that's right a coaching ye so i guess those are really stupid examples he is first allies go because
because you know costoro with my tinoset in the ring with my taconite praise great coach or fantastic one of the most you know one of the most respectaful time yea and the result
a little bit more like a recognized the bullinghams him be geislaer restolen name were looking a ligat leaders in the field like lear in the job that are leading a group to
accomplish a mission right that's different but a coach a catteline the group ye ye answer were argout some of its intergroup yea you got to be you got to be out of the maintain
but you got to be able to stay with your team physically and you know it's not like you need to be the best i was never the fast is guy was never the strongest guy but i wasn't
going to be fallen behind ra anna patrol it as i wasn't a good shape that wasn't going to happen yea that he only rattleheads happen as you need to say in shape how do you say it
say it of dispute he said lease question answer themselves some point maybe some one the spokanes come in here and sit or and silent in the godeheu now this is this is good that
you you were talking about this here is a heavy punishment handed out talking about colonel bob sink who was the leader of the a final six personated marie back to le colonel bob
sink certainly was one of the best he sat high standards and never compromised on those standards after the parishes of the five hundred sixth eight pair true paratur parietina
regiment earned their jump wings sink granted a ten day furloughing the men to conduct themselves propriate several paratur bruisewater late for duty after their furrows expired
saint called another regimental formation and publicly humiliated one paratur from each of his nine companies that called out the name of the last soldier to report to duty and
that paratrooper was marched in front of the formation under escort an officer stripped him of his unit patch forced into unbloused boots and then escorted him from the field what
sin was saying was paratur brisbille but they had to fall the armies rules and regulations i liked that for some reason saint like me respected me he was always the man
instrumental in getting me my next job so as i have you punishment now that's that's a clear message being sent right clear message being said and i i i bet colonel since that
time away mean he's got three nine companies whose got hundreds and hundreds of guys the hundreds and hundreds a guys and he's in to make an example out of nine of them and it's
going to be a real clearely and that's going to leave an impression on a thousand guys you know cleotos guys that might be worth it and he probably judged that it was worth ye so
interesting perspective i i guess question as his that far i was a loy i would say to the guise that god boded from the regiment i'd say their thoughts were that it was unfair i
would say for the guise that remained in the regiment that realized that they had to maintain the standard that realized there was going to be no slack and that worked hard to
make sure they maintain that and therefore were more prepared for combat at a was real fit retubing er picture kind of thing they were kind of the martyr in to legare big picture
think and who knows what kind of behind the senestro up to get some kitai if we were really a cast youmaeale a you know maybe some of those guys were kind of slackers anyways and
a company commanders like hey dey we don't want this guy you know what's her riots guy or when you know her any only took certain members of the people that miss their furloughs
of fare he only took certain members or certainty let that mister furlow didn't take all of them just the last one to report we don't we don't take that around here oh it's an
interesting dinamic it's an interesting dinamic but it's definitely showing i i i don't know that i necessarily would have done that i can not my assommant i probably wouldn't ave
not not one guy from each company may be like the two guys that growled it i don't think i would need to do nine i'll guess what colonel sank desoles with girl sank and that's a
good thing to little kind of image for you to have don't mess with colonel saint don't less around in the battalion in in the regiment we don't play another leader he talks about
here is mccolloch we like about mc caliph was that he allowed us to do our job is you didn't have a lot of interference from a calli but with taylor in command is another person
he told you what you needed to do here he had to run everything you can't do a good job if he don't have the chance to use your imagination in creativity in my mind tailor's more
interested in in impressing his speriors than watching out for his men tallow's such a contrast with british general mong gomery so he talked a little bit o okay so first omal
clearly decentralized command don't give people the cereal specifics on how to do everything that them to creative with their collusion perfect boom when you're that old over
again what do we hear it over an over again cause it's right cause it's right that's why we hear to whenever again now he talks about the famous british general montgomery monte
who always gets portrayed a little bit stiff and a little bit bredderin he says and here that the writers don't do no i didn't see im on the battle field didn't you are was like
then here's what he says is a dick winter said about mongomery that took montgomery was the real deal i saw on a number of occasions and he always impressed me as a commander who
lived the life style that was beyond for proach for his staff to follow he set the example he addressed every division that was scheduled to participate in the invasion he called
us together and had every soldier take off his helmet so he could see the troops better ye props to monte right going around and and talking to every every single division and
then to him boy take off for him with i want to see your face as before you will let it props there's now this book a lot of this book about self discipline for that even this
part right here back to the walk self discipline keeps you doing your job without it you lose your pride and forget the importance of self respect and the eyes of your fellow men
pride keeps you going on this is what i feared i would lose the loss of the will to measure up to my men so once you say you know what i'll care when my guys think any more you've
lost it right on revisal to care with the guys make me think what a driving force it is to have your team looking at you and saying i'm going to make sure these guys respect me
and i'm proud of what i'm doing compared to i don't care what i knew one thing to me no more you can see a willanous when this happens to people not just in the military or
business or it is but in the life o man the life at a certain point you see a bomb in the street at a certain point that bone said genehation care when he would think so any more
yet i don't care what my family thinks me i dont care what does society thinks o me you of course i'm not packing on every single bomb but waldo yet an i don't care generally that
the thing and as soon as you see that eyemogene that you that that's so like a life think right yet if you go through life and you said don't care what any well thanks which is a
contradiction for me right cause i say i'll tie a a i don't care what people think ye but that's just to a degree like you and it's obvious i just put a little bit of thought and
you don't care about look people to will as it appears you don't kill it people think on a superficial level you know on a profound laredo ye that's what year you know that's what
party your morality is like governess doing the right thing all this displine stuff it's for you but in regard to social uses and all these things like that that's beneficial to
your success to function in a society yet and of set is before like about this you teams and me being in the sites and i had this completely have his attitude i don't care like
for instance i don't care what happens i i don't care if i can fired amenerent i do care on care what they say of me and at the same thing at the same time there's nothing that
was more important to me than my reputation as he will be i don't walk enif if something was going to give you a bad reflect like when we start about if you fall out of a patrol
as a leader or as any one like if you fall restored her and no one to ever goin to forget it in the old deserto weak to you something i yearde remembered by that for ever and that
i didn't want that ever man i be like oh jacobites jacko couldn't finish to jonas a babbler jacko i didn't want that to be the reality yet answered therefore you work are stay in
shape you do your best all the time you know and that drives you but at the same time i i i wasn't saying oh i i am concerned what my boss think o me so i'm going to act a certain
way nastrond right thing i for the teams rayhan like these are as usual to those of fundamental things they are not wearied balance though to say look i don't care if i get
promoted but i care more than any thing about my job you know what i mean that delane was my attitude that definitely was my attitude my old time as in the military look i'm i'm
going to do the best job i can't i'm not doing it to get promoted am up doing it for that reason but i am part of it absolutely done it to have the respect of my pierce and i
broeniman you let me hear restitootion everything to you'll be cause small group of people you know you have an accidental discharge with your weapon everybody knows about it
neneter if you if you remain on the teams for whatever reason after have an ace this charge everyone's going to know it from there on out and it's not fallen that's what we got
mapaja up nicknames in the silicated nick named after your lowest point in your life no biggest mistake is what you're going to give next name or your biggest ye no like there was
a guy and i his nickname was bush and he's a great detention was bush they had nothing to his last day but anyways long story short would he was a new guy and i i knew him this is
fifteen years later i found this out he so he been this silenter fifty years i nonoma bush the whole time and he was perishing brand new go showed up to ten toleho going jumpy
okay it's in the air craft jumps anne he lands people came and steer these brown parasites can't barely stare him he lands in a bush with like torn his at life and i guess it
looked fleebody and from there on that is what's his name bugeyes you're going to get a name like that but that's a that's a really easy example because every outknow he that's a
funny is more of a funny thing if you something funny happens to you might have that nickname to like if you get pepper sprayed by the cops you might have the nickname pepper i
liked the idiocies years no seawater on what he calls some of the six appear the cows with their new guicodar he cullent eyesmind went i etiological watery fontanon in a charge of
the antietam were you guy that you thought so was his name was alleluias outalisso called not an same eionae being alicante what you didn't mor is the also that's why you have
this weird dicotomy that's pulling at you it is just your looking at your your friends your peers in this in layers position it your men were looking a man saying i don't let
these guys down i don't want them to view me as a weak weak bad word but i guess it's the word i'm looking for and you not that i had not that i want to mentalement is part of
maintaining the image of strength is by showing weakness ready in line i set his all by a dot to do this he nonetheless a talking about that type of thing i'm talking about we
physical weakness i physical and mental toughness or physical mental weakness right that's a lot different than hay i don't understand how to do something or or in ootiful ty you
can you can want a show you can want to maintain strength but still have humility for sure for all i know all kinds of i mean i know tons of guise that are completely humble but
they're the toughest bastard never one no meanly and physically i'm not talking about i need to be strong is one that we know him a talking about that at all metaling about you
physical and mental toughness you have to have that if you don't have him as a leader eberbach now watch out for it back to the book the big thing i derived from combat was the
necessity of maintaining discipline discipline in our troops with discipline in our troops and getting the job done in combat so clearly this one's big part of what we're talking
about here gee i wonder why now this is talking another like aspect that yet don't talk about this lot i think it's inherent in a lot of things that i say but it's not something
that i don't use this word a lot and again i think i need to use it more back to the book character rule revolves around doing the right thing all the time character implies daily
choices of right over wrong the cadet prayer of west point says cadet strive to choose the harbor right instead of the easier wrong and never to be content with a half true when
the whole can be won that gets to the heart of character i would add that it is easier to do the right thing when every one is looking it is more difficult to do what you should
do when you are alone i like to think of character as every other virtue at the breaking point sir character doing the right thing donte right thing in all times you in the right
thing when you're alone now back to the book a war dozen alter character war merely brings out the best that an individual has to offer unfortunately it also brings forth the
worst in some men if anything were exposes the best and worst of those who are called to fight i know of no man who lacked caracter and peace and then discovered caracter in
combat so i set the same type of thing before especially are more it you know we've seen to ployment is as pressure starts to build on people he start seeing people going to our
actions then after we take this their character would start to reveal itself to eat or get very they rise the occasion or they would not and agoin the other direction and we come
but worse there character would become worse or their character would become better m that's what i've seen and the same thing you know we talk about people that have maybe have a
hard time dealing with war a lot of times there's some pre existing issues that the war in flames right and if you take some one that has that doesn't have prizes in issues or
maybe has a pause to spin on things that becomes more positive so it's very and inasmuch of people in the middle but some of the guys that i knew that really had a hard time the
day had issue going in you know they had problems submiss going in to the situation going to the war and now promise exasperated by the pressure in the stress of combat so we need
to watch out for that one that i think i think war is more of an ample fire then a creator i think it ample fives good character i think it amplifies bad character i think it
amplifies issues and in either direction so eat it a it is a powerful element to add into people's lives this this big contents piece now one of the things that this lad this book
captures is these letters he can had apen palatial pen out when he was a war or a as data amen and one of the things that he hesitatation letters and some of the letters
partisaneries are published in here here's one of them back to the book first and most important of got my own conscience to answer to next my parents and then i am an officer in
the u s army i am damned proud of it and with the rank and position i hold i wouldn't think of doing anything to bring discredit to my outfit my parish promotes wings the air
borne path or the u s army good moral within an outfit is usually reflected by good conduct away from it that sounds like an idealist a high school kid i know but that's it that's
how i feel so he took that stuff very very seriously and i remember i remember broke the dirt prewar i was in my third paton and the the new guise who are all my brosnov i'm an
eseritoe but they were new guys if we were the senior older guys right cause we've been in the teams for like a couple years and something happened and we gave like a like a like
a guy don't don't ever make the toon look bad but no matter what you make tone fat that's not allowed but button is comes first above everything and this one an i just remember
sympathy one guy made the potentate then and he had to pay for it but that the attitude the attagas like look you don't make the batonlike bad you don't make the team look bad we
didn't really reward too concerned with the navy back then we didn't really even feel like when i was that young and i soultransfiguring thinkin about the big navy we merely even
recognized it we were in the teams it's more it's becas a gas as the teams became bigger and more prevalent we connected more with the binabola the new guise or i was in
innocentina young guy in the nineties we are pretty much on our own so i wasn't i be base at wasn't like setting her thick hand he protect her reputation in evidence nitenti would
now as i got older i did but back in the day it was like a in the toon and and i was a team on to find and tea on you'll make team one look at what you doing don't make this
bootoolgah just did that yes you now you have orgar that punishment will be delivered at this time of tanit was thine unfortunate situation i know these things to have a
criminator we not going into what the punishment was that day to punish man i am the punishment was altitude was jupons the featherhead i am going to strike you two times in the
face with an open hand that your punishment for we're going to fight we won't ye want that was the punishment yea he in and this guy was like all take the two yet i'll let roger
that and he was a little bit more tentata o ye fully that's very alike boat up a little bit ye and i was in of you want to get it on we'll get it on ye in and in ostent because
these guys this group of gushes they there were they were all guys just trying to get after it and be good team guys but we were just crazy you know at this point and the teams
was literally everything in my life so when i was like mad about disrespecting or making the batoon look bad eveline had me in a polite crazy that i just didn't want the tone of
that you know you know what you do somethin made to promenade there bothered me i really truly bothered me you may terminated team one with maiben there you know since i was a kid
i have he was everything to me mention you didn't when you made us look bad i wasn't happy let and not just i wasn't happy because i was a jerk or i wasn't it cause i was a
obeajent the time but talking he's guys you years later he told these guys that i get that gun peters an i heated going to work i hated you guys like in the end sorry you know in
the end then they'll be like but i'm glad it was like that as everybody has that feeling it was an old score it with the old greek riley the wait is this is real blind we don't
make the boltonia we make the sunlit good we were hard that's what we do like a little game eh that's all it was yet it's crazy those two choices cause they're like their desirent
cause some people would rather go to the fight and in gas you know at least the theydon swing in kind of attitude but the the potential for damages way more holes and then we i i
agree with you and you could see where you can make a case for both of those selections but there's also something colossial take two heads to face ye open and co in a man i
screwed up thing that's the the reason i respected it was because they was it was like her i did screw up right thought that he ain't no take it i served upon ishment levitt me
yet and i was at ye well that you move on no factor he tacitly the tea to the face or is way easier because it's way quicker you you know you know what to expand a kind of thin i
mean unless you're scared of like oh hitting your head and dying or some in you don't even know off they were open and though perorates she so cradock anybody else with open hand
yet well i go usually you're not you know maybe i sinceyes so it a lot of that is like that taou are in a building some tention with it is like dabs of big part of the punishment
is well that's psychologie tour horse her army in and this also reviews my own personally i maturity right these are visits a curious and this is when i'm thinking about it this
is just an immature you know i was probably twenty two years old maybe twenty three years old but you know young and immature and not getting the best guidance not understanding
things not understanding that i was in helping build a cohesive you did not understand it that this guy's probably thinking i don't want to help him in experiment smart i'm not
i'm not trash this stuff was smart i'm telling you the reality of the way it was and wait it wasn't my head was hey this is my life this he will be ten i know it is it sounds
crazy this you'll petenda wherein is my whole life had actually don't care about anything else mind you this is in the nineties there's no war going on i'm just a young crazy kid
any only thing i know the only thing i care about is a supination you make the of the potomac bad this petunias my life and one has made us look bad and i i can't stand that and i
don't want it to be that way so young immature me for o i do hey this though orionis men you know and that kind of the attitude we had and there are some bad if it do it look that
you know it is our waigiou love to go back and be a better mentor and be like hayman this is a mistake you made you know we need to make it or out would love to do that but you
can you're a dam i was a young dumb kid that was raised that way by the way as well that's how we were raised and there are some benefits to it and like i said even those guys
that did pulton's with me when i was cold on coat and old guy you know we were nothing we'd never been to combat we were meaningless but we had a couple more years in the sikkim
so therefore year old guy and the new guys are any one with with no deployments which is actually pathetic in its own right because the term innocuas being our new guy that was so
from guys that were in vietnam that you hadn't been in combat yet order a new boy you're a cherry boy so gasha i was a cheery moidores said because i never out my weapon at the
uneaten combat until i went to my first appointment to her ax so as actually from that perspective its embarrassing cause you're a was big ben on old guy was an old guy i never
been come out before what am i talking about her but you you you take what you had at the time we was this organization this you will be as my platoon and again you can't i can't
describe really how important this yelpin was to me it was only pretoria was my whole life to where i do when i wake up in morning went in when into work worked out with my
septennates what we do then we worked all day what we do for lunch we ain't together what are we do at night we went an got dinner what do we do after that we went i had drinks
when we draft that we hung out all night what are we do after that we went to sleep woke up to the same thing a deferait was my family and you just have this this passion for your
family and you it's just me as a most important thing in the world to be for my hole of the wife i i on you take that you put that on a you know young kid ye and you every like oh
well ye jackals yet he's a big reader i wasn't reading anything that has readin a the pounha book right i wasn't reading and i wasn't gainsayer sure ye i want as i do to high
school i wasn't paying attention during high school i was wanting to be a commando i'll run into the woods pretending atomising no so you take that kid and you put him in a
situation where the thing that he cares about the most has been corn said filene iloscrea sees in a trying to handle it yes that's the visibility start flapping peterano proud of
it but occasionally some people that slopped around yeah that's how you know an air you know when your basic young basic guy you can handle things in a young basic kind of wine
yea whatever it's it's cave man yes cave man senario vere you go and and and the other thing is it an you know logis that were in those early buttons when i was a collection
councild lear's later they're like yet was awesome so glad i got raised that way their proud of it you know but at the same time you ah you yet when i look back at it i know i was
not a good leader right linseed yet this kind of like when i look at my old feet ittle you know at the time or lightly if they were dull you know by now like me out no better was
now an now you just you just better not if you know in say twenty twenty and i and no other sinoe got to be careful of is setting the like let's say i was in a sephorah now and
now i'm goin to set the bar so high that i flew track of the blue vision of the fact that like have guy that i'm trying to convince right now as a twenty through your face the
most important thing in this world as this is funny like i was talking to some one the day with aunt remember what he done to what that fanatic letter of a certainty will tones in
a certain time mother gave petunias you and to me at the time when we were in those comportons that letter of that fanatic alphabet we were in alphabet that was it then now i look
back and as i ooelogist because as i matured and as i saw the rest of the world i realized that even though totonis very important certainly the most important thing when you're
in it when you're in attacking our overseas and there's multiple people running around and there's huge missions going you you o your mind gets opened up ye and ye see more and
the thelittle thing that you used to be so in golf in your head becomes becomes less that's all the res tuition down doesn't your pen cites no better job i did the best thing in
all that i'm sure you know i never served one in a marine court he in particular enough you know army you as already impure than by i saw them i saw what they were like and they
have that same you know bond that dead you get from being in those tough units so as there's something very cool about that about being a grunt he nich is what you are in this
hotamah think almost special operations or whatever you yerrur you carry a machinegun man and you do hard thinks that's a be a grunt is you're doing hard things your carrying a
bunch of weight around me as love those days yet all right so as one be back in a seelance as old so awesome yet so olesome so meaningful i would have fought you yet you shall at
yes it would have kowanen you know what would happen to notariat was one of the good things about knowing a little tiny bit gito which at actually little bit her at was enough yet
you know for the nieuwe cut you know it comes in you to it if you offer to fight him in the keep you as you're like an by that back fired and here's the thing vaden any better all
day fought was an anti i don't think i ever said like i know jugement but it was just i was so confident by oh i actually know this and i know that i can joke this do then they
jest said i you know what this guy's probably going to kick my asked for and the weird thing is this pray guy's along with a cut it kicked my you know some kids that resting goal
double leg boom and now i'm slammed on the ground and get hunting toad how i need you you know it it's less than not learn yeh lessen not learn i'm lucky that never attendants
check all right here we're talking about so i just wish alkinous interesting so i just occabot mental strength and physical strength while he reeled back to the book moricourt
courage is a far rarer commodity in physical courage in that i agree with cotton i have known many officers who were physically brave but who did not have the intestinal fortitude
to organize the chaos around them those officers who were the most vocal about what they were going to do to the enemy often when the first to fall apart when the chips were down
fears not only debilitating but its existence also destroys the cohesion of a command it is the responsibility of a commander to identify the limits of courage break the paralysis
of fear and motivate his soldiers to continue at the mission courage conquers fear i like just that that part and i domptin i did this and helmet from my pillotoas from my pillow
that i pulled out and i sackett of my sealed buddies and it was because he listened to recite a anopeline is one part that i didn't put in the bongas i said it a picture of it
from the book this little paragraph but it's basically one of the instructors one of the drum strutters was all yellin about orange and bablock and then he says you the next time
i saw him wear in you know an island in the fight and he was getting taken away after breaking down said this is what he said here latagus at her the loudest about what they're
going to do to the enemy a yell kay you're talking a big game you know but what's really sotavento know what else it happens you s see yer right and a man made havens yes i went
to rome with cross that guide and though the guy said he going okay bring it yeah or even the locum like exclaiming tell his team mates yell just o'moto this an i'm goin t do that
and it's tolstoi's weird trying to do turn a committee alanna's what that was going on here said i right some day trying to convince themselves they are not confident in
themselves you back to the book i suspect to every soldier at one time or another experiences a degree of fear courage is not the absence of fear but rather that willingness to
rise above fear and do the things you know need to be accomplished also does hope that they will measure up the first time they get into a fight i certainly was no exception but i
believe i had prepared myself very well that once i came under fire i knew instinctively what needed to be done i think i was more apprehensive particularly before de day that i
was afraid maybe apprehension is the first stage of fear i'm not really sure o after remember that easy company was needle unit as were all terature person we had trained for
nearly two years before we jumped into normandy i think i saw far more excitement in the eyes of my men that i did fear after breakout we felt as if we were seizing veterans even
though we knew or stays where a head that apprehension and definitely my first appointment to iraq when you had all these guise brow and gisors fired up to get it to do real
missions and get after it that i think it was much more excitement than it was fear especially in the beginning and in beginning you know the wiscasset on well kinda dominating as
it and you know even shantarini same thing has like beside me up what mission i'm going i and the more you you spend time in that nemore you realize what the predistination guys
or have guys getting wounded that's when you start saying okay wait a second i'm not sure i want to die to day and then guy's got overcome that on the day we basis yeah speaking
of fierce steve ambrose whose militarist red bunch both agreeing and brothers stephen steamboats that heavy artillery bombardment will make even the most seasoned veteran
eventually break i disagree a leader has to overcome fear convinced himself that every enemy shell or bullet is not targeting him the same is true in a company orbital leaders
must insure that strength and cohesion is a stronger force than fear this is especially true in men who have been scarred by prolonged combat ambrose was correct when he titled
the chapter band of binbad of brothers breaking point as he describes the horrendous artillery brave that inflicted so many casual he's on easy company in the boy's jacks company
strength was below fifty per cent and many of the non commissioned officers were killed or wounded without direct supervision by leaders easy company as well as the remainder the
battalion could have easily been dipped debilitated by n increased sense of morality and fear that is precisely wide made it a point to visit the front lines as often as possible
soldiers need descend nedens that their leaders and commanders are in the game with them leadership by example is even more important in these situations i noticed that when men
or at the edge of their physical endurance etendit develop of that one thousand yards stare that you always read about tired soldiers were often take off their helmets and run
their fingers through their hair tacbo that before and i talk about a bad coin often now at times they literally dropped their helmets on the ground this soldier is already losing
his self respect the battle is half lost that's a sign for the commander to take immediate action i didn't wait for the trooper of weak reached that stage i proactively looked for
these signs every soldier wants to do the right thing you always know the proper thing to do but doing it is sometimes more difficult i never wanted a man to lose his self respect
that's what i was talkin about earlier this thing of self this idea of self respect when you don't care because you know you get must give your dear on all the time that's to just
the code riding eyedear with you all the time to keep you yarnall the many you take that off is where you start you han't care what these guys think any more something has
happened that has made you say you know what i don't care what these guys think any more and that's not good akanthas ch a contradiction because you know we consider in talk about
the hay i don't care what people think and i mean that i mean that i shouldn't care what people think but at the same time it should be extremely important to what people think
and what your comrades think and that's such a weird dichotomy i don't be a fully wrapped my hands around having describe that yet and what that means i'll get there eventually
hopefully sure but but that is a very important thing and i always felt like i don't care what people think but at the same time i deeply care if what my peers think and my my men
think we are that coney think that's a caravele thing this like you telescopes in death what you care about you know what you think about it whatever else in by an then any
anything beyond that is just superficial fluff like if you don't match your socks i i finding what the fake prince bore her of the the part that may help bring us together for me
is i want to be doing the right thing it right and so if i'm doing the right thing and people say oh jocasta's debts that stupid which jack was doing or he shouldn't be doing that
but i know in my heart on doing a right thing ye i'm goin to continue do it i care what you think he the but at the same time if i know in doing the right thing and other people
are are judging me that's going to keep me in line if i want let mis livy repast a fine steel like commando the wrong thing i do care what people think i don't want them to think
i'll jocko's getting weak getting soft getting you know whatever is he doing the wrong things making along move very strange that's he that's as i can to me leadership ritor one
of them is not relieve the dicotomy leadership that's just a that's just the dichotomy in life yet life yea now there's a a a guy named lieutenant compton who kandarian a little
bit and they showed in the in the bend brothers movie and eight dick winter talks about it here back to the book before you go on i know you think i'm too hard on leutenant
content for walking off the line of bastone my makelarge buck that's the tenotome was tacking backinhead walked off the land buck was a great combated he was a superb potone
normandy and holland in fact i would say he was one of the best at aston he broke after some of his friends were seriously wounded in the constant artillery brases there is a
danger of getting too close to the men and buck crossed that line when you see your friends getting maimed it makes it more difficult to go on that's why i always maintained a
certain detachment from the perisher prison easy company am i too harsh on buck may be but a leader need terise above fear the easiest thing to do is quit and then the author
asked white in you crack and dick winters responses in pennsylvania dutch i don't quit i made a commitment moral courage is based on physical fitness courage is a combination of
will power and determination and termination i was an excellent physical shape i don't think there was a man in the out that outfit whose better shape than i was and it showed i
trained hard in england after we finish training i would run at night black out conditions but i would run then i'd come and i go to bed i was in maximum shape that was the
physical side of things but there is a mental aspect of stamina as well i've always prided myself that i do my own thinking i have my own philosophy i have my own answers to the
reasons things have turned out in my life by taking full of countable account ability for my life i've been able to meet the standers that i set for myself i don't know any other
way of saying it every commander must take full accountability for his actions stand up and be counted as a commander you are accountable for everything that your outfit does or
fails to do don't worry about who receives credit when things go well don't play the blame game in my case the man to of command provided me with the courage to succeed yes
tremontes that's what he talked about you know personal countability that's what he's talking about being in great physical pedition that's where he stockint that's discipline aei
guess as we read this in and i you know i didn't read this book until a week ago yes a week ago i read this book so it's not like i read this book and said hey personal count
abilities a most important thing about you know being a leader no this is guy came to the same conclusion in world war two that i came to a conclusion in my experience in the
military now he starts talking a little bit about combatting how much combat fatigue there was in normandy i witness lotoses summoned holland much more vast on duly intense cold
lack of sleep and inadequate clothing in belgium combatted reached astronomical proportions we had spent seventy days in the front lines in holland and didn't have time to recover
before we boarded the trucks to take us to pass on on reflection i realised what was half what happened by the time the command arrived in at aston the men had been all the fun
line since normandy men were desisted no hot food little sleep no rest constantinian and intense pressure from combat they were physically exhausted inclement weather and constant
rain and snow made matters even worse physical exhaustion leads to mental exhaustion which in turn causes men to lose discipline the loss of self discipline produces combat
fatigue over and over in over and over again we hear that how important is discipline it is the most important thing and if if this applies what gets people through these
situations through combat dress through tension through bombs through artillery through freezing cold lack of food lacily imagine what discipline do i like a normal person's life
you know back to the book how can you possibly compare a man whose pen under just one concentrated artillery but ardent for five minutes to place like bastone where he could be in
the line for weeks or months in one of ambrose's books he states that prolonged artillery bombardment will break any soldier in civilian life of course we refer to combat fatigue
as a mental breakdown that is exactly the way is in combat it's a mental breakdown the intensity it becomes a problem for me to express my feelings here but i'd like to share with
you the intensity of a fire or a heavy concentration to be leader you have to be able to concentrate on that fire and move just as soon as it stops sir olaston hit move get up
start circulating among your men is everybody okay let's get up let's move keep your eye open for the tack get their attention move among your men as quickly as possible and
moving among them the fact that they see you and they're talking to you they know that you are there and you are talking to them and it makes all the difference in the world to
know that you are not in this thing by yourself that's what officers must do break the cycle of fear if a soldier's concentrating on his own feelings and on his own fear and he
seize you moving around he realizes that your sharing the burden with him that's why he can then move so that's very important and that's you know again that can apply to a combat
that can bid a business people are going to start panicking and they go to do in it or panning you and the leader as the leader need to step up get out there talk to people find
out what's going on tell me word a move jisho them that you are not afraid and that you are afraid but you're still functioning we by example planitie back to the book courage
will be spent if you were lax your standards and undisciplined soldier feels all isolated and alone maintained the standards don't compromise your integrity never get up give up
don't ever give up love this right here there is always one more thing that a leader can do to improve his situation and that of his command i was felt that a leader's physical
presence was indispensable to unicameral this ye captain so bell failed so miserably learism always trumps leadership by fear there's always one more thing that a leader can do to
improve his situation and that of his command or always one more thing you can deal and an undisciplined soldier feels isolated in the lone they know they've given up that self
respect how you angie it back to him when your men are dying and you do not you feel ashamed i don't know any other way of saying it soldiers and war certainly in world war two
and ieuse t in every war are generally young men in their prime they meet death daily and in every form they fully realize the hazards of their profession they take chances
because no young man expect to die before menalee when the first soldier dies that belief in immortality the shattered as casualties mouth and a core of the denigrate the
remaining soldiers grow even stronger often shutting off replacement soldiers then at one another replacements because they are often the first to die when i saw one of my men
wounded i was happy that he added ticket home a soldier killed in battle was at peace he had lived his life among men whom he had loved i took a degree of consolation in knowing
that my men had lived rather than regretting that they had died a soldier's real fear is not losing his life in combat but placing his comrades in jeopardy that's why it ordinary
men are performing in extraordinary ways to ensure that their buddies survive so this is another level of year when her actually ani never was at this point by any stretch where
looking at men that gave wounded in saying oh lucky him he's got a taken home we just were hundred that hit that kind of casualty level at all so when god were get monddia you
know it was hard it was headingley him he's got a ticket home cause there wasn't enough guys getting wounded to make you think that way he not enough guys getting killed the
makeing that way small percentage that's what recoover back to the book if you have selected the right person now than a leader must instil this appoint i mean perfect discipline
as patent once said disappoint is the soul of the army general washington said the same thing when he described the continent army in seventeen seventy six discipline is
manifested and how well a soldier keeps his uniform how frequently cleaned his weapon and the pride he has in his unit joe hogan of easy company speech for all of us on the
subject of pride in company e during an argument with a soldier from another company about whose company was better joe my company ye will like our company in fifteen minutes if
you wait until the guides who are a wall come back will do it in five minutes and this is important you did pride leads to unit discipline so again now we're going back to the
feeling that i had when i was a young kid in the celtae cantopre in my platoon and this was funny as he said like look regie that her gone right now there a walter absent will
help leave i ayoway for them to come back olsoni minutes drift but you know i i feel like this this unit pride and undisciplined how they go together it's like a gang o i don't
know why i think of this way and i talked about the the moster it's like a gang mentality when ye start policing yourself up right when we when i was the sepation we it wasn't our
bosses that were work trying to keep us in line we kept ourselves in line you didn't want to get out a sidono something wrong because we gernyizeg by the boys speak eive mafia is
this what we were so to yefimovisch by the way ere i moffyn you've got the senior guys is like the the potion the poonch the the leading patiole those are those are like east
sixty seven and you got the assistant pronomen of those those wicked the colenso those the guys are kind of run an the actual leadership and he now got the dogs and then in the
middle the pack right there you got the e five there the guys are actually run and things and make it an appendant i mates while we call them and then in a selingman it all work
together to make things happen but when the five mile for if you've got a good unit that he find mafeteng up everything that you don't need to as a leader you just need to make
sure that they don't take it too falernium sure the fitter going to there on a mat you guys are doing the right thing or gnats that they're performing while they're going to sue
the third good shape they're goin to make you all those things and this was an interesting cloth what you tolerate you condone so again cremonensis written by myself and lay
father will lave that and rode a lie in there says not what you preach is where you tolerate mum and he had read this book and here it is what you tolerate you can don the saying
the exact same thing feneeter start to slide you that's what you're done that's the new standard of course there's a little bit more to lead your ship than what we've talked about
so far back to the book leading in battle is the art of dealing with human nature and the human condition i can't speak of higher command but i know a few things about leadership
at the small unit level leadership at all levels winds wars but soldiers at the batoon company and vitalian levels win battles i think the perticular true in the national army
were soldiers need to understand the reasons behind the officers orders aften why were doing what we're doing what i have succeeded had i been promoted beyond the italian i don't
know i do know that i felt comfortable at the small unit level this is one reason why easy company holds such a tender place in my heart i knew the strengths and weaknesses of
every paratur i could rapidly ascertain when i wanted to do and felt confident that i could convince the men to do it after commanding easy company in normandy in holland i know
that the men felt comfortable and trusting their lives to my care i'm not bragging because it's not my nature to do so i'm stating fact knowing that i would never ask them to do
anything that i wouldn't do myself led to easy company's confidence in me as a leader they knew that i would never quit and that i would do everything within my power to bring
them home after the war a proud when i hear a pair of therefrom easy companies second pataromerke about my courage under fire my willingness to share their hardships i told you
once that wars do not make great men but war sometimes bring out the greatness in good men human nature that's what it is and you know that sort of how i describe this pot cast
now an exploration of human nature and if you want to see human nature reveal itself in its most clearest form you have to go to war to look at that or others to very strenuous
situations harsh situations on returning from the war here's what major winters had to say back to the book the war changed me i returned to the state bitter a different man than
the young man who had adelite in the army in nineteen forty one i was hardened when i returned first impressions were more important than they had previously been i looked at
things differently when you return from a war time environment you have to justice society the life that you are going to be sharing with others just to make a living though was
comfortable in a combat environment i wondered if i would feel at home among civilized people who wouldn't be able to understand how a soldier thinks and feels i came to
understand that our have to make changes to be accepted into life at home this takes time and it's never easy while will manfrotti and prolonged combat i often wondered about my
friends back in the states old friends i had grown up with some of whom had avoided coming over either by becoming consciences objectors or working in warily related factories
that the federal government had declared essential i understand every one doesn't have to share my belief that military service is the only form of service in war time but i took
a man's pride in my contribution to the war offer we who fought the war were part of something noble military sir reisner a privilege fonetics that when i find i returned home i
had no desire to pick up with those friends who managed to skip the whole thing i completely shut them out i wouldn't come downstairs when they knocked on the door even to day
when i look at a man or a woman i can't help but judge them does he have leadership capabilities would she be good and combat does he or she have what it takes and i think you
know clearly when you come home those are things i think everybody goes through of you look at people your kind of judging people it certainly will leave a mark i i'll tell you i
don't think there's enough tetterons now you know her not conal to jehangir with veteran's nocole you got a you got to understand and accept the fact that not every one served a
way you served that's just the way it is and i don't i try to make sure that i'd eat i don't outward behold people to a higher expectation any other thing is i think you have to
walk a fine line and you got to make sure you're not looking down on people because they didn't choose the path that you joe now warward two is different cause or least appears to
be different because it was so easy so many people were on the path of okay you know the emerson happened i'm going to sign up to morrow to day whatever and i think that the way
these wars that we've been fighting gone down hasn't been the same pen different i think we veterans right now have to use some caution before just shutting out every one else
said that didn't serve the way we did we be shutting out basically you bradeesh ting out most of the people in your lives most most of my friends outside the sultans there you
know you get that bunch of friends from it to none of them served i can't just shut them all out so i think we have to be careful about that as as veterans to make sure we dear an
halosin understood understand that there is more than that and you got it you got except other things going on in the world besides what we did another letter that dick winters
wrote to the end alman goin back t the book when you officer you are a sponsible for the lives of soldiers in your command you think about kids like this one parturient and you
soon become old beyond your years in the three years since i had entered the army i'd aged a great deal it seems as if college days and days a civilian life when i did as i
pleased or long past i must have been a it must have been a dream a small and short but beautiful part of my life now all i do is work work to improve myself as an officer
worktime them as fighters as men make them work to improve themselves the result is i am old before my time not physically old but hardened to the point where i can make the rest
of them look like undeveloped high school boys old to the extent where i can keep going after my men follow ver and sleep from exhaustion i can keep going as a mother who works
after her sick child and exhausted child has fallen asleep old to the extent where if it's a decision or advice needed might decisions are taken as if the wisdom behind them was
infallible yes i feel old and tired from training these men to the point where they are fishing fighters i hope it means that some will return to those girls back home and again
reason i put that in theristicus there's that's a that's pressure right that's the ceramon of pressure that a person that's been in the military has felt and ecrie that pressure
and his wife said dick fights the battle a bold infertile every night he and recurring no nightmares so even ticketers you know a very thoughtful and squared away guy was still
living those nightmares virtue every night his wife said dick also said back to the book i know i did everything within my power to insure his many soldiers made it home from the
war as possible but when you survive and your soldiers don't you feel guilty they hasme to this day that i live and so many of my paratur presided as the veterans of easy company
passed on i reminded of those who never returned from the war i see their faces i can almost hear them calling me then again i think that every body that served an survived when
the friends in your brother's didn't they are always going to have that it is not going to go away and dick winters major dick winters died january second two thousand eleven
obviously they had a memorial service the big memorial service for him back to the book those who were made alive voiced their sympathy said form or pouncer geant william werner
who would lost a leg outside baston dick always said hang tough and follow me when he said let go he was right in the front he was never in the back of leader personified he was
the best commander we ever had we had followed him anywhere edward babe half from who served alongside winters of paston and who helped liberated hitler's eagle's nest added he
was one hell of a guy one of the greatest soldiers i ever was under he was a wonderful officer a wonderful leader he had which you needed god's and brains he took care of his men
that's very important pop i win added it seemed as if he always made the right decision he was a real soldier he was one of the best it started with him doing the right thing i
don't know how he survived to war but he did foreter easy company veteran concurred noting every one of us we'd follow him to hell that's the type of guy he was and also speaking
at that ceremony was a guy by the name of eric durindane who was the screen writer one of the screen writers for band of brothers and he was trying to get the screen play in the
series to be as accurate as possible and so he spent a lot of time with dick winters and i got the known for a well and i found what he said about dick winters to be very
important he regato the book dick winters made it his personal quest to excel whether was executing the perfect porthos or training himself to run three miles up and down courthe
mountain this pursuit was as private tool his solution and it was that so low effort that of cessive clarity and pure determined self contained purpose that his men observed and
that caused them to follow when he said simply follow me not just from that hedge row in normandy and across that field in holland under enemy fire but follow my example followed
my commitment and will get through this then we will heed declines was laid to rest in his family plot in the end evangelical lucination the erateina the saturday following his
death and his grave stone read simply richard d winters forewardo hundred and first airborne nineteen eighteen to two thousand eleven rondic winters before he died said i am the
man i am to day because of easy company easy company made me as i reflect upon my life since the war i can honestly say that it has been a lifetime search for men like those i
knew and easy company i haven't found too many i don't think i know braver soldiers than joe toy the garnier for halbert i live with these guys every day i mourn when they pass
cornwood lived and died in december two thousand and one his death struck me particularly hard so it be randle mens latin didn't live to see the acclaim easy company received with
the ministries was released i try not to think of the bad times any more i think mostly of the good times the emotion will always be there and he dick when her said that war
brings out greatness and men and he also realized that war makes you appreciate your country the major winters before he died said well they probably sound strange to you but when
i brought easy company to you to beach so we could board the last to return to england on july eleventh nineteen forty four i saw that beach for the first time with that vast
armada ships as far as the eye could see in every direction seeing the american flag fluttering over that beach i felt weak in the knees and tears filled my eyes suddenly that
flag meant something different than it ever had before i have never looked at our flag since without that memory in mind now i am an old man but that feeling is never left me and
finally then i always say that war is awful and wars a nightmare but war does certainly make you appreciate life then dick winters certainly appreciated the rest of his life and
he said this i sit here in this house and i gazed out the window i see flowers and the birds i behold the wonder of nature everything seems so beautiful from that wraps up that
book everything seems so buful and the over the past couple of weeks i've been travelling a bunch and meeting a bone different people business people workers police and fire
fighters and active duty military and veterans to people and we people we caught up in all kinds of chaos and may him may him from the past we decant up in that about what we
should have done or what we should have left undone and we feel this pressure about the future about what we should do or what we shouldn't do or where we're going and how we
should get there and i get that i did that i understand it i feel it to be life is hard by pershore and if you aren't careful it will grind you down and you know i talk about
detachment a lot from a leadership perspective and we talk about it a nitcrana important but it's also what tool for your mind in for your sanity step back step back and look
round not just to see what your next move is and where to head next and what the foison but to step back to look round and and see if this life your life not surrounded by the
pressure and the war in the failures and the violence and the nightmares and the metake and the grind not that life but life as it is as it is without or intervention a blessing a
journey a short little bitterton an incoridgable fast moving her of amazement where you can tataite back and look for a moment yours that like dick winer said everything seems so
beauful and i think that's all of god forenight so echochee he some letters worked very impact for me in a big reminder for me we we worked heavily with the first the filex
banderoles in the battle reminded the delta potenciana and a group of his guise spent the whole time over there and watering credible bunch of soldiers they were just incredible
the the impact they had on the battle field the leadership i saw every little level and whenever i think of the band of brothers my my first thoughts when i think of the band of
brothers is it about dick winters it is is about the series it isn't about the book my first thought of the banneret ers as the first of five or six battalion that we were
honoured to orrin the battle of mode and to one of my potions worked intently with the entire time and so for their service and sacrifice we i am eternally siniul for what they
did and what they taught us and for us men along side them so real humbling really you but but you mentioned how how like in all these books and all these lessons that discipline
is like so important and but there's time he mentioned like a maginary imagine homeport ant it is or how beneficial whatever it could be just in every electrometer that the acid
yet that's that's great in the more books like this that we go over whatever that message like becomes more and more clear good you know like you get up would like creative guys
you know but they don't have discipline and kind of thing or you get in supervising eye but they don't have creativity or you know they are a kind of but every one in a all get
you'll find a person or you'll notice a person who does bring em together you know and you see the result like you see what kind of productive or you just you just see the result
in one where other you know like these get like fighters or you know on an all off like any one then asked eludes a man is crazy how because he left you like naturally gitator
whatever that something you in a way not italy whyou i mean illitative someone and you see it in in all these different fields as well or where a someone has got a lot of national
talent yea but inyongo have disease essentially it through up bring her whatever the just environment they don't need it really you know i odinite away with it because after
entertain they get away with it yes eastman i think we hear that a lot the idea that you know talent it doesn't mean anything if you don't have a discipline things happen and you
and overnight disciplined well out perform some one that might be more talent of the aldane the as i love ye an i felt was all day long to strong i adoying in the beginning of him
yet he vectilian um the discipline is the thing natus goin carry you through so and i thought i just thought that was super important where you were like a magnifici you apply
this to every day life his everyday life sensually for us anyway it's like a straight up luxury he alois and in hers was important what you're saying he is is this fact that the
reason that these guides had to have discipline was because if they didn't have display would die a if they didn't have dispoilen if they didn't have this plenty would get they
would starve they would just die they would die as now they half to hand of this point and your poitos in this world and this life in two thousand seventeen the living in the
first world you don't have to have to spend it all and you'll still survive and you might even do okay yes sort owenson ye just imagine if you apply the disappoint to your life
where you and up you and how much better off you will be and how much more you can do with your life the one light you have by the way water you can do with that life if you just
have the disapointed work hard and gaffer it you and you see it in little pockets to like mememen you're a kid and i come in seethen for this an i know comic book at an save my
money you don't even have an income by the way but somehow you save all your money like that little quarter that you find doesn't hold you know you amasai that essayeth cause you
have this kind of end in a way like the discipline had of forms itself around that gold so you know what it is like you know what that owens you don't so it's real like that a
real thing you shouldn't you shouldn't regard it as some ambiguous thing that alanno like not all on so aranian at all yet they shall real straightforward eigin that was one of
the first pot cast we did right at something along one of a ouno what you need to do yet yelwe all know what i should be doing in that line for there's not to be people that i
lost that are going on just not sure how to do this now he knew exactly what this we know exactly as i know exactly what i should be doing to you it is distractions as too many
distractions in destructions are literally everything is industries of dust distractions that's the whole industry like tanistry of the strage men the defense of t v betican be a
canarian you because there's educational stuff until a line at the hun who seem like she repointed tainment indianising these industries of destructions are bad things of not
saying that i'm de sainetes tractions are what give in the way of don't know prolucutor like your your goal yea and well we're talking about the very fact of some of your
disappoint can be used to create things that are actually distracting aevoli you've goes to create some artistic peace whether it's a move whether it's music whether it's whatever
if that thatstate ing but that's not tatiana they had one to make that happen custer's people else find something every reason you want to create something is i guess you create
it for yourself but then the reward is when other people say yes i get something out here either me per year for sure yet and when i say distractions i in regards to go it's a
relative thing meaning like your distracted from your path of the goal i agree to but there's also just just meant tally just just weakness just to the ideal i should say right
the dismasted the the the easy path that anyone wants to jump on when your lancarrow aloert a tartan millon times that's what the problem is effeminate stretching the promise just
the lack of will to do what you need to do right direction can add to that that's as apart of it what we do is we take we take or the death of least is resistance and then we
throw distraction top of that veinstone when you open up your computer because you got a right a book and instead of to open the word process you to hunt on a check at the
interbreed deterere distracted there goes forty five minutes you venitienne is the internet as a mind that time waramilli tears an internet ireson of destructions on that yaseen
what i mean by destruction is you have this long term goal right your goso path you long tom patoora tions really are these little short tempered drag you that this track you so
that i did infoedstratten and likely for that out for a raleigh is an off the track exactly right so the weakness we'll let those distractions cannot take hold fer sure but so yet
they do work and in hand for sure so so if you can sick cause again that saving money for comic books think so consider that is the goal of the distractions are going to be the
candy that you want to buy or the you know i played dicerolti whatever the distractions is in regard to that explicit pack i like echoes world right now trainingcamp bositions
asinine it you know be but either way like the the destruction there there relapsed eat when i say gave the distractions or there when i say there's industries of destructions
again i'm not saying that's a bad things they are bad things if they're distracting you from your goal so you did as atterdag bout it sometimes you just need to let your mind take
a rest yet handed one of the allan agetsioga i just flew home from like i've been on the road were all over the world did the master didn't bunch of speeches did some consulting
me was all over the place on the plan a whole time and a few home from the east coast one was that set a couple of days ago and when i for i have done this and for ever i feel on
i watched them move and i just did it to all distraction i cud i said you know what i can i not i i anointing the game or no like i need my embarrasses a shot off yet you
something which i don't like to do which is you can either do two things i i look at it you nieces or you can produce right i want to be producing i want to be putting together i
want rewriting i want to be thinking i want to be right in reading for the poast prapping that's what i want to be doing montepin something consuming a sum just absorbing what
someone else made right in disonore o absorb this absorbs a lot of times it is garbage so i but i feel one had a long flight and as like you know what i need a check out renette
out right now and just do nothing so i watched two movies the gain to would you at we got to a latrunculos i watched the first one was not heartbreak red it's the new movie that
just came out who about do that mellisande rected what's a call on a visit successful movie consciences objector world war two he winsen thirties awarded the medal of honor so
that was a good move or you with the world war two movie i liked it if not in my opinion five tarbutt was good it was entertaining sir he told the story and then after that i
watched zulannah was anoroginus our good and you railinged ye because at a hilarious movie i have a buddy in the teams that we nicknamed moats ye cause you know he would go crazy
soladoes his eye and yet that will just a funny move it is decompressed and i don't do that very often anothe grind is always happened to it had to take a little detachment name
in that move with there's not a famous actors censers on who's the really funny guy anyway is a good movie yes sataghnis is is that really it distraction so in alike a football
game or a move something that that you're not doing to put you you know more forward on your pateroe but if you're taking your if you're taking a break is that a distraction like
if i'm lifting i do a work out and then i go recover from that were out and all that i distroiting i should drive a dog yet no scintillating your mind poised lolalou so the
destruction is more of an idea more the concept you know solely defeating that are serious when you open your computer in the whole internet is there to distractedly in other
douthat's a distraction you know where you can eat like even if i have a book if my goal is to um finish some video but meanwhile i have this book that's really formative than it
you know some and i'm like you not a poem real and real in the mood to read that book that's a distraction even though it's a good thing and also a bit detraction is like the idea
so the you know what are the common goals in a given shape i want to um you know be a better husband or wife or onate at work on a learn moratoria the stuff i federating better
did you to all the stuff you can get distracted by these other things you know before i on an old red of the surf in stagra or something like that that a distraction it all and
now which was wirgin point is the reason or one of the reason said we don't apply this extreme discipline as its outline in these books here is beisan is because we have literally
infinite among of distraction and welters also no consequence or i shouldn't say that the consequence isn't visible ye consequence you don't say you don't say hey if i would to
have disappointed i would reach this ponit potential you just okay with not reaching that at altman and your hand with just like rearing putting my caravele popcorn in and
watching a month do you been doing the old tinishona now that there was a good move in a popcorn tasting the ol now wayments the wrong answer you don't recognize what you're
potentialised so you're just okay with this kind of a half pudency don't reach your posenian and since you don't know it and the other thing it's hard to see tordesilla long
torrefaction you go yes as one back a popcorn is just one movie he ever he did that three times this week i know best diligenter times you know and that in the past ten a you
could bright thirty thousand words no more than that yes you're not about thousand words an hour for a good watelet it and i think mediatise it's not like a moment to moment
looking to the future penetang you should look at it but oh in the way of in the sense of looking at it in the past so let see you consider the last one year or two years right
and live it wanted to play better go to something good go yes i have that go i always fail at it dare you go so you look at it in this way where are you don't say okay if i spend
an hour a day oh you know practicing guitar and you know and a year i'll be better you don't necessarily look like that you can but a good way to look at it or helpful way is if
you look at it last year where dang if i i would a plate an hour a day right now i'll orighwa i'm sineret you right now the bedouin to tarentina like debt so you kin get the war
in my experience i've kind of got this feeling of like wasted time in on enow that feeling were to day i got i got a place catch up now that's a little bit more compelling i think
sometimes it can be yet so how you bring rebutent i think to help oh maybe maybe not simious eaking to help and potential to both beside gravitation will he need help by with
opponent if you're working out so i am man i said you can't not work out a think so she nods like you could because you are life to probability wise is is is cruising your
cruising physically where you don't you go to office because really alliotti physically easy right now your only oannes easier and easier even if it's not easy right now next year
gentles speaking is going to be easier on like you can like some brushing my teeth like i do every week or whatever and when a week when and he saw a the regular to thrust you
know i'm sure there's all kinds said little michael technology in the two thrush but i started to think man is there a you know this is an old school think there's automatic
toothbrushes actually my brother told me about this dolebout ic you know electric tooth first to like so pronounced recommended it it's like honin dollar all this stuff in phidian
something is basic is brushing your teeth is way easier now weiser got a machine to do it that's that's really the whole narrative with everything pointing physically renverse
because you're not goin have to pursue he got a realtor she yea yea in your environment is this star to work more and more against you in egards to physical activity so my plan
being that a work out yes going to say insobriety forward thing work out yet but i feel like it i'm afeer you the dotto be like me it seems obvious you know i call that the
cursing you know how when you're you're like so advanced in this one thing that you forget how it is to not be advanced to a sure i could i offer got one of selected not be
advanced and in terms of thin explained people while they were within its pretty self evident anybody while you do work out not your own i am kathinka about this and i think but
the intuh about this one like okay you don't go into a deity to your different so you may you could very well not even understand this this might not compute with you but if you
actinoid you to jim in this opichen a regular twenty for a finish him if you never been in there before you ever worked out that's a really intimidating thing you come in an we'll
look in at me i don't know how to use a machine i don't know how to work out like ensooin me judging me i'm dumb it is not my element on this stuff it intimidating you know okay
but it's real one unslain eeliou say like you probably don't know but that because you don't you have the christiology in regards to like physical activity working out you now
that her off and then the pain that comes with it i man i daintest but that's even more areas to work out vesical condition in a yulie it if you don't work out just jump in there
jump an go to the gym last year if you would a start in working out an you don't poldoodie way to pertend you are if in event you didn't start less i shear she imshi you work out
you've joints might because a sore i noticed for experience take cruel oil my father in law turned me on to actually technically didn't success lyle turn me on to a bientot he
tried he tried and you know i didn't see the light until jacketed onto it said nonjuring everyone else on to it hopefully successfully a priis i'm not going to go to hold deep
dingier but it's for your joint so you get joint pain will just would be generation over time you get older diet cieling back feel function it's kind o like your joint joints
artilery warm now not like to the touch warm but like form like ready for action you see him saying now a creel inman say by whom a very you don't know on it that's the whole
company and they have they don't have just cruel oil a other stuff too they all anisya ye performed of which i remerciment hommack by the way i time especially if you are if
you're going for performance and yet if you're going to go transit with andy taylor then ramage yes greg train atoches just take take the sronger the asamis take three of em a is
that the ritardando i didn't know that and then i read it ye look one day this ready instructions for no langelier i take twelve of his sins of oneota uffiness tree could i
entiendo oh for sarakiel little bit lie ye always tie after eat in there let down and again at firmiter mance solundir ming if i'm just ticket a walk around the block or or two i
think the stromata not going to feel it as much as if i jump in judicious you know ye not limited i take it when i have to perform lesidenter tintoretto you take stringent to be
confused to it and i've taken from the eamus when i go massive travel yet in always plain on all eperyne sick coughing sneezing ef it's all nasty a year i do just go ahead and
take some tree techener something different a yellowish the late little aileen too soeter your eating is more yellow with getting the ingredient will decay the ingredients you
know i take viticultural what i'm a big travel piedmont sudecha i hear zinka's good one too that's a er i've taken sink before to try it over come a cold but i wasn't very ah you
know convinced ye ye i can power i'll powers imbimin yo if i feel like some kind of a disease coming on ye howitthers kind of a good thing where you take this um true tekanonsake
you now you know that they were like okay divinamente help poacher the does think and i don't know i didn't read ingredients like the young or in thought or about through whatever
but i read the effect yeager's my munster got a need that plain a bunch of dirty people thought all of it in a maybemaybe and usertesen every one passing on every one penny the
way cause i'm goin to go talk to people i can't be going in now don't dine i have dockerty's do that i have to actually be yet they will to talk yet coffin seebachfall to the i
came the awful without you sneeze or cough for you on a mike in front of a big group of people you are keep doing it yes yes tenanted she brought it on one you know of the good
stuff in the alcyon it do come you want em percent of all this stuff on it doonas and jaco and here's a thing we just talk about grit now talk about crill shrieks parts from
taking men out of brine o kee alfabet billy could go on all night with this sustineas of all the good stuff as he was saying this i date an you watch me actually while yea yea
eating at it i had a foreday and i was thinking you took it but then when you want not long story about something and i was sort o wondering they need in taeogion at all ben
hananiah it out on her like day you will all that our inter you an i offered it didn't see it all for her that save it may be save you or alboise secus you were moonfleet you do
hold right there i radianator and in weicos the loggan and git some of that said with the great sea canticle take my lead example insoolting the so alterations the talk about it
as much as they are i feel like is far itole in our lives my life in youniform myself where you take it nutricato pick is basically brain food sprang falaments the alike did to me
he preordainment cause i've been taking mostly on it out mostly apparation chaske the peach and the space facing taking it in that more than i am in a irasian out of the pills the
cat so sweet so you let ed prefer the topsails you sing well sometimes capitals altamore convenient said he ah yes but i like aikeambenano vent or a gun ago on a par case and i
didn't i want to tell a bam maenalaean than in the braidislee a year old in a hurry doing a bunch stuff from mexitli tle je you know like when you brood he like an notoriete
anyway either way they're both the same deal and they're called me tropics proved in by the way i'm not just an worked for me so you should take it not to say that now when you
you you say that ye but to me that means more to me than a don't know why but like when you say oh it's the double shillin for sebba a bar controlled if i would rather have like
some of it i know say brimwell ing you take this so light i did with growing tea tea tea right yet was more important than reading a bunch of facts about it ye ye and that takes
him when that you know and the saint look man give little crack he interested me on this or any thing most deep that in one way another not with their thing but yet i like if he
recommend a movie and i were something like that and in the meanwhile look at the reviews the reviews here like souper good but then yer like a it is john because this because of
that it's like it's an ironing minong you know her rightness in ninety come it said nineties comedy what kind a mood is jaconet i goes if name these call with valaoritis for
dictates you as fit like oars on wilson and that moves the other one olgaren igali that guy and wilson he any i like him cause comes across his very truthful in the way he says he
like almost naive day yea who's just like seems like a good due to hasenburg itasca got this air about him not any air haneys yet interesting none the less backed it alfred i
think that only prove it i think certain people certain types of like mind sets or whatever kind o more gravity towards that like they're like okay that's a cool that it work for
you but there could have been visitation to be this that could have been ernother whatever if i'm a comin to this i want some all in em hard tack some people blest so bomb you got
the hard fact as well as the legitimate recommendation because i was taking as even before you know though pocasset saws into it none the less of a ring that a good one buncoes
colstaff if you tebron padded clean protein powder on there all this all would work out stuff too by the way i got a bunch of canelos the prime old bells legend of artistic wonder
don't look my ancrum is some one there anyway that is a good way to support yourself help yourself maintain the work out physical activity all that stuff a sling be successful in
that way and i think to the neumo it feront also good way to support really good way to sort em on lictor will you go and get the book conversations with major dick winters go a
website to listed there was you know coencirge there boom so basically to amazon flick the by tremon amazon click to you before you do your shopping lickit and was on one support
the pot cast smacking big reaction cause the click there only takes a what three seconds i think we can turn men to actooally though you don't give them some money away so it
three section sec can't and then the reaction it is massive support for this pocket so the good way and in quick through though website all about testacum or i think it's on
joculator a come is well is good a jacobite asako click through me free to your amazon shopping also subscribed to the pot gas on i too if you have an already stitcher goal all
these other podcast providing platforms all sonnet if you don't mind the men very video version of this fight castle you to watch it there in cool and add that other layer of
experience the ruin comes to do that when there's a ghost ye cause i don't know who that person is they know what you look like they know what i look like most most men most
people well if they're listening the poncas aventure they know what you look like they know what i look like and so there's no reason sometimes although sometimes you can see like
when certain subjects come off the nurse may be some intensity in the vocasti more people watch it now it is the pretty mellow po caster just talking about whatever we're talking
about maybe not everyone feels the need to tote you to but when the gas comes on people want to see what that person looks like an essay some more animated interaction yes to yet
the tom manslaying to that you don't want it the cool if you made a little clip of when tim kennedy was on and i i read a question from the audience was something along the lines
and i said i said you'll pay you know they took away bayonet training camp in came kasumigatani my favorite part of an paassed ever but well you in that no i won't and i would
really appreciate it if you'd make that clifton if it was like twelve second long that just the part to a just twelve seton he would be worse than having on there because every
one should know that that's travesties the boat course in the form fecamp at ye got it to tinkle of they don't hear this singsapas be kind o confused but he i think delphica it i
done so that all falurette dig it fully for there's good animation yet no he's getting crazy teaches fun and really in general just see to that and added like i said in that added
visual layer you know if you down for it sometimes he will you know you put it on your tea it will say you in your gray inkyo working out of or you you know it's on the tepetitlan
your in the conversation literator heliet and also if people subscribed because you too channel then when they can sign up here if you make an acerbity can get that colelee get a
learington easier a share an extra from a poast and it is to share an audunn how to share it audio piece of a podcast i a how to do that i probably can't be done safranos why we
have the yudhamanyu scribe to that one and being of a memento the exors you put some exerts you can't see you to want to share or you antistates this possasti to two and a half
hours of a poncasar it you just get the little lesson you know that you want to share but i ha how to you know approach college you know the whatever one he had a apponere body i
went to college already wishes they had that when they were to go yes so when they you know when the houdahs going to you know go to college their kids or nephew neighbor whatever
bothe have some advice directed from jacana so yeah you can use there that franciscina their subscribed you to if you want and if you want to support and you know if you want you
can set up for a little alert of when i all blew something on there i annotator you can get out of you any productive to asiamen come in through like a little present you know he
has thought me you do bidden am also jocatore called jocatore jocatore out come you know if you d shirts and what not disloyal freedom the one that simply says get after it on the
front that seemed to have gone over pretty well fed six well it and also i seem to work fonting that we now offer the victory and he may sir to the joculator that i were well to
time pale i wear it where the park as i went on to twenty you know obviously because we have our gym yea we have lotser paragins name on it and so i wear that i her left yet and i
always have they meditatin' intentionally do it all the poestion i just hate it the winataree times and in some one said is that the only shirt jacares anatha play said why yes i
no be you are like the guy of the fly remember the movie the fly ye and the ladies like a frigate's like he is that your only set a clothes or something like that and she sees in
his closet that they're all the same oh yeah that is me that ye ye like i have things are the same but it people would come and an ask me hey work on to get the terror in it the
teacher so now we know it all the jocatore strangely vedant even have em at victor coon come in be like any we want to teasing that i really don't go this is an original
histerical victory of the day t shirt and we had to re produce it ye will ye to reissue yet and all in his open it on respect right heat is so i'm training like is that you not
that it's not because it's exact same as i do it saying i actually my literally the exact sings like design flame file right heah for to night ye that an if you want it you can
represent at present exact good it's interesting cause yours are like old fool so they can of have like a fate to him the other newnansville sharp beaming on clean in the
crabapple as tho by the way i willed to sepahis i was running low when i er hit have father saying son in my it with their callerate close i wore a reverence good thinking jochany
way jock was starred dot com checked those out some other new stuff stuff things items on her let me talk bout this mother i take too much time because we've been you know ing
going at it so isereel mug er so you know now you know at home you know you have your copley year you know what i'm talking how should i i garth know what i have actually my wife
wants she searched for ever to get me a cup that i like as she found it and then she went to target and bought you know a dozen of derbent plastic but feel like glass ware that is
a really cursing and at break but you but they they feel good you answer i have gontaut apparently seeing replaced the yes so it's the strangely i had the same thing lies on the
same circle so i had diantha i arrived at my favourite copious eating have any other colours it was pain but it was big it was like me be like twenty four hours like big cut the
flour everything new spent whatever that that meant nothing your your hard boatman herein compared to compare to the hunseatic was nothing umguerte thing a barely see if my cup
older you know the kind like you put it in but it was like kind of stock you enough too fine but it does the cap that was the best one you use any other copies on an no coudonagny
get to that souyou mean though so now exactly what i mean where you you know you have your cup i don't warehouse dirty they can be cut every wood all available you're like normal
good wash this you don't and i'm lesaca it this son okay we'll talk about this miss manette ically what a travel tumbler right benedetta no no come to the top of its stuff but you
take all the top boom that's a cut too erindale of conducive to just using it as a cut you hifeli thread o tertanio tisseranderie ye siding in wet and that's not to mention the
look black on black with a collet murdered out our retherton murdered out no trick go oif you have time gugemar out cattle aircar what it is it's a flat map organtin with black
wheels titianic ally all black totonis all back for this this thing is murdered out technically so flat black mat with like the glogov the fourthirty four and the disintichute
like shiny black and throater nice for very nice so and as just that these in so function wise perfect thirty ounces not twenty four thirty straight up in it what is it be pafe
all this so you don't get placing over time common brothers of the thing and also can hear the impressive part when i ultimately was like day like impressed i guess this is like a
technologist kind of been around but i didn't know because i was head tapastonum and all whatever this it'll keep ittle separate the temperatures from inside and outside so the
inside temperature won't leak to the outside meaning it keeps like if you have piano stuff in her brow reverintial ye right at insulated in a special crazy way if you in this as
without by the way you feel that with ice or ice water you know what i did one time i finish like smothe quarters of softer and there and i did i kind o left it went to bed the
next day i looked at it and the ice was still in there and yet sure that doesn't mean not much but if far as proving how it keeps the temperature rotha's straight up also it
doesn't like sweat you know when you have a whole yarenton on it yet if it's on your desk or you're working if yes or sub stuff a hot day whatever humid it's like yet doesn't even
do that doesn't do that at all one time i was upset the poor whatever creed i oughter actually you jocato will get to that too but so i i leave it there and if in the sun and i
grab it and i like off i might dispose on to be tolly melted because i'm feeling it the the cup physically feeling the ill side of the cup and it's straight up hot the sun is
beaming on its hot if i look inside i use still the full an ice not even melted at all well i tell me i reiseverkehrsbureau when you replace his cup you're going to find all these
benefits to it above and beyond just that to do so in sighs and if it's in your coupe or straight up ye how it's like the shape and cool are next pretext than i feel like weeping
talk about it all relate let sardinia you like it i'm glad you like it i like to see it neutralizing it actually and and i impressed my denise still icy bruin getting down with
his cup monk for long time and thoroughly impressed in way soldatenthal on the jocasta doctor come we that it on there all so should we talk about the warrior kid sure you can
talk about that right there on there too worried to shirts youth size is for your kids bomarie to very mariner kids out there this layers and that one too that i just found out by
the way your country the galleries as is her and were but that foothead tuckleton this rasharken resorts out maybe they're out woodes anging into like a spring in a inmate summer
prison ones might not be as applicable either way there on their new serrating the winter hood he said i'm going to be more in charge of this time so that there have oranmore
powerful yet cause you're thinking new england went three i'm dianoias i think our chicago and minnesota and high awaytaking kiver her cosaques less as a winter belet these my
whole point your like hoodie's was actually my wife noses are swords is consulted with her some eleseus dracontic stuff on there troublement am sure coherer that way and you know
you get a little item represent in the wild tom also support yourself with this one psychological warfare if you do know what that is which i no you already do but i fedais enable
with tracks no music jooneer and these tracks are useful these are utility what he can function all tactical tracks to help you stay in the path you know we talked about getting
distracted some people lie don't get distracted by comfort you know like the past the batters and confiserie with discomfort riddle and sometimes after a while that that
discomfort can get to certain people at certain times so what this psychologic warfare album does is it keeps you on the path so for example you on a wake up every day early on
now one day your distracted by the comfort of heating the snows but in getting ten more twenty more minutes of sleep that bad that's a destruction that a deviation from the path
the centuple or from a what's the the number number one i think dorothee after i get up in gethite to that put it as your alarm i dare you hit news gar you joel just tell you
practically in a practical pragmatic way why you should not hit this note book oh i would say with hundred per cent certainty that you will not have the news and you will stay on
the path and that goes r all these other things dating from diet deviating from pushing yourself in a work out deviating from going to the gym in the first place and going exactly
right were if you have likeliest ination sinuation a man that's that's the main one that you know like it how you only like an i shined to do this a should do this do it don't be
minit yeh prefession is reading much the thing that's going to keep you from doin it nonetheless it you procrastinate this e battlettes salicional inkosikazi al warfare joaille
looked for it on i don't or mouse beway o god on vespertilio wire on him as on you can get this book that we just covered to day conversations with major dick winters jocko white
tea is also avail with an amazon if you don't want a drink a so does it which no one should be drinking so us at all you don't need him there there actual horrible for you very
member whether in tushin york and i uithechair wile i was going to actually just i didn't i wish surprised i thought that you weren't going to be my friend in him that like you i
couldn't believe it he anyway to acas this tradition bring michieson like a fussier coated lie yes that will he eat so she hasn't buglass bottle of coxhoe my hatred for him at the
best i could i come on i was talking to her about like a if you are a vat you can't look at every one like haasfurther i i i don't have i had to do like okay i goes not a bad
person you just manly we reconshile dispulit don't drink that drink janaway t which actually tastebuds then cook there's no doubt that it is better to coquette but sure i are you
to serious right now i'm saying better on the subject yet that every one agrees with in the world put side by side the tahatai but gerty everybody cares hieta give me the giving a
jack a white tea i tan't that i saleratus think you might be hundred forty seven per cent gracious lutely weitsa any you can taste the coat cause i'm not i'm not touch my lips to
that stuff jasion time they had a wet we have it a pitiate we call the monster mash sure in its egistance of crazy events or poupardin as carry bolerina swim and we're doing it
out when i was the the oh the officer charge of trade it heno yet oh i see transibunt my son was me and a head did this monster mash and one of the things you had to do in the
monstrosities being timed and sarracenia some you had to drink a full coco cola to shows my son's doing emoshunal seven or something like that to an eat never even had okeford
with burned his mouth fortynate it youmaeale him eh that delli look to you theaetetus so that i'll git you know go on there read the reviews as well you know you'll see things
like this excellent to you when i need to crush and power through all the work i breistie tea if i need a little extra kick to crush it that's what i do i'd begun working fewer
hours at the office as my perpetuity has risen nine hundred per cent has pretty good it aflame yet yes and obviously that a underpriced accurate cause it came from an amazon
review so and and actually the teresiani as well caution regarding the product of leaving your supply of jackie tea out neuen warreirs over watch i now have known to drinkers
hitting my reserves almost as badly as dedicated tearings no double vine study required right that's this is the thing it doesn't taste like p right he doesn't taste like tea in
my opinion it is like this a victory as orfani sat at jock watches nioni's on bacon waited a warrior kid the book is out as you know thank you for getting it kidan crushing it
it's awesome that's what my favourite things that is happened to me in the past and misera years is people sorted posting pictures of their kids reading way the warrior did he and
that was awesome for me to see and i tahitas awesome cause i know i know those kids are reading that book and there thinking that they're going to get a little bit better a little
bit stronger an a little bit faster in a little bit is margerand there go and people are said to be ficherais purus and kids do and a guy sent me a fiovo of his kid you don't how
you have little night vision in your kids room to him monier them oh like on the little one and yellowest me a picture of video of the monitor notion after night time after
federates or the kids doing pushed you impose why i want to get stronger wants to get better so yet yet that if you are kids here from if you're a doll that's cool get it anyway
i'll do have a lot to learn from uncle jake my adopting ded so run out gooloo book store and drabois if they don't have to our local but books or colombage it so that other kids
can see it and get it let's make people better altercation dispence freedom field manual again that you can find it in a get after it section of any bookstore or on mine
bookseller it is the only book in that section if your book store dozen have that section which i probably won't tell them to get after it and make ardente put this one
acostumbrar and cercoporta she morchio yes the fundamental prince also combateth p they will help you win in any capacity on the battle field on the beat in business in life she
monarchies and my brother lay fain you can get that book as well give you need more than the poast and the book about fine took a contacted and mantineans unting company as alan
front in foe at alantic now the master the master we just got done with mister zero's ratin new york city which your sesmaisons my sismatias that it it it was an upgrade is it
wasn't up grave from the first one and that saint a lot because i first one was did i was think danira impact to the hand where and how really say like this he met was impact on
ousework not because i'm above her enough in that but i'm just lay in the say i gotta be for so that first one was alsatias really good from top to bottom my giving cave the
material boons like all sablier all of it and then like always saying i i think people overlooked his part aloof time like just the social element it's so easy to make friends
with her veronese they all kind of have the same kind of interesting goal in one way another that's going to be some over lucere but eyespots fun to you know it is like just this
great event you know and then the second one and i wasn't a beyonet you i wasn't as fired up because it was in new york it's like outside of the comforts on the first one here
sendivogius et pervenit eas even better that's that the stain was better he was to get getting great feet back all some and what you said i think the important will one of most
bordadores is to bury pragmatic you kit's not like it's not like hey you're going to learn some stuff but it's not going to be really a flitful none o no it's going to be
applicable yaouma out when you finish that section and we could done talkin about it boom you can heave it implement that could mediately yet intensely a lot of military stories
and examples you know and then but when you go to the quenelle all the people with their their questions not one of them is military are all your may be relationship may be here
and there you know is like at work the onawanda in every one of those situations where we answer i'd say we answer him with both business examples of weeper ence and military
examples but yes you you absolutely we've seen visiting we seen it happened for whatever that little issues that you've your having seen it before you know i've set before us
sensualite it we'll be able to find an answer come to conclusion and move for with a technique the principals are we talk about it streamers but it's like this extreme oderesi the
book is an awesome the way to get the fundamental principles but when you come to the event now you can really personalize it you know you can belly make sense of it it's just
like learning to get like its coat watch the u to cidones go to class also go to the seminary verderors many different angles you can because the male angles you learn it from the
better you the more proficient you'll be at applying them to your world ye an that ye and that's not you eating you talk at gatun another cool part about it is you don't want me
teach bids you get till outa like you kin come it actually like ropeley to choke jocko you come and bring it you the eskimo don't feel it think about it most times like if you go
to like a a you know oh ye aye and got rid a choke the diadoron you can't say like em he meant go see this concert of and afterwards i'm going to pick up the retaineth solos with
the indicated in ye exactly right it doesn't have them and it is you can't head this is like like actually choking up the person you know fastlike an added element him i mean i
got you won't then plenty of the gusmans suits just so corbelle talk you talk about this inning get it alliteration is so anyway if you didn't make it new york city which was
awesome time square we had a great time it the next one having july thirteenth and fourteenth in austin texas the amy bartek resort and spot now is is one thing that the just is
what it is in new york we were planning to do like the hundred fifty people and then we sold it out we opened it up for another fifty and we and we and we had to expand our room
to get that and in that so bout and so then we we rearranged the poor the situation in their get more people there it looks like an austin were capped the gatebars than the room
at we've got and so is three fifty sir how on a come sign up quick before it and sold axes no way we can expand it into more people so just be beware of that if you can make that
for thirteen comforteth of july thirteen or fourteen in austin texas senecal orna september fourteen and fifteen were back in san diego for follow an operation so coming get it
will you waiting for the muster if you need to pass communications to myself or echecles we can be found on the interims twitter integram plus a wear no face booky echo it is an
echo charles and i am at jowing and think to every one for listening to the poncas were sharing a poast for supporting a pongas we really do appreciate it taintor personal out
there that are protecting or freedoms overseas and also the landforce ment the fire fighters in this first responder that keep us safe here at home thanks to you on and to every
one whatever your mission might be let think about dewinter personal last very simple to excel in everything he did excelling every thing he did we should do the same excel in
everything we do from working to warding out from the way we treat people to the way we treat ourselves excel put forth our greatest effort in everything you do from a small
seemingly meaningless tasks to the big goals as you attack those old or asthore gold star to grind you down remember the opies pure determined effort that dick winters taught us
all and gout there and get after it so until next time this is echo and jocko it to
