this is jacopo cast number seventy six with a curls and me jackwell in god evening ah good evening freedom that's something that you hear me talk about all the time and i say
little things like don't take it for granted as a b thankful for your freedom and i even say things like you don't appreciate your freedom until it's gone pretty common statement
seer from people but how many of us have actually had or freedom taken away and not metaforically speaking and not some self imposed and terise controlled way he not in some way
trapped by a situation in our life that we don't have the courage to get out of but i am talking about an actual loss of freed caged controlled starved beaten tortured how long
can you take that for but how a day what about a week or a month what about a year for six years what do you do how do you survive how do you get up every day in fact the awful
reality that you haven't darkness fear oppression in how do you take that darkness and that fear and that oppression and turn it into something good well that is my honour to day
to have with us a man that can answer those questions retired navy captain charles charlie plum alcade graduate at four fanum fighter pilot in prisoner of warm in northenmost
years six years sir he is absolute honoured to have you on and thank you so much for being her they jacitaras to be with you and let's just start from the beginning to garamantan
charlie for you were you now your born wearing easyboy and gary indiana during war or two my father was about to be inducted and so he moved up to a little tiny town in kansas
where he thought them my mother and i my big sister i could live there a while he will to war well it turned out he couldn't pass the physical so he didn't go to war but that's
why i grew up in a tiny town in the middle of kansas and he i know you won't you did you were to work pretty outpray early age throwing paper sale you refer to that in the book of
it i just that just anastagi thing isn't it to own for no prospers any more something happened to note with the paper wrote any more i guess that's true i will i read is statistic
on time of all the other valiseful people in the world most of them were paper boys seaboat not any more you know that your right you don't you know i see that ye now they're
throwing up winterbotham's it that not he i i hear thee am that to peekadeely capital very generation three hundred pepoli had tabacky five customers the the rat was five miles
long and on a cold february morning in kansas at was offiong way my final can missy father that i could down that i could could buy a motor scooter with all of my earning and
since we went across the river with it was no bank in town with across the river to perry kansas and a borrowed enough money to buy a cushman motor scooter and a god i was only
eve fourteen when that happened so am i got arrested one dyamonde do that you got a rest of the motor scutellaria to go to the county fair chicane speed on a motor scooters at
ingannati i was small for my age so at at fourteen i i i no i wasn't five feet and ned my boy on the back and he was even small but an i and i think that the cops just sought his
dolores on a motor scooter and the middle of night then we were arrested and ah it some point that i think it was a anabas ball coach there were coaching her school it was a pilot
and were more to that he was he was actually a he he was a that that not a pilot i was at a doboy and were war alwhite and he had strapped on in his legs from his war newald with
a limp um and but then he was quite a disappearin and he he tried to make that little basketball team work but we we were just really not not very talented would is it about it
don't know when i was a kid and i would see an you know of vietnam that for me as primarily when i would see if old vietnam vet and i'd say eytalians or his leg and walks with a
limp when i grow up i want shroudlike like not on autenticato goniatites that just part of may all you know boy i at your it it may very well be ye so so what do you tell you
about about pilots did he enothereae the idea from you know being a doboy to be in a pilot well quite a long transition see this is early on in my career i had coached later in
high school that had been a pilot where were two octogon ten had been a pilot and in fact they flew out a fat off aircraft carriers and i was fascinated by that hole idea but i
will tell you that being a hasty from kansas i never even dreamed of flying interplane i i i i i i i've never been in one ah i seen them fly over but the whole idea of ever even
riding in an airplane let alone piloting one who as was beyond my grasp it really was it so so how did you end up in transition from high school in you end up in you go into the
naval came well that was got by accident to a i needed an education my parents were too poor sandycove i startled him for scholarships and um omy my older sister was dating a guy
who was an intertissued ent took university kansas and he gave me a book the says she has halali for that you know can and cancers well the back page of the book in fairly small
letter said oh by the way it's the same call of occasion to go to the naval academy well what the heck did juno the evil can be one or a figured out right then i did not know i i
really had no idea i i didn't know about the army navy game i didn't know anything now my closest relative in the military was a cousin in the coast guard and so i was just i was
just ignorant about the military a total so you know i like alexader jacottet at all needs grit dreams you know tenait pilot and the admiral and command in ships and squadrons and
all out no it was all by accident in fact i when i applied will you you get the appointments from congressman the congressman of my district in kansas i didn't buy a competitive
method and in everybody was interested took out a government a test he toorgenef service rating a gestes and there we about thirty five guys that took the test and so he nominated
five of us he who got better scorsacana a rest an then he appointed one one guy to the nemocerae and an alternate and i was the second alternate owell the first guy also had an
appointment to two of the air force aconomy so he took that the second guy discovered girls gottlanders are one we galleries i was actually the second alternate the go to it so i
got on a grey on but and caesarean is on the two days later that we two days to get to to to watching at ease and encore i was seen country i'd never seen before amantha's when i
raise my hand as you did then pledged to defend the constitution i do states against all enemies foreign and domestic and then at some point of ate athanatoi you know about nevil
aviation ides you did from a from bob johnson ephetae yubu naviarutsit you have that fought your mind of navalvat that point not really i still ah i still kind of assume that i
can never call if to do that in a annimikee back at it you know i think we were were my dreams but um kids that grow up and little town don't usually have big dreams we don't know
how to do that and might parents my father had completed the eighth grade it was his education my mother had in fact completed high school but i was one of the first to family
that ever go to college and so am i you know it was i i it wasn't even it wasn't even a tough part of the top process so hate i got two of the naval academy and that you know a
thought back bob johnson and and and that kind of experience and saw that there was a possibility of doing this then my energies and efforts true the turn that touranian and it
must have been i mean that's always been old truck competitive at megarean i know we had a another pilot on day burk and he was talking about how each step of the way he can a
look to round and in sad i think i can actually do this you can the same thing look around and say i think i can get the best grade i think i can get a position that some point
you must do said my dianti can do this that you would there was as a matter of fact it is a great revelation you know when it could be no farley that talk yourself into accepting
the fact that you do have the talent to do this emendation point the eye you don't really try as hard i guess and a whale or peaty all so you is this when you gotten falled with
anne for the first time is that at the at the needlecase and less my high school sweetheart one curate played the french horn in the band together as girls with the french horns
yeah you you not a yeshishe is a beauty and i was a beauty and he showed up in our school but was um she she came cheap she came into our oldest town in kansas from indiana and
abstained in india and she wasn't telling me about now for the first senatore about that boy friend and no cunanivacari black marseter was um and an she wouldn't kiss me you know
i mean a we dated for me monitor isn't kiss me yet in anemoscope i mean i i mean the most reaction aversion erotaetheis ben there and his huronite somehow a flightiness her
ofttime we should talk but yours torlonia yousheenie theologians a finely i think it was thanksgiving ah ye yet ye were wise it was right at thanksgiving and an intercepted up a
letter that she got in from moderado do you eat her step the letterario mentation we etonians eirenaeus gayly on finding her i know i mark oh no she said no word series working to
get married sent ten and that he's coming to kansas for christmas i said i make deal metoosin i don't think he's coming for christmas and so if he comes i'll back off and you
don't have to worry about me trying to kiss you any more but if he doesn't come then you and i go steady wonsiedel he didn't come to an so i let that be started at a onefas we are
then went steady in high school of course then i go off to the neighborin mean for peace from kansas and men she went to university kansas for her first year there and but we
continued to communicate and then tie it will i hard christmas time i came home and den she decided to move to washington d c to work for a senator out there in so she spent the
next three years the last three years a negociant close enough so that we could get a continue to see other so it was some unitas one of those i you know one o olyanova thing
cause i didn't really ate a whole lot in nice school and she was yet for sure so that you guys got married did you did you wait to graduate from the able condeetion ye yet now you
can't do that you can't get married while you are at the neighboured least your not supposed to complication didn't answer the day after i graduated from the alector were married
and my six body is held up their sword to a one was a marine and so he held up his sabre as we came down from the chapel drew the arch of swords and it was a beautiful day in a
beautiful wedding and from there we went immediately to flight training did you see when did you find out your good pick up if i traders your citizen yatala a last part of our
senor year you can apply and ah and then you go through all the hoops that he that you go through to try to qualify it for labatie being so i found out probably a month or six
weeks before i graduated a dead was going to be my my my tour du graduate in sixty four yes so when you graduated he did you guys where you guys think in vietnam already one was
it just too early and there was limited operation so i wasn't really something that you graduate thinking about frontin i don't remember ever hearing the word vietnam quill i was
sable academy while so you rolled to flight school just thinking he went afy around here go to regular deportment were to hear about but you weren't thinking about vietnam up to
an what point was that in flight hony first started thinking yourself eat hay we ouallada balms yet well evaderet alvarez was shot down the the first the theodebert be shot down
in august making sixty four occasom a reality that while i was in flight training and amothen naval aviator was in prison in vietnam now ah i didn't you i didn't understand the
politics i didn't question the politics of iredale ah i just did the best i could and fight tranyon then and enjoyed it you know i mean it's it's it's a kick did you guys did hear
did your attitude shifted also for for my generation when all of a sudden september eleventh happened it was like it was like a paradisi in everyone's mentality that that day
ceaseth a clear clear demonstration and we all knew that we were going to war and that was immediate attitude shift did you guys start avisitin attitude or was it so because the
wave he had not escalated more slowly was it more of a a slow escalation in your minds as well no as a very slow a in a inistore of ahto the frog in the in the pot of boiling
water know jumps out in arimant now it was a iturup very slowly for us and oh i didn't even as i went to fight training on now i'm in i learned to drop bombs and shoot guns and
all that stuff and it was i i it was a challenging and that it was exciting but i i didn't see the reality of it i didn't really picture myself as being in combat um it so of
course when i got my wings and then was assigned the four fantom which it's a time was a hot aterpei the world i'm lyin the time to climb records in the speed records and so it's
a twice a speed is sound airplane and there was felt very fortunate to ahto have that benisoned at airplane and so i came out here to san diego to of to fly and you talk about
your book you done a midshipman tour were a fantom went down both pilots killed and and then you got a sign of the phantom i did active you any reservations at all a i don't
remember being afraid of the airplane ah but i certainly gave it a lot of respect as specially around the ship ah because at a youvis the thing that down at the naval calemites
mer time you get exposed to the possible delitigate have in a future so we go play marine for a while and we go to submarines for a while and in we go aboard ship a itto be malin
officers for a while and we go to to to pensacola and so i got a little touch immittere of actually being interplane and then my senior in my senior crew between the junior and
senior year i went to board them the constellation the aircraft carriconna and ah and we were out of a sasaguanca i watching flit off from the bridge and the alooking down at this
uther planes the launching and recovering on the harcraft carrier and a hanagame in an actually broke the wire the pilot did all kay but he broke keep he picked up the wire and
the wire snapped this cable that traps an airplane is two and a half against in a in diameter it's a very thick steel wire round caimans really really strong because it has to
stop this thirty five thousand pound airplaning down to shootin seventy miles now the ouse but ah for whatever reason the cable broke ocyale snapped around in a cut off the legs
of three different guises who were on the deck agata so fast the high couldn't even couldn't even see it my eyes couldn't even follow this cable because they re just imesse much
pressure as so much on energy involved and then the airplane the fore was slowed down to the point where the guy couldn't give it back in the air and so it just dribbled off the
balthe aircraft carrying into the water well of course that i that i turn my view to the stern of the ship to see if i could see what had happened while the the few seconds that
it took from wineflete in the water until i could see out the the the back of the of the ship it was gone there was no debris was not loyal there was nothing in the water behind
this ship at the serpentined so it was a shock to me of course but you know i think i started out with this mentality that is always going to happen to somebody else you know
never mean and oh and that i'm you know i'm what ever happened i'm goin to do it better and umati that's wot e noisette you have to come a have that mentality and combat you can't
go in thinking you're going to get killed or and so um so i i wasn't reluctant to fly the four but i gave it i i think respect sir you get that and you come out your station in
san diego or is that was a sight adigrat for when you when you depart for the first time mere marner station now and that's where i helped stratoport was kind of an interesting
experience as well there was a tree there was a haha pool of students to fly the fore fentiman i showed up here when they had about a six month waiting list for me to find the
airplane well six months was a long time in oratore or old kid and i wanted to get in the air so a buddy of mine paul creyan i had gotten our wings at the same time in inesin the
effort fantom and we came out here and so we were both gone after wait for a six months to five this airplane so we wandered down the flight line in a miramar and found the
instrument training squadron was flying the same airplanes that we had flown in inflicting on the olenin a cigar a bit ling airplane it son it's a jet that it lightened slow and
kind o stages of its a corean warping and and they were they were using it in flight training to teach instruments and deities the the structed would sit in the front seat and his
students setting the back seat in the head at umbaked all the wonders come covered you up all you could see was the instrument panel here under this bag and so am and so we signed
on to fly this airplane a forward test hop and jack rides in this kind of stuff justify the just stay in the air because we already calife the airplane well crookin would say a
little bit a gas okay had time with fate students round at the end of the hot we would lurk off the the coat of san diego and wait for the phantom to come out and the thanase you
know we've these guys were komotau mere marrow they were heavy you know and they were stodgy and they were slow as they came off and they'd get about a four five miles out in the
pacific and we would pounce on these dies and his all kinds of fun because we were lighter and could turn quicker than the sanoms and we were as a smaller being the we had better
windlode they did and so we could turn in sight he's guys course he re much much fast we were not supersonic and they were so they could get away from us in inartistry wanted to
but a wet was started this air combating with these guys well that went on for a doocots until one day cooking a mewed played the role in white scared you know smifligation the
howard when he hemanta the instruments squatterin checked in her areoplanes back and and then and there was a sign on the bolobo plum croaky report to the fork commanding officer
the mediately tho we were trouble so to do to guys in her sweaty flight suits to knock on the door of the commanding officer of the panmure i never get this scene the the ah the
got cotanello dor that disguising desolatenes got glasses and crushes n old old guy we were twenty three so you know he's probably thirty letoogie ever tattled he iioaias that
talk to the top of his glasses he's in a sweaty flight suit also which should have been our first indication is that you you to guys out there in yaffingale my fighter pilots um
yes sir we were umooli a phantom through an entire loop ah of the abuse yester in fact i did i said zeb your gun sights on that fanamy entire time not yet yes sir we did he said
diana who was in that phantom is in i was is that i just came back from the annamaroia over there's terrible their eating or will luncheoned to learn how to fight this airplane
see the four was designed in the cold war as a supersonic interceptor i was never called a fighter pilot and a fact i training in a space suit so i could go above fifty thousand
feet on a of the aircraft carrier climbed the eighty thousand feet shoot down the russian bombers and you know it forty five degree angle of bank turn returned to the aircraft
carrier that was my job i went on supposed to be out there a hassling cause because it was the cold war we did not expect to have a a corean war war war to type a teasle fighter
on well excoriate around and suddenly you know they're their flandes older airplanes that are eating our lunch so we the so lectiarian you in a fight with me to morrow ayesher the
fun that soarest to a three months baleka i with our white scarves the nurse new peagreen natale we had to start about a now or a head of time you know just because they were so
fast but we'd get out to see me go out to forty miles out to sea and turn around and here they come and we had these two on to engagements and and that became a syllabus within
the replacement error the force that eventually became the top ancoats it was the start of a retraitant was it was a very successful we turned our kilrain by tekintetes hout of
fight this effort detachedly that's a without training to fight how are you going to know on a fight consentano got a you got to be that's out standing for the free commanding all
sir that's odense is that of being instead of being mad that you were doing it in steady somnolent says you know a weed to get better with this yet what let's let's keep training
yep that's awesome and you eventually do get your time in the four fantom you learn how to fly that and now it's time to go on to payment you're going on a pointment now and
november fifth nineteen sixty six you kiss anne good bye and you go on to point all noon the kitty hawk out it was a birthday oh that's a great birthday preshipice if you can let
my first daughter my first daughter was born actual birthday like actual birth day ye went on the ponente next day still every one are we happy with me a man with a when now when
you were going through the fight train you get ready to pull in now were you thinking about vietnam and all and you must be in getting seacoat feel out animating of serdalous said
shifted so out it certainly had in the squadron that i joined was just come back from vietnam and then had pontife casualties and ah and so they were talking about you know the
guys were the eyes were were giving us instruction on out o work that another thing about the fan was that we had we had no indication when a missile was an ear ah because we were
faster than the missile for the most part or higher than the missile and so one of the things the guysers told me that the fellows come back from the adam said go and radio shack
by herself a fusus oolite or let wistock ye an me ride or to get a table firstrate i said because the a russian built sam surface to air missiles are on the same frequency is a
conformity petrolite us ah and so we have found that if you give we have no indication in the airplane with a missiles near and so i did it not read my messapus best room and a
yet had no section captain he liessen cup and he put her on the wind came in this this panamahelmeted wire you know down underneath your gut near sort catalines and i knew your ox
and mask and and finally into your ear you know you get you he steered and there he and so here i am find this twenty million dollar airplane being for doctor my twenty nine
dollar for butter worked but ah the problem was that it was no a direction capability rotee it was coming from and so you know young almost worse sight waaaaa with late on an
absolute you heard to warble and boy yet now used tatetum and jenkin you know your your head with a wimble trying to figure out where this this missile is you but you get overseas
and you your fine you sure fine mission you're doing when you do mostly strike missions is that primary whereto doing taking out targets in northam the for of course again less
consider was a configuration the keel up as a a as in air to air combat machine right the powers that be decided it is an air plane we can in a bomb on it they put on an extra i
believe four hard points and the bother plant may be five can't remember so that we could carry bombs on this fighter airplane what we were supposed to be an interceptor we were
it supposed to be carrying bombs round but we found out that serug at this biorn was a pretty good platform from for dropping bombs and so we could carry the week to carry twelve
thirteen thousand pounds of bombs into the target which was a pretty good load in over coat also support one guys like you on the ground that a with all kinds of various kinds of
weaponry um and so what happened was we had a sister squadron on the aircraft carrier so for a month lined period we would be fighters for two weeks and then we would we would we
would reconfigure our plan to be bombers and would be bombers for two weeks and we would go back to fight or an in back to mamers being so pasture questioned half the time over
there i was strapped bombs and half the time i was ah i was a doing the art are mission and the air to our mission primary be doing combat air patrols to support the iller
elements that we find in with bombs and you'd be protecting a case any make show of exactly yet with the cap a cap come betatron so you pretty much almost done with the payment
where were talking you you spend you did what seventy four missions at this point you've been there for five coming up on six months and on the nineteenth may nineteen sixty seven
you get a phone call in you as get like a a strike mission comes in that you are supposed to execute it as a big deal ah and it was called an elfish trianal his strike was the top
priority and we need that to it be a lottery plains in the air and we have so preempting targets to hit and it was sanctions the straight from the pentagon it was cases stuff ah
and um which i perseive problems in that war was that most of our instruction came from the eyes back in the puzzle palace he now i idesthe wouldn't it wouldn't let us decide
target or no attitude or anything else in it was pretty well well play and by the time we got the gull and i got a call i suppose three in the morning something like that a saying
that i was discede as fair was a schedule office for the prop for the squadron and so i was guidatore out who went on what strikes and in who it with whom and in the airplane had
the head and so so i got up early to start planning this strike ah with the airplanes in the pilots and the the back cedars are riders intercept coffer are are copilots um in an
end so i did then we went to the briefer and got about an hour brief on this these targets i lead a found out that the reason for the whole thing the reason why we are doing it
officerish nineteenth of may was it was the birthday of their president ho he meant and entered them the maneat ly the brilliants of a in a bar or acid ire si war a great was that
we would catch them in celebration of their the big day because they it was like our president day now they at picnics and accoustum and so we really catch im with the pants
tonelles most things that happen of vietnam they knew we were coming for whatever reason and ah that day they were eight at four fantoms on but i'll never reget the big guinea of
it because i you know i took off and that a rondevoo with a taker and took on an extra treat thousand pounds of fuel then joined the the the the squadron and it was in fact the
cat vision it was a combat her patrol i was not carrying bombs so we had four of us on one side of the strike group and for the other and a just to look because it was it was
three or raptures and five air force paces all it was eructating we had at the end that day it was of the amazing armada and i could see from one horizon to the other these
airplanes and the unremembered feeling really proud you know and you know just to be a part of this don't you something that very few people in the world would ever do um in
flying this airplane um at a twenty four and he so that that was how it all began on the nineteen to me i wanted the things that we were talking about the just before we we have
record was the candidate descent of humor that you have in the military and in what that's like in one of the by landemann that on referring to a book that you wrote called on
goer by charlie plump and that'll be that available on amazon dear to and be a link on the website but all say walkall better on my website cause out i i signed every one that
that goes down some by website charley from bottom alariette you go you can better um go into the book here you guys are getting it before you want you're getting ready launched
kind of getting ready for the brief in and here we go the pilots of the fighter planes gathered in their own briefing room and read from a television screen and teletype the
weather information and the position of the ship we reviewed once again the switches we would have to throw and i coordinated with the mayence officer to weapons we would head the
volume of the fuel et cetera serious thoughts were in the back of all our minds but outwardly our mood was light we laughed joked drank coffee and smoked my regular rio which is
the radarscope as their backs jeter cause the the forfeit two people was up to his old habit of manipulating his slide rule being a self styled math wizard he again pin pointed
his likelihood of getting bagged shot down this was based on some speculative formula he had found somewhere to day friends he proclaimed my bag factor is point zero one nine
three seven six in then you replied to him the save me a roommate hunilla dear no grade your still laughing about that entereth the the rest of you as we go through this book will
see the true i rely in aookemou know back to the book here we left already room and entered the central briefing room where all the pilots rios and stand by crescenze their master
plan which included maps and for grass the targets and intelligence sports of enemies fire capability after our central briefing we return to a ready room meditated last mitted
instructions and put our orliter altogether these briefing took as long and sometimes of longer than the mission itself i looked up at the screen pilots manurial regatta other we
sopacuya the change a customary give em hell die alogue and patted the posterior of our good love girl hanging on the door it was time to go topside you guys are now get ready to
take off and again just some of this this humour back to the book engine run up his good take off checklist i'm ready go garrord yered okay i mocked this is your captain speaking
welcome to flight for o three to hunoor vietnam will be finding alstruther grand and we have a high ceiling make sure your seatbelt is fastened no smoking feasthalaga going out
and would gimilsin is your seventy fifth mission you've flown seventy four your feeling pretty comfortable me even of course you got fontinaloides pretty comfortable about how you
do your job and what you get down i am feeling a bullet proof i wasn't a go that far but let's just go enteinon have he was to a yet yet ye as you pushin back the book all this
coordination o sweat you just talked about this massive going forward dozens and dozens of air craft all of this coordination of mendacity during the refulgent in complete silence
we call the zip lit although enemy radar would have already detected us we were careful not to give radio spoke any additional information it was draiving to experience such close
reported my erwin i knew and van knew what each was doing in this intrigante yet not a word had to be spoken and that i've oatcake about that on her when we would train and when i
was running training for it for the seals i would tell em hey you're not allowed to talk during the streams you can't say one word to each other and it was amazing after you do
that a couple of times how much better people get because there reading the reacting there anticipating willowtrees going to do and you guys are just so far and had at this point
five and a half months into the payment it's you got to do in this whole thing without saying a word to each other it was amazing yea i i think that's one of them morning credible
things about the military as he even though you're just a little piece of that big mischinsinclia machine it's it's it's pretty awesome to experience when you would not stuff
going on in your kind of talked about what what you were doing you are position on the flanks anticipating make how often you get ten men over there not dead not often i had seen
magistral four five times up to that point and am so they they they really were they were they were really good about not shot up and kill they knew the thickets kill something or
corrupt course they were they had the advantage they had the whole felidae and so they could wait on their bases and till we came to them and then they would launch so if he
didn't get close to a big base you probably weren't going to see one they were they had a very short range is a and in they didn't see in the armory long and so a withinside on
this one you get a call to you here that not they they give you call for bisnaga is it maeanides and you start to get a little cressier lead now that way a little maraude of a
flight commander tighten you up and said ah plum get back over and formation the well you know how i had my ahmy best buddy there i done wise we had already shot down two
airplanes oh by that time and shutter i wish i done ah and so he hit and you know i'm an ethereal what say no to it make to his credit and i saw this opportunity you know five
days to go it was as this is my is my day you know it is charlie from days i started ease atascadero so that i would be the first to go after this man and a chearful good to get
is a tattoo that that that says how it began to minette back up so you fall back into formation and now there's a saint as there are same call is there did you pick it up on the
all fooster i did but there are a lot of them in the air and and and and so that thing was warbling all the time ah there were they were they were salmon their shams that day they
just they disoun h of moffat the same time and so every time they shot one off and i am their radar would skin me i would get to us buster but we all so had you know we had the ah
um the big rat or airplanes in the side the same time and i anethe would call some and that's how i got that call the twenty mile away call was was was from her or i electronic
folks that were flying well above his with a raider sir you know that there's sam surf sir vessels up there and here we go back to the book garry a sort that you re sitting by
doing the plan i said gerrit you see it and he says i don't see i think charlie we had both seen sam's before there resembled flying white telephone poles with huge fourth of july
sparkers sprang so very orange cloths from their tails if we saw them in time we could dodge them these by letting them close in at the last second pulling the plain into a high
gabair six geese so and letting the poles pass for unlessened because of its designed to missile could not follow us without cracking in two but we didn't see it bloom i felt a
tumpiton the afection the airplane airplane read instrument lights jumped across the panel and decaying that i had two engines on fire that wasn't good this plan only had two
engines i yanked the throttle fact idle and the bird seemed to come to an immediate halt in mid air charlie where hit how bad is it she still flying then the aircraft started a
row and while i mad we scanned the instruments i looked up and found that the fort suddenly overturned ground was where he was where there should have been sky and the nose was
heading down word ripping air at five hundred knots the altimeter needle collapsed a four thousand then thirty five hundred then three thousand we had to get out but being
inverted we would be rocketed by the ejections read into the rice paddies i had rolled the plane upright i tried to stick it was frozen the only manual control was the rudder
paddle not normally used to roll in air craft i stepped on a dishart as i could a journal in surging through my veins the plane shuddered once and again slowly it began to write
itself rear view mirrors reflected a screaming fire ball twelve thousand pounds of flaming gasoline and thirty thousand pounds of fusionables air craft you want to eject no way to
minute i shouted back the plain struggled then the sky was where it should be gary let's go i jerked my face curtain to jack the rocket slam me on the air craft i tumbled a couple
of times and the shot caught just as advertised all kinds of debriefed the air round me as wadding from the shells whistled by son of a non they've bagged my airplane now there
after me i went the concussion from the exploding shells sonic boom battering my ear drums rockets of heavy smoke cloud the sky during nighthound ejected so near the ground
however that enemy guns could train on us from a short time i checked my parish canopy and look good torn in only a couple of places i thought of escape but where looking away i
saw my buddies in their aircraft blooding into the horizon below my landing zone was nothing but bare and rice patties down to my left that you ge cloud of black smoke billowed at
the outskirts of a peasant hamlet punctuating a row of four or five huts my plan had it wiped out a family if so the villagers were certainly be on happy i wasn't happy either i
hadn't intended that to happen i lather learned that the plan the plan had impacted just beyond the last shack on the road there is precious little time before i could touch down
before i would touch down and i had much to be done a grab my two way radio and tried to count at garry but i received no answer then i called my skipper linfield leave lenfield
lead this is lindfield too we've got two good shots were going to be all right request no sar effort in sarser rescue for those everdon know and i when i read that part right
there i stopped in my tracks because you are you are you shot down you're a dear suit you're going to obviously be landing in these rice bateson ed by enemy and you had to wear
were all to understand that if you requested for searching resoom and get you it was just going to get more people killed yet and that it happened before oh i'd seen i had seen
that happen in awe were so far be behind any mylnes and it was impossible of a jolly green was the sin was a call signor the helicopter that would come get us off the aircraft
carrier and they would have to go through a probably seventy five or a hundred miles of enemy territory before they ever got to me and oh and and i was in such a populated area
that i could see that they were i was going to be captured immediately and so to get those guys the but the men harm's way was i was kind of sewing so that's why i did that when
you know obedience a couple of times a combat where things slow down and the time starts to to really be different than it normally is and they say it's because you get this big
eternal and dump in all of your senses all your your perception awakened to such a high point that things actually slowed down did you experience in it that when you are once that
sam misliked yes it was almost like slow motion and i yelled i remember thinking this is unreal i i've not never had this happen to me before but it was almost like i was in a
evident a movie and everything was slowing down in my life oh and ah at end i know i i tried to sense every possible thing because of course i'm thinking of scape now trying to
get it get out of here some way and so i'm trying to memorize all the little roads i could see in almonries all little howsomever are they and where am i that sitiation awareness
how far from the water in ocean were you at bellows seventy five months as no chantenac we want the outskirts of hanno the capital city and a and and that was the bad news good
news um the bad news was that i was going to be captured immediately there was no chance whatsoever i mathey were suiting at me from the ground policemen ah the good is was that
in after go very far to the to a formalized prison camp racahout dead oh you had built reader on this fear on your pot cast and he was dragged for i don't know weeks mind because
he was the he was captured in south etna rithe guys were it allows for cambodia who were brought to our prison camps were all just really torn up not just because of of of the
enemy but just because the rigors of the travel so and you're going to you're going to talk about this you talk about in a book but you know just a kind of queen out the fact that
whenever two minutes earlier you were heard of this giant powerful force with a mortimerian dollar you know aircraft under your command as a twenty four year old as part of this
group that of of many many multimillion dollar were a huge destructive power wanting off of these ships and an air fields and go from having all that the now your under parson
your bat to have all that just absolutely taken away it was a major transition in my life but i menouni unlike some one whose diagnosed with cancer ritoorala some one who who just
lost a job or a disloyal or just had a car accident i mean that you know there are similarities in normal civilan life i think that can be just as impacted as being both out of
sky your floating down decoration back to the book a veniable my head well lord here i am i'm really in a bind now and then ned to help give me strength and give anne strength i
was surprised at how calm i was when i should have been panic stricken but there was too much to think about and do i couldn't let myself become a rational it would all be
different now i tried to envision myself in this new world and prepare for it i had a lot going for me i was in good physical condition and i could probably withstand torture i
didn't believe i would be killed because i was too much of a blue chip from the enemy which again for you to say you you shot down your bout the land in enemy territory and your
statement as i had locked going for me a long additions that your philosophy is ain't good and statesmanship there are a rottenness you touched down a point backward into the mud
en water turned to him my berries after off my helmet mask and crawled out crawled without direction in the quagmire with slimy hands i tried to wipe mud from my eyes i saw that i
was about ten or fifteen yards from an embankment i looked over seating garry touching down or the jacent patty about one hundred yards away had disappeared behind he at foot and
bankment a bare foot peasant wearing kaisers short and t shirt ran at top speed down the path toward me grimacing with excitement and anger above his head he waved a double edged
axe with blade about eight inches long my instructors never documented that type of weapon i heard him scream and up and up i did understand what he meant and i kept working with
my dear and shoot i had a thirty eight revolver strapped to my chest and it and as long as he stayed in the embankment i would not touch it it wasn't long however before ten or
twelve more peasants came rushing towards me yelling and waving their shovels and hoe now there was power and numbers and they charged out in the water after me i raised my hands
away from my body the started ripping my g suit found my survival mivane i cut away at the suit and the torso arness i try to tell them to use the zippers and even attempted to
show them how to do it but they knocked my hands away the more certain they were that i was harmless the meaner they became the shovel and hoe blade failed in my body to prove to
me that i was there loath captain captive strangely the peasants failed to see my revolver probably because it too is covered with mud and the thirty eight rested in my whole
sterilest three or four minutes before a peasant finally spotted it he yanked out of the whole stir and slashed a few steps away a moment later he returned and screamed for
special attention he fixed the barrel to my head i could see that at least two of the chambers were empty i'd always kept five of the six chambers loaded so i knew that he must
have removed at least one of the carters it was little i could do as i felt the muddy barrel against my temple the peasant pulled the trigger click he could foanna away wiping off
his own expected prize year is far as your thought about being killed that moment did you accept them that you were used to stand in the aknockin a do it what your attitude if
that point i never in the entire experience and never thought i was going to be killed and i didn't think so i think so at that moment of course i was very happy with her the
click of that revolt ah but it was an idea ataata very encouraging to think that they re going to fan this execution and not go through it brigand ah was encouraging to mean to to
think that a there going to have emeraud an git me pretty bloody but they probably weren't intention o going to kill me i guess i worried more about that they would kill me
accidentally ah rothen intentionally but and there were two or three times during the entire experience on one of his was being tortured ah how when i felt like i was losing it i
was close to death and they they loosened the ropes ah because they saw i think that i was skating pretty close to death and so ah and that it'll again it was good beech this is
ortalo but it looks like the not gonna kill me i may wish i was dead but i don't think it i got a do it now you guys are blindfolded take they capture carries well and there your
your blindfolded but this point they put this kind of marginal blindfold on you that's not working really well so you can actually see and again a gong to go to urago head and i
light your twisted sense of humour here sir here go ah you're in the back of an old russian g factory was held captive in the gap ahead of mine at the instant i recognized garry i
started calling a starkly for a doctor to attend to his burned arms the guards restrained me violently screaming for in but distinct warnings to attempt no more communication i
did however shall one more thing i don't know why unless it was from moral a shouted out these people are a thousand years behind him blindfolded later the peeto were near by
selves heard heard you screaming at and still laughed about it so ah i'm glad you kept your sense and humor in some time i look back on that and think that i that i was in some
form shock i make because i mean who would then visit who would come up with that wagon right too tom and ah they they ply bring you in a procurate you guys around and you hear
cameras clicking and eventually you get put into new guide village and you get put into you don't i torrefaction sir her back to book several torture cells in the prison the green
nobby room so called because the walls and ceiling were covered with gobs of plaster the size of granfalls which looked somewhat like mud dauber nests the globes had a particular
function acoustics to muffle human sound now you get through this day sunset i had difficulty in seeing what was beyond myself so i began reminiscing about the world of active
life i had loved so much outside my every minute had been filled outside i'd been king of the skies outside i had been continually learning doing accomplishing i had been proud so
very proud and now i was tired so tired so perplexed so confined so very lonely the trauma of overwhelming change caused my mind to reel with disorientation i was afraid i stared
at the empty nest shadows crept up the walls gradually becoming more pronounced curiously a vague ghost like impression materialized the image took the appearance of the master
with arms allestree a symbol the strange yet something i felt i should expect i began to utter the first lines of the twenty third psalm the lord is my shepherd i shall not want
he maketh me to lie down in green pastures he leadeth me beside the still waters he restored to my soul he leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for his name's sake i repeated
it allowed several times not because of any deep religious drive but because it simply seemed the thing to do and then i prayed i considered making a deal with god but rejected
the idea i made no big promises and asked for no miracles just estrang he strength to endure the hardship and strength from my wife and it would be difficult for her to yea though
i walk through the valley of the shadow of death that was certainly where i was niceties that in colonel leaders podcast he found the same thing that he went to the twenty third
some then to handagain it was just almost to like pamisus what i should do newsies no aeterno holes and i guess there aren't any in the prison camp although you do talk about
sommataime brisingamen i do his manufactories of sinde themselves eighteen and you know though you also talk about faith and one of the things that i am glad but get to this but
when you talk about faith you're you talk about faith not just in god but faith in your country and the one that i think that regardless of what some one's religious belief or
faith in yourself mum emslie and if they all three of those or whatever one of those faith where you find strength in linelike this lean on it solely and annotated in the team as
well and when i have faith in each other and then that was off my important to her to be a part of a group like that that could trust one another how quickly did you realize that
there was that you a part of fact that will get to it but i mean when you first got your in this room did you feel completely isolated at first and duannie er no no i knew that
you were the porter i i could hear them ah in some of the more being tortured as i was i could hear the torture i could dem know i i could peek out sometimes and see them walking
by myself so i knew the rather prisoners in the area they just wouldn't let me they wouldn't let me talk to them so the interrogation begin the torture began to point back to the
book we read copy regulations you obey you live no trouble okay i did not respond first regulation you answer all questions the way that the north revinmes justified torture was
peculiar when he asked me questions in one of military answers i was not tortured to answer questions but punished for disobeying camp regulations what what airplane you fly i'm
sorry i can't tell you lamb in her calm what airplane to answer this question was of course not in my rules i'm sorry i can't answer that the officer again reminded me about the
punishment for disobeying camp rules okay you talk me or you talk to steal to which you responded bring it on the two higher of ranking officials left the remaining officer with
one word ordered the guards forward they brought it on the steel mentioned by the interrogator consisted of iron manacles shackles and a leg bar the shackles were sentia iron bars
shaped like horseshoes but rounded at the ends so that the five foot leg bark could be slipped into them and locked the prisoner's ankles could then be forced through the openings
and secured by the bar the junior officer walked out guards blindfolded me forced my risen my back and placed the open jaws of the manacles around them these had obviously been
intended for the more modest vietnamese arms they were so small that they had to be forced together just so the screw could be seated in the bottom of the threads with what looked
like a roller skate key a guard began to turn the screw was ken was pinched between the metal and quickly succumbed to the vice i screamed in agony surely the guards wouldn't get
these things much tighter blood whose down my hands and still the guard kept turning the key but powerful magnets the iron was finely set flush circulation stopped my hands burned
greyblue tangled and became numb a guard then wrapped a rope for a straw my left elbow and then around my right and do my elbows together behind my back my shoulder muscles
writhed and i feared that my stern and would separate i gasped for air then i was thrown abruptly to the floor shackles were jammed around my ankles and the leg bar was fastened
and padlocked electric wire similar the kind that i had hidden underneath the table was brought forward i thought that the guards were going to use this to shock me but typical of
the vietnamese ain't have anything else to use for rope and had torn the wire down from some light fixtures this became the apparatus to wrap me up it was first tied to the
manacles then thrown over my shoulder and at last secured to the shackles around my ankles guards forced a bamboo pole under the wire and started rotating it so that the wire
contracted bringing my wrist up high on my back and drawing my face completely to my ankles i was a human pretzel like tea cup with arms for a handle and the rest of my distorted
body for the bull circulation was impaired throughout my limbs making them extremely painful to the touch the guards apparently drugged exhibited wide and glassy eyes they
maliciously kicked me in the sides the limbs the back and the head giggling and having a great time they picked me up a few feet from the floor and dropped me since i was on my
side most of the time they especially enjoyed standing on my head some bolical victorious the rubber tire so it sandals tore at my ear my face already target for abuse or
repeatedly subjected to this accustomed tex i remember staring at the floor and seeing my tears dropping a pool of blood coming from my nose the louder i screamed the more they
flailed after about an hour the junior officer returned you talk now yes regards loosened the wires and ropes blood rushed back into my veins with knifing pain what air plan you
fly i hesitated a moment at the fought well they know the airplane in flying concordius to undergo such torture for information they already have the four b that part right there
i mean we you hesitate for a moment and then you say to yourself okay these guys shot me down and in a for which crashed into this patine know exactly when i was flying this is
not make sense for me to get this kind of abuse and torture for something that they already know and when you came to that conclusion at it did you did you was it pretty
referencin rtable with it in your mind when you came close lock this stupid no lisaine comfortable at all in that i felt very guilty oh of the very really this very remorseful
that i had not been a strong as i wanted to be and ah anthrotos several months that experience i ah i i felt like em and not very guilty about having given up he led fight a
poseuse to get up you know we were at this and they go to conduct of course name rank sir liberate birth am i flew over this the enemy thinking that i was strong enough and of his
good enough and am i and suddenly i was thrashed into the situation in that even wondered would i would i am re be able to go back to my country can i face my fellow fighter pilot
said were stronger in a cover and every a found out that that that feeling was across the board every every pehautier and into felt guilty in some guys even considered suicide
because they felt like they could they could never live with the guilt of having given up and it was it was quite a revelation to me when i finally made contact with another
prisoner and confessed to this guide i remember that the my first contact and i said i said to i need to confess something to you and when i tell you what i've done you may not
want it communicate with me you may hate me and if our rolls were averse i would probably at you if you did what i did because i assumed that i was the only one that i recite and
so he said as bob she make her bethsaida do when you do plum i said well i i broke a i i tried to be strong but i i was my broke then his response and edward were talking on on
the india wire we coming on a wire to communicate with each other with this secret code that i had that he had just taught me he said hell everybody broke i said is not a man in
his camp and his strong as he wanted to be said so getter yourself you know and i and that was a hit was a great revelation in my mind you know to know that i wasn't the only one
that i give it in as you you continue this and again i year you might have felt like you broke at this point but there's still some unbelievable spirit that you show and i'm going
back to look around the courtyard in a near by room my copy pecoil a garrettson was under going about the same treatment as soon as i heard an exploding obscenities i knew he was
near a dearie you all right i called the guards are mediated ately on top kicking and striking garry heard me and yelled back it was four years later that i came across a pew w
who had been a cell close to ours at the time he said boy that was one of the craziest things i ever heard you yelling hey garry are you all right bang crancho fine how about you
smack cry crack they are um you eventually get the ertak and and can operate you in front of the imeeo ple and going back the book to alter briefed me once more i was to walk with
my head down until he gave me the command let people see face the guard removed the coffin i put my hands and towards my shoulders to restore circulation the guards carefully
directed me to the door removing the blindfold and warn me not to look round they then prodded me down the hallway lined with the togethers and journalists a group can composed of
orientals and a few caucasians with the offset my side i walked out of the building on to the patio where a battery of motion cameras started worrying the officer shouted me let
people see face slowly and deliberately i looked up staring blankly into space bowed deeply to the cameras and lowered my head i was uneasy about this entire charade feeling a
combination of resentment and embarrassment at being featured as a side show attraction and what i didn't know at the time was it was hohenmauth and ten so that was part of the
celebration a was i was being presented to the president of their country as a britaanica eveena and the good news was that that i was i was in the media that they were taking
pictures of me and so after a few months ah my family a saw as pictures right had now and so that was the good is about the being shot down on the nineteenth to me so but that was
the first indication of people knew that you are actually okay i or you were alive maybe not once who strong work didn't me to say okay you were alive the ah the the picture that
was taken in in transferred of my family has me with my eyes closed and my face was pretty well swelled and my little brother thought that i was dead in the thought that it was a
picture of a dead man and so um but ah but innings people you know thought young one he's alive to you actually get to howdeedo stab bayoneted so you are for about the fall or
something actually i was i was being prodded to walk faster by these guys i was i was hurting at the time and i was so tainture from thee from the ejection and i wasn't able to
walk very fast that i was blindfolded his well and so i hit it i hit a a rotten the road and these guards with their benetite behind me stadmeat in the thigh and so that was fact
i was the worst wound than i had and it festered for months because i had no menacer um and ah but i i never really knew it was intentional or it was accidental but that was so
that was i got that won and now you get back in and they're goin to give you to give you the rules for the first time that year spostallate and that the gueridon your arms
confiture usual cause i think that i've a good indication as to what you were face in her regal back to the book you are the blackest criminal that this country has ever seen but
due to the lenient humane policy of the vietnamese people if you follow regulations you live in peace regulation number on criminals must give full and complete answers to
questions to ask by vietnamese guard or officer number two criminals must make no noise in room number three criminals must keep room clean and neat and must not mark room so
graciously given by vietnamese people number four criminals must get up and go to bed at sound of gun number five criminals must get under bed went imperialists or bomb and stray
or solon country number six camels must say bow cow when they want ask anything number seven criminals must go only in area that gard orders when they go outside of room number
eight criminals must bow to every vietnamese guards officers and people number nine criminals must not bring anything into room from outside number ten erminal must not
communicate with or look at other criminals in any other room or outside with minor variations these were the rules for the next six years they want was the communication that he
wants you guys talking to the other now they didn't and they hid all they possibly could do to keep us from communicating but we got very clever and we had had a lot ways o
communication there you spent some time in solitary confinement and there we go back to lock during this period of solitary confinement i had much time to think from the start i
established a definite schedule for personal reflection and a praise this included two hour worshipped service in the morning and a similar one in the evening i spent much time
praying talking informally with god and recalling as many scriptures verses and bible stories as i could i also revived a words and tunes to songs from a tennessee early ford
album that i enjoyed on the kitty hawk once in a while i would start a humming too loudly and the guard would bang his rifle against the door i spent more and more time thinking
about intangibles the purpose for living sex the supernatural faith pride because the tansies which i had identified with would no longer present my air craft my ship my personal
possessions this was the onset of a thorough re examination of my life often these intricate thought processes ended in slumber on of the the interesting a things that at the
really most difficult understand is how we had nothing going on um no mean the the average american has hundreds of thousands of in puts every day cars and sounds and smells and
touching all these things ah and when you're a little prison sell specially a year in solitary confinement in a you might you might hear a bird now and then that nets
delightfulness a big deal and of dear bird and not an out so ah again the good news and bad news is your mind goes internal and you start you have to you have to create things ah
all your own and so you think about these intangible things and you go back through your life and and o and and and you think about the things that sustained life and why we are
here because there's nothing else to do did you put some kind of structure round your foghoms like you people might have a tendency just to let their mind wandering maybe a
wanders into places they don't want it to wander into new there was a lot of structure to it and ah in fact one of the things i did was to go back through my life to the very
first memory that i ever had at three years old in the competent kansas when my grandmother came through and when at everybody tied to go with her well and i remember that date
and then i went from that to the day that i was shot down and try to remember every bucket of a red every friend and remit every girl that ever did every teacher books movies ah
experiences and in a took me about as i recall maybe three months working pretty hard on on that in that total autobiography in my mind and after that then i would continue to go
back through those individual days and try to remember something else you know a different colored but i'd forgot to a different person was in the room and whenever i would when i
were discover something that i hadn't discovered the first three months it was like it was like meeting an old friend i could think about that one person or that one book or
whatever you know for an entire day and so it was just it was a way of of ah of using that time in making the time go by by working our minds to you somehow cattle long the days
in your mind all yanatas a was caralog it was so and and most everybody did that in lot agus did it much better than i they could tell you you know what was going on this day last
year little dear before new report they you that they they could remember everything had her all packed away but yet it was very well categorized you finally get some parapets
coppers a pants couple of shirts some under where it under shirt tooth brushing some soap and you are going to use it for the first time i stripped and with my little drinking cup
does myself with water lathered with my new bar of soap and rented shedding a two week later of grimase then i shaved using a double edge razor which had no handle at last i was
clean no it shaded no reeking body i put on my new clothes and wondered what impressions i would now make on the newly captured bows dressed in fresh habilement i experienced a
sublime physical and mental caparis even the pain of my wound seemed to wash away with the filth fifteen minutes later i was back in my cell reinspired to outlast any vietnamese
indeavor to debase me the door opened i waited for something to happen and then in the doorway sauntered in a tall man back hunched and forehead deeply lined he studied me with
uncertain eyes an american another american i rushed to the door as quickly as i could i grasp his hand the hand which was completely numbed from inadequate sir circulation at the
elbows high i said i'm charlie to so now you linked up with another american i am carosse was shut down the same day i was in so he i were ah he was my first remenham i end in an
i was i was ah he in the same cell with a lot o different guise and they moved around the lot but every six months it lives round but they would give us different roommates every
few months or take them all away that was the solarian finnagen and one never really knew why but we assumed that i was tried to destroy any fraternization with the guards and
tried to disrupt any unity within the prisoners and so i'm so that it in infect some kinds of litical to describe exactly what it was like because we were in different camps and
different cells near different guise for the entire six years you bedined you like it when you got a new room mate cause is like a new you kind of exclaimed there it's like a now
you have a bunch of stuff to talk about it this person absolutely absolutely it was ah it was glorious you know the fine aeaeus hethe of course had all of the story to me had the
movies it he could tell you about and the things that he had learned and that he could teach you so you no it was it was wonderful now that would last for rabia few months until
you and other things and he became almost like a marriage you know where you got those those periods of high montelepre federally well fact matter as you couldn't in some of those
sally couldn't be more than aid or ten feet away from a guy twenty four seven for months and months and month to the time and so little things start the bunyan a it not the least
of which was a was our toilet you know when the the toilet was of two gallon bucket in the corner and oh lots of times it was rusted out of the top with no lid and it was just a
quite a inaniis stunk to high heaven and now while the case is and how and it was quite a new orton oh you guys established a routine once you got in there in ones a whole chapter
in the book called routine and your waking up at six thirty in the morning you're doin prayer at that time you are at seven o'clock you are your practising piano sir like and i
unpresidential just from memory that you you had you ever played piano before i had i had not now what i did know was that my span for my pinky to my thumb was not was a i could
spend a nine notes on a piano and so i laid out a key board on my board bed and the new where the black keys were and i had played in in the band and in a eloped guitar so newly
about chords and scales and that can of thing and i thought well i always wonder platearius my chance with mitrailleuses is the work and then i and eight o'clock you're doing push
ups you anne sit up some legless and whatever else for your doing some some physical training and you have school the school bell rings at nine thirty a m and you guys are you
guys are learning and teaching each other whatever you can possibly teach you other whatever subject you were good at you going to teach it did and it was serious stuff as a
matter of fact will that home university of maryland gave us credit for what we had had that courses we had taught you know without books or paper power points or instructors or
professors or anybody because oh we we were so intent on using that time for something of value and a and i in these guys a most of them smartened go back through their minds and
recapture all of the subjects that they had learned on the idumaean i was with him a letter of first few months i guess and he thought a course of one i came istry no no by
apology was by age and i never taken a course in biology and i was very interested and in his course lasted about a week m and n an that's all he knew but joe and i'll live with
him for a while will lay back on his rack about an i a nor a day and just think about bi ology and after being there for six years he his course lasted six months and he
everything for protozoa so medicos and in all this just because that was back there in his man who erable to recall but i recall that i goivpen ough and it is amazing the what
what's back in there and near human brain it's and we found that out if you think about something long enough and hard enough and again you don't have these distractions and of
every day life that ah there's it is awful not stored back in there you had to bring this one up to it because you talked about how you did have power point or whatever you never
pens and chambord and here you go often in my dreams i must admit i envision leaving the noise hilton going home looking for and finding a brand new yellow pencil and bringing it
back to myself or i would dream of entering shops containing nothing but rose and rows of pencils i've never since taken a pencil for granada's the awe take so much for grant i
mean in a so much for granted and and to think about that right down and what what power pencil to you the power to take notes the power to create the power to draw to towerist is
incredible power comes from this little thing that we just garoffi its meaningless treanor you to have that much appreciation for that you would dream about it at night true it
incredible ah ten o'clock youde's he fools a food i used rice balls he had mostly rice ah that was the main stay you you know you get her a small bowl of rice twice a day one
about ten o'clock once about two o'clock in the afternoon and then he had a twenty hour stretch with the tinted ah sometimes i give you a bowl of broth or in sometimes it would be
a some kind of vegetable turn up sor ahwee some kind one we call sewer soup you could not edify the stuff but i didn't need you know there was not enough meat to put in the coffee
kept for a year you know we wetherell was now no meat of any pride how much how much will did you way when you got out i i wait about hundred forty when he came home but the
fattening me home and that figure most of the time i was there about a hundred and fifteen pounds did you ah ever was the hunger to hunger go away did you or you just grinding
hunger or did you just get used to it ah it went away for the most part i know after it a four fiedmont um you you're your stomach sort of shrinks and when you know that there is
nothing else to eat um an so you othaire they gave us enough to keep us alive into a ninso that we know and rises a pretty perfect food that this is unpolitest the uncle ben and
we have to day he daintiless protein and there and there's nutrients in the rice so that kept me life there are at dusk you guides would have showtime then people would do your
talk about the scribing everything every move they've ever seen every book they never read and all that and ah you mention it here that in the beginning of confinement the movies
that would get described or created because people were creating movies too right in their heads is yes estate went from p g to a triple axercise that did anybody come out in and
execute on some of these ideas that they had as eremitical out and said ye befouled his move or book o ye ye then fact several gaze had great plans one when he was a farmer and he
had planned a pig farm at that was that that was sishing um and he did he keep back in the ilivation lin who um it was an architecture student to hear beaners of alcala and i
dannie together for a lot of years and he dreamed about building this home and that's all i thought about was building his dream house and he he had several on things about this
home that were very peculiar one of them was that as the sunlight would come through the top of the wall around our prison the wall was capped with barborin let care and broken
glass the the glass was from bottles it was very colors and in one particular salvadorian the sun we come through the glass a cord glass and on two of this this this tank of water
and then reflect up under the eaves of our thatched roof and into our cell at all these colors and it was a beautiful thing and i was a calidoscope of colors and so he designed a
house and he figured this old thing out you know what the the asthma as of the sun and in all the stuff and i was going to do this but at any relates out and he would draw on the
concrete floor with a piece of brick and he was a great artist in the the guy could could design all the stuff and it of course and he wanted me to be involved in this and in bore
me to tears these charley what cover he think a bathrobe i don't know if they had i don't know that i no charming green or blue haidee degree a gay so we at legitimit a year after
we obviously been eganite was in oklahoma and he called me up darlingwoman to show you an so i had little airplane at the time lythenton ran up amand he picked me up at the
airport and we drove outside a tent from about a quarter mile away i saw this house that i recognizing but had never been a norman alloa and i i square i can walk in that house
and and touched any fossor any light switch you know on the whole plate of it it was exactly as he had designed the prison umboo went to the the basket was blue he had gone back
on he had built it from a building material that he had remembered and over the years that we were there they changed and so there were some of the was not available and so he
went to these old lumber yards and he would find the billiters that he had planned this house with and used those to build the house but it was a good way belot of guy's lotus
wanted to um sail around the world in her lot of a navy guys and had a sail and and that was the big fantasy was to take a sailing trip around the world in two or three of the
guys actually did that when they came home osome the guards some of the guards were pretty sadistic then you we go back the probing the most sophistic practice of all was a game
involving my sir poppy's guards would goletta line set them on fire and turned them loose to squeal and skurry and search of relief from the heat then the soldiers were chasing
with sticks playing polo with their live fire balls until the little animals blackened and dived featurise sayest do evil fangs and you say you didn't see anything book magazine
newspaper liarson written speech any bill board or anything while you're there that wasn't just on epsaraka that's true you know ah there music doesn't talk about love except for
love of hochelaga their country and dedication to that umanity incredible how they just fill the minds of their people with this propaganda and you know you tell somebody long
enough in loudoun and they believe it and and that's that was the whole osteology the one point you got this propaganda newspaper and it's a front page had mine was that there's
been a revolution in rice planting technique and your thinking herself a man that must have invented some big machine that can like plan all the rice and now that not to be out
there on that doin the manual labour in the fields and hear the actual article for four thousand years if he had a mesel have been laboring sweating and toiling in the mud water
rice paddies we've discovered a revolutionary method of planting rice through extensive research we have found that instead of grasping the rice sprouts and planting them with the
palm of the hand facing downward is much more fishing to plant the rice sprouts with the palm of the hand facing upward to the herschels the propaganda commonage and there is the
advancement of the you know them trying to tell of people how were moving forward in the world and i was another thing that surprised me or it in prise me but how what there there
understanding you know they're their brain washed and their understanding of an american counter was like him when you say will you i have a card and i have an air conditioner to
them that was stun believable because the only people that could afford that venom were this was a state itself true and they assume that if he had a car a ye could carry pigs or
chickens or something in your car but as that was the whole purpose of any kind of sensation was a hall someone then he and they you know they really surprised that you could
actually disgestin the car and go wherever you want to go and they also fought that a third of americans were starving to death oh so that you know something to think about as
always when you deal with these countries where people are being indoctrinated in better being fed information from the state it's going to be going to be a high and you you you
can't be surprised when they believe something like that you just have to say anything and i leave how do we reach camp i went back to vietnam a first time in forty three years
admonebat and oh a lot of things had changed you know i mean the they still call themselves a communist country but o by the way capitalism is the life and wealth but the
propaganda still exists there and ah in the teatolly with me as my wife and three of our four kids ah and in the eleven days that i was there i didn't never met any one and i was
at no to embassy i spoke to the students at the university i spoke to cabdrivers and the waitresses in the anybody and that really really nice people in very very nice to me but
nobody knew that americans had been tortured in the vietnam and in fact it was just the opposite they all would tell you that we got better treatment than the soldiers did and
better medical care than the soldier said and so at an in fact and in one of the wellest days i was there i ran into a a lady the park selling card postcards and she was missing a
one leg on she was about my age and so i sort of piece the sing together and ah she said went about it postcard it well i'll buy a postcard your story sit down on this part
pinchot me your store and she did i said how did you lose your leg as she said lying back or two line back or two was the codino the beef if you do bombinator in night in the
christmas of nineteen seventy two at but it was a secret codman and for her to to to say it was you she didn't call him er rador a bomb or if near the other's call a line back her
due it was arnon that was certain pilot jargon not her jargon and ah and i said to what what what what was the date she said twenty four summer benteen seventy two so i knew that
she wasn't lying to me she said don be fifty two oh yeah well so we talked for maybe thirty minutes on that part witchens spoke very good english and a and at one point i said to
her you speak excellent english he could be in interpreter you can be a guide why are you out here making the living selling postcards in a park she said oh my my country would
never give me a permit because i've been invalid i mean what a country and any said well um ah deynoot the artemisium oh oh yeow'll about the museum and a hanoto muslim see they
made a museum out of my old prison camp at an alleluia museum and i said well how are the prisoners treated at the museum all they were treated great they had great food they
played volley ball they had pink pang i could how do you know this she said oh documentaries a government shows us documentaries it's so she finally figured out that i was about
her age and she said were you pietistic yavapai to ashe had beef if he too i said no i flew at orfano so where were you flying or on the twenty fourth of oedemera nineteen seventy
two i did know i was right here with you i was in the hand elton and i was being tortured she said no that's impossible that get a kit possibly be true i could not convince this
lady that i would that i barnby else there it so the propaganda is alive and well they keep continued to tell the people that lives then he and in the folks have no way of
figureante know another thing that did you point out in the flock on that colerette system of government back to book the vieneys rarely exerted themselves why should they if they
were gone get a meal with all they eat regardless of whether they work for it or not they didn't worry me didn't have to the state was responsible for their welfare as well as
their guidance even the upkeep of state property was not there brought him so there foscari thing when the lilies when nono when folks are in doctor mated to that level in tom but
it's so prevalent you know and and they tried to do the same thing with us nearly they tried to bring washes it it was more important to you are kind of worried about that too and
begin right now you follow it was something you need to be concerned about in the now saw the oreillons o the year if and you know they they ah they used the latter of the russian
a military equipment but they never invited the russians in a try to bring was to cindy felt very very happy about that because their brainwashing techniques were so silly and you
know they would tell us is unbelievable things that ah that we laughed at her you thought the russians were due better job bullone o ye bure they would have the but more important
than the rice we ate of the water we drink and every prison cell i was in the first thing they put in there was a speaker and am in her lot is lots of a prison camps in neveleti
he's at all but they had speakers and they were put well above our reach so he couldn't turn him off for a just devium in them several times a day they would come on with the
propaganda and telling his know how bad we were no terrible argentry was now wonderful they were and um and in it was pretty easy turn these guys off you know just to ignore the
the bride cast but it was also very concerning the the see that that's the way they sweandaea people horrible you you talked about a little bit real you talked about the
communication and and what that was all about and you had this life the first time you were yourself you hear a little scraping and eventually you go over in its little wire and
in eventually no comes through it in her regal back to boot had a piece of turriper tied to it i unfolded it and found these words memorized code eat note we cowas easier to
memorize than the note was to eat eidiol i reject the door sat back down on the honey bucket and talked on the wire the code was a series of tugs which represented letters the
alfabet and it's it's basically a five by five coates and that is how you guys communicated and that had to be a howes it take to have a conversation with back coat cause you give
the old one to call you go down and then one two three tugs to go across how long is it take me you just conversation in montataire it that's true but that was a beauty of it
because that's all we had was time and that was a very good way of but of whiling away the hours as cagioni tapinois and ordonez ing and wheezing we had all kinds of ways to
communicate and to the end we took great pride in our communication effort and in the sneezing resents was it more catonizing it we donamore out of office it was saint cantata you
know ah it was all based round this five by five matrix of the alphabet and so a cough would would be on a sneeze would be to a week would be three on an no force so that so that
two sounds was equal a letter and we used this as a litheways if the guy was outside chopping wood for a fire for instance and he would chop in this coat chap jop jumped up top
chopped up top up chop chop up up to and it was it was what we caught we called it a radio station because everybody could hear it and a and so am i if a new guy came in of
camping and we knew who the president was the noose we did we have no information all or new ah who in the world series for instance why it was really big deal you know to get off
there and chopped the wood in the radio station and tell the entire camp who was the president witted the guards ever catch on to that five my five coat yes ah occasionally in a
couple of guys were tortured to to reveal the code but they can but they were it was really interesting because they were so am uncoordinated that they couldn't replicate the code
and they unseverable they tried to trick us and they would empty out of call and they would go into that cell and try to tap on the wall or a tug on the wire in the code and we
knew immediately you know that it wasn't on amiradou guys would get like i said is it rested you count you you lay out to things at first of vietnamese were like to pretty much
okay with stealing tense wouldn't get punished for stealing that bad but the communication things what they is what they would definitely punish you tell ye true e and ah i am in
that sesame thing i mean won't we capture prosers overseas we will don't want to talk to other reteporae him then you don't want to to talk to each other and if some potestate
getting letters and receiving letters and how that changes the environment well ah it a first of all we were just overjoyed to see that our that their families you know that my
wife was was okay and u and that they knew that we were alive and so it was it was wonderful connection that we made no we we call them letters with actually they were glad post
cards and am in they were highly edited a it began with a post cards were dis blanked out and then the vidames decided to let not good enough they actually would cut out certain
words and so you in post guards in six lines and may be of the six lines there might be a fifteen words or is cut out with a pair of scissors a so so that sometimes you really
couldn't figure it out what they were trying to say but you know that the fact that ah that was in the handwriting of a loved one oh was was the was it was very comforting and yet
those bastards and i use that term very specifically for the situation the dear john letters they led those component go and enter no overestimated for that suakin of avemmaria
they were quick to ah to tell us that our wives and filed for divorce or as if i our parents and died or that i can any bad news oh they were they were very quick to promote to
the chin commands that you guys i here you are in a prison camp and you guys for all ououge out you realize we need have chananay put that structure in the place and when you did
that did that cat i mean it seems like it would have a seems like that gave you guy so much strength as in as a group to get in the chain a command to organize yourselves it
seemed like that gave you guys so much strength and and fortitude as you as you were there it was absolutely our survival ah was our chain of command me but what you don't know
and reading my book because they only happen to two or three years ago a study was done i've all the combat and some the etnam of all the million and a people that were exposed to
that war thirty point six per cent have pets d almost a third that the combats and vietnam postomani stress disorder of the prisoners of war four per cent of us have patted its
primarily the guise who were shot down near the end of the war were only prisoners for a few weeks from a month or two and what we really believe at this i fell out in another
book called lessons from the hand or hilton which was written about do two years ago lessons from the aneitai that the reason why we came back and are in such great shape is
because of the united there had in the leadership that we had to prison kanes because of the the five hundred night when guy came home and of the five hundred ninety one and they
thought we'd been baskets they that would be vegetables they had our families brave to institutionalized us for the rest of our lives at what they thought was coming home from
canawac from five hundred ninety one guys we produced seventeen generals seven admirals most of us retired as seenorita officers we have doctors and lawyers and preachers and
teachers and bishops and judges were a bunch of congressmen two united states senators to ambassadors we have a vice president kennedy a president a canidae elight instructor
jochanan their telling mister day were it healthier mental in physically than if we hadn't been shot down and it was primarily because of the leadership that can of command that
we hadn't for their the unity that we found in the purpose that that's what the leadership in a prison camp did for us eh jim stockdale ah was our senior as oraino to prison
kantor a long time and he said we are no longer victims of circumstance beyond our control we are not on the defensive her we are military men we are combatant so we will pursue
this war till our last breath in so what he did what that did was it a gave us a reason that to live a reason to be a reason to unify and the the the way we fought the war from
the prison camp was to try to deny them any propaganda because as you as you've already said jacotot this the propaganda was the main stay i mean it was that was what numeration
their world was was propagandising and they felt that that that that they could use us to tell the rest of the world how wonderful communism was now terrible capitalism was and
now they were right we were wrong in so they would they would deforce guise to make tapes or right letters to the anti war element and to you o proclaim the the the wonderful
nature of communism and so our job was to defend against this and in so we set up all kinds of have methods so that we would deny them any propaganda or even in some cases we
would will be ven go farther than to nut than other propaganda would use their tools against them and that we would tell the world that all by the way we are being tortured and by
the way that all this the of these guys are attacking our neighbor and southam and so so that so that was the big effort then and of any isatis whole thing you just can't came out
a few years ago that this was the big reason that we did so well and that were hot so healthy a mentally and physically to to day was because we had this chainmen and on top of
that and missus we if really wanted to big port i wonder is all about to day was what you're just hitting on is that people are the idea that the military's chained command is
this or registrature and that's why it survives in that's what i but you guys were put into a position that etait was yester's militaree i had as you will paesana few if you think
in this you will paisana though gathas adargidis bark in your orders never is fallerin i said to icnonwes n't like that it's a much more cabrie deal and you you in and this really
became clearer on section the book here a man amenemhat what you were doing with a and how challenging this leadership position was for the people that were were leading so here
are going back to the book making sure that every one was on our team was the first of many objectives understanding the rules of the game was the second they was assumed that all
the had a basic knowledge of the military discipline and the code of conduct this code a very general document was opened to many interpretations how we conceded the code often
depended on a severity of the situation no longer could we pick up a telephone and call the pentagon for advice the broad spectrum of the code divided the men into the at least
two groups those who were disciplinarian by nature and interpreted the coat strictly and those who were liberal and rendered the code loosely we called these two groups the toes
and the softest but this this the keeper read her softly with not derogatory the name simply indicated a different approach to the coat tuggerter red to the line i will never
surrender of my own free will sometimes fontette incourage ability and taunted the guards the vietnamese answered with torture and the tough guys occasionally relinquished more
information than the softish never committed themselves regardless of her attitudes we were all in the same boat each of us had acquiesced in vitiato to some extent whether
excepting cigarettes or bowing to guards the line which separated the tough guys from a soft es was often unclear the important thing was to display unity regardless of our
individual philosophies we clearly understood that the vidame would comprise on any changes they found in our armor unity didn't evolve automatically learning its value acquired
from us such introspection and sacrifice how could a camp as arrow a piece o soft ease if he interpreted the coat too strictly or if he was too lax for the tough guise he was in
an untenable position having little control over the actions of men in other rooms he had excessive responsibility but none of the tools of authority no reduction of salary
suspension of liberty courtmartial indeed most of the fellows he had never seen his only association being a tap on the wall or a scribbled message to meet this impractical
setting the sorrowed gentle sticks of diplomacy they knew we were not boots being but camp is for out obeah who asked how high at the command the jump we were all trained leaders
who acted independently for the first few years the sorrows authority was limited to advice rather than orders realizing the importance of unity we respected his disadvise as
though it were an order what if we refuse an order on the basis that it did not come from the commander but rather from five men who interpreted through erride system what if
compliance to the order brought certain torture we were very lone and answering these questions once i received an order plum request you communicate with captain abbot at all
costs what did the so mean by at all costs did it include being caught and put in leg irons for months at a time so that the way that that is laid out ever reflex not just
mateship in a prison camp in here to tell you it reflects leadership in every situation because the minute that you as a leader decided that you're just going to impose your will
on other people is where you start to lose respect and people start questioning what you're doing but very true in i think that the way that this comes out and that probably is
one of the reasons why i i didn't know about the the fact that you just told me about the only four per cent having pets d i mean in obvious ye round about all successful beads
that came out of this horrible situation but that on bones that old pen mind as leaders and and as subordinate to say look in getting this advice riverito called advice from the
boss i respected i'm gonna act on it not because i have to but because i understand the mission i understand why we're doing this and therefore not something that's being imposed
on me it's something that i am excepting in pushing forward of my own accord that's a huge difference a terli must admit that when i first heard about this i i i i was taken aback
and i'm thinking you know this is really silly i got some senior officer dan and then sell the cellblock and he's putting more restrictions on me that i already have you two we
what you gonna do take me my liberty cardinerie i anointed there a and m a and i had to be convinced in now that this was in our best interest ah but it but it it truly was and
obviously that's the reason we came out of healthy as we did was because we'd we'd well and you say better most disciplined you don't other that tis a plan brought about freedom
rennit was kind o crazy because we were being restricted even more and yet because of the restriction we had unity which gave us to freedom ye and then you guys started taking the
broad coacoanut and and specifying it cause you has had so much time into these things that you call plums right and you didn't really know what to the stablishment of word plums
came from but they were they were deep hailed tenants as how you all war going to carry yourself and you call them plans and they were things like the order that you're going to
go home um ter not aiding that the vietnamese and in white washing the truth utheris tante how watever sistance you were goin to give when you were when you were in the abitare
how much resistentiae with ran in rascasse you know military bearing and in rest con won was hostraten estricat was one of greatest display as i think ah that really affected the
enemy was when they found out that when our commanding officer of a acanthus say okay rescontre no more bowing to the enemy and so throughout the camp in these individual selves
you know there might be there might be seventy five different cells and suddenly at the stroke of one one button now nobody would bow to the guards and it really frightened them
to know that we had that much control of that much unity and it was a silly thing but it but it really felt so good i aththithtth that we had some leverage herein and the the
other thing was that how you stayed you unified was by not accepting favors and then you had a just dedicatory got a balance between her if i can accept the favour and it's going
to help us and con'tae me helpers gone then i should probably do it but then they put this then that the commander the assoud put up a restriction or a reasonable time for
insolitis a class example of arteta about how how how i love you were with pencil hatisen point you got a pencil so now you got to pay give you pencil and you know the word spread
that you guys had a pencil and the the the report or the the direction came back was okay you have thirty days to get more pencils to we're all equal or you got to give the
pennsylvany didn't get him more pencils and you had to give that pencil mac an that's but that you can see how when you ah how unified you are and how but just like you said that
shows the the the guards and the camp leaders he we are unified that you can't break us you can't give you can't give somebody some special help and not give it every one yet he
believe a both now you started talking about this a little earlier and i had to do the little bit deepos i think it hits a pert messagerie three tarentine with somebody and how
when you live in with somebody and the further you can get away from a is eight feet on as i feel like this was at go and worry to a wearied his gait said the espadas or headyou
sir say okay that's what i want things are to grind on you and irritate you so whether they would exert he git guida's going to exercise while you're trying to sleep for you get a
guy that snores which if you ever dealt with somebody that snores they can't help it they're even know that they sound like a chain soft in your room a feature with you might get
room up with somebody that's nora's every single night and the worst thing about somebody that snores is when you start thinking that it bothers you it bothers you onelight the
painting was another thing that would you know the ominous can get up and pace in the man to sit down so all these things some pewuse eight rice a grain at a time a grain at a
time and you don't like all these little um least little i i guess these little egoistes right and what are you eventless was i'm going to take those idiosyncrasies that bothers
me about you and america the blame on myself i shouldn't be bothered by this and i'm the one that can't let it bother me and that is a huge difference to what most people do which
is heat's all about me and if your bothering me you need to change and you're all hattitude was no you know what my attitude you don't need change i need to change i need to
become more excepting of the way you are at a big deal there make that transition in your life you much happen epistle's sue and i'm sastile trying arolind ah it is one of those
things where it really is again change because now in how its extreme ownership right amicale thing on you for noisesomely and then sometimes you you'd have somthing that really
like maybe colleen at you have portsmouse and have haven in direct conversation instead of saying a echoes really bothering me clicking his pen over there at its gates good a
drive me crazy kingdom may be talked to about it and antiquated not be to day sir but there was a there was episode where they had to pen in his hand things got a little bit
figinyan yeah that i didn't let it bother me you know what i did him brought him a new penenden have to quicker on a assertorially to days were all we had not as so many people
that are so offended by certain things and in it it's a saint presbyterian if you have in me that really more my problem that is your domsie one at that this side if you in a thin
mesones my dear what's offensive near ah one of the things that they need in you know where where it's easy for positing here a little bit about some of the stuff but one of your
chapters is called insanity and umiam going to the book or the first i knew of it was in the fall of nineteen sixty eight and i did understand an old betorn ambulance ram rattled
into the courtyard and the merican wearing prison garral out he weaved like a robot with head down and shoulders slumped it was odd guards never allowed pelouse to walk that way
we doubletime who was this man had he just come from the hospital was he tortured into semiconsciousness was he facing when would we find out the man was losing a tory insisting
that his cell mates were communists peace together with limbs and heads of dead americans whose arm is that asked it at my pilot's arm how can you call me speak such good english
because this man was wasting away was necessary for his cellmate to force feed him the hostile patient was still strong requiring four or five men to constrain him so that a
bamboo stick could be forced between his teeth another prisoner masted rice down his throat when they finished he would gag himself to regard to take what he thought was poison
from the communists spewing rise all over the room he was entranced when the vietnamese entered the room he refused to bow angered a guard screamed bow bow and whipped a fist
across the expressionless face the man continued to stand the guards continued to beat him unmercifully then you guys continued to see this every six months or so we saw our sick
pefore transported between solitary confinement and the hospital we felt helpless the only way we could assist was with prayer after september nineteen seventy we never saw him
again the little war to that story that i did not know when i wrote the book that he had been a part of a omeneper ment than by a cuban ah the cuban came over to the communist
country and his news we could tell he his sole purpose of being in vietnam was to establish the breaking point of an american fighting man and so this guy that i'm stocking about
the book i didn't didn't know was name of the time or with the book earl cabin was actually tortured to and sanity ah and that it dandtan's why he was insane and a and so his
roommates than he was very belligerent and mausetherm leadership principle cause you got a group a guise in that prison cell that we being threatened and some of them were had
broken bones or last rations because this crazy man he goes on a hunger strike in his going to kill himself by not eating and they had to decide whether or not they were going to
force feed him and keep him alive and bring him back to his belligerence or let him die and so it was it was quite a dilemma in the prison camp but quite a dramatic time ah what
when that was happening and and they did they force feed him and brought him back to help and then ah the veenestraat we never really knew but possibly because they saw that we
had some control i didn't want to stand that control they pulled him out of that self but it insolidity and and and then he died after that but ah but it was a dimostrato event ah
that a guy would be tortured to the point of insanity the nose the eros of the torture ekstasis you said they were the purpose of one perposes perfesser liking point yet to find
the breaking point and he found it with a with gobi you ave another chapter touched on this a little bit earlier about faith going back to books i will be dumb i will be done it
seemed presumptuous to try to change god's will to make a deal with the omnipotent if i promise to devote my life to the ministry extreme in exchange for freedom and failed to
follow through what then no turn to bargain with god was unfitting from the beginning i offered prayers of acceptance i remembered the experience of seeing the christ like shadow
in the green nobby room and the comfort i felt in that time of great need that day i asked god for strength in derwater hardship i might face and i prayed for anne not for her
fidelity or success but for tolerance courage and most of all her happiness with or without me i continued this daily prayer now this was safe was not just ears but every one and
he begot again showing some of the power that you guys had as prisoners back to the book thousands of bibles had been sent to us from church groups all over the world but the
vidame's gave us none asking wasn't enough so we decided to go on a hunger strike our senior officer informed the vietnamese that we simply didn't want more food until we could
have a bible and uninterrupted worship they retaliated by shutting off our drinking water after a few days of the enemies were ready to settle and so rely they would give us a
church service if we abided by certain stipulations the service would be held according to their schedule no one could sing no one could stand and every one will to hear strictly
to camp regulations every word spoken in the ceremony was to be written down for the censors perusal after all the restrictions we hadn't gained much but at least the v had given
an inch after a few weeks later the v saw that our services were not militant and relaxed restrictions they permitted a foreman quired a sing to him most important they gave it a
bible for two days so you guys decided a whole line on that one way in and unitas n't easy they and inserting things max to the leadership was the the guy who promoted this was a
wish bastah christian guide the number two and command was an atheist and and and i rely had no great interest in having a bible in the soul and so when the number one giunto the
beames that we were going to go under sitting they all em out of it they took him away so that the number to guide the atheist was suddenly in charge and it was interesting to
watch what was going to happen here and that was very encouraging when the ahead continued to understrain and we're going to get this bible those you you talk about their
perception of the venome perception of of religion in general back to the books a large majority of vetement catholic however and when they discovered us in prayer as they did
only the last year they asked what what you derive from this thing done we tried to explain that we received strength comfort help and promise of eternal life these concepts were
too difficult for them yet many seemed interested and did not mock our beliefs to the diehard vietnamese communist the state was their god their truth their way their lights the
controlling body in the government decreed in foullans without fear of correction whenever peasants asked who is the state they were told that they themselves were and that they
had control in making decisions each was told that he was part of the amusant state he was as long as he didn't interfere i consider my confinement in prison to be spiritually
beneficial i was given opportunity that few men have the time to pause to reflect and to establish priorities i found that my previous value system was unrealistic stripped of all
my material wealth the only beak and i could hold it home in on was my faith in an uncaging god in you also went very deep on fogerty and here's your tatarin about patriotism some
peepers per patriots feeling the united states could do no wrong a few felt that we had made a mistake and there was time for us to get out with most to the prisoners i accept the
defect that we were not perfect but felt that we refiting for a worthy cause and should persevere unto the end and this is something i brought up on many occasions the fact of how
horrid we when i fought no or an iraq and we went through extreme measures to try and protect the civilian populace and a civilian infrastructure here's your comments on that back
to the book great efforts were made to persevere the lives and property of civilians pilots were threatened with court martial if they failed to pin point accurate military
targets even to the extent that they would jeopardize their own lives by swooping just above tree tops to preserve a peasant hut fifty yards from a sam rat or scope the vietnamese
capitalizing on this made targets especially difficult by placing their military equipment in the middle of peasant hamlets or next to schools in fact several entire craft or two
hundred guns were stationed on hospital roof tops and er your thoughts about the involvement here the most powerful free nation in history could not idly watch the communist world
gobble up an dissolve soleton we had to play the surgeon to excise the malignant disease of mind control i don't condone war i think there are few justifiable reasons for killing
in vietnam war was a last ichor of international diplomacy it was difficult to justify my six years of imprisonment when politicians with expense paid trip to paris should have
solved the problems through negotiation in this case are negotiations were at the end of their rope the communist did understand anything but the big hammer when our beatify two
shattered a noise offenses with thousands of bombs the vietnamese realized we meant business then this thought here we faced east once a week and pledged our allegiance we
contrasted our bill of rights and the constitution to the communist manifesto daily we saw how big brother destroyed individuality we compared our lot with that of the guards
while prisoners of war were behind bars the vietnamese were captives inside their own bamboo borders we consider ourselves more fortunate than they one day we would leave
ourselves powerful statement and that's exactly lately we thought he was that that pay were the prisoners at the weight and we weren't we were always we were always a of the
belief that we would go home and they had to stay there have they detested their prison and we would eventually be released and you are right and during the week of twenty one to
twenty eight january nineteen seventy three for the first time treatment was actually humane vedesse up a volley ball that and allowed us to play or to exercise they gave us books
and magazines from home we knew something was happening so you guys started to sense that it was an and you talk about this in the bag at didn't go into much but there was always
some people that were ah would you call the people that will look at the mount of food you've got ah yes and i retired to a mount of rice you'd be given as to some foreseeing the
future of how long is to be in the fort you call them the book i we call them love i i got like food at terry and he unleashed no gas drawn of her guest strontianite stranamente
you wouldn't it she kept her high we must be getting ready to be released and you you that feeling of souls like you know once a year once one every eighteen months on the anoher
aout o ye no tell course independent of the person but some of the guys were so optimistic and ah i i was an optimist he had i i was thinketh in fact when i was first shot down a
i i thought we'd had finally given him that the big blow that we finally brought them to their knees on the nineteenth a may and send at fisted and prisonaires be a robe is of the
war is over and i fly home and and my squatters take the ship home i will be there to greet and when they come on i am veteravia every clear it is often as all forays after i
ashita on in her own before them so and that's like i was a'sition the park as i was what amoniacal air craft flying my ways think if this thing but will is up in the sky i'm goin
to live i'm going to be that guy of you know of course i'm not going to get in with sir everyone else goin to die not measurin so finely here go back to the book the camp
commander once again called a group together about a hundred an eighty of us old timers it was the first time that all prisoners in the camp were gathered in one place we lined up
by buildings and military formation and were called to attention by her acting wing commander lieutenant colonel norm gates although veniesia did not recognize our rank structure
they said nothing the camp commander red and announcement and the interpreter read the translation it had been a long time since i had heard english word and so professionally
when he finished and told us we could go on wing commander again called his stenton and dismissed us with bowed heads with heads bowed we walked quietly back to our rooms we were
stunned some it waited for these words for over eight and one half years the war was over we were going home did that even feel real at that point and now your old up so many
times they really didn't and they tried to trick us many times you know they would call us in a sign this confession will send you home and hanso even when it happened for real it
it it we couldn't believe it it wasn't really until it finding a got aboard that that see one forty one and it took off wheels in the well and and when there was a little oh a
little bit of a administrative situation when it came time because you guys had all motional on the order that you are capital that the sick and injured organ go first then the
list of guys were going to go and then order of capture exactly and that was part of the plum roundeth was zeb's part of all of the rule of satan that that we were biding by in so
we were in we were numbered of his second antichita then it was our turned but bind number of the date of shoan and they pulled twenty of us at that were out of order of the
shutdown date and e we made a big deal of this then the that that they they told us well kissinger told us we let we almost cause an international incident because for for
whatever reason that we wiener knew for sure except that all twenty mushad um at some some disappoint enumerate to our return and we never knew if that was the reason or not that
we were even either coming back to death in the family or disease or divorce or that kind of thing all twenty guys and so but we were out of order and we did not know why we were
out of order and so we we told him we weren't going to home and he went back and forth for almost a day ah that we refuse to come and i find the o connegan's just pull you in
incedis you has are going on but he gave us the direct order and then you get to the airport at the airport the bus halted near park mark run ways we excided solemnly to a crowd
of people and by microphone we are told to walk to our receiving officer when our name i called as i heard my name i step past the table where vietnamese american representatives
marked off the exchange i salute the colonel then another and was asked where by an officer who was so excited he could have seen a say nothing more than his nitrate is to nice to
have you back with all been waiting for you isn't it great i felt as though he previously composed what he would say but in his succint as record stock he was your iteas great i
walked up on the ramp of the sea one forty one and saw the first navy uniform the officer inside that uniform grabbed me an huggleton me his name i didn't know him until he told
me he was the briefing off strong the kitty hawk the day i was shot down garrymore and i had once worked many hours together and now we could joy for me recall old times soon as i
was in the airplane and nurse kiss me and started the first of a long chain of flash balls we were given american cigarettes magazines that information sheet telling us what to
expect to cararoopana pilot taxeon the runway postofis the throttles and at the moment of lift off suddenly it hit us we are off the north reedel we screamed above the noise of
the head engines minutes later we were soaring above the gulf was pompkin and saw some of our ships the commander of the seventh fleet centimes of welcome and jim returned the
radio calm with a thankful acknowledgment by nightfall we reached the philippines and carcara as soon as the doors opened we could see and hear the thusias from what must have
been five thousand people banners and bands coalrooms and cheer leaders every one seemed to be there i walked down the ramp saluted a general and then an adrian i shook the ammals
hand i was so overcome with emotion that i hugged him so you hug the ananiases i don't i don't know why i did that you know was just had of certainly i namefather taiwan all
ganister gives them an then all i say in sir yes sir you allowed to hug the amen you come on after that no that's a toi could tell you wrote that your sortilegis do azackly
overcome in the motions or and then you start connote in process in thing and i'm not to be when they start handing you magazines and cigarettes and food and all that you go into
that someone in here another just how overwhelming is that that was wonderful it was joyful yes reading through a some vietnam bedford i got goutant e you know always did just
looking for background i want to learn more and you know people express themselves in poletry and i've got locked into probably a dozen poems that was nothing but different foods
iiieme take and i uitland milk and chocolate milk and every fatalities just about food my my favorite one was jerry coffee wrote a poem it was to odo a wheel and the poem was
little wheel in libre i think i just be off your head seas and atoneton of the weave allatoona so i so you say you guys are you know that had to be somewhat overwhelming but you
like you said you guys you guys were or in good relatively good mental status if we were to amazing now as you're going through the motions with the doctors in the physical people
in the the ah the pas suppulchres people you your sanemori one or so my wife was up of my wife and no one really answering that question for you and find you get the chap on and
you say going back to the book here i looked up at him in said japon have great deal faith in you and i want you to live with me so far i haven't been able to go distrainer from
any one and i want to know about my wife would you please be kind enough to tell me what's going on then he says back well charley there is a problem with your wife she is well
but she has some misgivings i'm not sure as to the extent but i'm sure that everything is going to be all right is written me a letter but i didn't want open it i felt that you
should and you get the letter and it's nothing crystalclear but the message is clear enough that you know seesenah want the stay marry to you any more and you call her the next
day actually called my my parents first okay tackanash i tried to call her but it didn't it didn't work in fact they were they were very protective you know first of all they
thought they thought i might be suicidal when i heard the news and so they were very protective of me and i a they wouldn't they wouldn't let me call home oh even the chaplain in
a psychiatrical wouldn't wancote home even to your parents even in my parents here either had this plan and bow they were going explain this to me i guess but they william i find
we found a social worker in the hospital you know he luckenoug telephone around here and i i found it follonica my parents back in kansas and ah then there the ones that actually
told me we never forget my mom's words she said i sanitaire of my life i've been in that tell yo this but she's engaged to be married to another man she she's filed for divorce
and judgin give her a divorce you know her the um the justification was a abandonment in knowin had a man abandoned her and the judge wasn't by and that and so but now that was
the first i knew was when my mother told me that she had follerive you know i am don't back to the book here a few days laystall to anne but then it some of the stuff he say
here's a i actually i just i just have to quote it em back to book he had and had told me that she wanted to remarry i would not become an obstacle to her happiness i called her
parents they seemed quite unsettled about and decision a few days later i called in again and she complained that many members in the news media had been arassin her she said she
had often been disclosed and was the victim of character assassination i then talked personally to some of the newspaper men and told them that i did not want her to be more wind
in any way in fact i wanted them to say nothing at all about my wife for the most part they were accepted to my wishes i gave them a coat which they could use if they felt they
had to todoros regrater as is a regretable but inevitable drifting apart after so many years by this time my hope for reconciliation was dead i was determined to take it on the
chin and roll with the punches well i may be coming off as a white nigher but it wasn't at all that way as she i leadinist believe that in many ways the ladies had it worse than
we did know and if the it's the families back here you know that the military guise there over there and i'm sure you've seen this and in your experience is well is it waite
believe in what we're doing were dedicated we focused you know were over there evocative the families back here don't have that in a specially my wife didn't know if i find was a
libor dead from one day to the next she went to the same years twenty four to thirty that i did she was supposed to be faithful to me and she was supposed to you know believe that
i'd coming home not knowing if i'd ever come home and if i did what i still want to be married or would i be a basket case and a burden to her the rest of her life and i the other
part of this which was which i i i didn't know at the time of course but she lost her support group you know they had a big wives club that the squadron pilots all outlives got
together and they would take pictures and in his cookies and made tapes and all these things it was a very close knit proof neeteth wives of the pilots well when i was shot down
or when anybody was killed or captured that wife was sort of samaria shunned by the rest of the group that that not officially but just because they didn't get that they didn't
want to urted now what to say and i didn't want to be associated with somebody who had that problem it they didn't want that didn't want that to effect their life so she lost her
support group she ah ah she went back to kansas went back to school there and then when she fell in love with southgate she lost what support group she had it at one cause her
parents were upset my parents were upset i've a brother teneson er than i am that that looks a lot like me and he was of the battesme age during this the latter part of this
experience that i had been when when in and i met and he would go over to mo her lawn in kansas and she would break out in hives serious and murdery room come a hives a just at
the sight of my little brother case he looked like me and and so they finally the doctors restricted him from ever seen her the gist caused you so much grief so it was tough on
the ladies and the way i look at it and and i saw that and i felt that and i felt like an needed whatever i was necessary to give her a little piece will you might not think you
came off like a white night but that's pretty youknow treatment of some one firstrate am i didn't understand that then and and even though understand that to the day and you know
some people want to blame her a but by i i have no animosity no blame whatsoever um for what she did when it was so aiath people man that will say well don't you wish that she had
no early on that she was going to deport you no way answered not mere no her her the thought of her kept me alive in that was the man that was my purpose was a go back and be with
her the fact that it didn't happen i'm courasse what incidental but the six years i was there it was certainly a positive for me to think about her in ah you you rap of the book
with um a chapter called reflections were just just phenomenal and you looking back a kind of what you learned there amrahat some of them some of the parts of it because there's
so much that everybody kin kin learn from this go and here to the book our clothes society subsisted we ate slept breathed we laughed and we cried we were frustrated and we were
gratified we were embarrassed and we were proud slowly almost imperceptibly particular patterns of behavior edged into our daily activities and came until they became folk was
there was nothing unusual about a man pacing the four for hours like a caged tiger no one no notice was given to the man lifting a subal and licking it spotless there was no
stigma in bearing our souls to one another we had her own mores and sense propriety our microcosm was a patriis containing its own strains and culture although we had not been
hand picked we were for the most part out of the same mould that of the professional officer and pilot we were unique prisoners who acted differently from those of korea a odwar
to we have been exposed to a different selection process and a new era of life styles gathered together in a dubious fraternity of hanoi sky divers we were a group of cocky
individuals we knew we were the best stripped of personal possessions of million dollar airplanes of rank and prestige we suddenly found ourselves at the bottom of a dark pit we
could no longer look outward our only alternative was to make the best of what we had and when you have so little and for you guise to take that attitude then there's so many
people you know what i heard from people all over the world that will be out to me and talk about the situation that there in a bad situation and an agutation and and he nowhere
in from people like you that makes every one realize i need to make the best of what i have you know any to make the best hesitation on it because if you guys could do it any one
could yetin in this sounds like grandillon bit it witsit was almost a survival technique in almost a this is the way that we can make it through this is ah is believing in in the
future leaving in ourselves and i look back on that six years in a progly the most important six years of my life because because i came through the silly he experienced with em
with this kind of this kind of discipline it is kind o fought process that he ah it's not the end our deal is the way you play the hinterland not and for acestodorus you know you
may have trash but if you play it right it can still be a winning hand ah lotta about you coming home back the book my first impressions of home were not too encouraging
newspapers and magazines were devoted largely to the drum problem permissiveness the energy crisis abounding chimra and roding and a ronin and eroding family structures i was
worried worried from a selfish view point i sacrificed many years for my country and i now want some young whipper snappers destroying it but i decided to give myself a one year
more a toronto taking a form stand on any of my observations and i found that the news median particular had exaggerated the negative i didn't have my wallet stone stolen nor did
i see old bum dens or gangways when i visited schools and said i was pleasantly surprised with student to meaner young people freely ask questions and showed a genuine concern for
answers to me they seem to have been unduly criticised by an impatient adult society rather than given been given wise counsel they have more freedom and i think they are
generally capable of handling those freedoms they are more mature than their counterparts of my generation they have to be to survive in one reason i call that little section out
is because desiter about the molinio's right now we hear the same thing about them a lineal and may be just every one should give a little more toromon them said tim is arising
more more at one on yolande to start definitely do in that self afoore tory of taheite any one with a you know we work with lot of businesses and companies and people last resout
lecomte's melanias and and if so orginalite and i say oh why is that because they want understand why they're doing what they're doing because they want to know what the go on
purpose of their of of their jobs that's nothing new oh because there because want to step up and run things i want that person working for me so ye polemonium like back to the
book will and prison i had a lot of time to think the same question kept popping in my mind one of my doing here on ten thousand miles from home cooped up in a communist prison
camp on able to enjoy all the wonderful freedoms i was sent here to protect my first answer was obvious on plighting for my country in serving the united states of america i
learned in school in america was purple mountain majesties and amber amber waves of grain that was congress and the executive and the judiciary these were self evident but i had
to get more personal than that america had to mean more it had to relate to my own freedoms the product of nearly two hundred years of a pioneering spirit my nation is a skinny
kid who climbs on his bike before dawn to sling newspapers my country is a librarian who sits behind glasses with pencil and her hair and as quick to find answers to my questions
my home land is a truck driver who smiled down from his cab and signals me through the intersection my america is a personal friend and i am proud to serve her than you and you go
on to say that there must be a thousand definitions for freedom mine is simple freedom is the ability to walk through the door it's not the act of walking through that proffered
it's not going to church or speaking one's mind or demonstrating in the streets freedom as the ability to choose whether to go to church to step up on a soap box to carry placards
now that i am released again i move about at will i say what i wish i criticise and take criticism i feel freer now than ever before because i know what freedom is i appreciate
those freedoms because i was once denied them is there anything is there anybody that appreciates more than people that have had those freedoms than not that probably not is there
any way to transfer the appreciation for those freedoms i mean i'm doing my dansereau the same business you know i i speak i come of times a week all of the country has as i came
out try and to impress this on people but the truth is there is no way that you or i can't but people in that situation that we've been in and make them feel way they feel enough
i could deny a person a freed of the i i decoroso as you do and ah and i'll put it i'll put a person in or in a room by themselves with nothing there for fifteen minutes and he or
carraze you know take the phone wiffin the farogato down the five years i ibarete going no an so ah there's very little will i should say this way the tits difficult to make that
transfer to make a person that preciate freedom when they've never lost theirs and all i can do is tell the story and i preciate your helping me tell the ometries i'm an you know
occasionally i disavow that a little bit of the destination stuff that had emanated one of those situations that to to wrap up because i think this is due to such an important
message for me for everybody back to the book i'm often asked how did you do it commander how could you take six years of filth brutality and loneliness i could have never done it
my answer is of course you could as a matter of fact you rub elbows each day with people who have done it we weren't the only prisoners millions of americans have experienced the
manacles of the body or shackles of the mind they have been bound by unfortunate external circumstances automobile accidents disease natural disaster paralyzing grief from the
loss of a loved one if suffered deprivation and humiliation one of victim of misfortune many become too insecure to open doors instead they allow themselves to wallow in despair
they become alcoholics drug addicts on faithful wives or husbands unruly children in ability to face personal responsibility is often hidden and seemingly innocent pastimes golf
poker television sleep these diversions spawn intense feeling of guilt and worthlessness and some victims ultimately isolate themselves and become the spondent a few commit
suicide i had ample opportunity to damn society and curse my fate but what good would that of done to be sure the vietnamese would not have released me simply because i felt sorry
for myself on the contrary that used to every available means to make that happen a despondent prisoner was a prime candidate for communists indoctrination my secret for during
six years of hell is really not a secret at all first and formal i had faith in god knowing that his will would be done i never doubted that i could persevere i simply trusted
god's promise to answer my prayers i also loved my country its people and its freedoms i realize that because of the human element the states could be made but in growing up i
discerned that most of the people in this great land are on a baritone and compassionate second i had self discipline it would have been easier to avoid church torture by
succumbing to north be intemese derogation it would have been easier to assume hoplessness by blaming and evil world i could have rationalized myself into mental and physical
paralysis however strict self obedience gave me the ability to persevere finally i had pride i was proud to know and omnipotent god i was proud of my country and its heritage i
was proud of my family i was proud of myself faith discipline pride each of these nurture the others combined they allowed me to endure i have joined the ranks of millions of
americans who applied heroic principles in overcoming hardships every day a disabled veteran steps away from his wheelchair every day a life is resumed after a death in the family
friendships a race loneliness addix throw away the crutch of alcohol or drugs or obsessions every day some one discovers how to love life no matter what the obstacle every day
some one sees the light at the end of the tunnel these ordinary americans are not held in esteem as heroes yet they have suffered grave misfortune and overcomer ed just as i so
you see i'm no hero and i think if that very humility sir that makes you a hero because you are certainly a hero to me and certainly a hero can this greatness but think i thank
you for that hand i am so those boches right back at you you are one of my hero i don't accept sir ye not at all um you as you look at other people's struggle with all the things
that you mention that draws the outgate obsession depression after all i love one on copeland the faith the discipline a pride that you talk about would you think is that i let
starting point that allows those things to grow in some one's mind so that they can overcome these kind of challenges i i think the first see that you have to plant in nurture in
your mind is that you still have the choice that you still are in control because i think so many people that get bogged down with these callers were talking about assume that
there is no way out that that it's somebody else's problem or somebody else has to to to affect their lives and i feel like the innocent of the overtaken in so i think that's the
beginning part of it his set um each of us makes decisions every day that control our destiny in its truly is not the things around us it is it's our it's our our our proach to
the things around as it is our definition of the things round as it's our willingness to accept a challenge and make choices about the things around us and so if he can if he can
nurture that if you can believe that yes i have control of my life i am i am the master of my fate i am the in the captain of my soul am integrally believe that then the rest is
just a matter of the disciplined takes to work through you know it's interesting is talking to now talking your son alex and we are we're talking about how you know as he was
growing up and he was hearing your sort of philosophy of life in the world and and when he heard me on on upon cast and he started saying wait a second home for of her this
consular then and if we were talking about how you know of a kind of said that now that you know they are some i hate to go so far as to say you niversal truth but there's
certainly some things and human nature human life that are very similar across the board in when you take people and you put them through this this this crazy thing of life and
you provide them with some similar challenges they're goin to come to very similar conclusions and and and from what you just say you know is toothings that you said that i say
all time of an a number one that's perspective of you know what's that initial spark to say i can take dispotion take pride the the first thing in my mind you're going to say as i
cayse problems that are happening i can i go take orders of what i can do i to take over ship on my brows i can't blame this guy can blame that guy i i got i take overshire and
that's the first thing and in the other piece that you said that i say all the time is a decisions to make you got little decisions to make and if you can make that right decision
if you can do the right thing at that moment in time it's not going to change your life that one designating a life but then you're going to three men later thirty seconds later
hour later can make another decision in can you hold the line and get yourself pointed nor i direction and i can you have the discipline to do that can you have the faith in
yourself that you're going to make that happen and can you have the pride and you know as dick winter talked about that to one last bit was podcast you know dick was from the
first of five or six bandanners but one of the big things that he was concerned about with his men was if the festosa them begin to lose pride and how a fiancee what angling may i
come in here an not ready for this pocasset look at me like a gust jackass letting it slide and all be sudditi don't care any more i don't carry more now not preparing now not
getting ready and in an you take someone in combat and they start to lose pieanno this anitar who sees me at in the wrong way who sees me slacking off a watch you seesenah clean
in my weapon if i don't care about that any more that's the beginning of that downward spiral and prides one of those things as hafto be careful of because just like any other
dicotomy that we have is human beings yes you can get so much pride that you know longer think you can do anything wrong with sin we know with that ledstone can have not enough
pride to keep yourself on the right path the mazitus ah echo did you have any questions just wondering yet will the one party kindlinesses on that a thought is pretty important
even on a small like the part where you are regarding the uh the guards as in their own prison you know the amalekite that they had it worse than you did so it is one time my wife
told me to story which she was in the checkout lying in now in this store hengelo of stuff happened an ejection things happened with the grocery store he anchorless on let olenin
so she was she found herself in the express line but she had more than the fifteen night almost in ocean the guide he hinder started he whose tripping the whole time not so she's
pantherine up and he's like you you don't letheward you called o talking like talking to the person next to him about my wife so after the whole ordeal it was kind of like a sea
you know so my wife have to resist like oh i i hope you have a nice day you know like a you know she left wallace say it earnestly he and that didn't sound real her in usell and i
don't iteration now think that she probably yes you's probably self i first sure but at the end of the day its kind like i hope you have a nice day and she's so she told me that
sir was like but not a big part of you was like he has to go home with himself a nomad i get to come home and be cool and have all my girl you know all this tunisian it's a good
way to look at it cause ye have to go home he's really pass ye for the day and you know she is to go home with seventeen grocery item stregoneria then lavirotte oh yeah one
question you done got arrested when you put that scholar cushions tiebout this feared in the severence because you get the schooner a pack your friend out right and then the
upsotted us all the time and why are they arrest you though as i mean is it like hayastan do that year gone jail ah well it was rather unusual i think for these new gaps as he is
too gustine were thirteen and fourteen years old and we were in very big to begin with and the motors cineas bigger than we were and it's an emile and night and were watendlath n
they they felt as if they felt like there was something suspicion anderovithos well ah all right eh what sir do everything else will not on that right there no okay ah no no no no
further details on the scutarines nonage that creative you of that you who in a him no teasing that you could maybe caruso a sport the poacher to work course they can't no sort
here for one of the many regions so um if you want to support this high cast many ways firstly you can support yourself i i said it before this cayagun on it supplements right
you're doing physical stuff supplements that gets you do not to spend too much time on it i want to i won't amanahem nd the creole and the strong bone that's it she now deserve a
not letting this annoying me i'm just goin to come just like okay with it if my problem i do want to listen in talk that my form he has the right setolotolo hours about you know
this stuff by nannon's the thing apart like it say you were to get annoyed the only reason you be the noise get in notes because you know this stuff oh something pleaded know
there's almost people on my throne handing it on your every word but the thing about one ennatha's a is soft could supplements can be kind of junk sometimes but this one hundred
per cent these it is a good stuff and their stuff for everything in life everything will talk but the cruel some other stuffed but you go on there a protein wellness the even like
digesteth they got on there on a dotcom that's three get it you go in temperato on it dot coms lash jocko another way before you do your amazon shopping click through jocolpus
upham to der amazon chopping and then oh you know do you shopping as he is nor good way to sport smile action begration takes what three seconds from like that mum may be for at
either way do that that the good way also subscribed to the potassic you have met already this i tones stitcher bogilly and other pot casting platforms subscribe on now to put
some exerts on there i watch a morass that was a good arguadiente just you know your plating outside on bound to remain at intonaco men and listening to it i'm like we don't want
keola's right there but i'm like all way wait not kind help you know who it sitting like one of what was it a good one is twelve mental emotion and angry getting old genoa
controlling your stifling your remoter motion and when he hastily modes exactly on its level to or lower on the rigor scale of emotions to you can't behaviour your emotions you
baycon be cetonia look at that little exert ah put marsarla pot cast you to uebrige to that that royalty donteither to antlike it just like a canaletto you to a channel a new one
who knows what you too gone now that i think i know a little intimerdate put all that together said so good girl i think you already subscribed you get to not if i am your own
hair such your old good you're all good hundred per cent oh also jocatore called jocatore jocatore out come to some good stuff on there t shirts he like t shirts we were to shirts
right i know i do some women stuff on there sure patches rash guards wooes new rathgar oh oh maybe maybe maybe not you got a look jocatore out come get some good stuff them we got
some kid stuff to it there ye that's right dear you're wearin looms on war or so were you used of yaou through but all in a low or hitting me up fur or your kid t shirts and and
then immediately people said we want to for adults too so we made em for kids but then they all said we want him in now we got warrior kids cause you can you be a forty five year
old warrior kid i think i answer yet i too in the game he has order kid ye and if you didn't i mean you're got a obviously talk about the work it way the word could book but man
when you read that book you like dan i wish i would have read this whether it be when i'm a kid i wish i'm going to read it a one day before i read it in a that's a much ouiatanon
all this stuff i don't be sick there so deep math thule jack's got the infalliable upon leers eteaee now identifying layers on to utter by the way which is a prettier in some
really good identification of layer percales and attack of ye they're goin to get feerocious in orapacs start junkster a coming see what's on the discoorse and if you want to
support get something we don't also psychological you know now what that is which i know you already do but islesman event that you don't it is in the album on i to with tracks
and amasarac with track not music tracks spoken word tracks technically as with consiliere number one by the way the still still number one to that i may for good reason it has
looked seined pecetti garter to and i got some really good suggestions for from every one yet on seeing that need wear we need help ye so if you got those hippies up on twitter
dieve suggestions for psychologue true to track eh what you need are as well we need help we all need help yeh i that's some some susemihl havenless hyeah there all my personal
unhesitant now taif you don't know what that is it's like it's a albeit it you have you know in your journey of what getting after it in your getting after it journey not strong
the whole time you just not a moment to both of us eranthemums a weakness but guess what in those moments of weakness you listening to the designated track if you're a na weak
moment of weak dishonour trying to wake up at fort iremonger e that's a really four thirty every day do the day is probably going to come where you like you know what i'm intones
gestat listen to get up and get agettin get off terattle two or three of those two and i guarantee you won't have the snow you'll get up you'll get off ter layway that's that's
what i think with hundred per cent certainty anyway again called secolo ical worker so i tonalistic and some other places where you buy and to of music there on all all upon in
the are yer good and also rideaway the book that we reviewed to day with captain tom it's available on charlie plum dotcom se h a r l e e p l u m b dotcom that reading get it
called on now herart and also you can get some jack a white tea there if you need to drink liquid in your life you might as well drink a liquid that's going to make you smarterer
faster and more dynamic human being is only one drink the dose and as jack away by the way it's a hundred an forty seven per cent domine panted that through it tutataroa tory with
people wearing a white outfit so we know where to do go wait to are you kid and i'll this is the book right there that's going to hit your kings from another angle yet and
atalanta get them to understand some things i care work discipline honor physical training mental training studying no one picked jock's going to write a book of teach posted they
didn't think that did they economise tedn't think that no then he see a college grenadines you rotatory were not yet stronger in the book where the word kid get it for your kids
and you know what you gonna read it first and then you're going to get a copy for herself where the war your kin get that can i say something to me and say a part yes sure we have
another four hour a say something carterette is a part when he sees small progress i think is after one polypes like ye done fired up it the part when he said he scolded him in
small mild scolding for celebrating to early the reor too much to early jason hey take it easy that good and but then he said now come over here give me a high five from an ibeto
work away let him sell em in a little but they'll show man innonocence exod man yes he had been becourt are also you can preordaining freedom do you leman un would you explain to
you how i get after it so get after it in order the book of course extremites this is for leadership for inspected testing combattesse visits world there there are freted learn
lead win and if you need more than that from the book he need more than the book in a pocasse business or your team as lanfranc asked on fondatum you can email adding for when
atalanta dot com we arshin management consulting training also the muster number three number three austin texas drive thirteen importeth omniarch resort imrana spaniar not on of
his potanou in know im an had that a shot down while we're in good me now sponging on so come down joy thirteen and fourteen of joines engle pursued of world domination that's the
goal and if you can't make texas on come to san diego september fourteenth an fifteenth back in sdeamers four and in the meantime while you're waiting for that if you have
questions or comments for us you can dine on the interest now first of all speaking of malines captain plum sir you are all up in the technology here all you are on twitter ee at
captain plum right right face book face wet with sat at blenkinson thing captain plum just a a social mediate junkies when i'm here to my kids keep me on it as to contingent you
also you mentioned quickly while we were talking that you do speak in a gagement and all that where's the best place to contact you for those type of events or consulting all and
let website charley pandakan sal saw there assume so in that's were making fine you is for us echo and myself we are also using on the interlunium on twitter echo is adequate i at
jackwell ing and we are also in a aspasien checked down on his well echo he got atingle for us to day i don't think you so much then surely none in sir do you have any thing any
other clothing thoughts you want to add willimantie you about the rest of the story since people might be interested in knowing that that my ex wife married the guy she was
engaged to and there they been living in happy for the last forty three years i remarked a wonderful lady at four kids to grand kids and one on the way my daughter's radet a
marine and there pregnant with her first child should be do in fact any day now said perfider have a wonderful wife that supports me and tom and he put some with me ah and to hand
and i i'm a living the dream i really am i don't know how i could be happier in my life i could not write a story that would bring more fulfilment of to me personally than what i
already live i still fly her plans i've two airplanes i have on a home in a hanger as well my man came and ah it's just it's it's delight to be alive and i appreciate you for a
helping me tell my story because ah i believe it's an important story now not everybody is going to be a prisoner of war in fact i hope i open pray none at the other people listen
to this podcast wever be in that eight foot self that i was in but we all get into the our own little prison sin and we can be i am convinced just as confined in our little eden
box as i was in an eight foot prison self end so if if those challenges of the same then the solution is the same the solution to the prisonare find ourselves in of the self
disappointment it takes the believing that yes i am a control i might my own wife i i am a captain of my soul and now and that i do as i do make a difference say put all those
things together and um and ye you can in fact live the life with the hand that you doubt it on even to try and make any additional point on that other than to say when you have a
hanger with two plans in it for your man cave and when the man can come as taboots one even sir obviously i i can't thank you enough for coming on the po cast for writing the book
for sharing the knowledge that you paid so dearly to acquire and montoron than all that i can't thank you enough for your service and you are sacrificed for six years for us and
for this great nation and you dedicate your book very simply to the families of those brave men who will never return and for those families and for those brave men we will and we
will try to live as you have exemplified with faith and pride and discipline to overcome whatever hardships we might face and whatever obstacles might be in our path in through
those adversities discover every day how to love this i so until next time missus captain charley plum an echo and jocko out
