the names in the stories in this episode has been omitted to protect the privacy of the individuals involved this is jacopo cast in number seventy seven with a charles and me
jackwell evening ah good evening and tonight we welcome back to the show retired chief worn off sir roger hayden and if you don't know who roger had in his then just stop right
now and go back to at the sod thirty seven a this poast and you can listen to roger came on for a short peyton we have some time constraints on the first time the roger came on
but he's one of the men on which the reputation of the seal teams is built started off as a frog man member of the underwater demolition teams and deployed to vietnam with on the
water demolition team twelve and then came back and checked in to seat one where he deployed again two times to vietnam and then spent thirty years in the celtes and then as a
civilian has another how many years to one another so were just lifting to the solid fifty years of service to naval special war from the sultan so like a said rogers been on
before natolian real quick story to kanigi a little back ground as to rogers attitude about things and so i was on and i told this part of the story last time we ran the ship we
were we were dabbing or our operational ready ness exercise was being graded to called orion personates grating it is roger ainsi you know the the young seal protons were getting
grated and make insure that we know what we're doing and at this point roger is a war officer sees commissioned officer that he's out all the ship with us going you know watching
how were planning and see how we're preparing our dear and make insure that where we know we're doing like a set and as a commissioned officer year supposed to be eating in what's
called the war groom with the rest of the officers so in the military has officers and aveline gaze officers are sort of the managers and the enlisted guirand a workers and as an
officer on a ship on a naishapur some call a war groom which is nice to have it it's the little it enallos lot pretty darn nice in the wardroom ovidean both the war dremendous
deck on the warroo you know you have real soerine people serving you so the war drum is is kind o nice well roger as a worn officer is you know permitted or of the rise or
supposed to eat with the rest of ostersluis to go to deputant and roger didn't want to eat with the officers he wanted to eat with the chief so that the middle management of the
of the navy is the chief the chief petosiris and there's chief senor chiefs and masterships and there are like the backbone of the navy they have the the tact or knowledge in the
seal teams and so roger instead of wanting is that are eating with the officers he wanted to eat with the chiefs and before he was a onotawah you as senior chief before you were
not seraskerat chief so he was a hard bite a master thief before he became a wanosia so he started eating a chemist with all the chiefs well the sum of the dead the chiefs on the
ship made in like havanas eight we don't want this officer here the sorterthing this is our area can you know we can can't i wishes of sir coming in here and so my potency at the
time was actually friends worth with roger but you know he was the guy that was getting had really building relationships with the chief sommershof and all that stuff and so they
knew him and they and he was a senior chief and i pulled him up a side dessau know ay a senior chief you know it's kind of we got this warn officeresses coming anty's not
shouldn't be coming in here eastgothic the of the you wore room with the rest in officers this is chief master as belonging here and so my chief was like listening to a onkimmon
sure why you feel that way but this goes on for a couple of days and finally my petition i wasn't there for this but i got pulled the story and my petunia was a guide from the
south and he add a great accent and talked in a very distinct manner and so so they get in to lunch in an was launched the rent the the chief mass philonian worn off trade and
comes in and he stand in there and he's getting a couple of locks from people and finally my petunia stands up and says ah can i ask every one an ear a question real quick and
they go kawie says well this here is worn off sir roger hayden member of the under water demolition teams member of the sealed team serf three tours in vietnam highly deckerated
including a purple heart for being wounded any was a master chief before he got commissioned and he wants to eat with us in the chiefess but any one here have a problem with that
edecon in disintegrates and so rogeen heats were roger having one of ideational is she once again then i come on back and no last time we were time constrained in a he said you've
come back so here are preciate come and back on you know a maples or thank you and a noosed anybody wants to get the full back ground you know listen out poncaser thirty seven and
he talks a little bit behind you grew up i had a question when you join so you came in and your dad was udite which is awesome and then when you joined the navy in nineteen sixty
five did you know you were going to vietnam was the war bigenum yet cause we had this guy on last time captain charley plumate went to naval cademy and he he said he he graduated
from the naval academy i think in nineteen sixty five as well but he said he never heard he never heard the word vietnam one time while he was going to nalgwa at the graduated
that the war escaladed and althea sudden he realized when he was going through flight training that yahooing to vietnam but when you joined in sixty five if you know have you will
you think it a definitely got a lot or go to vienam ye pretty much because i have been drafted in the army and the new yarns going to vietnam si figured um and you a wonder go in
the navy and into a tea my dad never talk about it much but a theoriser younger i watched the movies of the marines attacked him in beads and getting more down you all righters
taken heavy as stuff and then i saw that bridoie quingena never one and i figured the afore goin to fight at the iambic you want to find me me around a little torso he i did it i
then fact it soon's i got in to the navy i young i took the screening test and all that stuff and you i before even went to no right after when i was at radescon i was already one
so to it it was a twenty two week long school that's what i did as i work and get all that stuff and did discreetest and if you don't oh they want me to go to older some other
nevians elation cause i didn't i too bad wandinong wasn't that number one guy went and i went not on to go to at tea and so at it you you went to what the that you leather you we
are cassoulet wasn't sartin up for about six months so they stuck me on the uses power her thirty secketry waiting for a easy te training and i was at denise man back in the day
at deseese we was pretty good wasn't like it is now and i figured i'd worked in the regular shackerle that while susette aboard they put masonis downeton long went down there they
were two other guys that were waiting for a three to that were in the scovery silva we set there in didto months and caught off the ship and what next door crossed the batter to
training yet it's something to have it's if you're a new guy ever talks about how new guys get treated wherever you are in the military but in the navy when you got lechaptois
ship you doesn't matter you have to work in the in the scullery which is washing dishes what is it a ninety day spent you got to do in the now pretty may pretty much ninety days
are and and you only don't do that if you are a efore rod and we did i italian where we had a guy that was in the silouette and you know he was saying hey wait a how man on to get
out of this you don't do in the scullery duty and we are like you're not said as the rules honouring do it he can't do it i was just seen a kite to of a surging well good for no
one we couldn't get a flight back so they put us on an art to fold back here to send ego and oh we kept all over gudeman ye a masculine work seeming satellites went a we got stuff
to do or do in training and now they have got time to do that else we kept matter of course i was a senior chief standing so it be so we had little pull ye plus the cabaret he
bring like this a lot and a la meseems in he was a pr vietnam giallone well be ye well an actually this kind added up making in for luckily before we went on the pointment of tea
there but ah i emailed to bring out supplies and stuff like that you don't cause it was a good work out your name yet in her day when he called that in reputation we do that do we
actually want when i am my first upon mentation and you know we did get whatever we wanted i was twenty one years old it was completely insane you got all this pordenone you felt
like the rich you will never my fell like if you are aricagua you ever met i mean you never made any money when you're in sixteen seventeen years old you get in the supension all
this money and then they go over season there given you podium an so you the richest dodor you have very limited responsibilities cause your new guinnesses what you do just get
crazy and get after it and you know you're doing whatever you want and then my next point was on a ship and we pull into the first port and they say ah you know he found below
liberty expires at ten o'clock and i was like a yeah whatever he onesel but i like no actually you will be back on the ship the ten o'clock and no is no way round it and with
there was was round and we found was runaway around it was i'd put my pet geraneia and then go off the ship to go out whatever and then hang out all night until five o'clock in
the morning and i put my pecheron i run get a waconda up the brow at whatever is come a back and said the alisonae tommyrot ones there was a way siosteen so speaking a guy's from
from a when you were going through training was there guy when you go into buds training was there corean careened eutychiais onomato was it just beaton gustily onotarse strutters
yeh all terror two guys who was on a guy named um um cadamomum great big tall guy pocut in hand he was a world war two unitaet me tell you the story of that guy sewerage just get
the tankette last part of the training you know third face a yell so we're all lined up there we just got off we went out there elsyou you know with oliver ammonaria that of the
crap we just muster out there in this cup comes walking up great big tall guy roll old what was it did nine tekedemt he looked puppylike ah you do or i do recitation gudea alane
looks at us the start talk and you know he goes got damonem there i'm your den one struck turn now keep talking he says i don't brookhouse on the range you don't we're kind of
just looking at like what the hell he gets himself worked up a little bed and he goes up matter fact or anybody at screws up with just go out behind the shutter and get it squared
away you know work still looking at talkative bit more gets himself all excited and she ate he goes matter fact anybody wants to go behind his sitter right now we'll go fenandes
look at it well come to find out later on was in the eighty second airborne and jumped in the norman hall to an go capture escaped on an on an he was in the queen war to that was
one of our instructors almost all of the everincreasing he don't pretty much but a hoehne the guy and um on his jacket he wore i do but you did he instruct on the other side was
god you know he was a he was a hook nose indian a patchy here was that asked dudenants some great guys than i mostly instructors yet were on and some are vietnam guys who don't
like um um had this one blue like guy he was oh can't think his name might now either but he was a inondations was paddling up north ah and um um oneley a river so no not that
north that east coast in a his give his honor excursion was some other people in his conative and ah he it was real cold and she had no atrying to swim a couple of major an she
had an india side just went out but this guy would run behind you and you course we didn't have a lot of her but what we had to stoop you know you turn and look and there you just
stare at the these blue eyes you know i'll tell you his name if the men at rogogin though they did there must have been a cousin but to pretty regimented now but they must have no
i was it was definitely less regimented when i went through for sure they must have been completely just like no rule when you went through you know wiseguy during hall we can go
they called this time line and like i say were on the bay side my you were in tringanau started in anotheree judy were some colder and god you know what he would do as thou will
it have a cook into what we call the flotterait you know like you when you do reconteuse on the line you down the line and stuff and that he had sent us all out and held hers
about face about sixty of a feminine that he prevailed with it sends out and we had been a straight line if he weren't i'd bring him on back and line to all up again and we
weren't straight so he sent us all again at all back in and were freezing the guys are almost getting hypothenuse were not were just in a cape packing he your regular utility that
you were for training and so he sent us out again the third time and i give you on the bitter and linger your your go then he brought back any goes and i dare my guess is still
isn't very ah so gusterson line and we mean we're going to have to send out again all the way down the line all you hear is clickclickclick i clicked pick we just look at him well
all right we got other things to do he there was it we were done man of me that i lost the whole class that was so cold if eve always if if you don't know california and you think
california is like a watch the old tshow you think the waters all warm it's not warm is not an especially in january but he jinuary third its knockdown it and you were saying you
guys were swimming like crazy going through that because you knew that your own or out to it so you were frog man that's a to be in trying for not seals so we did a lot more water
work than you guys did going to buds as we didn't have the seal portion of that we got that diastema or to plant came back when seltoun to cadate did you get any land warfare at
all in but all yaller it is as norinaga basic stuff and no little immediate aids been remedian girls but not much it was a like our last stop that we had i take her told you this
in a unthinking was a we did swimmest on the other side of a a rock formation we call berthier and got the island they gave us all of the forty pound half or sacks and we went
from there all the way twenty three miles to the end of the island we blew up one main walking yet up the sea humpety three miles and samovar the beach yet and then came back and
attacked the camp that was her last opeta's a that's a crappy petrol too detached yet it elitha's e o i was my was sorry as pretty smart sea so i wore i am a kind of a um what to
what he called at the small one you know collieries and because i you know so i wouldn't freeze to it come in and actually this was april almost the end of april now so cold out
of sand commando know dolly swam in and i humped to that thing on her all the way up there neck got sunny and warm a almost frigid died in sin on the well back he could peel it
off me like this you know yet and there's no good there's no good way to do it there's like no good way to handle coming over the beans not and then convenient you're not going to
be comfortable that's one of the things that makes in my opinion the one of the things that makes the seal team the guys in sultery good is that we just have to deal with the
water and as soon as you delineate by gusset there's no easy way to do that is like you're goin to be the befriender or is going to be sweating all land or you're going to be too
hot or no is do not you an you can be okay in a all no on the land it sure just screeds what i'm saying and not to mentone weapons you your weapons all get you ready as all good
jacked up you your weapons alguja up your gear gets all jacked up you got sand in your boots there's no good way to deal with it as on and on top of that he can you occasion like
goring the water you can't talk to people you can't there's nobody radios aren't work and it's just everything socks and so when we are do obstrictus seems like it's so easy to do
and i think that's the one big thing that separates that doesn't separate is but it's one of the things that makes us good is that we have to deal with a water and we deal with
our whole corombona line as you should never bring your boat to shore you always swim in they'll that's what we do the taliesin or scouts the whole nine yards out set the bottom
line was a chief is pretty hard on that stuff we never a brought the boat ashore he had and you don't need the weed we did the same thing when we were the art bolton we never
brought the boats and because there's a there's a ten fifteen maybe twenty per cent chance you're going to let the boat you're going to lose a boat some going to have to boat and
then you're scroobious ing up against the shore and you got to deal with in its big no we always lettin a big it's a big target for sure for sir like a in desert storm you only
inserted those canes the offer i will mention names but one to bring both the boats in you know and into quaitet the quite guy's off and i went not keep at least if you're going
to do that keep one boat back eikee in other bouchereau they can give covery fire you know age and then if they have to eat eat and you you can be seen you know i mean that that's
a big target yelled just don't do that you know now that at that they're so many thing you got to figure out with a water em and when you when you guiltily nat's why when we are
not rack and we rarely did but of we did some in in in the river but you just don't all either on foot just averting isolates her his iasicus did see it on what training sack on
to my nineteen sixty seven you get done with training and you check any oudt twelve man you didn't really know too much about soopings i guess no one at that time knew much about
the unamused no and you were saying on that first pocketed that the peons were really formed up yet you got a show up at you d t you near it it's it's kind of a loose situation
but do you do do a work up so once we start working up and it was red omened you you knew a chando but we had a wild they had just come back and relieved to yeteve and just
employed the twelve kin back in the haven of a stand down about a month or two how saturnalia from you okay cause it's a nine months a pointment for you tis so you have a lot of
six months work up and then you have three months with a guy's going leave school out of like that we came out keep in just at that time is so very kind of like a wet go up and do
what they call silver slippers up at the fenelon when the rings are doing tobias lines and we'd be the life guards and stuff like that you know me and till we start for me up in
our working that i got the got pretty good what did you guys do was the wheneer corbett back then folly would you guys you tempts yet pulton's or team team the whole team yet and
would andreae every day what was it the same was it thought cis porches poloftsi feetmeat i didn't start left to wait until she was in about fifteen years may be sixteen seventeen
years because that you do all course swimming all the pet we gonna never think we were in really good chap i mean unmannin' see a lot of the guys in the jim lived in heavy and
stuff that came on later on then also which i change is later on as a chief and that senior chief and stuff and he even now no not as now powastia did latent remaning but thou we
do it every other day than at the guys go off on to the runner peatwater stuff like that no work out well you know you can change even though i thought fetente morning first thing
is the best to do ye fessewise i can abolera the guys or be shown up and scuffed the always like restatement when i got to one so there was that that temper did every day in the
intestine thing but you know i'll tell you one sowar started as a lot less focus on p t and had just was waging sant'onofrio joker you and every go for long runs a shipwreck and
geese for rotrou aside since desisted at my my question is the did you take way to aid you have a work out places of your depot and actually once one team shells up who somewhere
on the ployment of they all bring a bunch of garden then there's enough to do it to get it done and then other teams the don't have to bring everything but they'll bring more
suffin eventually you know whatever compound you're in is pretty nice for you to be saved conan ah and i was briargate for jigtime a little digits area so i could ocarinas i could
feel tradidit the boy's tradin and um you know what's waited that you were talking about that its wearisome of the stuff stays but you're talking about walkon and you detest and
and coral but an enfantoun ately you did he short don't think i was warm i don't think they anaitean more but when i got the team one he absolutely got his soldiers and that's
what that was our uniform and we got issued call bodies to this old corral brutes and i didn't realize you know that's what you guys wornout something thing yet privinted for i
don't know feinted see guys with the corsetiere exaction stuff you know what i mean how you give back out i seem going harshly there i also i was i looked i looked up corbreuse if
anybody makes many more there hard to get there or at bay you got to buy a parentado got to be lucky if they have your side i got to go through my dear e i still have my coral
body's oh but and then you did do all legwork up though where you did all your hire regan all you only in rotarians the relief the coast by pendelton now we draw this one rock up
licensing in a poet is talking mountains and put in the lake and stuff like that and then that we simarosa the uh uh walewein no we didn't right there at the channel on a goes out
to any of those old gun emplacement yet good it would tack those they had him set up the booby traps and stuff so we'd go across and the work away up and shut like that always
stuff you are and edithas it wasn't bad it was good drinking i mean but it wasn't you know tis like a story i told you was a during the sixty seven six eight ten were in gone tom
on the assyrian that's were i was wisely tea and her about seventeen of a summer were doing that dark tank lay around getting that little bit more but i noteware with a night
ivery and stuff and a anyway i had a sulpitian mitawawa it too too far away but it was right in the town why these coast would have a wouldhave a there a place in in a town i
never know because any time you left her when any were you know what i'm saying to you could be picked out the way to till they were almost getting over ambut there were on the
tasselling natife seven close friend stuff anyway he sent a card he we need help there were seventeen of us you know on the sayest guys we want to go in and rescue him and save
him and our officer just a great guillotine said now you ain't going anywhere were so cold you got in there how copter we don't know though he elegist want john help one out in
your pioneer do you know of this their seals but the antigua it so any way so i we didn't do that and i got back from the payment when i sell team went through the cab reef and
then at antlike i goes guy's by the way they didn't get over run they don't they they've long elongate coming up the eaout stairways there were tonnesson at an end stuff like that
and then finally the arintheus came in and took me to back over it was during the sixty seven six he toiled but he way so when i got back and i went through cadences and out you
know at eight we were ready for this we didn't know any immediate action drives and flung out a lot not ottento know pounder nor had roy daughter matically think about him
exhilarant urban environment what soothes us we weren't urban than that was servant or with at her as is handed to see yet that is we didn't know we were fighters we have fought
but you know figure those guys in me told of t c and stuff they are they had their ship together that was their talents stuff in me with a yewen more about the orieano cause i
never fought her a been you know would he who is the stuff like that but we never swept through a we did one villa on time but it was you know it was good demented so ye when you
deployed to what you it did you guys write a ship over there to fire with a hodegetria we flew over to suitable said i i was at where we were at that's like you went to gomesius
or place he would pay and then how they would do with fly over to do we had different debts that we hadn't it on em like in that tenanted camp ten show and from the name work up
and round folia quatre don hall the northern part of the area and stuff you know and then we got on the dishallowed we picked the duchenois we could not remind if there was feedin
beacons and yet he next did i went to his dominantem on the engelbecken between at all oh ye oh really and would be there for about a month and or three weeks and then when we
impatiently deploy from suilvean et de operations for a month then go back three months oestrymon youthe months at a time ye allioni month the point of ye so ye that we my three
deaths were the mangan on the diana and then down and down tom when as a newt not waree months at each place and a persalt the one last one he thought talked about doing a hundred
thirty miles worth of beach means about a hundred and twenty i think you i thought it on at ten a m author months i mean but you don't you are kind of talking about it like all
you know were to his re come but that was you you are cunning beaches in north vietnam no saltillo and was there any resistance where you guys in jeopardy of getting rolled up or
was it more of like almost an admettin or was it somewhere in patonee always had these tories or the arming which is the south being the army they would a scream but screens out
when we do the beaches the cover or in case we got here with anything less cause they were none knew what was doing on the beaches and stuff but if the ringin the area they had
sent a patrol and it worked a back to back short and stuff as we're doing a reticent one he told ye we got he had was we didn't have any arm in the army or marines so he sent two
of our guys in the back the kind of checked things out as we're doing a recondite we got caught in a ouskout not a isetembiso and ah what happened was as were coming down the
beach and we had the guys out now as a contagerous out front with another guy and i had a parabasis the coral bodies than my super hate it was right in the back toinon dallas
every one knows what we're talking about when you're going to land people on beaches or if you potentially on land people on beaches you have to do a reconnoisance of the beach
but not just of the beach itself but of the water and how deep the water is makes the no of schools and there and to the people that did this since world war two was the the
underwater demolition teams so that's what we're talkin about the way you do it is you you have a a literally you have a line a big rope is small so it's more like a line than it
is roped with that stretches from the beach from a couple guys on the beach called the beach party all the way out to a boat a small little rubber boat william tell you yet and
then there that was the night be we here to to is about thirty feet as not for you know each paris going to be hold on to and you mark take the sounding then you as you went to
the next sounding which was twenty five yards down the beach and on the best it behold enough these ah markers so that you could get yourself on him you'd be diffiding down until
you got to that point again then you take your soundest back and make a hydrographic chart is in this guy's on the beach that are holding followe call range more or and he that
would i set like ten yards apart to get on in front of one kind of back and they're looking at a compass so that they're making should at their lined up so that lines up the whole
line so it's this it's this kind of complicated in it seems like it administrative thing but you got a do it otherwise you know you get a situation where the marines come in to
land and they hit up like they do ye have like they do it in toronto big tidore and in they drop the ramps the guys get out and they didn't know that that reef was only ten feet
long its two feet deep but now near the side reef the guys going into ten twelve fifteen feet water and drown so that's why you have to actually be fairly precise or a less
precise as you can be when you're taking these when you're doing this hydrographic reconditeness you have the bag short party he owed the two guys there i have the officer and a
couple other guys dicunt stakes put the stake out that usitatae dabber way out ahead of everybody else taking the back soniferous sundry came back and do your ontography chart you
don't you you can lay it out exactly then you ave to do it leopold talk of frill the gift so which i hate a head yet a man make you hand draw the man sneer hand drawn that in
those of those charges that you draw you're going precetto me it presented to you know the the navy and they're going to use those charts to conduct this landing so like i said
they got to be good got to be good quality they anyway so if thou two guys were walking along and we're doing nerve be reconcentrating all there they ah had a nail shape ambush
ones and they had a spire hoback here with a copper guy that at once we got head and ainybody ran back these guys of holes of down or two guys hit those two guys in these spider
on opened up on him which made them open up on the sooner so we all leap frog back down the beach we will he great guy an me took charge everything was perfect we grabbed on to
the line to both the ideas took off and you know nine or nine to half her course to ranges it go real fast if you than we had our postcard cutter out there they start lobtailing
peter on him but we didn't know it was them and some of the land pretty close to us and we thought that was them doing of the h trying to hit us and we we got a poroteo pile that
we've finally got to in god on appeals as you know the boat that the hum that we insert it off of incan i they picked us up and the gun was shootin's fifty and stuff it was was
very neat was in comes two jets oh no and they need on the whole beach was that was cutacoo that i told you when i got back to the boat i said schoonmaken warrior shift he at her
eyes you are a pair of you detestably anatitlan what late realer the little there like us they're like chuck converse cocktail you little bit leaner day have those the that split
for no no i won't listen i do i don't i cleverly would so so you could walk on coralie cut on the lake holding down there not big in no not at all they are a overlate were campus
and they had a kind of a row of thick worried bottom on it at a heather were good and then i had an inset nine son shooting up thing as a morning back and stuff the hat the only
weapon he had thisyeah yet that in your ear slate to draw on you know i like back sore from so allexit ing and was that before you was at was that reconduire he worked with a
night in potry hesea went from there from the disendow to don tom and work with a knight in try and eat the nine time for three men so the stuff i was looking about you know
latinities can what they did and perishes of all the night in patras the is the unit that the fictional character forest camp was supposed to be attached to which is wine the
movies work in by the water and all that stuff i imagine that's what they that's why they picked it up the nine ten pantry in vietnam at ten metal vanus awarded to soldiers and
three sailors so they were working in conjunction very closely with the brown water navy which again to pull a coat from the last time you you are on roger you like saying that
job as being brown water navy was just you vicious jonan i wesleyan general less moral and said that the ninth and pudicitia and the mobile river in forces saved the delerion from
falling to the north leomie during during ten that could have been a bagani wasn't on land with them don't know whether thing we did remember of otesias then and we got swearin
the asafeta a been a whale as a reconociendo as or in the water what they were a p d s what's that ah ah antonia of some sugarish yatter figgins and troopships wingate think the
askari was a copetent sure could have been the been want to but they were pretty good size of she upsoaring at a on the alright at the don camp which was the don talent had a big
army base in a navy base and late my third trip of it now i went back to is a seal and it was as satanic on the same area so would you how did you get hit length up with a night
and patrie we ah that's who were doing the reconnoissance for i see things of worthy canals and up the rivers you know it see what the depth was for they could bring the uh the
brown water navy up there that the troop carriers and stuff like that for the nine ivory and they didn't know what the depth of the sum of the place they were going to go in so
they dropped us off on these we call the dark stilly were like a jet skin right except you didn't set up on me lay down on him you hear feet to a guide him for they had a three
hundred fifty five degree camera and a falaments come down and do the reconnais and men take to meaning to take pitchers of non point like a pagoda my nether can all come in in or
that thing you know we come back we do a chart and we'd give it to him in that that they used those sharks to go up and do their ritibus landis pensiero e g only got those down
less things may be once the or twice that you didn't do it again because they'd be waiting for yourself when we weren't doing that which you gondo so many of them for then we
start writing with a night empetre as sedemus the end and are you old would you already see it because you do the darkness on and then you come back and then they'd come up with
her plan in the naked were going to go up that river that you just came down and so you'd be from we would you be familiar with it now no they took us we went up to four corners
in the place of that we had never been of a hat was deep enough for him to go up and stuff but a dean might have i don't know you know that would have been john alias my old tea
that i would have probably been in on the planning when they were going to go in some talk about our charts and tintorer i jist a puggaree and just one one guys in the dark on a
ananda and but then he said okay we're in need you on a log i know you were saying all last pot case they have these log dams at the lythe good dams across logs on the top the
boats up and just different obstacles as shitepokes along and now we'd go in and brought the bunkers of blot a log dams you know they had em and that's why i said they first put
us on with the cold an alphabet which was the need bottinney had one of the rare and one of the front and am what was the look like gum conti don't have a picture of riotously in
anybody aglooktook up on the night infantry they'll be able to see me but he was the alfaterna one of those and that's the one i told you we got some on cause it be forty rock and
hit it right in the exhaust and things start going down and we ran to shore to ben little bit higher to hit all those stacks of a shefford so but and then they start putting us on
the butte hertofore both back at a as they didn't want to think amoenitat altho yet that makes sense when he might see in that one out so your boat gets hit with a rocket and it
start sinking and in the was it like a chief run in the boat no i was good at been i just now reversionary ran in stupiditate sinking down a week out of the little primer and then
the um as if a bold came up and his holes everything down an we semoorie got off the itabod his helenaed because after the siparate because as a flame thrower he tried actually
out of i i know i popped the stuff off like people in the older in you had i been there to do the situtunga came zipping up and then we swam over to and we got on it and got out
of the any get everyone out of their wedge nobody got hurt or killed on that just that be forty rocked they start owing up at or the bolton up to the dead fifties you know ceases
price twenty idiou tristiano the demerit well i actually virilo it lone were going to come back and do that but they decide to have you do do it so how you'll do one back and be
the bold up and all that class a census partly out of the water and solatude on pistatore in a water demolishes like you have you t you know that of that's what we do feel the
well the old guys i guess they didn't have a lot to do so hesitate i don't know if he was army or navy you'll be even you know how it's always good to blow things up that's one o
the my first appointment are to rack winlow very much up and when i went to my second deployment to iraq i i kind of have the attitude as if we had the opportunity to blow
something up we were going to blow it up seems like the smart big to do beerapore lonlay onloaded playing and i that one you know one on the last pot castaing about that one
operation that you went on and you there was the basically a giant ambush against the water her seven or eight foes to judie had sat the night in patras and they must have been
prepared waiting for you got for it for this troopship and were the wood was the enemy that well organized at that point on say argonaut on you got si upsydoun pamphlets in saying
oh you we may be doing something that areotha good guys leave and stuff like that you know so opsite play with that or the choppers go to round on with her speakers and you don't
mean yes o ye that particle on there was another group of boats that went up ahead of us dropped off their guises than nineteen tree were coming back we passed him and since we
got by him at about a ten minutes and we got opened up on they didn't get the first group they did hit our group and ah you eveleth was a bad day and dad city but it you onto got
it really bad but i matisse to the shore and put some of the guys often suffenus i think it was done be up penthemont where they came out like people because they dropped the
other guy's way often there were three easy the guys to mat goupiner were three of us on the group that gondweiyo main mission was going to be demioeil oh burnyeat those ah those
big its weird hildesley straight up antibiotics the armies in doctor t think about that and emerigon to demere you were saying that the marines were busy up folded yet that time
gatekeeper me away that the the night intruded good job and they were fighters you know they were out of workington state of workington you know and ah the ah they were good good
troop e e ah what about another different difference a man even with the night namefor those guys i mean in oitos are all volunteers and i mean in youth said you want a been
drafted had you not joined what did you did you notice any difference between drafted guise and guise that were volunteers denial work with that many army istan the night if the
tree denying i can remember that stands out of that of secotan come up to me when as tomarite bewilderer holes they are about right and i mine came upon me with his map and ask me
worry was you know and that kind of i went on and that's the second eutensels out you put two norquay guyandotte in no you don't hate saying i just don't know i don't know my
thought of that was is we were trained and we knew what we're going to do just like in seatand we leaned forward and that's what we're goin to do you're just picked off to street
go through basic training and then you ah young exton you are upon a huntin being over ran the stuff that scottie pretty dramatic you know the denigrari cans are marriages we
fight you need we darness but i think we were more psychologically set for what we did then our cause of the exeter we had in suffuse guys that trained us where a lot of orvietan
guise in like i said sagramore that gave you a uninitiative they did at that for we do you can wound it on that mission to get right how about it you get wondersome travoy foot in
my leg will be thing did you do to you out of fuel for a natooral that i got up and start shooting along those guiliano had this sabod of ours in ithake i told you we got it
really bad in her apron his arms alas and i calls over to him after i moved my fingers and told the reshingled we all got blown down and then i went over to him had him at
morphine put it through his collar than the h thirty gunnoono his gun so i got to start shooting a thirty you no big thing but just what you do you know ye were in a iollas you
shakunaga he got blown on the other side of him and calls over to him didn't see my pen to his collar so hiding with another shot of morphine you know he and i bout to four of
imanus he can as set up by tesson to do somebody was escourre bad and then magot up the sarchedon stuff and the guide that were down in a rating or after i got three ran out
amooroim hand a subsection stuff loamford a shade and my i said the rampant down we start going in towards the beach to let the guys at womaned get off and and we started taking
fire like to the front so i went to one side he went to other side and i was usimare to suppress fire and stuff and we backed off and we got out of there and did you insert any of
the army alabout eight or nine of onyaegin guys got in certificate or company strength yea not yet is more in a company it was eight boats olot of people about the input about
twenty five thirty gitaldaha we were hit on weedlike i said it was really a weird thing because a worse hernieder thing just started fire going off we heard number one boat had
four number of four boldre three number four ye number two boats had number three boats had now remember i distuned looked at it said wherefore we got it and what i did as i had a
canvas cover and they at all those of wire stretchers stacked up in the bee forty rocket was head and write towards the ahonican ing colannah driver everything but a wantoneth
stretchers in the island room you know all that she went out so i put you guys get good and medical training i mean obviously you had to give more time well ottetto good
betinselled extensive nettled turning factor first etonian over his a wet or first class corman to prove best every week he had one of susangata had wounds to her something
suckemstanses the same stuff that you got his dared out have the many consenteth wood on you after an out and treat him and what to do and we ah learn their give her selves of
sirmium in case the corneas hit or seventeen e to give yourself a tide we we did all that stuff if all of us carry that with us everybody had certain well beaten which is a blood
going expand or unites the cat had to have a bet a youth not so much will you more fiend ruin is a basic some of the basis and you don't pressurize and turning to sand salutation
real real good and you need to they do a good job with that teacher will see class at the ant now the aftereffects or pontico bat tromelin that and so they know what to do with
somebody gets it everybody in the tone knows long my decent amount is to get the guy stablike told us so but to this is the one in safety ninety says i am the only form an ear and
if i did hit some is got to take care of me thank ye as on he win at heritage god for him so i you get home from that deportment and now why you said you you you know you won't
get mad enough the naked warrior stuff and you see i want to get a big machine gun but i will say that i was on the best appointments i was on the guse everything the heady tea
twelve at that time was comprised of class forty forty one and forty two and some of forty three but everybody knew everybody you know i mean it was rotten real good and see bay
who put gontcharny i can aifter we then there for about three weeks you you are right to go to a yethered just to get out of their new go to it of distant lie he owermuch no i i i
never realized that you guys are go back to oh you know back to hotheaded eponine that's gone well we would for a than meateater next ten like you say we are where there for nine
months in each tawas about three months you not mean may be a little less but we have some down time and see we can then with were turned it which is pretty nice you know nine
months is a long time but sal you don monacal back in the day seeing bay was almost worse and it and all men summer as it goes out it was almost like the gangsters back to her age
he had all these a different gangs were after each other shed be when he is walking down mexicanised look around the corner to see if the one they were shooting at each other for
you walked by and set it was a miss bettie i kind of like the wild wild was and you said that the whole easy ketele at that time was made up of all guys from the same like five or
six bugs gladsomely that were there too from the other classes but on it was a lamaserie of a sea put in the platoons to suffer from class forty thirty nine may be the athenians a
head of a state moreau of them went on some one to twelve to the used to split him levendale you went to a easy tetricae ah yet the latter word guys that were you know behind us
but remember we only ran to classes a year and but one no kitten you to class at a year at because thirty nine was graduated and then then we started forty acanthe we graduated
that's when forty one was started you know i mean what are they run now like five yea something like that five six in something like five when our through think so so you had a
good experience with you get but you still wandering all young oogowahdee put in the cidery one to go to sea ten when he yelled us and said the attenuated back you don't do when
we got back where the first two out of you to a net can rekindle an i was you know achenia a conversation i talk about how we ask you pianeta i was in training self silting one we
called ourselves contra and i didn't really know where that came from but i knew that that was what it was called and were proud that we were congratu then i i was listened to to
the parastat you you came on and you were talking about continooal the contra training that's where a skittering guise that tottering in actors and had just carried on in a
oportun training was different you know once you got you got out i ask you tear cadran you went to a platoon any wine to put tonton ing too and now we still ran by some of the
inconwenienced on tree seventy one they won training self be around that long o the was held caravanite paassion other team oversweetness guys eitha work up or or the contract
raining now you started getting heavy with field crowd with i mean full everything ye at every am bushes you need me then we have the alamo river we were on and the tamaroas a lot
like vietnam they actually set up a whole thing there to look like a elation pull for that you know at the whole night or you have to work you go down get in and work your way in
stuff in the which just like vietnam is pretty close in the end that once again the people that are teaching you are seals that are in codrington just got back from vietnam so
they got fresh the ainion from the batty are a harbor or to entrain or twining some tea one every time a platoon came back that pull two or three of the best guys from that
platoon and put him into her tradition that was every pattoniana the did that so yet a cross cut of all the different areas of the tamanuse that had been in there that did well
not that souhaiterais great guy some we got good training and then we know as no boushet because they knew how we knew that what we learned there was going to save all asses in
our bodies but and so we we go and got pawning to our heads we did reverentiam cross then of a lot because you had a lot of river who you small come out he will not small
canasatego side either walked on them and up to the side or you one across some young like as a sixty gun always carried about three a eateese and to help me fold across but i i'm
just saying you added judge the curl right so when you went out it would bring you rightaway supposed to be in stuff like that you know what i mean just the extensive training the
alimonies not roll it a not a rolfes moviemania good corn in it so you learned all that young in me all you learned it what you had to have your geria i quit do a siminol stuff
with our sixes and ship to see where we needed to have the flotation and stuff like that you know what i mean it was pretty good actually why i went out to nine lane we didn't
even have the camp out there we had to pin niland itself the town there was a gestation and had about four or five green little green trailers and that's where we stayed at and
then it attracts to where the a canal was that sutasoma with go up there they wildun back and stuffed you know what i mean and we'd go up to the chocolate mountains up to um a
bill wells an stuff like that for ambushes and just you don't i mean it will what no camp or onolatry o'sight what was that i i can't remember the sight on byeing a hawaryat later
on is implicuit chalbos back some other way in i'd still see holes were forty mile my kitlins you know some back in the hasheech work when you do that night oh otha's all doing
till we were every one we do our metatoron suffering the day and sup at all over ambushes and all the other field graft that we did rising was all in fine because that's when i
worked and that was the that was the non thing it was a hepworth that's wantit much you know how much did you guys did you guys go out if there was a folmon which you got less in
vietnam which you got less of this a formoses you have fallen so you couldn't see it will add still barking at some incest a footit almost like batanaea you know you're talking
about gerlie bit what you carried and as all these kind of mess about what guys were doing berkenhead and and in vietnam a wanton as buggins like every where lugano a low foliage
of which catamites and to me because their tough right that was the whole reason to was the takeoff ring mangrove suffer wooden territories stop would tear and if you bend down
like you when you stop and stuff the skins were each a live right to the ripped up and stuff so we start worrying to a blue jeans and i you wanted to get demulcent to button up
because they also kept leading tony a feat the bud button button of one you were school and then sometimes we were anyone that to keep lechaillu were take the leeson put him into
our young aboot and rogers take him around so he would did do wouldn't just be hanging down were ship to come up and suffer there are a lot of leeches over their no big thing but
it just you just learn you know like as it apenny host this pretty funny cause if we were on safotulafai round with pain can blue and yellow paniho on his stuff from senora given
is kind of some word look and shinitaku how about gas going barefoot well we had a couple of guys that do that and guy stepped on stuff and i injured themselves in that die i ah
didn't see that very much at all myself in my buttons maybe other patusa tell you yet that was a big thing but a lot of times we don't walk on trails we walked outside of the
trails and there is all kinds of ship near needin alone just be bare for the guarantees get done with that um work up and everything how about happelie you here you are picoter
fire stories about guy's taken at every round out of their belt and loving every individual round especially stove i heard that about stonegate that they take every round out of
their belt and blue every individual round and put it back in their another seen the hacendero for guys that carried the stone reginon and my last put to but i don't know why
you'd take him out and put him back in the they jammed a lot but that was just a stone thing we sent our guy to a catlike which is who made to stone so they could learn all the
intricacies and i ah what to do if something happened yeeeeeing on the six egenonto bout the time much as long as you took care of that baby a dead warworker had a mouthful
wishart here you know aholiabs down your arm of carney get lengstein there are your shooting it and hear ye have you do rigaud your neck and it gets caught in the certainties
learn he atone to me little one boon of the namaste me the story that like head the the um yes you stonegate and we came back he checked in his wappenos going and joined another
tune to went to get up a new stone or when out a new stone but one of the stories out of the armory and he got it with inchicore armor and a engraved on ne but stock of the stone
or i said everybody must get stone feelings got a deathercold have been eyes ah for that sixty or was just a and you developed exactly alike my basic cloves about six thirty cause
we had a hundred and thirty hour round box of corn that we had channel ice man that got wet run on the side of it and we slung a you know and shouted from the hip but after
shooting thousands around from from the happy get growing good eye of terelcourt nation of exactly where the round is goin to go but even regardless you always worked at in
bonnets a yacht's use me a point weapon like i am fourteen you know it was that it's a narra weapon but till you can get pretty accurate that summer bitch and you don ways walk
your rounds in because what you do round to her she off cada hit a guy just as well as yet in it scorned chester something and am i use can't tenpences and i carried love five
campian en couches ramawatti but under rounds there and leave about ah a tench out of that got it and then when i ford fire in a new is getting low i pop my little when on my own
can ahead grab my young thing of my sixty round snapped men and dump a man and close up or the libanon up have ridges on the side it would slide right in just dependent you know
but what was good about that box as you could be one upside down or eating i still have the hunting thirty round they shot you know i mean that's why we like to but that's place
of it was an it's a navy experimental place called carnelian we so we had to build in for us and they worked very well did you use a sling ye and what we did is that we took the
big bug plate off but an aircraft but played on an if you know is in the back you of that round thing that would take up who it cooked to see that for you opuntia hanger and met
it down rule like this i put a round the fun of the hay or see could take it off when you in a holderson is and then you can take off parody you got it fit just right where was
just right exactly what you wanted to do it worketh we were in venedocia as on this one full one time and we saw these a sixty gutter or they had sixties in a boat she only at
these big metal containers at the round endower lackington was a flexed tube that would into the sixty so couple cabars later we walked off with a cup of those and they were set
perfect in the back of her preceese en na backpack we could put them on hellfire hundred grounds and he had the flexowriter sixty yet have a special feat or for an you don't mean
it to be trade ah the fiery with right on the end of the fleete so it set right in their perfect so in the tower doing an off the copper charged the bonofacio red round right
there and he was kind o ne worthy the one's vietnamese came off choppers on time were doing parakeet obstabat that later in now it was housemaids and suffer we landed with the
copering up atnach other on the back and then covered fire fights and ship you know and it's not the carline coming up and everything were all bearded and you leave eyes and the
all that she now they're saying go down my told you had mercenary over here that i wasn't mercerian on guy says all that seals so yes that you guys are originators of the
predictor pack putting my idea take reward they used them on the boats but not on a not out in the field you couldn't contort miaowed it no it is i that it is eiseleusontai holy
or not help nothing that just for brighter but yet to be careful because if you took that thing off and laid it down and i didn't put a nail so he ate the flesh part of it all
your rounds had come out of the gate big pile is on your frown as not good you specially if he is in a firefighter trying to shoot it back in you amuse is just funny and but it
was i was pretty good me and our guiding to a a have those whom we fixed him up just just plain looking as a thinking m but you couldn't but trought with them on patrol cause they
were go plantane could hear in an off moving it was only if you are actually going off with him and something like you say there is streeties of obsedit if we do we're going to
take caves one was a down pilot and um ah another selatan trouble a bride light was bright light that a prisoner were going in to hit them and get them out but those reopened
three wetteren matter wage you know yeh that's awesome um you get so you finish your work up and now you're over to you go you first plant of vietnam this geloiton ye to keep up
to the onam and you're saying you were doing to the first potassa that you could dare bordera ions which was have a guy hacked dark because you guys i didn't have a good intel you
didn't have a good support wearie were at a place cognomen and it was a vietnamese fire base out in befigured and i we are here than down near he had the river and see full were
other squawlet our squad a put a pear that was the wise saintes one squat out their myself yet a day with the vine beatemest guys had a fire battery and there was no getting tell
so you basically with throw a dart at the dark board and then do what go to an ambush there go set an ambush but is we want looks out of an boshesmen see what was up to patrol yea
and that then you also were inserting primarily on on sampan turn at the plumes putting my other ways we you habout three times we walked down to the fire was and walk back in and
as you stepped as i give you a warm and fuzzy know cause a change guards an suffin you come back in all ways he's moving out there and maybe they don't know what they arbogad's
for you come back in sheen you don't say that so yea we didn't do a lot up at menacant because of that and we only had san pans we didn't have any of our boats up there one of the
mediums or lights or anything so off go after we've been up there for about a month i think montanhas that they brought us a may be two months in any brought down to see flopit
was start doing some good obstinate and pants how big is the sand pathological you fit in it oh for five said he take chananay gower heavy yet i take to sicanians you've gone you
ever gotten into a sampan now the sarosel burthenous are good in em because a small but you get about five bigamarious in there it so you have to be real careful and are you ruin
it no it's got a lot more renascent the little like leaves out of going with us to all competing with us was it just her selves now and then and then some one would stay with the
boats yeah yeah the going when they were the only on the come back to get as you know but you didn't start work in a lot until you got to see floandi will get officer donoseff
eraseme thing out and bushes and going up every said nat ambush it has that's why i told you i think it would you like get little bit confused sometimes i'm pebrine some thinking
they were pebrine seaflowers but they would wed go up on the upbear and have a boston away the withes and the bottle compelled for five guys you know plus the guy on the front
with sixty and a and get the guide driving it well with the way we had worked at his we had to hope latiner one buttoned be going do something well two guys out of the other i
mean the one squalid globe and two guys on the other squaw luckily got to pick tobe the driver sitting up on the thing driving the young the of a boston and the other gun the
sixties while you have a body else has just looking over the edge like this and didn't get darrin and wasn't you didn't get real excited when you were chosen to be the ah the
cataneo on on would you guys make any contact when you guess go out on ambush because i had to be kind o like looking for a needle in a haystack rowed god some contact that was
the one down on the square bay i told you about when we have the windies on that if when they hit that junk and then all the other farsari's ing and a few of the times we got in
some mohometan that particular that that platoon and that the pointment it wasn't we didn't do an awful or we went out a lot redeemer we didn't get a lot of fire fights and stuff
he was my second litore we are kicked atention like i mean this is sort of classic and unandi were talking about this earlier today if you don't have good intolerantly seaflower
didn't have that good of that erynnies didn't have a chief of a button we had a no peal and now and no mantenon of any man for he was a real good but we had to some guy that thief
corneto am not cheap at that to carminow's a first class the condatier everything he had been with the marise twice of to even so use good hand you mean he had a ship together
with smart and just a couple of funny things have we that was down to sing for doorward that pa of the clothes moved in so sad a fall you looking for me and my thought little
lasting iolantha was like at the chopper comes in and lands two of them dead one was pretty shot up and dorgan at ten he had sighed and body wanted be adorante go back and pick up
some other guys well course is a cormontaigne he's in unite to the flag jack on the hillman and takes the door gun a presidio in the take off and but half hour lay of the copper
comes back in and land shot up even more harry gets off the libyan to get off the boat tosses him a down takes it flahaut fuck on every do that again yet as i we will we had of
this cake colonel corrider on whose fan pilot vietnam he fecorino as second pointed but those guys both piled to be in omelette and arms they did not they knew they were going to
take ground they just went anyway and they were bad at that was the same as our sea walls and a black polly but tassels especially were just unbelievable guys you know these and
they were just bad as due to man they and i i told yet one sorry that i bought that one chopper now the worse kind of pin down behind this rice dietaries pretty heavy fire from
the uh tree lines so we call in for a closer supportasses you know so wersest getting back down messiter getting the cantonal to except to see walls who always had amata on the
sea wall oh you kick it off to this when they came in so the sea wills are coming with an hear the rollers walowit when the sea waves weren't doing they were the greatest when
they weren't doing up closer support that decius ned these great big speakers and in oakworth swim seawolf coming behind us worse it'll shoot near thing all so out of the clear
blue sky a wataga he hear this we are the gods there hellfire and we bring you fire and you fucaceae etre linement and they either had a fifty or any gun on one side of the
seawall and that see will turn like that and just holds the down i think that one had a many young on the right behind the came another see well but when they when we heard that
weary everybody just togolat like you a fulsome in that inherently suppressed a fire so than the black pond a had two point seven rocketing up black ponies came in with the five
its lois and when they hint hit the tree line it was blown ship to rover had and at pretty much quoteation otto of it a seahorse in the regular here a picked us up and got a out
of her that was that was a good ofto to ye the sea walwar the nave a pilots naviete yonchin that came in supported it were my colisee regular he had had other let him with that
rock a pods and i think oh i like to a black ponies had the h twenty men milleniums of front and in the fight and who he say had the just a rock of posited a fifty on one side and
oriani gun on the other side and of the most important in the thing that they had from everything of her and from what you're telling you right now as they had balls all ye not
the you there just coedine got drunk or knight in our barn see wilson the army side that's where they have the thing so we shall urthile over and give them and abedin with it so
we jump in or the six big had it out we were they had the army base here and the navy base here wear lived on the vietnamese side and had her own home very old for i piet was
perfect anyway we got no sick bindweed now when all were the sea wolf guides were we wanted drink of us you know we had her six he's wise you never knew the konso we get over
there go walking in their compound or ything i right boys get up lustring will see we made them drink of this naked as we are all naked so were all sitting there drinking theirs
if makatah nakedness and sixty and mooselike ratisbonne sad way much more morfontaine are edeetion telling you we weren't oh withewood get back for nopody cleaner weapons and
goupineurs the same thing he goes he was a you know we go out with fly we get shot up it after come back and like put the baburs in forepart him would get drunk they itherwise
really like looked at me the said i don't know how you guys did it without a call facilitates a young went to desert storm here or there nine months and now outaouais okay but i
mean to me i was just like a otherism ward you know neeally didn't do that much in awe ylagua did reconstituted macha and we did that one to supin often when we inserted the
quaestor's aside that they never begotten to a far pitation tea set that that of wit as he will that was on a human was on her second appointment and get yet on that was there he
first on your first appointment you know you did what you did but it wasn't as fruit for no i did do to me the one cigarette out of a tent see well to my very to get the deck ring
and it just seemed like we didn't hit the deck on the nometer and and just didn't have the intel i don't think or as you were seen leadership was all that good and stuff in me we
have one guyele they were doing some ship down in to see but a for we were we just didn't you couldn't ever thence wasn't that much you could do you with glad look try to find
shedderin but we didn't have actable intil the that we could react on ye don't which you found out later that's a chap to have sometimes too i think people spread their forces to
thin like think about it i just take a squaw and put em out there in the middle nowhere with no inteso and he got another squattee other area with no intellect you know you might
as well bring em together put a couple of guys you have in toland's making something happen will complutum before and that was there so that he that was for two noses gotten a lot
of ship you know that tony got his metal longer and stuff like that and i hate mice such an tripper had been in that plutonians lad taken a lot of ship to that queer stuck in me
amanda just as well she write and you could see the human forest with us at the very southern part of the name and it is shifts tripconey just a metate and we were away from that
little bet you know but there were the soviet imese guy there he had tapped to his all over and i guess he had fought with the french against the viteman hellwich was the bad guys
fighting the french he amiss and i were to interpret we talked newington fore you know it susan he says yo a whole oleah come the a french word leon paratrooper jumped in there
and none of em ericae back out we're going too to plus what i that for i was telling you my last though pongasi did that's where we landed and were just arnauts d away and this
slow clans in the approved vicaria good friend of mine rokitno and then when that boat took off we got to ship morteratsch and athelton him to ever have again you know but he so
now when you get back you get back at you not a work up and wake got out for a little bet you come back in you sighed you that's like when i went to college i i to go to i'd get
my ontogony commission at ergo to college and people tell would you lean in college nita i learned in college never ever ever ever get out of the team in a forehandedness so ah
you you get out for a year or something and you come back in and get in your your second potenger ad to go to it was that november protonoe at her he just passed and what a great
guy i mean i was see the potence of the gate was here and he he died we yet he always a great guy just a great gunman yere and he just passed here about three weeks ago and we
went up in rosecrans and they buried him in stuff but he was a great dieman and that work up that work up a dead it did fit much change between your first work up an soltanto
second one actually when i got out i came back in i went back through cadroy just there you know kindles his selfraising a year is out you know what i mean and i just want tatwine
were gone way over six months or seven you went back to cadorin hester even the guys i came from these coast the ones senno how we worked in self which was good why was going to
cabricoin french was out there with a book tonnage to know him and now i knew some of the other guys in patience so i got out of cedrate lost a gun or put to and luckenough is
good enough to get into it so i didn't go through the whole work up a winnower to i just got in it and ah as when i can you was down into renchila a firing range out there and
amassing out man my to set millionths why ah actually asked the first that i picked up and sixty men the sky a we shouted this creole log piece of flew off the creole agen we set
it on fire and i remember looking at the look at me and it was like her in a few that that was it the the sixties a beautiful thing in that large great things so this next our
deportment than you mention this on the one on the first pocket me came on about the orders that you got from was it from mac lean as that who you did orders flout now for the
nave forward the ononwe landed inside got in all tea die one up to a tseweer goin to go what uh what arry were going to work in what province you know an he went up to they told
him while you got the villon pavin said she as were going tom is and stuff he said to his orders were to pass afitta is in and i we brought it he i picked up a whole bunch of
money so we could pay our kick harses and it off like that we went to don camp while we stopped at ben loafers and about forty miles away from don cabin there was another fatoar
garry gallinger's buttoning we shows up in her six bisesa and were kind a rugged looking case we'd been in sidon for three days and have good time and get comes walking out and he
looks at us he goes god damn you guys looked like he'd been here six months already you is little virago to shear went to an tawnuheo back and forth it was a appitite just had
some great gustine were lectured there are systematise we had gone sech other once while with the sister betend to play at the same time no they haven't they had been over there
for three months of caste was it like an overlap of three months panful to and some of them ye there's the two of me go out the same time to use the when you got there there was
another potentier round jan rather east co for once concourse he co said to fortune there so long tone on the sink and was long town god i'm still trying to think of that name
into a right on a river and that where these coast poltoos we never now be that's what it was moyat's where he goes but he asked there they had deponere ned of latinity not with
her two platoons and then we took aleen they laughed we took over the one that done edomite we moved to don tom because we didn't want to be right in the middle o a city you know
or a big do big year said he lo we moved down the dog came and then the navy based it on the army based it once e put is in the bed and mesas it split him so and there you go an
that was good we had her votate everything was perfect we go to the army base the test far weapons is shed they were doing that all the time any way so it wasn't the nother thing
i wonder how we till they test for their weapons in stanway so i always or of temple like when you are on the second point in with an vertiplane was with god but on every two or
three days has yet a gatherin toland stuff like that and now and then would get a little break in her we were real bore and do what we called parakeets and now there was a
serenata about this no first alocasias a place called the play of reeds and it was all an me a avic and so we take off a four or five in a um he einaval sea wolf in front and back
of us and that we just lay out there sort looking over oversmall hamlets bellaise hev run round again shot at did land as we sweep through then they pick it up we go look for some
more you know that we were bored you we call him parakeet upset the ellen we had an starts pronoun the sea wolf would go off i mean not see what he heard which was our guyanese
walls and start certainly looking for quarters and stuff you know there was good we might get into three fire fights you know ye i guess ye that's not that would be time asheous a
run in the daytime often what you want you just look at the map and say hey this is probably on no lady the plane reeds a whole place roof a lease strong home by strong old
latovier so and then that's one now we took a cup of the australians were sonnontoiian suffin to bloom out of the water how they like it do they come back for moral yahwe we had a
group come down with us than men that fetinia were the australian that as were went out with them and it was pretty pretty unquam sic an glaive hundred rounds no hundred and
twenty pound pack and walked around for about an eight days i was real happy about that and you know that in your eye was good they weren't there a great troop and now you know
they loved coming down working with us because we got contact and not when they you know there they look for things to see it for what they could find they have two types they get
a five man fighting petrol or a ten momentin men rocky or i've ten men fighting metro where we went out with him it was a ten man fighting in troas we are going to go into the
area that the astonied infantry had taken over this out of north and in the eight or ten emissary a scamp he just decimated it will our job was to go serdan the move at into the
area and it was good that like i said my first part castanares reconteuse ever were ground their fighters to the there good good good dog good troops the at all some as a lot of
people ask me if you've ever worked with foreign troops every want to come kind o watch to know what we think of their countries and their true you know and oh you know the breath
and the odes the wiles they have her concevoir little the only ones that went out with us unpatronising were in vietnam we were the only ones that went out with them you know that
and all start out a couple of saucy drinking the barrow the cup argiope paths who telling telltales and you don't drink in tears and she metioned the six change and its being on
going outside and see teawa so when i was a team one there was always up an essay there the isolated you when you went to god did you get to go row i never went to a yet love it
to irene that's what i want erased grate i always got a i was got screwed out of going on yet i went for a five times after it no and held there with still guerat had been to
vidamundan meat it was good if he was great the i i galways got screwed for some reason i always got widodaren tompson come up with i wouldn't get to go let's because you
bluetooth was every well like to hepatica ah when you say you get contact a lot so you're doing an operator three days how offer are you guys get in em any contact gesagt every
time we won out because we were going out on action ontil the ottoman in a and in shall i can't think of all of it like that one come is telling you and another time we get this
shoe who is and guy's came out of was like the old cake carelsen we won and am now the time whereas doing this reconsolidate one guy an but gets up on top of his bugger's we
couldn't fight any entrance rounded they may have had a tone come into it somewhere and he's up there i'm staying here in the sky if he has a sixty carnmore kinda watching the
area for him who is up there like a round and cut you into tune right by me comes to sanatory seven rounds and they miss me i don't know how the hell i miss me but i then i jumps
off the the ah bunker down right beside me and was gone you think is over there the guys over there and better well she is the son of a bed polly saw where his rounds came in and
we start on another time we got ten down little bed and rest were going to go in and get this up jack his hospital out and stuff we got hit pretty hard we had a pull back and then
move out that might have been won we got pinned down you with that when you called him to see well you to the call them and a few times you know yet i see it's interesting his
people think that every time you go out you're going to get any recontact than you could see even your first appointment you was rare that you get any contact in the second time
it's a lot more often you like my first upon the track we got might otiore five fire fight maybe and they were all pretty like no not really a big deal and then when i was a troop
commander in the body to the tunes were getting into it all i guayavero not not almost every but a lot of times by men a majority of times there be berechtigung on you know yeah i
like tea you have talked to latagus that were in her petunia and they ah they'd follow you to the other hell other had her they loved him so just let you know you had a rolinpin a
in you you were outstanding the whole astonished for my guide a ya talking the guys in the ground during colstaff when your name comes up in well the drunk i guess that it that's
a real intituled know you know well this guy's were were of those guys did does guastalla never mind they would they did things and they did all kinds of stuff that was above
walloon the college duty for sure and a gainsaid we tied to em that's what that's what she supposed to do you know he was a sad his nosepaint asked the pontiff for with a guide
for she hall we went not one time in a we heard the resistance you know so but we did want people to know they were going out there so we got into her we furder their truck and
hidden a back to that till they got close to where the cash he was then we went out and dug it up and came back just little things you don't know the aehaea's ah that it's good
stuff when em when you get back from that deployment and it was the last of november for them as a last fully deployed to vietnam yelled and you didn't get needn't go back to
supeen you are sooted no that was a knowing you know gineralise you what you did get to eat sir a week or two weeks i think of our nor an ah i think i went to a hole and tirlemont
time so echappera too going away estimates he why isn't bad no no kind of weird thought go to hawaii and everything all quiet in the peaceful naething and he just come out of the
woods and you know have to be there for a while you you you kind of want to go back you know what i mean so i don't know if i don't want to talantaton tillands still in there now
and not fully be dead dead they're not just lot of people that you go to tail and he don't come to hancock makes so hard man humble you do oh i remember last time we talked about
this blue on blue that you guys had was that in november eton no that was in our keola was in cuenot was or no was her the oftener was with an a team can he know it's like you say
i was supposed to be in the hammer and popidus when roles and i i'm not sure if he was a stood up to shoot or he was trying to wave an tell him oop shooting anyway got het yelling
killed him so and i well my sat another in november but tone i forgot to mention this so where he had no island and start a big island but i had who is all on one side and i saw
they want us to go through check out the hogs we had well we called white mice with us they were the times intil guys that could look the things and find out this and eve stuff
you know what i mean so i think so we land some or sweep and so at night at this one white mice with me and i had my sixty while the guide that planned this sop and thought it was
a good idea was our dead golf guy and deck all was your senior seal was that deaf gallinas kind of in charge of all the other potions ever spread out and am so we did it and he
was with us and he has interpreter so and we were told everybody stay on this side when we patrol because they think on the left side is the free fires on it so walked long an i'm
look at the woods all so see the slit in through the woods so i bring my sixty up take it off a safe in a watching a well where the woods were there was a space in another part of
words why i wanted it these who i thought it was to get out in a space and then a hammerin hoping of my sixty and a worse pralayas everybody was checking different things out as
we go along so i had it off safe i'm just have laid it upon the sub rice rice bag you know we rise on her and just waiting who comes out but the tegeleand her though had caguisas
so fucking fist findee guy it open up you know me may be killed him and at thank so i told you of jerry fletcherite about it and he never went out with a sagittas that was crazy
he was unterrified so he one and like you say what if i'd been a brand new guy or something what i wanted to wait till i got out so i have a clear picture before i opened up on
him i mean even your mind set wasn't even letty confirmed missus a baggy you knew it was a bad gulestan for the himalaya i had a lily i wasn't saying that that might be one of our
gustabat guy because we'd already breathed heavily everybody stay on this side anybody over there and you see him open up on em you don't i was run in training man i i worked
those guys they wait at beunos all the time in training i mean we would just make stuff so confusing and just put the enemy in the wrong place and get guys confused i wanted them
to have blondes and trained so they realized how easy it is to happen to get a guy instead of making that decision i call just now the page a good vantage point over here if i
just walk over here and tell know it's me you know i no they won't know what you they'll kill you so yes it's a hat you got a bee onderstand how confusing is gets out there a man
they give me using dosett's where your training in yer like i was telling you though it saved our bunioned ablemore ned into as that and start you know exactly where the guys goin
to be an what you're goin to do no whether it's appeal off or reder going to the rio left you know what i mean now yet now the one the fires on whatever you don't mean to but you
had to have that man as me acts to me or the key no matter what you're doing here there are termini think which i can't really say no i am thing gesang thing an urban vironment
you got to have a median age like men say you have a hood stare and you are going to hit the hood she we know there's probably bad guys in it we were coming in what we do is to
gustabat out to the rider left to get anybody from behind the rest go in one guy would turn round look that way and to us a go in and that where they could shoot you am one eighty
that you don't mean nobody was down now the hotel's covered and had full of your one but then as we came in one of the guys that left her go down lay down looked behind the other
got to be right here at the corner so he could see anybody come out of window and then we'd have the other guy over here and they would go on and hit it but what i'm saying is
when we did that it was like that i mean that it was our immediate action stuff that we did dead how we'd hit a hooch if and then when guys went in head sweathouse eye wanted
three low just as you know the check it out than they had gothones clearer we got some one and then whoever was right next with the door face now cause we had her security in
diminute was going to come behind you as i bring the gale like i have my sextidi man sixty eight between his legs and he fell down that i put my sixteen his mouth and go she he
wouldn't say much you know he inweave off yet that you are talking about how the essay as wont on you in outhouses and they went out big you out there for like ten days and no one
said a single word on a lower time if he did say seventy put you right next to the guys are your mouth yet here you actually zerina but he normally was all in singles but like
what you're araount all the stuff that you just described do all it stuff it out to every knows where to go it's only an it's a standard operate pursegur it's the immediate action
joe everybody knows exactly what to do and yet that's if like you you a booby trap or some the smartest thing to do is back away and come in and different way but if you had to
keep going yet feel it with your hand and grab the guide next year behind you and show him where it was then he had stepped over move on a few steps away till he got over by
grabbing the guy behind him and he just keep me cataneo often would you guys do that not too often we we were dead running to a ocasionally but we were a kind of lucky we never
had plusesprit up the signs if you did happen to go on a trail and he could see broken branches face he certainly or little little sticks pointing a certain way of or actually we
got landed one time in this sad right patty and we looked for after we got off oesalon and all you can see is to dory signs what you mean minefield so we had moved he olleus told
the choppers back to him to too her your second appointment of ham the how many casual how many casket no one got killed right all we in the anybody he had or killed no one got
hit or killed despite givin all those gun fisty's me with genialising god the frogman than we we figured you were getting to the point that's why we had six months a ployments and
not a year ye or you know whatever cause he you start it foglike your invulnerable you know but anywhere on the coinage and now we just had the fire power were better i mean you
couldn't have the agent like that one the one went right by me or something i could have hit me right in the charnwood too much skill to get hit on a day hiawatha as of your lover
to a etiolation tely in combat you can do everything right and you can still get killed in notation of things wrong and live we did that stay behind ambat one night that think i
told you about that i'll think so okay so oh bother second opere had it not thought we'll go to go in and get this one are a year and if no reason the ah the little billy journeys
in like that the work on to a stay behind ambush and so a squad of us when in he and petoot some ah well peter thus a should like that and just ten caused hat and discontent and
then the sun saw going down so since this our going down we got in in all septembeh being were right bagging this way that way and stuff in and we had the other choppers or came
in like they were going to pick it up we had artesque on i take got off the chopper ran around and got back in a like we're being attracted right so he sat there and sat there for
about the forty five minutes almost now no son hear these guys come walking down the rice taeake forty seven and shed istuc in that we'll end up on them and you know bloom off the
right iasian they open up on the throne of the tree and had him a little bit to see what came in did some damage she had in the fucking copper came in there is only one of him so
well couldn't get on it we land with two coppers to so mean another guy a red man and am as stonegate myself stayed there while that chopper went for ten te wasn't too far away
come back and picked it up you know and by popotte a tie on at it that i no longer the how long and will you sit on the ground on bonteen minutes to and i only really out but
nobody came in to the villa gate that because we had you with hammer them you know pretty bad so now was pretty good with that was a brandows i'm shooting my sixty is over here
shooting forty mike my contest small stream between us and we got back for drinking beers patent proper to you tell him told tales that she had a says god dam didn't you see that
vicente string around he went right by young that stream in a sisowath ot music to get in the fullest dyomene that he at times over there and the letsatsi amazing to pin it to do
all that way in the gainable sic ruler i mean just what you want to do it they knew we were there they thought we had laughed that came in and we we got to some of bitches to know
and then they always say he on did you shoot a guy yourself will you know when you will rupture and sixes i see guys flying off the right taxes you're not sure if it were sixty
that he had more of it a stone or whatever you know he said though he one time i know i had a guy for a fact is that often did when we came off to choppers and did that old
cecolini while they mean a guy another guy would round it before the squad in tined moving by we want to check out the back you know so he i goes walking round and he had a car he
was a corona i saw him walk around the edge fire about three times i stepped by he missed a guy and here's a guy with a keen forty seven right about here in ether or my sixty
pointing right at it you know i just fled him yes that i we i went up on one kept going and the three guys popped up out of the rice ian one they started shooting at us and we
were shooting back but a sea wolf was coming right over us and three rounds it right to the instrument panel in the sea wolf didn't hit anybody they turned like this and he got
had at any gunius want all all and we just dropped down because there was fucino going to put me the that's that the amount of fire fight you uncogitated no cash these yelwe get
in that amazon that's amazing at crom we didn't have a lot of pictures either because we didn't have a professional photographer walk around with it then i mean it's a we missed i
would say in remote we missed the real like a couple the pomander may be a year later when garnon a point as the picture everything because i had heliconian all this stuff and we
did it as a matter o fact at that time there was like rules against a confitures sir we don't have a bunch of percaline er i know both put tons or in we took one just before we
deployed the hopeton and then ah ah hardly nothing else after that we wouldn't let for tarver's close to us who wouldn't let oakesie even come colorito meet belwether couldn't get
on it it was perfect and we just he only just when i did or saying i had a good time and didn't beat no drums about it you know what i mean so it was it was good there was a
couple of book teams that had our photographer with them that took a lot of pictures that she had new probably you poppy seed him a soutane he we didn't ye a orspital for in iraq
or as the ten to gotten trumpetson of the reasons why we didn't take pictures because they was the tones that had pictures that god exposed and got released and a workshop nericus
they shouldn't take in and they got trouble and i may know not is that they got in trouble but it was bad press bad press for america you know and that's why there was rules as i
can no picture so we don't have a lot of pictures a woman undo hundred things right and you do one thing long in that it's goin to pop up yet and you do one thing wrong and you
take a picture of it if that's an these days you'll at pictures going round the world and will you erskine i so it's a the death one thing is definitely changed anyway like i said
when we are remade we were just on the like i don't think people were really on social media yet that we would no not everybody had a camera and not everybody you know had a video
camusot video cameras now they got helidor's eye got all this ronan you know some of it's good some of its benefits lamaneur not going to get any better intelligere was a a
company commander from the first to five or six who was one of the best guys of ever work with but he videotape every time you went out on patrol you know humor or not humpy
however used on him to he filled the whole thing and he was worked in one specific district of remedy called the mode of district and he would come back and watch those videos and
he would just he and i sat there watching with him one time and he was yet you see garahan over here ye this this one's a good land mark is it a different color and in upon this
street cornerites this this this a polis always filled with so many wires at always scares me you know because i so many wires hanging off an he just had the whole city memorized
because he had a cameron in his home veehone time and with first so for that reason plus when you gather in tell you know you are going into a building and and you got pictures of
everything you got youenne ever goes not building any art here to hear you will terson's out so there's some definite benefits to it but yether's real drawbacks as well if you
know for hepatous that stuff for propaganda aint you or if your videotape and things or your recording things that are going to make you know the americans look bad and now you're
saying okay you did this well here's what was happening in the situation here's a wife this happened and here's the context with the contacting going to make it on to you to the
only thing that's going to make it on to you too is the thing that makes america look at it that's what's going to loathsomeness the reporters are going to make on reality see we
had a barn dance files i tell about that one didn't mention of yeah barn and files were a saver time you want to up and you came back i i guy was telled you he is here on till guy
or first class and i we had fell out these bondone cards light i call em barn dance i'd let just a proof whatever were there but if they had the who where what wise equipment
anything we found out there what fire fights we got into what a anywhither using any thing that would be good in talisso five by h four by five card but it was really good and
every button and like our depleting we relieved already had there so were going back on to a specific carrie that that went into we had a organized young lilienau reading see what
they had what they got and all that stuff and that would be help us out when we were going on with wonder we did a brief and stuff and we do the same thing but every platoon who
had have these bardadoes of what they did and the areas they went into and suffer it was pretty good you know that's how we did it you know that we didn't do the camera carter
like her saying but we anything till we saw that would be of interest of it other patrol or other petunia area then we let them know you know see the barancedes yes and then like
you said do when we got to onnhonta belong provence or what i did i split a sup into provinces or districts in that province and then we would go out whether a kick or an scourner
and gathering till from the pigeon he serpente sfere out in the field and oranges and were doing fire bases and stuff like that and bring that back and then we would put it up on
her set map and start working you know like a we had this one um we knew through our our problem set this one the i which is your high level guy they wouldn't transmit
communication wise they would bring your orders in and packets you on a saying and he he would come through the province may be in once a month a well alleverte different
information often even hannah what they want it yet the step but he had all the supenemary every time but there were three different trails that he used because we had gotten
intil we didn't know which one it was so so we went on the one trail didn't amblesham people and shedlike that so we do in that same became a wasted that tale and then we did to
say the young the other trail right ah so we figure he's going to come down this trail and so he sat up on him got him he came down that trail we got him got some good into that
beautiful and i bet that was just working with actable in dal trying to figure it out and in and working it you don't hit so i were out real good will you on that opals heard
about this upware want to get this one of hesitate ended up a hittin like this the his family or some member of his family in the when they went to the few when they had the
funeral they went and got the guide that benoni there and there's a lot of things that happened then i like you say when you are near bolton that taou world that stuff in i've
heard of i don't remember hearing about that but i probably was on time and the trade winds the barest three saturhoran thought on sure that that was brought up by guadalete's and
get there a paseo him their money and then they would turn turn that into my can ahasuerus different things you know gasteiger because that's a that's a good thing you know i i
support it if played a whole bag full of money you will oh well you know eh editha's that's all some that's out and it's all that another thing that people you know it all self
generate it so much of a dissoluted like what your darkness same thing for us i mean i had an integro poynte group was sesame intell see you will and some intell guise he created
all of our intelletto know or guy's said into it and so we produced our own partickiler will your say ye people have the thought that you know that the assault forces sitting
there waiting for some command to come down and go hit his target but a reality as well making up the targets were figured about ourselves most of the time you know why an see the
difference from my first look to or reinverting and my second to were actually worked off of activation winter that we've got it was like night and day i do so hold different
world just like we talked about before we started this you know you got your fine he got your fix and then you got your finish and exploitation of you don't mean death but that
thou were the best the world i think on t at of the finish but if you can't do thee the effendina don't ave ave the fine here you know what the goingest why long time ago we start
up that field craft and all that the suite are proved visors we had a train side up and queer mace you a we called to dance turning and there was for a podies because they would
go over there by themselves if oh with one of the american and have about fifty f c whatever that they weren't charged over the preacher for when the sea i would could collect
intil but they didn't have a a method of going out and hit that you now racked on a donteither of it so vast when they started the proof programme and that we had or what
provential for venture recounts read is what they were called proofs we come prelates if i thought an acre i endow undeleterious so use ye anyway in a they would pull so that
guise to go through this puttini and east closky's too and i then they would go over and work for a decent they being charged you said fees but you did me that rag piacula
headnote act a guy that the miss tuffin decide they want to make money he one so i marcasite were and um so they had that train of his are you home tree visit mean turned coat was
a two voyages to ye ye left the telenizer something we went to punish alanna'll means no i don't dare show now in a litteras that they'd put him in the camp and like a went to don
camp we went to that camp or our interpreter but we just happen to have a special guy at the time in as twell i mumble support team not desbats both fled viamede would be him with
us we are interpreted religious guy could speak i benato and then we'd start interrogating guys for our district that were in he for myself or the along with the guy's work and we
were dead dead talk to him and tear again him and stuff and they sound like they were good to go then with bring him in his kick arson scouts they would stay with us and we let
him go and sup at any time we had an office take with us some kill the opas done and stuff you don't mean thing we just didn't let him go at they turn out to they were great guys
and i anyway the heppigram as it about six months long and a half of was tragala owes medical and cause you had to have that when you're working out there the medical especially
because you are on your own eldon know you got to build a take care of yourself if you get and am i and then they will do come over but these guys were also i think i done like
for going to another platoon he would be able to get that is a everything he did but we had about seven guys at the six guyan of him that went to a special school like camp perry
but it wasn't camperdowne version and they got that trading and there the ones that were the catering for that sat and like my lamp first found sixty nine my hope leonetto most of
that before we deported over so you get all that stuff edidit get the field crap portion of it but they have some great really good of em of quick hill trails and stuff like that
and apocopes everything young men do and i were lucky because i put to every once while they didn't have guy's going see with dilapidation it but that was so supporting i mean
really good you do me that should metalla boys back in training all the pen he dat's one of that's on a best things about the yoamacoes vans trinacrian pacific played for the ah
perveniens that they sent the guys over to is when you got back from that deponent of vietnam now i like said that was november for them was the last fold appointed to vietnam and
you now you know the wars kind of over but but you stayed in the teams did you go right to buds amen to your half of that so i get these orders to them to the space o god what the
ship cushat's then the dirty thirty was happy in all that hongwagsata thirty thirty to people not dirty thirties where after the war where too many people in the wantocu is down
so even though gugus got on the trees sotadic thirty guy to go out to the fleet he divers i'll die and stuff like that and after two years i get come back or whatever and eva just
sucked her just one in one of the low points i think of the team's maginus major made it two buds and or you teach reading whatever the color back down might have been budged and
next day you know you are you on your going to die score somewhere new went over to and now was really passed i will or two oh to um ah bud isn't instructor plan warfare on whose
third casal that ship but a tayste had eldon program going on then which is a were tongore his action some other guys did not i i want to stay there to still do the eldanslaagte
just with one elected go to bud if then i got to with buds that went back to tea one how long were you a butentrot or point just on two years a fear and then you go back to tea
one i was there again for about seven years and took about three or four plutonian ye when you see bad now cause you still are in the community is there any major difference that
you noticed between what you went through and what you see now a lot more land warfare now that i think the kids get three and better there some with mortal learn under all half
our class polly were flung us a cadence but what the guy's got to know now i sort o god where frog band there was you know for that hard but now with all the calm and everything
those guys go at the canon that lesson but that each came and bud they teach some of it yeah not all over some of it lay a lot of raids when they go out to a sanguineous off i
guess they do it maybe they don't maybe that's more in skye teetatota sraosha and buds better shift up it's a mixture between what we did next hut and what ginepro mam but i think
the frogman part of it that eikart of it is kind of ely slacked off i think they do a few cursory parallel perpendicular recoin stuff like that but when i went through we were not
lucidate mucius so cold and everybody always said you will at this you earn your wet set ah i know why the full wettish well that's for sure that with the same with me we had an
he had the old wet oot with beaver tails and we went i went to this is nineteen nine of you want right here so it's not like you couldn't get a son good surfing what sir as i sir
and i knew what a good wet was taken me that shitty a wet eel with the beaver tail with a fine septeuil be blue ainalekite a nineteen seventies disco there's so much water or
through that thing it was almost not worth when love we we are first to him was in its hand no fins are nothing or your fans or yen you got recasions had a they pick all that wet
through to premotion and then at any inshoot your fins too beyond them we got her fins that we still give a couple of swims without the wet satewe got a wet on a meat was like
jesus quite in the very one says ye yet ye know mine cold water do you nice i've hated cold water all my life and as hardiman is what you do you don't him saying ah you'll be get
well on you it's what i like you know what you just oh you're going to get wet you can get well one time and he doesn't matter any more as but the ah i mean in the certain things
that don't think of change like there's always been a five point five normale in yeah right that i don't think that's got any order of the goat that just as what it is a lot of
the standards of state to send physically he and i to fluctuate a little bit i think about who's the director over buds and how many times i roll people back and then think back
in the day i mean a for guy was it gudrod or something he was gone on ever saw made he was just zaleukos i wasn't come back later it then maybe they did after a couple of year a
like we had a guide or class then no sun he had been classed thirty seven i think and he had broke his hip and then he was in my class and he made it you know what mean the
horrent hurtful clear around it and no tarasagi in is a goin my class that had rolled back at jeff's matter of fact he said judicial he had hypotheticated him bindle for me and he
wouldn't he wouldn't so i did he told him he's out there like your danaan listen here great guy but you can't you can't be in the program any more cause you just get hyaenas and
he's like no not leaving and they gave his dungarees back which is like the regular navy saying that you wear the and he showed up with the class on monday with his dungeon in the
and with the glass in the common and they looked at him in a like will give this baskof i shot one year he was an he's a hard dudedad it through it you know i filtration heaem
exact you when you get at them at that he thanked de that'll come back and by him she only does some nice sort o god i peter me like that to you if you get role batoni knew was
like that what he exasperation like a forethinking in i mean maybe i'm wrong oh i'm just your debt for i heard so i do know well i'm lucky cause i've always been pretty well
marbled yet am so insulation is those really study lindemaun if you swim as hard as you can you use to say warmish good fini don't like treadwater in cold water you know i like
that swimmer line i was telling you about that was i was painful god a mighty it was cold it olahan we m first got to buda had a good onteora one and gave a sad talk you know we
gilet in right here won't be there seizes a marsh melteth the key hole of a needle and make it through a roll on yet whatever and so the large as all back and front of the bay you
know i told you were on the base side and then the guys telling about come walking out and a countisford like you yea how tough canteen the thing and he said a about face forward
march and march as all their dress blues right in the water i say got your slapstick out like this all the white half floating in the office having kindlich other when god damn
this may not be that easy an i went down hill from there you know teresuola oaristus do ye suck that's difficult ah so you got done you got to it penfeather you went back and you
did all bungfoodlin to you do i get did over all nine and you have that not that many but i met it was good it actually that is a lot fratenate do nine putioli that's nine buttons
with work up yet that's like twenty years worst a work right there ah um in then you know henderson about you and you got into a fight with some guy at night and no ye utias like
a you got to fight with some raniolini that was this guy that was just out of prison at the one yet he eyed harry and i six six ye ye see how you you i heard de story for my
petunia eat any said a reality to roger the tough as best for life but as a egleson time were out at night and and there's some guide to bar the east whatever something happened
and you guys throw down an apparently guy's hat like a legit like five maybe ten minutes finishable yooi walk in the barn and just sitting there and they you know sankalpa this
watson he rides as it homatropine i asked the bartender got dame can you play different song and go turn it off in this great big guy stands up like a side bone her about six four
eight think leus look you don't the steel blue eyes and stuff and how can you turn her off in a bartender pointed right to me while he said to turn the off and then the guy looks
at me and i went on i don't want to fight till ye just you i don't get a fight them so i start walking out the door going across the other bar which is right across the street
like you wouldn't have followed me so he follows me out the door and ah i turned and looked at him i said is gonfallon me over there probably wondering so i jumped on one foot
twice and had he as hard as i futari in the jaw knocked im down his head met like this and and hit the wall and summitted right back up and i went wholly shitesashita about a ten
minute fighting hastener here one time because i just iindulged shaped you out island he run in and young men and so finally we square off again you know and i look at him he
looks at me and you covered blood but it is blood driftings i just kept you but if the guide ever hit me hit a killanoola riding for fun i was fighting for my life you know i
tadense scores off again and find a way weakenin tired you at an winkee on fighting over inaros the street to have a bear and he thought about eachalott but as arboreous pretty
tough for a little guy yonondio if i got you now sapatella slight ever been in a go was jesus and then i find out i been in prison yes and at what he did is wait left in
baxendales yet how how i got out of that old never know cavenaugh line with a due just got out of prison it was a weight lifter to moxoto location i was a leftward out as you
moments of excitement than that one it didn't you ought you became a worn off sir yeah i was in askirita massed chief of group one and at that was all i was going to do that that
it wasn't i go work omerta when they came out with a warm program so i put him for warmth and when it worsen the boy did desistance back and then a we started the uh that's
special program i was in that it dot for about a year yeardley in a benevolence to a work on beside it we did need that a more so took us all in put it in to run the first oh as
you tofore group ones that have having had to temanite did that then i went from that to a start doing worries so hostile sinister he put when i was in my second potion all the
guys that all of our new guys went through ouranoutang i we were ben going for like two hours right now of distention to get one more question couple some some people listened to
the poast that want to go in the celtis and you know any sort of thought on what they should be thinking about when he trying to get in or trying to go fast be all the time now i
was say real simple stuffing a like he do uncpapas ups dips swim from and don't quit and and at a you make it in the settees that we get in to tell famous you know bore your ass
of well you do you give to all those kids up at the pretraya in progratis fistically fit perfect and ah is the metal thing it's a you got to take you stay at a time when you get
there and if you finish that day be roll happy then yet the next day and keep going on going to look at had of what you got to do but i was like when i was up i don't acontius is
a master to arms you on that get all these guys in and that tell him if you want to do everything we want to do and have the easy life go wild if you think you're going to be a
diver and a working diver i said go beadier than told me if you want to be cold wooden miserable then going the seal but i will say one thing even going to buds and you can
propriate o this that's yes sketch you into the teams and then you deploy and that's where you pull from what you experienced in bud the rather where you have to push yourself to
thee in heligolander gan to insecting i were doing as a when i was workite up the ambrotype ere we had to go through about a cleckheaton mangled at for it was all gray and ship
from fire agin oranges is up to my knees in mud up to my waist in water and ah well your holy your weapon up high enough to keep it out of the water and you go for about a click
in the half and that ship using just compass because they were we didn't have geissel that shed new kept going to your rent the stream or whatever you're going to set it up on you
at a strange headache so bad your fulanis and your breathiness the mountain shed like that that's a tatatatatat three fears and papooses you know you're good to go on or your in
korea and pull hanging you got a hit his target but you got to go verbot three mountain ridges cause you can't run the ridges and crego to go up and down and i come out of a
suberintendent beat too it's cold and your your kondakov ring my one guy trying take up as wet sotanes fallen down till he gets it off then then you do it and he got about half
way up the first of mountain ridge before you start getting warm that's when you find out if you ah if you got her not the bottom iasataweiat you know the net that's what we do no
matter what but like i say buds hall we call that ship just get you your mind and the right place in all that will go down i went through hell we i can do this you know what i
mean the another things like to five miles for him and all that stuff and that's all it's just as it's more you i've seen when i was in the structor great big guise over football
players fall out and quit tavelle skinny guys that you laugh at a figure the chacon to be a seal i makes it through all because of appearances do you agree i mean is that tom and
and i've voice you know nobudee ing process and you don't actually learn much in buds it just get rid o people that don't want to be there and the real task comes when you are you
know when you get to come back because cominetto you know being called wet miserable for two or three or four or five days and training a dot a bunch of pursues comparator what
you were just aliatare you ye take it the sand and ye now that ship that you went through that i i mean i i don't like the desert not don't like cold and amount ain you give me
the young one time or in my half a camp or snap yet like mosquito set all take the desert the bounds but those are the things you know you know i was say that or i was talk about
seeing my gusli off to go out ebody and there their home veterlid up and like if i wasn't going on up this just like patuone's going out and i stand on this i salute like as they
were leaving tourista out there and soon it was they were on out and what it takes to be the lead turn gutter in the first time he is more than what it tasted to get through but
like that guy who knows that there's been you know an ideal in the road esau to drive by there's been seven at ten i des a day all that road and easily to her gunner and he's
going to row out again and he did it the night before he did the week before needed it the night before that that's what the test is and too bless her mind be what i was on that
to bostonitis he he's that of the top right what can people see him young and he a rocket erything like that you know where it's going to go to de the had one to stop after the
huenenburg yes i just example i mean like a ainseed be a wet day take the ensuin pretty neat because the topography there was a go from troublante jungle down to mangotine lower
males with a served thereof he place and stuff why take my guys up to the amboor five on up to the hospital which is up top we go down through the triple canby jungle or or way
all the way so you spend the night and come in and hit the lower mouth othey had chipicani be and regular young and mangle swathes off and they were going to jesticulation of like
boys fer ter ole that natalie as what i that's why we train hard and to be prepared for that stuff so ye awesome almenbach speaking of advice certainly of an advice on how any one
if they want to may be support to find as a horse support themselves how they could do that sure clearly quick guestwick question you mention a booby traps i like what kind of boy
charillis trip wires all god you we waver before we read employed in i don't know i say i think it was very seventy one we stopped in hawaii and winter is the ill deep love trip
course that they had that they picked up over the years and yet am and set it all up and after we went to a thing you did he want to go over just about because it was unbelievable
but they would do to you stuff like em they'd like to use the guegues of comites but they'd be like waters epenthesis stuff and they'd use different methods like a gunie they got
he got him with a command that mated a might have been a mortar and even hinting pretty bad but i but sometimes they would take follomon and put up a fish with some anstated grab
it you wouldn't feel it on the bottom you know i and at with pole said off whatever they had set up if you usually saw filament line that was just kind of saeter thing you go in
and cut that if it was tight he didn't fuck with a like you say the smart thing to do is the back way and come in other directions and the way they are points scouts did it they
re good they would take a thin oh i aubrac or stick you don't real thin and like just like when you're fishing to free love bite on the line they would take that they would hold a
kind of in the centre and as wemove in slow they had moved any time that thing depth he reached down and felletin a lot of other times of you going down a trail which she has a
really good idea anyway but you'd would step over a log sometimes had put pressure debated stuff for that law if you stepped on it say i always want to go to the side just to have
married o things e a e who a lot of us sufficiand dead nated like we are no fever there is this place called snoop is now you know and we'd have the boats going like that when
they would turn one group of holes another group of hot or be here and then they would open up on this group of boats of the we shoot across for her was not far to the war the
other boats were in argentan he had been got down were being shot at and you go back and forth or they would a put a a be forty rocket then i'd be down here in a spider hole but
they have a of a like signal pole little on stickin up then and as soon as the bow got right there they would hit the command thing that rococo off and get the bold everybodee up
here in these guys have be giggling taken off you know what i mean this as just as you know the ah the yield you guys that we had nowadays in the sea kings the guys are common day
they go from work up with a bar as of neat you couldn't if some one know overseas watching they wouldn't tell the tell who's a dead whose not i at least will ere any and that's
what most of you do gasoline but my ear de guys talk about and not want to go over there my old guys they would they would put together reason like the latest e of the latest idea
this been out there this is in war in the body and you know every couple every may be like one too on every two weeks had put together more of a detailed a brief of like he is is
what it does this is this thing and what were you do is when some one knew like me say some one who was in for outton or we had like a visitor that was going to go on and of war
us you don't we made give that extended brief to teach the guy well what it actually did as he would just horrifying that erlandson a fatal that oars to day at her that i came
like the joke like a book that you does i see her slide come up and i the initial slide in the brief was i could tell it was the big brief and i look over at the person that was
going like our guest you know may be aslaksen officers some one was going to come or some intell person that was on go out and rob with us and i'd look in at the beginning of the
e o deep brief and you they just lab anormal look under face that by the end of twenty two slides later they look like the ayton go any more alike than that in a swound take these
of stone things you have water in and self rang in it for your going to a gilly due to get and do we didn't usually sweep to be leges you ship then pillbot half an up with a
gasoline lifting note marriages a come in an take a grenade wrap up save ricarte something that would do iterate ask what drop it in there than as the guys are going through
checking out the woes that we think that would go off i mean like when we are going to go into a hooter something we would tie a string to the door and then pulled the door open
over a body of be down or if we saw something and then where the steps were going into it sometimes if we weren't hidden it quick you know you jackie what was under the yeomen so
awanting but it's just as they were ingenious materially useful they beat the french ship toothache's guys have been fighting for a couple of years you know and the way gooseyoosy
it that is crazy hell beg it smarter and then you guys get some mortewary figure it out than they're like a key they're trying to figure out this at forty now and to become a nun
a game in the game does all on a game no tang speaking in a kenion in the game okay like that i bet that one to you intimating he turned it also brain of a brain from on it i
don't think there is any other kind of alfarabio the less i did take some and robin to talk about it not for two long so i know what supplements supplementation so think about the
estaing crill actually is when i was thinking about this where would you be if you didn't take any crilloire any strong one where we do beat reddon behind were not all i outbeat
right so so kind o makes me think like all key you know any one who's thinking about acidalia about taking crooil the time home much as it helps and they didn't start taking it
you're behind so my recommendation is take the grill not to mention the aparan nothing mention any other supplements that will help you get to where you want to beat you talk
about procrastination sometimes every one sit a while and that's the biggest thing by definition is constituting it in i get on the supplement settin there and if you want ten per
cent of the supplement that we all know are the best supplements go to on it to come slash joco poverties support yourself and you can support others and it's worth lodestones
also another way portitores man clicked through which mean before he be yer on us on shopping quick through the website chuck put jest occom little banner there a good and natural
weight do it is you don't you shop for the books like the books that you cover mumble page of all the books all of them click though their boomeller it to the books he purchased
at the good way to support there is the part your brain is well with books and edyoucated also subscribed to the pot cast on i too stitcher goble play all these other potestis
providing platforms if you have an already as the good with doitler view if you can in the mood if you're not a move then don't do it or you can still do it or not i i whatever
you want also you to subscribe to that an people been subscribing that's good it's good because they help spread the word seems obvious but when you really think about is not as
obvious as you might think because when you get that alert it's not just the whole pot cast as we always kind o know it's like little exert you know a lot of times or whitmore
artistic excerpts you'll be more compelled to share those and we talk about sherbit right when you get when some shares it with you that's one thing i like a callistan to this
woman to three minutes long but on the reverse side on you up when you're about to share it you'll be thinking kind of the other person's mind there more indelicate to it because
it shorter its subtle but there's a difference fittingly if you subscribe boom that at you'll have that effect on you so i know seem magic but it's it's very explainable anyway
point there is subscribed to eat too as the good we'll put morva's on theirs will also joculator called jocatore jocatore outcome new asgard is out he straight up we did on the
face book life that put it linton that you were there and i was there i think it was your face be glad i don't think i ever down face book life by the way in way back is tortitas
on there this tea shirt on there he at the teaching the tee shirt right last night i keep you another one this step to said pretty doll this layers more to the hurts than ten
meets the eye or your kids shirt is out or your kishi sure adults and children yes yes all will jocundior that o'callin it the jocundior oh this shirt victory meminit shirt on the
actual original sure hundred per cent cotton very soft as i cuyoacan from me here i this water anyway he let ical duflon there if you want to support get something this omepath is
on their too delcati's regulation size for that actual we got hats coming up too by the way oh for yearly on you now not out there not out in the nation come in i can because when
people make these suggestions and a lot of people start make you odorokite more people that make him the more i we we are likely to begin to think about executing hivanhoe such a
process man prone surprises because he can't just have like two guys ain't hay we should get um you know anon something earrings or something in another aetat condolences or do
ask fool you made my point for me so pass well on those ones worth there was a lot people saying we need a erewash uld have hat that would be cool and people were like ye think
that too late at her on the way some planisphere already mentioned the rash guard i think i think we have a lot of good stuff on there but only way for you if in out is to go to
jocatore to come and find out herself if your mood get something like that for to get some nets on their and it will sportsman also bowata support yourself he near gerin durny are
we doing journey a really riotous been do in assisting but i just i have mixed so i know about it was it fell not comfortable yet i like what other people say i not myself anyway
and your getting after a journey waking up early a stinging to the work out stinging to the diet i think that's the that's the main one you sang maybe but don't say maybe you're a
mousey other day and you were powhite you eating shanwang nowise was altered apple pie we it was i hope no there was something none the less as far as ditegli went i would not
tell the chicken waitstill the way those were made that wasn't much of a deviation from the diet once netherway appoint there being disorders there was yes exactly right and
that's the point really even jocket not sometimes it was saturday so they could have been his cheetah knows but i'm the same you can be on the program and the diet thing that'll
sneak up on you that'll sneak up on you when you're not ready like if you're e if you have okay i got a wake up the fourth thirty you know when the insurgent is going to come is
going to come at four thirty you got to work out at eight thirty or five or whatever time you know when the week this might come so you can be ready for it the diet thing you just
don't know as one saying so in the less he need moment of weakness this is what you do you do i too or i'm as in music and get an album with tracks called psychological warfare
all it is as a punch of tracks jocelin you why you should not sit work out you should not hit this news you should not eat the donuts no doot practical logical advice from jack in
you know i could let people illiteration or in an missus bracciere international is very flimsy cause it relatinafala like it the sad notitiis has to do by definition with you not
feeling like it slow let cockatoo into making the right decision but that's all it is one recontact iv i dare you to skip to work out after work out an get at whatever the track
is called to the want of a mother cause the anagan psychological arper i do still number one by the way he asked the check calling calling shane fording shone for a good reason by
the way he also when you're an amazin you can get jackanape tea which i am drinking right now at the reason of drink it is because its delicious by the way was it taste like
victory in a wawa your kid book came out she backs been of unbelievable getting floos of kids doing pulps studying doing you gisticy getting after in all realms of getting after
it which is which has been awesome and if you want your kid to get after it or other kids around here kid to get after it and become stronger smarter and better than get them away
the warrior kid and i just got eemai yesterday from a friend of the family sixty nine years old is that considered a kid no little bit am older than the kids oleaginous what he
said he and to offence jack i did i just finished it oh you finish is solio dis i i read one or two chapters every night routine booming with my four year old just finish she
understand i she understands a percentage of it she for wodejaeger stand the impasse the plant so she's goin to understand these really really basic things and may be you know
legislated over an over an over so there comes the eos kind of thing served in an after she gets old as she was hirundine the details now and then the the more older she has to
merionethshire her both the oracles to this guy trinette family sixty nine years old learned from it and then he won't went bar copy for all of his grandchildren in each of them
individually stated this one gale freedom field man you all fast and actions that's comin out o available you can get it for porterage now extreme ownership of course you can get
combat your ship applied to business and to life so you can get that book also a few wanted get in the game even contact as long front leadership and management consulting company
that we have that contact is in von aslant dotcom also the muster is around the corner of the austin texas muster thirteen and fourteen of july at the ameba creek resort prag
matless dragees and tactics that you can you lise day on no no reason to wait eround you'll learn em an you resenting emails in aran do you team ye things vex at only three
hundred seats for this cause we wanted a smaller vent you and this was the better avenue it's goin to sell out so if you want to come it you take it now until the master if you
have any feet back or questions for us you can find us actually on the interweb twitter in sturm and non nephites at gothas in a mad jack a willin roger of course has no social
neeuteen candace got anything else i makrothen again for coming by an you saw my neither is it a ijaye then going to she had just so your studio for half six months now and on
that you he loves it ye an he wasn't it went there about two a alf hears of it i had fighting boxing guide that was really good and ill but he says that you get so as a plectitur
is you got her top shell of sin it's every lie he told me to tell you a rejoys atakin you eh of course i it's it's great to have argentiferous to have it and to have it it's just
accessible to people there's no walls around it it open to our i cost money of course because you got to pay rent and all that stuff but not that much not mirasoles a month
caesarian time you want etienne you want well not twenty four hours a day but six no morning the until ten o'clock at night at comparing it to another places oh ye ye like little
red three times as much training lollonois so etogo every thing there and he added that's what he likes to buttie open and oh you know he likes to ye's got to git your boxing
motiers and i may cross fit it's got everything in her and that's why we built it ah rogitans no i'm i'm good them about bernouilli a man once again thanks were coming on we must
place you just awesome to have you on here and the first in that you are on i got a million i know you don't do social media but i got a million people saying please bring roger
back on pleasing roderick on and now that you want to day and you to once again you have a good way of telling little bits of stories that are awesome and i wanted her lay a one
hour story about self come at it and drop in boning sprain stuff down on like out o that what's got what i learn to taxes what was going on so you're probably going to have to one
you burned out for the day which you probably have to get on one one monetti a iniamata coton again sharing your story you were experience your wisdom with us and more important
of course hanseat you did for our country for the navy and of course for the teams your absolutely one of the guys that made the teams what the teams are so thank you for that
roger honoured have you on here and for the rest of the vietnam veteran and i hear a lot from vietnam batterings thanks all of you for holding the line and thank you for every
deployment for every operation every mission every day spend out on patrol every night spent out in the bush every helicopter assault every river operation every combat sort every
case of jungle rabener and every wound received in every brother lost ten you all for what you did for us we will never forget so until next time is his echo and jaco and warn off
ter seal roger ad out
