this is jack o podcast number seventy eight with charles and me jack a willing that evening a good evening night mare now that's a word that i use often times to describe the most
he hailing in the most wretched things and in my higher archy of adjectives nightmare is right along side of hell they're not sure which want is worse in my mind that's why i say
or bright longer sight each other because how is beyond the worst thing your mind can imagine in a basically what a nightmare is when you're asleep and your mind dale into the
most horrific things beyond what you can consciously and willfully imagine in your own head that he nightmares now what if there was a place that was worse than a nightmare and it
was a real place who could create such a place and the answer to that is we can i shall never forget how i was roused one night by the groans of a fellow prisoner who threw
himself about in his sleep obviously having a horrible nightmare since i had always been especially sorry for people who suffer from fearful dreams or deliria i wanted to wake the
poor man suddenly i to back the hand which was ready to shake him frightened at the thing i was about to do at that moment i became intensest intensely conscious of a fact that no
dream no matter how horrible could be as bad as the reality of the camp which surrounded us and to which i was about to recall him in that a cold from the book man's search for
meaning by victor frankie which will be peering into to day and its buckatora concentration camps which are really as he pointed out there a worse than any nightmare we can
imagine here is a argostoli the wind stein on the death and the atrocities in trebling in now the transports were coming every day one was much like the next the same incidents
recurred again and again once as i swept out the interior of a car and assessment suddenly struck me with his weapon ordered me to help a woman who was unable to stand and climb
out of the car the idea was to show his victims how well the ill would be entreated then he ordered one of the workers to take the women take the woman to of the field the field
hospital for care the new comers really believed that the alielis woman would be taken to an infirmary none of them realized that the field hospital was in fact just a giant pit
about thirty yards in diameter which was always a blaze they would place those who were sick the or disabled on the ground at the edge of the pit facing in the assessment and the
in charge circulated among them and shot them in the back of the neck then the workers cast them into the pit some of the victims were still breathing when they were tossed in
with the other bodies the pit was separated from the spacious field by a barrier of fresh pine branches which were replaced from time to time to conceal the infirmary from the new
comers until the last moment twenty minutes after i helped the woman climb out of the railroad car i was told that some infants were sitting by the pit and no one else was there
because the s soldier had taken his lunch break i gathered some trash and went over there i saw the woman who had removed from the car still breathing sitting at the edge of the
pit and staring in fright into the burning inferno and its contents the half cremated bodies of old people and children mixed with smouldering trash she tried to stand up but her
legs would not hold her she looked at the workers who stirred the embers remnants of human beings so they would burn better near by were about a dozen infants through young to
learn how to walk they were not crying they certainly did not understand what was happening they looked about almost certainly in hopes of finding their mother or father later i
heard that right after he returned from his lunch break the susman shot them all and ordered the workers to throw the tiny bodies into the flames of all my memories of that
accursed place the vision of these babies is undoubtedly the worst as he their faces whenever i remember trembling as i write these lines more than fifty years after that day i
still cannot overcome the horror in another report here martinsen of tarancon describes the massacre of tornadoes in an interview we heard the columns of jews under the german
escort at night it was going constantly they were part passing our house because this was already on the outskirts of the city the cemetery and they were marching them to woods
behind the city as we found out later they were all shot over there during the day i looked out through the shingles my father said i shouldn't look but anyway i was a kid i was
curious and the roof was overlooking a cemetery and wagons with bodies dead bodies were coming in goods they were bringing in groups of jewish people that had to dig trenches they
had to dig ditches and the body's don't then and after those jews that dug the ditches they were shot also and pushed in by another group that came in after them into these
ditches and lime was poured over the bodies and the next group covered up those ditches and dug other ditches they brought in pregnant women and they didn't use any bullets they
used to be in that the screams of the mothers that their children they tore their children out of their arms and the screams of the children i still yearn and solomon redes who is
the only survivor from the seventy eight people in his family the scribe the concentration camp they throw the people in the crematoriums the children i will never forget alive
they throw them in the crematoriums they grabbed by an arm by a leg by the head and throw them into the ovens there it was so tragic the cries and people when crying there you
know it was so terrible i can feel it now i can even see the people the other people were crying the children were hollering mamma daddy help me mama daddy help me it was terrible
when one more report on troubling a from henry gold and the worst thing that happens to a person in that instance he loses self respect and that's exactly what happened to the
majority of the people some of them even lost their minds they couldn't take it the con take the hunger they couldn't take the beatings they couldn't take the cold no clothing and
the uncertainty and the uncertainty i think that was the worst thing that can happen to a person you didn't know from one moment to the next what was going to happen life was very
cheap a person was a live one minute the next minute he was shot killed beaten up beaten to death torn a tart a part by dogs and so on life was very very cheap and that's the way
the germans liked it that particular camp was governed by the jewish police and so on the germans did not stay in the camp they were on the outside but the life inside it a camp
was just as bad without the german being right there then if they would be the jewish police was i don't know you take a person in that situation and you give them a little power
and he becomes the same as the oppressor himself there were some policemen that were not bad but there were a lot of them that were ruthless there were others that would be people
and do all kinds of things that would degrade them and so on especially women they cut their hair off and they look like men they looked like scarecrows and they would get beaten
up by the jewish police just as bad as the man for no reason at all if they wanted a little more soup where they were distributing soup and there was some left in her gonaive
everybody a little bit and the jewish police with their sticks and rubber hoses would beat them half sent senseless and that's what happens when the conditions are the way they
wore then when a person becomes an animal and loses respect that is willing to get a beating and get beaten the half senseless just to get a little bit of soup either you died or
if you didn't die the germans would come and take you away the filth was just terrible in the camp in the barracks caught i mean bunks were everybody slept on straw there were no
covers was no pillows nothing you slept in your clothes in the winters in the winter because you're afraid to get cold the only heating was a pot bellied stove in the middle of
the barrack when somebody stole some wood in the factory or something then we had a fire otherwise it was freezing and the only warmth they had if you handled together and they
kept a warm that way but nobody would get undressed the lights were eating you up alive once a month you allowed to take a shower and we had to walk to camp had to go to the
showers and that means a ten mile walk ten miles there and ten miles back a lot of people were too weak to walk and those people hardly ever took a shower there was no hot water
in the washers only cold and new winter you are afraid to wash up because there was nothing to wipe yourself with therefore you would walk out in the cold winter and freeze to
death then henry gold brothers and both of his parents were all killed in the gas chambers and from the book walled report which was translated and eddied with an introduction by
david a hacket i will now describe the crematoriums in the transports at the station two thousand people got off the trains they had to throw away all their luggage afterward the
men and women were divided its two groups at which the larger boys were assigned to the group with the men then that great devour of jews mangle drove by in a car seeking out the
strongest for each transport they numbered around thirty out of two thousand the remainder would let away by as technical sergeant moll the officer of the crematorium the elderly
were loaded on to duntruskin then dumped into burning trenchers wilsill alive the remainder when led to the gas chambers meanwhile new transports were arriving in front of the gas
chamber was a dressing room on its walls was written in all languages put shoes into the cubby holes and tie them together so you will not lose them after the showers you will
receive hot coffee here poor victims undressed themselves and win to the chamber there were three columns for the ventilators through which the gas poor in a special work detail
with tongan's drove the people into the chamber when the room was full small children were thrown in through window sergeant mole grabbed infancy their legs and smashed their
skulls against the wall then the gas was let into the chamber the lungs of the victim slowly burst and after three minutes allowed clamoring could be heard then the chamber was
open and those who still showed signs of life were beaten to death the prisoners of the special work details then pulled corpses out took their rings off and cut their hair which
was gathered up put in sacks and ship to factories then they arranged the corpses in piles of ten each after sergeant more had counted them they were taken to the ovens or if the
crematoria crematoriums were insufficient thrown in the fire trenches once it happened that a victim crawled out of a burning trench he was beaten to death with trongest mole
pulled put a naked woman in the trench and shot er in the genitals another time more found a ring on a member of the special work detail he ordered nat naptha poured over him and
had it lighted he hanged a man by his hands and shot him until his arms were torn through then he hanged him up by the feet and repeated the process once sergeot a family of six
first i shot the youngest in the presence of the rest that he shot the older ones and finally their father and mother and that's the testimony of john nowise whose fifteen years
old that berton so i think it safe to say that this is a situation that is definitely worse than a nightmare and what possibly can we take away from that that think the best thing
we can do is try and learn and i think one of the best places to learn and take lessons away from the hall cost is from the book that i started out for th to day called man search
for meaning by victor frank let's go to the book let us take the case of a transport which was officially announced transfer a certain number of prisoners to another camp but it
was fairly safe to guess that its final destination would be to guestchamber a selection of sick or feeble prisoners incapable of war would be sent to one of the big central camps
which were fitted with gas chambers and crematoriums the selection process was the signal for a free fight among all the prisoners or of group against group all that matter lose
that one's own name and that of one's friends were crossed off the list of victims though every one knew that for each man saved another victim had to be found a definite number
of prisoners had to go with each transport it did not really matter which since each of them was nothing but a number on their mission to the camp all their documents had been
taken from them together with other possessions each prisoner therefore had an opportunity to claim a fictitious name a profession and for various reasons many did this the
authorities were interested only in the captive's numbers these numbers were often tattooed on their skin and also had to be sown to a certain spot on their trousers jacket or
coat any guard who wanted to make a charge against a prisoner just glanced at his number and how he dreaded those glances he never asked for his name to return to the convoy about
to depart there was neither time nor desire to consider moral or ethical issues every man was controlled by one thought only to keep himself alive for the family waiting for him
at home and to save his friends with no hesitation therefore he would arrange for another prisoner another number to take his place in the transport as i have already mentioned
the process of selecting capes was a negative one only the most brutal of the prisoners were chosen for this job so taposiris oners jewish prisoners that god elected to help run
the prison camp and an capotted the image of where that came from and the best of the closest of the thing that made the most sense to me from what i read was was they had two
words combined together comrade police then the indermann does god shorten to cape so some of these indian you are a heard one of those earlier testimonies talking about the
jewish police inside the prison and how they were just as bad it as in many cases as the germans themselves back to the book but apart from the selection of caps which was
undertaken by the sthere was a sort of self selecting process going on the whole time among all the prisoners on the average only those prisoners could keep a live who after years
of tracking from camp to camp had lost all scruples in their fight for existence they were prepared to use every means honest and otherwise even brutal force theft and petral of
friends in order to save themselves will you have come back by the aid of many lucky chances or miracles whatever one may choose to call them we know the best of us did not return
so there is a dynamic that you don't think of immediately when you think of the concentration can't number one you don't think about the caps the jewish police that are forced
into this situation and in the other thing you don't think about is this the fact that the people that were going to survive or basically a making a very broad sabut but you know
from what victor frankie saying here it was the people that were willing just to do anything to survive including betraying their friends and he say in straight up we know the
best of us did not return and that is something that you don't think about and i we probably don't think about because we don't want to think about it because when you start
thinking about what would you do to survive what would you do to survive what would i do to survive and that's a question i i don't think a lot of people want to know the answer
to and it's very easy to go through life and never have to answer that question talking a little bit now about what life was like in the camp back to the book somewhere i said
that man cannot exist without sleep from more than a stated number of hours quite wrong i had been convinced that there were certain things i just could not do i could not sleep
without this where i could not live without that or the other the first night and outwit we slept in beds which were constructed in tears on each tear measuring about six and one
half to eight feet slept nine men directly on the boards two blankets would be shared by each nine men we could of course lie only on our sides crowded and huddled against each
other which had some advantages because the bitter cold those forbidden to take shoes up to the bunk some people did use them secretly as pillows in spite of the fact they were
caked with mud otherwise one's head had to rest on the crook of an almost dislocated arm and yet sleep came and brought a blivion and relief from the pain for a few hours thought
of suicide was entertained by nearly every one if only for a brief time it was born of hopelessness of the situation the constant danger of death looming over us daily and hourly
and the closeness of deaths suffered by many of the others from personal convictions which we mentioned later i made a firm promise on my first evening in the camp that i would
not run to the wire this was a phrase used in camped to describe the most popular method suicide touching the electrical electrically charged barbed wire fence it was not entirely
difficult for me to make this decision there was little point committing suicide since for the average inmate life expectation calculating objectively and counting all likely
chances was very poor he could not without any assure ye could not with any assurance expected be among the small percentage of men who survived all the selections the prisoner of
our shirts in the first phase of shock did not fear death even a gas chambers lost their horrors for him after the first few days after all they spared him the act of committing
suicide in victor frank was a psychiatrist going into this situation so that's the that's the view necopopec tive that he takes throughout this and he's now been in for a couple
of days in our shirts and another guy comes in to talk to him whose another calligonus a going back to look a college of mine who had rived noseward several weeks previously
smuggled himself into our hut he wanted to calm and comfort us and tell us if you things he had become so thin that at first we did not recognize him whether show of good humor
and a devil may care out it gave a few hurried tips don't be afraid don't fear the selections doctor m the ass medical chief has a soft spot for doctors but one thing i beg of you
he continued shave daily if at all possible even if you have to use a piece of glass to do it even if you have to give your last piece of bread for it you will look younger and
the scraping will make your cheeks look wrote ruder if you want to stay alive there is only one way look fit for work if you even limp because let us say you have a small blister
on your heel and in assessment spot this he will wave you aside and the next day you are sure to be gasped now his mind in his thoughts he describes what he would think about back
to the book my mind still clung to the image of my wife a toughcuss my mind i didn't even know if she were still alive i knew only one thing which i have learned well by now love
goes very far beyond the physical person of the beloved if finds its deepest meaning in his spiritual being in his inner self whether or not he is actually present whether or not
he is still alive at all ceases somehow to be of importance i did not know whether my life wife was alive and had no means of finding out during all my prison life there was no
outgoing or incoming mail but at that moment it ceased to matter there was no need for me to know nothing could touch the strength of my love my fought and the image of my beloved
had i known then that my wife was dead i think that i still would have given myself undisturbed by that knowledge to the contemplation of her image and that might mental
conversation with her would have been just as vivid and just as satisfying sent me like a seal upon thy heart love is as strong as death i continuing on doctor franke talks about
images from inside the camp standing outside we saw sinister clouds glowing in the west and the whole sky alive with clouds of ever changing shapes and colors from steel blue to
blood red the desolate grey mud hats provided a sharp contrast while the paddles on the muddy ground reflected the glowing sky then after a few minutes of moving silence one
prisoner said to another how beautiful the world could be then beyond looking for beauty around them they were able to find humor and if i have people asked me about this from
time to time but humour in combat situations in the isn't it important and yesterday is and you think it of concentration camp even humour would go away but not true back to the
book to discover that there was any semblance of art in a concentration camp must be surprised enough for outside but he may be even more astonished to hear that one could find a
sense of humor could find a sense of humour there is well of course only the faint trace of one and then only for a few seconds or minutes humor was another of the soul's weapons
in the fight for self preservation it is well known that humor more than anything else in the human make up can afford a and eludes and in ability to rise above any situation if
only for a few seconds the attempt to develop a sense of humor and deceiving in a humorous light is some kind of trick i learned while mastering the art of living yet it is
impossible to practise the art of living even in a concentration camp although suffering it is omnipresent to draw in analogy a man suffering as similar to the behavior of gas if
a certain quantity of gas is pumped into an empty chamber i will fill the chamber completely and evenly no matter how big the chamber thus suffering completely filled the human
soul and conscious mind no matter whether the suffering is great or little therefore the size of human suffering is absolutely relative and i think the point that i took away from
that was that chamber that can be filled up with suffering piled up with some humorous well otherwise that that suffering will just fill the whole chamber of fill your whole brain
back to the book we were grateful for the smallest of mercies we were glad when there was time to deal auber going to bed although in itself this was no preasure pleasure as it
meant standing naked in unheeded hut where icicles hung from the ceiling but we were thankful if there was no air raid alarm during the operation in the lights were not switched
off recount do the job properly we were kept awake half the night so you're at a point in life where your great full for being able to stand naked and pick the lice off of er
friends before you go to bed to the lion' keep you awake at night by the naybody and you know i talked about how or he talks about how you know it was the person that was going to
survive what had to be ruthless basically then here he says but is not for me to pass judgment on those prisoners who put their own people by every one else who can throw snow at
a man who favours his friends under circumstances when sooner later it is a question of life or death no man should judge unless he asks himself in absolute honesty whether in a
similar situation he might not have done the same and here he says i mentioned earlier how everything that was not connected with the immediate task of keeping oneself and one
closest friends lives lost its value everything was sacrificed to this end a man's character became involved to the point that he was caught in mental turmoil which threatened all
values he held and through them into doubt under the influence of a world which no longer recognized the value of human life and human dignity which it robbed the man of his will
and made him an object to be exterminated having planned however to make full use of infers to the last ounce of his physical resources under this influence the personal ego
finely suffered a loss of value if the man in the concentration camp did not struggle against this in a last effort to save his self respect he lost the feeling of being an
individual a being with a mind with inner freedom and personal value he thought of himself then as only part of an enormous mass of people his existence descended to the level of
animal life the men were herded sometimes to one place then to another sometimes driven together than apart like a flock of sheep without a thought or a will of their own a small
but dangerous pack watched them from all sides well versed in methods of torture and sadism they drove the herd incessantly backwards and forwards were shouts kicks and blows and
we the sheep thought of two things only how to evade the bad dogs and how to get a little food he's going to delvino this deeper beside of this inner freedom and how horrid you
had to fight to maintain that and how easy it was just to roll in and become one of the pack one of the herd back to the book it is very difficult for an outsider to grasp how
very little value was placed on human life and camp the camp in mate was hardened possibly became more conscious of this complete disregard of human existence when a convoy of
sick men was arranged emaciated bodies of the sick were thrown on two wheeled carts which were drawn by prisoners for many miles often through snow storms to the next camp if one
of the sick men had died before the car left he was thrown on any ways the less had to be correct the list was the only thing that mattered a man counted only because he had a
prison number one literally became a number dead or alive that was unimportant the life of a number was completely relevant what stood behind that number and that life mattered
even less the fate the history the name of the man the camp in mate was frightened of making decisions and of taking any sort of initiative whatsoever this was the result of a
strong feeling that fate was one's master and that one must not try to influence it in any way but instead let it take its own course in addition there was a great apathy which
contributed no small part to the feelings of the prisoner at times lighting lightning decisions had to be made the vision would spell life or death the prisoner would have
preferred to let fate make the choice for him and so some of the examples that he brings up in the book on that or they'd get told we need people to go to a different camp for
rest and they had no idea sometimes it actually was some kind of rest sometimes it kind was some kind of actual a medical facility sometimes it was just you're going to the gas
chambers at another camp and they had no idea which one i was and so they got into this mode of they were just going to externally just whatever was going to happen it was goin t
happen den they wouldn't they go beyond winter thinite beginning to like had get me off that lester i want to be on that list and they realized that they just were bore messing
with fate as they got into a motive on just going to let things happen then whatever happens happens and they got this this feeling of apathy at you you can just imagine how that
that having no control externally of what's happening how that leads number one leads to this apathy of dust i don't care what happens but number two how that the condensed sneak
in and start to get control of your inner thoughts in your inner feelings where you just feel like you do have control over anything in life an that's it that here talks about
appetiser the prisoner's apathy was also the result of other factors hunger and lack of sleep contributed to it as they do in normal life also and to the general irritability
which was another characteristic of the prisoner's mental state the lack of sleep was partly due to the pasturing of vermin which infested the terribly overcrowded hot because of
the general lack of high gen and sanitation the facile had neither nicotine nor caffin also contributed to the state of apathy inability besides these physical causes there were
mental ones in the form of certain complexes the majority of prisoners suffered from a kind of inferiority complex we all had once been or had fancy ourselves to be somebody now
we were treated like complete non entities the consciousness of one's inner value is anchored in the higher more spiritual things a cannot be shaken by camp life but how many free
men load alone prisoners possess it without consciously thinking about it the average prisoner felt himself utterly degraded this became obvious when one observed the contrast
offered by the singular sociological structure of the camp the more prominent prisoners the capes the cooks the store keepers and the camp policemen did not as a rule field the
grated at all like the majority of prisoners but on the contrary a felt promoted some even developed a miniature miniature delusions of grandeur clearly we can all take a less out
of alone and that is you know you get put into a promotion position or you've got authority over people don't let that go to your head yet they guess that's a natural thing where
they did this the experiment destination verst whatever be their all just random student of one played the prisoner one group played the guards and that happened you know in an
like t act it just as an experiment it is not real life you know and i do happen yeah and it happened in real life which i think is even more insane do you norns eana but then
again how can we sit here in judge when if you are in that situation and you need to survive and you need to do the best to get your you to survive in your family survive and you
have an opportunity oh are we a say no no i'm going to instead of doing this where i may be contusing good in the long run no i'm not going to go across my values i'm goin to gian
free as an that's it ye that's a hard decision to make ye a seems easy when you sitting in the comfort of your home like a wild in do that or you know you can to and asshole done
or i wouldn't have done but yet an you know i i i talk to people will about again it's mocking a compare anything to want were talking about here but in the military for instance
a lot of times i had to make decisions to to you know i got to do something that may be i didn't fully agree with but i knew in the long run it was going to get me something that
would going to be beneficial to my team or to my petunia whatever is so you make those little adjustments and you got to suck it up and you do something that you might not want to
do but in the long run it's going to be beneficial yes i mean this i i drevenoff this is even a room leucole comparison but what i am saying is this you take a human being and you
say look you can either step up and acted different way and be abusive to these people orders going to be dead in three days not it to your choice is ye and it's not that hard to
figure out that a lot of people are going to step up and say corfiote people because i need to live from neelie ye my courses either deaf now and by the way may be the baby this
the best person in that group is going to say you know what i'm a dodo this and i'm going to step up an when i abuse these people i'm going to do a little bit less than some one
else might reenter in doing the best i can yeah i mean is a decision sir how to even think about these decisions and on men than you have to think about me have to understand you
after derstand what human nature is that there is a survival point for humids you have as an intintion to survive that very few people can overcome yea and i don't even you know
again how do you judge whether it's right to overcome it or not when is it right i mean obviously when is it right were sitter it's easy to say hey don't deal these guys why would
you tell yourself well if you don't do the things you're basically killing yourself you don't step up if you don't absaroka i'll work as a cap if you don't do that you're going
yourself red is that make it okay man yes rude it's like ye to figure out whether or not your better off dead in the bed even in the grand scheme of things like these at lespel
that they're going to kinda succumb to these positions or do all these low things to survive so they can survive in unalive on and all this stuff so it's either that a or my
better off dead overall you know like that the decision you got to make an who knows what you think especially with all these conditions they are oopside adders is ah dick winters
was talking about how he and i don't know if i talked about it all in the park castor in it in the book conversations with dick winters he at you goes through a big section where
you talks about some of the guises in his company he called in the killer's he actually went on an said he you know i don't want to call him killers because that's going to give a
wrong impression but these guys were my most aggressive guys they were my best guys and he and he said they didn't make it pass you know he's a most of them didn't make it i
forget which which battle and what he said most of did it make it past the certain time because they were so aggressive they were such good guise there were so brave that they
didn't make it and and this is sort of the opposite where you have the people that are brave i guess no if the same in that people that are brave in her whole dievle goin to die
right and an you think about somebody that's cowardly in combat that says oh you know what you know echo you go first i'm going to sit over here behind this you know uh uh covered
position you i'll meliton an it's a micro example of what we're talking about her yes yes and this this given the book in what were to boatlike come off his board a lane in the
salting if not full fledged and felting but your house the shell survivor i i i i was the first one when it was kind of a thing ye and there was an interesting psychology having
ye and that's the alarodians was on it you know this i see retired smatterton everyone kind of new in this hollams ella ye so and fitting way arenosa is that the the people that
are not good human beings are the ones that went paladilhe get far put it that way because they have this weird mechanism at the end where the last you know few people who get
voted off they become the sort of a jury so is like if you went through the game screwing people over the juring you kind o thing so it's a yet in those justiciar of itself out
over time but the first one didn't have any jury right i don't i don't know i ilarione and say i i'm almost positive they didn't i rode had at hand on some walk and they had to
keep it there for like xandrames eyes the men wan person neahau lly upon something else in toisand often an he's out i was at dakaut yeah there's absolute comparison there there's
an absolute comparison to you know if you're willing to be a snake ran you can and you can you can win the game and i've talked about that to promotion people getting promoted you
and if you're willing to be a snake you can get promoted but the thing that i will say in a word environment is that that snake might get one promotion i am might get to
promotions they're not going to go the distance and if you hold belin on doing what correct then you might miss that first motion you might even mis that second for motion but
eventually if you are on the right path you will get the recognition and you will win in the long run you got to be patient though ye ye i mean at least see in your job it's not
life or death you know death isn't so close that you know one slip up your death your god you also that's a you know obviously the deacon different in work in that way but
otherwise i think so and survivor dies also that other thing that kind of what they talk about where or what you just talking about is if you it's kind of in a matter speaking
plain safe where you're just hiding under the wing run it a tarrose to some one or you'll avoid any kind you know a rescue preseruation rear and an evilly in survivor you can make
it far like that as well how a nowadays everyone knows about those things i call you back stop dere one or you do he had behind this guy cause he's struck by the same time just
like a are you saying if you're brave or you're going to stick to your morals and be honest with her one like you'll be voted off for a quick even if you're really good at it you
know the challenge in a tsonontowane like a really good leaders get vote like a someone just as at that i am at betoiling to be right right to a asserter too much of a threat too
much retreat elegerit and actually what your talker about going through shield training i would hear it it was in here when i went through but i heard it later the ideal of the
gray man think we might have actually answered a question on the boast about that he was going through training and just being a grayman meaning just don't stand out right round
on it one without the other and you'll be good to go and that's that's a that's a that's a strategy wintefield team ucation it's a tragic going through bud so up to see training
the initial she'll train in course because the many stand out people start known who you are and how you got instructors looking at you in the morn they watch you the more they
can see waltour making some mistakes or no her not doing everything right or maybe you're not in so better be that guy in the middle i was the guy in the middle not because i
wanted to motibus i was not you know the fastest runner i wasn't he the best wormer which you don't want to be as the guy on the palandra ye and his weird because i put so many
guys not through the basic culturing but food he advanced weturing and the guys that i remembered the two sets of guys that i remember the guys that were also in the guys that
were horrible in the guy's the middle all the grey eyes i know him when i see him i times i don't a hundred present i might not know that name whereas some without pieter the
young pipe it or some ephippiger that was just getting after it i always remember those guys names ginteel take control everything and then i stand out and in the other guys you
remember a guys that her totally jacked up so that idea of the a gray man it seems like a good policy to have in the concentration kept i just don't want to stand out i don't want
another limp i don't want to you know come across is i just want to sit in a ramanella you're going to go the distance right witches and and that's a horrible way of saying i'm
going to stand out by saying hey i can whip these prisoners into shape right that's going and raising your end in senile a capital i will i'm going to step up and what you're
risking there is we don't know where there's wars going a end and where you name at the end of this thing sea and you know i read some stories about that the war did end and they
did liveright these camps then it didn't work out good for the capo ye so there's there's the same thing do you had a bit done all right get your promotion the first cup o times
but eventually it it comes around me all exactly right as you know hardly flanagan was talking about karma and in ivanhoe much reality there is that but there's there's the
reality of you report yourself yet and if you treat people if you deify take advantage your position if you maneuvering people over to get ahead of them they'll remember that ye
seriem ber that yet and then a tent i mean carmel with antanaclasis by the way if i amoraroo i mean could you possibly come up with some scenario where where you know i did this
to get a promotion to an i could take care of eoite one else fell you could come up with a yes but it's very absurd and my got feeling was always like to not worth it yet worked
those little maneuvers it in entertainment your position on other people's backs ye screwin somewhat alreadyorganized with that to a man unless you're like a sociopath and
something like that you have to live with that and man yet and even at the time it seemed like i could live with that cassolette taking a higher road than me cause your saying you
personally have to live with a antedate i'm same beyond that even if you are a person that can live with it you're still goin to pay in the long run eefee to mere black i don't
care i got potentiated have okay so you can live without that's cool but guess what there's something else you're going to that's goin to come that around and that is one of those
other people that you step on it back is going to invent something new a work and you notae over the division and you're going to pay not to mention the ten people who watch it
happen you know you just make any enemies there enemies and is really what karma is for it i mean come could be this mystical thing there heartsomely watches you and has this
judgment system and in maores realized to the like if i walk up to up you know even minor even we don't know each other i don't have any bad or good feeling story and i come and i
slippy i created a deficit now now yer ain't a insanabilis you're intention whether you do it or not you're what you you're compelled to slap me back if not more usually more to
the congolese that's kind of really what it is i mean really in a small temennu show deicoon and start aften mad to everyone what it they're not going to be like oh i love you i
mean they might because they might armedon intellectual or original they might be able to think about it but they're natural compulsion will be to be mad if you act and and this
you know the parashu man nature talithim in nature and i was say that war reveals human nature more clearly than anything else because it's so much pressure on the people
obviously a concentration camp its reviving human nature that's exactly what we're talking of about and it reveals itself in crystal clarity on a massive scale in terms of
bengalese in a concentration camp and you see it reveal itself on a t v show called survivor and you see that reveal itself and in the work confinement and what i'm saying is from
all that what you want to do you want to make sure that when you get put into a position of authority you don't abuse it that's what i'm saying you don't want to use it you want
to treat people respect to matter what and you don't want to step on people's backs to get a head because otamatea it's not than a pay off really isn't you know you're only going
a fool like that leader that you that you food and to think in that you are a great gideon in last re so long year and eventually you're going to get found out now all right let's
give left get back into the book here the experiences of camp life show that man does have a choice of action and this is we talked about the capitas at all of some of the more
heroic people and in some of the those actions of very briefly an says because it's the reason he's very briefly cause he was no lot of em these sciences of camp life show that
man does have a choice of action there were not examples often of a heroic nature which proved that apathy could be overcome irradibit iritability suppressed man can preserve a
vestige of spiritual freedom of independence of mind even in such terrible conditions of psychic and physical stress we who lived in concentration camps can remember the men who
walked through hot comforting others giving away their last piece of bread they may have been few in number but they offer sufficient proof that everything can be taken from a man
but one thing the last of the human freedom to choose one's attitude in any given set of circumstances to choose one's own way and vertisements is it that is it this idea and you
know captain plum talked about it as well and captain plum had a cold from stockdale and we got out explored as not got a bunch of stock all books and i we will get to some stock
talbots co is the senior guinny held him and he's a fighter pilot philosopher guy brilliant guide hero one the wasn't worded the medal of honor and one of the things that that
that captain pulmonalis to his about as his captain plum said that they got word from stockdale and i'm going to miss coatimondis it was just because wearing a prison camp doesn't
mean we have to be on defence were gone to be a rotinenhiotronon camp that's just a completely different attitude it's choosing the attitude were not consider here and be abused
and and be put down we are going to step up whereon to boring on offend and they did they did hunger strike they passed word around they wouldn't stand up when people invite did
these things they went on offices and that's what he's talking about rank here this last human freedom to choose one's attitude in it any given satirus tances we always have that
choice no matter what the circumstances are that surround you always have that choice back to the book and there were always choices to make every day every hour offered the
opportunity to make a decision a decision which determined whether you would or would not submit to those powers which threatened to rob you of your very self your inner freedom
which determined whether not you would be come the placing of circumstance renouncing freedom indignity to become moulded into the form of the typical inmate again there it is you
here any concentration camp doomed doomed and yet you can hang on to that last that last bastion of freedom in your soul i not let them win and not let them own that back to the
book seen from this point of view the meant to reactions of the inmate of a concentration camp must see more to us than the miracles on of certain physical and sociological
conditions even though conditions such as lack of sleep insufficient food and various mental stresses may suggest that the inmates were bound to react in certain ways into final
analysis it becomes clear that the sort of person the prisoner became was the result of inner decision and not the result of camp influences alone think about that the sort of
person a prisoner became was the result of an inner decision not the result of the cerement doesn't matter what kind of person you be come what matters the decisions that you make
unbelievable actor the book fundamentally therefore any man can even under such circumstances decide what shall become of him meant to lead and spiritually okay physically you can
have that one can't control that old though to all time but meant to lead and spiritually i get to decide what i'm going to be he may retain his human dignity even in a
concentration camp thus the cycad once there is only one thing that i dread not to be worthy of my sufferings these words frequently came to my mind after i became acquainted with
those margers who be whose behaviour in camp whose suffering and dash bore witness to the fact that the last in freedom can not be lost it can be said that they were worthy of
their sufferings the way they bore their suffering was a genuine inner achievement it is this spiritual freedom which cannot be taken away that makes life meaningful and
purposeful the way in which a man accepts its fate and all the suffering it entails the way in which he takes up his cross gives him ample opportunity even under the most
difficult circumstances that add a deeper meaning to his life it may remain brave dignified and unselfish or in the bitter fight for self preservation he may forget his human
dignity and become no more than an animal here lies the chance for a man either to make us sefor to forego the opportunities of attaining the moral values that a difficult
situation may afford him and this designs whether he is worthy of his sufferings or not to think about that when you get faced with this ultimate challenge brutal challenge when
life is just about to crush you that's when you have the biggest opportunity to prove who you are you know speaking of of of unworthy topics but this is something i when i was
when i first got so well as it filter i ran a communications class and when i ran to class we i was like superheat and sure i know come to the big shock or a but we would great
test test test on all these different subjects you know what radio what frequent you brand with what it you know all these different subjects and i would set say the guy's hey you
know to morrow geante test another opportunity for you to prove yourself mum and that's the way i look at it linowska it singanfoo not that i sat at an exactly what you save here
when you have these brutal circumstances that your face that's your opportunity and if i think about all heroic tales right there's no heroic tales where the hero doesn't face any
challenges and as a matter of fact the worst challenges he faces the more of a yearly becomes if if you rises the occasion if he does rise a gazing guess what we don't hear about
it not of her not europe yet in fact let's see you're considered a hero and then this big chance to prove yourself comes about an you fail or you don't step up you kinda like dis
peaflour in a way even though you've been here although time ah i would say that's true although if you do something heroic enough people are like good with it right i say if
they're significant idea senecio the thing thing yea i mean the bottom litis you face these challenges then you get challenged that to have this attitude of you thebaica good
opportunity odeneal the prophet yet right oh big challenge cold opportunity ed yes like those guys who you know the start of business the business is like grows and then it just
massively fails because some mistake or out on a someding then some or the contadino whatever and then they ran they reach round by then they build themselves back up and they
mean no is massive success in that ahatsistari you know that's much better than hay i went to this school i graduated i worked this job i made a bunch of money yet even as once
right cool etolian to hear the struggle they want to see that you are alledged i'll back to the book everywhere man is confronted with fate with the chance of achieving of
achieving something through his own suffering at think about that the the the suffering that your going through is in a chance to achieve something through yourself ry that's an
incredible thought i that's an incredible thought now this next part of something that i get asked about on a fairly regular basis back to the book take the fate of the sick
especially those who are incurable i won't read a letter written by young invalid in which he told a friend that he had just found out he would not live for long that even an
operation would be of no help he wrote further that he remembered a film he had seen in which a man was portrayed to waited for death in in courageous and dignified way the boy
had a thought it a the boy had fought in a great accomplishment to meet death so well now he wrote fate was offering him a similar chance o ye i mean there's there's you know
diseases terminal diseases and that's it and then what do you do well i think you have to choose the best possible attitude you can in again i've never been in that situation
obviously but that statement seems to be the best possible attitude to take again that that when we see people doing something heroic that's what we see and you atturny some of
those that when we were doing a lot of the native americans on the poast they all had that attitude when you go to face death hold your head high be fraid of it and that's really
like you to said easier said her in the you know is a maori surecure easy for me to say your insanity but that's a horrible and you know em the other day all that jorogata cast
ever last was on the yea and joe roan he you know every last was saint hey you know i not good shape right now i wish i could better shape i have you know bathes got back
injured's got this nengone daughter that got some kind of illness bad illness and joe put on the good video that you made and you don't everlasten he got down ever last was like
hey that's cool that's inspirational but how does it help me with my sick daughter ye what's good about that you know and i wish i could have jumped through and and talk to him
because this much i will say when you got a bad situation like that i'm telling you right now it could be worse absolutely a hundred per cent and the fact that he's talking about
his daughter how she sick and how he so spend so much time with her to take care of her won't well that's what i'm saying ye be thankful that your n a position in life where you
can spend time with her be thankful that she's in a condition where she can spend time with you you know and you know there's she still heard if nothing else that's good if
nothing else and so what are you to do i mean your your your other option is to say my daughter sick this is horrible i got curses not fair and what does that do for you where
does that get you it doesn't get you anywhere it matter of fact it takes you backwards you so you really truly do have to look at these horrible situations i remember i got a call
back from from over seas that agitates was really badly wounded and in a couple of my friends were kind of distraught and i talked to one of the guys overseas and i you know and
and man i at this point you know lost mark whilst mike i don't think ryan had died yet but like i was familiar with guise dying ye and i talked to one the guys that was overseas
and i had him you know the guy's billy billy messed up and i'm like easygoing a live and they're like a he stable and i go then don't worry about a thing be happy he's alive and
it doesn't matter if he's missin a leg or two legs or whatever he's going to be coming home and he's going to carry on with his life and it's going to be a hard and it's going to
be hell and it's going to be a challenge but guess what he gonahey know and that you know again it's like man what's the alternative the alternative is his debt the alternative is
we never talk to him again that's the old ternaire ye verses he's condor come back right and this guy the guy that got one he wasn't like a great friend of mine but i knew as
talkite that were very close to him and so you know i had to make sure i wasn't comin across like hay it's nobody deal i you know likes going to be fine not wasn't like that but
look at the alternative is you know let's be thankful that he's alive ye and he's going to come home and were you know he's going to carry on with his life yet and that's what
that's what's important so it's really when you do look at these situations when things are going bad and then you say okay we'll walk to come of that and in the the one step
further than what happens when some one does die you then what good comes with that aunt and my thought is always the same thing i'm thankful that i got to know that person i'm
thankful that i got to understand their personality i'm thankful that i oughta spend a day with them laughing and having that memory that's what's good what's good as i got to
experience them in my life and they got to experience all the people to their lives and that's what's good about it but just to say hey you know my friend my family member is dead
this is horrible and i can't escape from this wrong attitude and of course you're going to go through that it's the there's the whatever those things are that you go through its
shock and then deny all and then anger and then except inside and all that that i did it and and it's not going to be easy but i'll tell you what will make it easy or his to look
at the situation and say one ear is good you know and you will not worse things his parents we have young children that are terminally ill it's a awful it's awful and the best you
can think of i say all the while you can it right and an get what you can and grow the memories that you can right now because tis the focus on the fact that life isn't fair isn't
good to help you and yes what you're right life isn't fair you lie isn't fair it's it's it's a random halbig and if you want a focus on the randomness and the harridans of it
that's where you're going to end up ye but if you can focus on the good that comes out of those situations did you you again i haven't been through that i haven't been to that
thank god you not the lovers but de best i can do the best i can assess i say man at least try and look at what positis coming out of this and and and focus all that instead of
focus in on what is negative cue it's going back to what rankle said i chose what your attitude is going to be you don't become a victim of the randomness ye and that's so and
that goes on on like all levels you know how even if like something isn't horrible it's just kind of junk on all away down to just something that it's pretty hole there still a
lot a good going on in the situation but in this like i say like your attitude or another way to put it is what you're looking for to to internalized you know a lot temenis
natural and i've been there where it's like everything just seems bad even the smell i guess on the real bad happens lease things real bad and then the same day or the next year
whatever something small bad halfen it'll just add big time to the badness like nothing's going right kind o o sheat it to me all the good things are going on all around will you
lilloise so in a low hems we've like rubes situation fishy seith kids countess like the the most weak you can ever feel really he like your kid like when my daughter had set a big
staff in the section or say in her limned so ernest has a hospital for a week and were there that's like the most weak in that that you will feel in of course there's wavertons
then that i know than that that's nothing commerce situations i know that but there are good things that are still going on in our situation your life it's a be there's good
situations that can come of it and a lot of em a lot of em is just or strength to related you don't like if you let something be you down you don't get the streike that's a lot
feel loose like you warmoonoo conditioning from it in a way that in a matter speaking yes so like if you have a qualunque good attitude when you emerge from the situation you will
have strength down if you don't you won't you'll have weakness you'll be you know unshivering happens bad my life socks and you know you'll continue dumb kind of that road so the
good part like if you sit like a said if you keep that good attitude in when you may get out you will have the titheman the other good things i can come from me you will have the
strength yea an you're right and i mean just look at captain plum and look at colonel reader it forths guys to go through what they went through and and maintain a pose of
attitude and then they come out and you saw leastalk i don't you can't think of more positive people yes in the world yet you know i mean not in the whole world but yet read
they're just have so much positivity because they've been through something and they had to maintain an obdured so you're right when i come out it's like how ellen make anything
that's what happens with a lot of times with guys that have been to war is they come back in their like happy to see the sun rise i know i am reimposition rise i'm i'm happy to
the lot of people to see the sun rise i appreciate that thing here and i think when people go through some kind of devastating disease in their family or themselves same thing
once they get through it in the at least come out the other side and they can appreciate it and yet if they let it be tom down and going to it's going to everything is going to
look down if one looking down you're going to let down if you're looking up you're going to look up ye cottabus hard i mean if so hard for people very warm yet and again a over
talking you know you ever hear both of us are yet i was on juragan we started off talking about the crisco are killester we out of cursory kintal about the present and neither one
i mean i definitely am not claiming flaming to be any kind of expert and all the about it and i even sat on ericaine this way and i had a couple of people had be upon social meal
like you know you should you should read this or you should do this or and and you know or sure not right i'd like no i've wasn't even trying to say anything that i'm right i'm
jist i was saying i don't actually given know ye an answer ye i'm not you know certainly unexpert on how to overcome the old arvasita ions but i've been in some pretty horrible
situations and this is what my thoughts tried to be and it's not always easy at all yes jordan person has some good good huh little good content on that where he basically in that
shell he says get yourself together where in an example one of the many was you know a family member dizer whatever get yourself together see you what do you go to do are you
going to wallow with the rest of the people who now one can get a hold of anything in the funerals a master whatever or even to get yourself together grieve for sure game but get
yourself together so you can and a lead and get the funeral together and take care of the business or ever in such a cold blooded thing to say right it's the complete and natural
i sank is hard about it is you know think about this oh if someone in your family died knows like etage yourself together right yonder to be a lie i i o says that i but that's
probably the best thing i could possibly say to you he might need to say no more tax for way rima to say hey eoman of feel for you hey man what we need to do is grieved but we all
see to folks on moving for you know what meaneth kind of thing but the reality is one of my really sang i really say hey dig yourself together you got a move on we got a move on
we got a move forward you got move forward your life and that's unlike such a hard thing to say to somebody yes but that's probably the right attitude to take is okay like lissis
horible and i need to keep it together yea yea men especially one there's no major ly prevalent things that are at risk at that moment as well like you kallias tulameen situation
i think ah betton was talking about this one if like you are in a fire fighter familia in some gets hit you don't just quit no exit the fire fighter you oh my gosh my guy's head
use it it's like okay he said boom let's continue the firefight but less say there is a firefight then the guy gets hit it it seems like you a harder thing to do just move on in
in some what are soilage to like asked to have a fire fictionalize you with round you can say okay i'm in a deal with this by neither also think about the rest of life ye so hard
in a yell again it's it's i you o'toole right now i i got i get some social medisine were someone will say hey i'm not a vet but like a friend of mine is going through problems
and i don't attatak to because i'm not o that an it's kind of like what i feel like right out like i had been through the litteratuers um throwing darts but i'm told him based on
what i know so it's the best i could you know yer best i could do right all you like you're a rascal some of the hay you you simply don't under it and when i affect is there a yea
in my bit my statement that we yes i don't understand don't like enough in what is talking to veterans saying look people you feel like people don't understand they know don't
anatolian so definitely not sitting here saying oh ah you know i know this which you do the situation like that and no idunnaw ye i don't know what you do when your family member
suffer something agreed ious like that like a terminal disease or death i don't know haven't been through it when i have been through is losing guinot that i have been through
this is this is darkness it a different kind of darkness but this is what i did in those situations and that's what i would think would help you in these other situations heard
the question what can what he do hard and we are but we are as sitting here reading a book by a guide that was in the concentration camp and he sang this thing to do you know so
that's that's another sort of reinforcement of this thought pattereroes a little benat the passage of time here in camp a small unit of time a day for example filled with hourly
tortures and fatigue appeared endless a larger time unit perhaps a week seemed to pass very quickly my comrades agreed when i said that in a camp a day lasted longer than a week
how paradoxical was our time experience and that something this actually reminded me of talking as carrarra and she ain't an i was as actually round the conversation when lay was
talking about he come out here and see all my kids my kids are all grown up now as sickly savory little est one but you my oldest daughters graduating high school in a couple of
weeks and she's going to go to college don't you know when lay from that her she was what was that twelve years ago so she was you know no i six six something like that so you
know you and and namely came out here you know he just come left his apartment and he or city where he's got his wife and kids in the hand you know it's cos and a little kids in
their crying and screaming and stone stuff and thrown up milk and pittery where and as you know it that's what life is when you there and you know he came out here and saw how my
kids were now grown up those nettie a gone it itawa gone and get it back and and he you know he talked about it on the bongas just dangaire appreciates and sarastro you know said
something along the lines of a the days are long but the years are short ye yes a very attestation and you can you can see that cure same thing you know hope lundie is just going
by so quickly this is start a talk again back to the attitude we could say that most men in a concentration camp believed that the act the real opportunities of life had passed
yet in reality there was an opportunity and to challenge one could make a victory of those experiences turning life into an inner triumph or one could ignore the challenges and
simply venetae as did a majority the prisoners saying same things saint opera not interesting and toldees before we started this book you know is that a great book but i i kind of
wanted to talk about how bad concentration camps world and i went and found some other sources for that because victor franked doesn't highlight it that much i mean his ad i mean
easiness for crying out long doesn't get any worse and you know to really give the impact of how bad it was i went and found some other sources that were a little bit a little bit
more directly written and a little bit more horrifying to be black of a better work because in his accounts he doesn't go into those some of those graphic details which i feel
like you should know and you should understand what before he talk about hey he's keepin a good attitude but no no is not his keeping a good adobas he was in a concentration camp
was not that now it was freakishly that's what dealing with and in his mind you could make a triumph or a victory out of those experiences which is in god right able attitude to
have i don't back to the book the prisoner who had lost faith in the future his future was doomed with his loss of belief in the future he also lost his spiritual hold he led
himself to cline and became subject to mental and physical decay usually this happened quite suddenly in the form of a crisis the sentis of which were familiar to the experienced
camp in mate we all feared this moment not for a self which would have been pointless but for a friends usually it begin with the prisoner of fusing one morning to get dressed and
wash or a glouton the parade grounds no entreaties no blows no threats had any effect he just lay there hardly moving if this crisis was brought about by an illness here used to
be taken to the sick bay or a denying to help himself he simply gave up there he remained lying in his own extra excite and nothing bothered him any more and that similar to what
kind of reader said hal if you didn't actively stay alive you would die he you couldn't just passively exist you loreman an if you want a dial you had to do i stop trying then you
were going to die back to book as we said before any attempt to restore a man's intersting in the camp had to first succeed in showing him some future gold in nidis words he who
has a way to live for can bear with almost any how that can be the guiding model for all psychotherapeutic and psychic efforts regarding prisoners whenever there was a
hopportunity for it one had to give them a wi an aim for their lives in order to strengthen them to bear the terrible how of their existence who to him who saw no more sense in
his life no aim no purpose and therefore no point to carrying on he was soon lost to know i do much doing and that's all there is to it he who has a why to live for can bear with
almost any how and obviously that transierunt leadership respective making sure people understand why they're doing what they're doin you just don't bark orders out of but from an
individual perspective hire you doing this find that then i actually i actually made a ah a a post on social mediator day and it was something along the lines of finding your
inner why or something like that sure and i was i was ah you don't mocking that attitude i and i was saying you know sometimes my inner voices trying to find out why am doing what
i'm doing it like my ontonagon something hard my invoice does an allowed to talk quiet i'm now here work ityou know um but there is obviously just like a leadership perspective
and from a personal perspective were you doing what you're doing and that should be the driving force ye an if you don't have that it's hard over come this songs you nestor come
challenges as because you know there there need some greater reason and one that it lost you get low onotowatishika think the one why you were making that this is my wife my
interviewing was it wasn't it wasn't all i think about it wasn't really the wise thing writes it was more about the inner the inner vos interpose but ye know i definitely said why
do there the cause i think people you like it's like a lot of good expressions or saying to whatever on people just all i like the millitary throwing it out in a beauty in it and
it done it down and then however one saying it now just sorted hounds cheese because knows actually doing it now actually understanding like the real what what it really means you
know like the person whose like hey i'm an alosin know they've basically spent their life in neglecting their health or whatever the there like a canny omgange in shape and then
they go on this you know program they quit you know but one there doing good on the promise say the first or second day thou'lt is my wy and they'll show their onontare their dog
or something like dat my wi er my kids or whatever you know but then the next day they quit the program like it such a week tenutolo woe we can just do that you know like that the
whole thing my witwer that's way too powerful for people to just be like her i win then just arason just like a little thing the atheist throw together a a thirty eight second
interest instigated effetely yet then you let dig yet you got to do it stuff so that's why it's funny because like us people just then in that out now not means like nothing and
it's it's almost like they see it seems like it seems like it's totally my interpretation of it but it seems like there saint it and thinking that they saw in so profound and deep
in new and inspirational in now peronnet counter your point i've had plenty of people that of talk to me about you know i was in bad tape i wasn't an care of myself i wasn't elthy
and had my first kit and i said to myself i need to i need to ether for my kid but bore or i was doing bad a work in a elakaten i wasn't focused on have to rear was it prose on
being squared away and was wasting all my onnust and i had my first kid and then i said i got a you know this this is me taking care of my kid and ninety dinadam good job and
that's exactly the point a ris that the so real thing and if that's ferlie your why conceptually now i'm seethe expression it leeterature batavianites the wather's a big
difference between the contemplation that goes into i'm doing this on my kids colloging on wawat hers but i i am no like think about and this they out your relationship with your
children and where you're going to end up and now you and a see them live and what guidance you can give them as human beings and the example that your sedeno them and you have
line all those things up then may be you can put down the donoghoe alida essenites litson cheesy catherine does it he says it this is a great section going back to the book we had
to learn ourselves and furthermore we had to teach the despairing men that it did not really matter what we expected from life but rather what life expected from us we needed to
stop asking about the meaning of life and instead to think of ourselves as those who were being celestine by life daily and hourly one answer must consist not in talk and
meditation but in right action and right conduct life ultimately means taking the responsibility of find the right answer to its problems and to fulfil the tasks which it
constantly set for each individual again your turning your flipping this idea round not about what i want from life it's what what of life one for me and it's put me challenges
nesher les in front of me and i got a go and jump over him and then i got ammas him and then i got set fire to em and then had us that fire to few of the domination of everything
that's in my path the canelike haves weight cerini them i only teach same thing if the exact same thing ye in again going back to the idea that we war reveals human nature and in
this is doctor frank's way of putting this exact same thing that i say back the book life in a concentration camp tore open that human soul and exposed its depths it is is it
surprising that in those depths we have again found only human qualities which in their very nature were a mixture of good and evil the rift dividing good from evil was ghost
through all human beings reaches into the lowest depths and becomes a parent even on the bottom of the abyss which is laid open by the concentration camp so we've got this ideal
once again that there's a dicotomy in people in people this dichotomy that your capable of doing extreme good in your capable of doing extreme evil and we've seen it a bunch we
see it a bunch on this potest the look to me i massacre those guys were normal guise that committed extreme evil straight up even hum nor all eyes that were you know four days
earlier probably would have done something heroic to save some one and here they are the other end of the spectrum and i think that you have to we have to face that not only
individually do you have that but then obviously as the group you have that as a group of human beings we have that capability which sever norvegian if you want to know what that
good part is you got to know what that darkness is too yet the group thing is interesting agennois it not always let you hear some news about these riots on college campuses
whither be after game yelling pre at a glance you think dang is this college fill of full is just holenites bit like huge right you know but it's that it's like as an individual
or you know a mercutio normal circumstances they just there just nomapela you don't tiers whatever there is no more people but then you put him in this particular situation in
some way extreme or what are you not suspect or but and they just act different and that the whole group then amictoe active france to group deities can be a very very scary thing
and there's no doubt he can be a very very scary thing and that's a that's why you know even when he's talking about and i mention this on when i was under open last pot casting
with this the idea of individual freedom and acting as an individual is so important as to tistracted your life round to say look i'm not part of this gopis not me ye this group
is not meet in a represent me i represent me a a and i i have my own individual choice and that's what he said to her of the men it you give away to the herd ye that's when you
start going to enyonnontonnyonhet that control it so scary scary thing and that's when these evil things take place yes and that in that once again that it's it's like it's easy
to say now because the grouping yourself is actually a survival mechanism true soldier in a it's not going to be just that you're not going to naturally just be an individual and
a like an individual and conduct yourself in all these extreme situations as in individuates connaturall seater so i guess it just helps to to know these tingwell had all had at
her erehand per cent right on both faces number one yes going and fittin is a survival in sancta people have and that's a why trends happened and that's why nations happened and
that's why that's why groups occur people and politic yentai and in everything right to give these crops and i mean it's weird now because with the internet you can have groups
you can be party's nouaille goeing intone with all these different people but it's also important to make sure that you you do remember dan you are an individual man can that you
don't want to give up that last shred of human will to decide what your attitude is going to be eating and to day you know in our luxurious eighty if you can consciously navigate
your waist clear that of of falling into the group trap is a it is the trap cause you is if you can do that successfully pracent favor the tricks man like that of the thing you
get er will get trick my always done just something as is seemingly beningen just manuel just fall for wales tricks you are like those church out there in the world do you no oh i
don't polifilo to many of them it thinketh is a amarawatti spoke of his rokitno long except very fast red and an actually he goes into um sort of goes into the more of this
psychological decipiatur the actual academic of it did i covered a but this is a fast remains only a hundred and fifty pages or so and you definitely get a raw look at at human
nature but this closing i think is very very powerful going back to the book a human being is not one thing among others things determine each other but man is ultimately self
determining what is becomes within the limits of endowment and environment he has made out of himself in the concentration camps for example in this living laboratory and on this
testing ground we watched in witnessed some of our comrades behave like wine while others behaved like saints man has both potentialities within himself which one is actualized
the pens on decisions but not unconditioned is realistic for we have come to no man as he really is after all man is that being who invented the gas chambers of outwits however he
is also that being who entered those gas chambers aright with the lord's prayer or the shame israel on his lips and i think that thought that man has both potentialities within
himself and we seen them over and over again these grand expanded potentialities in extreme display and we've talked about these situations in the podcast over and over again and
no the burma railway that was built by the prison of war and the press of war work tortured killed by the japanese in the genesian a wanderer of name king and we've also seen the
other potentiality and we've seen that over over again that that potentiality of canes and of sacrifice osman that we've seen over over again that lay down their lives are for
their brothers and in doing so protective our freedom but it's important and no that again that whether the good or it evil is actualized in the minds of men that is not based on
conditions but on dicision in this dozen only applied to good evil course that's the that's the most expansive fought that we can apply this to bitias applied to everything we
choose to do or choose not to do and everything we choose to become or not to be done it's us it's haric in we are responsible we are responsible to be good instead of evil to be
strong instead of weak to become what we want to become not what we let ourselves become we on the course and with every decision that we make the actual eyes ourselves and become
what we choose swine for saint so when you make decisions every decision than think about where that decision leads and what that decision will make you become and then self
determined self determined to what will make you a better person than even in situations where you feel you have no choice at all you still have one last freedom and that is to
choose your own attitude in any given set of circumstances he that choice keep that freedom that hard choice the discipline choice and with the discipline to make the right choice
maintain your freedom marthing that's all of god for the night powerful book yes i crazy how i can't help but think of this like where how they talk about the the asses officers
when the note the guide there who are just savages obviously but are they really savages as people though or it a circumstantial thing rimini know they're trained to kind of
regard this you know the jews or these groups of people as you know beneath in all this stuff but like are they savages just as individuates a savage to do some of this stuff you
know fisherboy and smashing it as the book said scolia st the wall like dita's like subhuman behaviour in all but when he goes home you don't know his kids you is he like that
don't care if these kit ultimately if their heads get the inosuke he's not like that i'm sure it's just a normal person just be just as weak as all of us this your kid stubbs it
to and start crying you now ye well were now explore got some books in the key to explore the other side at this and their very revealing about some of that but again it is you're
right that some of these guys you know war wenom right somebody's notes were normal and they were doing their job and that's the one of the worst you know there's a whole there's
a whole ah argument on weather that even in allowable like a hatter if don your job in and i'll tell you what in us notary that doesn't that doesn't work that's an excuse to we
don't have you can't say hey i got ordered to do this thing that was against the law or against ethical values doesn't matter i still can't do it that's not an excuse that came
directly from this attitude that not he said hanaford ers on hay with my falls as fanes no actually you can't can't tedious if so as far as the normalcy sure they might have been
normal normal when they went home but that doesn't remove their guilt at all yet folly and you can't take a baby and smash a tetigit the wally don't get a pass on that one with
you ordered to do it or not there's certain moral standards that exist and you can't violate an if you do your guilty doesn't matter what else you did that then who who is kind of
the the the the you know the authority on that lake where the moral was it like a global thing you know or is it because obviously hitler was relit would be like an whatever well
there's different societies that had different view points out this lyelar yeah he hence the war too and the japanese both felt ok we can do what we need to do to dominate her and
whether that's the rapidan king or whether that's the concentration camps in the final solution both those things or in their societies now there was a horse there was people
inside those societies don't know ivan ivan i don't know of any japanese in should have weesome japanese that that were genovevan in when we rather repeating there was a note in a
king who remembered that sheltered people so there's an example and hears a guy now he didn't know what was going on with the final solution back in germany but at least it
doesn't appear that way but yeah this is what makes a moral if he and ethical decision making so challenging ye but there is in my opinion you don't a certain standard moral code
that human beings with by yeend that is a universal relatively uneaten lasted as she is as universal right there is the way that i believe that there's morals and standards that
human beings should live by yean when you start steppin outside those bounds ye you're going on the wrong side yeanling man let's like obviously a spectre of and then what you're
talking about that universal line that you cross its a action you real look at the line it's like it's a universal gray area of gentaly look closer but i think that this the
circumstances don't really fall within the confines of that great area very often so it's easy to be like that obviously right that's obviously of blander one somewhat ese great
areas of emergent and it's like this big tebat and it depends on who you are yeah i i i don't spend a lot of time in the gray areas to be honest with you like in my doonder spend
a lot er time o grayerson time cause to me it is pretty obvious you like when you're isis and your sister matically raping the twelve year old girls and boys is you don't get to
live that that doesn't worry that's neither that no part of my deal over here you you you die and when you take the fall and you put them in cages and your burning death right
then get to do that just like these notes better putting people in conden't get to do that now yet we go to war we fight and we went that the way it works now these grey air is
that you're talking about i don't mess around in those rays yet i i i i think there's too much there's cooperstown there right and an and a lot of times you look at it from the
outside and you don't yet it's hard to tell one it is one is actually as happening in there right i'll maybe that's not the best policy but i will ask a lay something personally
until i see it go outside the lines of what i beant be okay yes no one you get outside those lines you're done we'll thankfully you're you're you know a little bit smart in a way
where you know whether you name these things are not there is always a particular standard that you go by you know so just like the like the difference between killing some one
and when some one says murder you know murder is a is clearly defined in all soi you murder some one like killing some one is this broad think you killed them accidentally killed
tom you kill them there after planters a million inertiae and all in all you that's killing someone but murder is defined you know so well somebody asked me when i i would attempt
fires second time and some one asked me that or something along the lines of wellwood to find sees rules which is basically what you do ask me and i think i actually there isn't
answer who finds you those in war share it the law of our conflict is retrieved convention we fall to those laws for another very close to find what you can and can't do botha's
it next question yet and am i mean unless you straight up disagree with the genevieve tion you know and because of your personal or co but as long as he has again a standard that
you're going by that will reduce the great areas by a lash and yet i aweather but oinopa in black and white one you have standards any one always be easy but you know it's like
swell let let me said this this when we started in the grey or on your citherea alma black and white and that's i i actually say that lay on you prosefied but guess what those
lines can give glory to yet he yous i heard about em a guide it was on a documentary who is he was easiness ern journalist of some kind and i got to wash this doctor mentmore
somethin is cut some deleted me about it the western journalist he is in beaded with insurgents in iraq and he filming and argono in attacking coalition forces then ye right an i
guess he was wiles doing it you turn of get a story and do his job but then almo a sudden there you takin collision for is right now there's a gray arnold's say if you want to
take that example to the extreme if we're in a fire fight and i see a guy with a camera whose wearing of press badge following in an thurii i mean they in work out gradooate it's
not like i'm goin to say kawelo's clearly as with and searchings but what i'm saying is that's that's an example of many that that you could get into where also another thing that
happened in iraq lot was people change sides and in whensomdever disappointing the coalition and then back again and then back again so how do you how do you balance though ye and
i'll tell you how i balance them was how can we achieve our mesopithecus like like one of those antisonar it's true i look at okay this guy you know a year ago was being targeted
by coalition forces for being a bad guy now he is changed course so when i supposed to do still prosecuted or is he could help us a chief or mission of over all victory guess what
i'm in to do not in a cothamore moral flack ye because we're going to win the soorenard things to that's exactly what i mean though fee the standard the standard in your case
became the overall mission yes so you know you have that it's not like disome guy floating down the road through life being like a i don't feel good about that right there so i
feel this way some of odo is not that it's like nerestan dard very concrete attached to it still great areas gunmore but like i said it just reduces a great area it in entering to
tote bottom line is this es wide leesha is hard yes the whole idea leadership whether in combat or whether it's in the business world or whether it's part of a team or whether
part of a family or whether in a concentration camp well whether it's in a prisoner of war camp wiltshires hard there's gray areas like when captain plum was saying hey he got
told an order you'll make communications with this guy at all costs at all costs that means i'm going to get beaten and tortured and died butters to get this guy to speech
communication is henault just why no he had to make a judgment in sanatoria doesn't make sense said doesnae sense so this gray area that when aside the bounds the grey air and he
said now i removed do my best he i understand that it's critical but i'm gonna stay within me staying a wife right so that is what makes leadership hard is you have to constantly
make these decisions where there's their grey area and you're doing your best your assessing and that's that's again to me it was always i love that i love that about beatership i
loved weighing those decisions out and i love the scusset my gods up and down the chain commanding hey here's where rat me tell you actuary know i'll use life lowlivered it's
going on this is a situation what do you think at wili think that's okay that's a good point but that you think about that old that's a good inower goin t have it comes and i have
never had any problem opening my mind up to these various opinions that people have and i think as a leader that a huge peace of building trust up and down the chain of command is
when you have an open mind to discuss things with people and that also double gravitational pull ecorse you vilelets ip there how few bilderatlos p now to say oh you know what
like a wise the men and i'm in aretalogi heale had a gray arayo know we got a customer that is threatening to put us on yell but we didn't do anything wrong how do you think we
should handle it okay well you think we should just tell him go ahead put it on yelwe don't care i will go to eline talk to that might be the god answer but also it might be good
to say brow wait why are you so mad a customer let's talk to pay we want to refund you one take care you because our customers important to us may be i'll give us a pile for the
thing on you you don't say that all this grey area and if you have an open mind to discuss things with your tea team up and down the chainman you know what she'll do it you you'll
keep in that gray area you'll start to get cleared it is start to get clarity you start to see better and you can move through the grey area without being without being so
decisive that in a good grardin's backer white right so if you decide as the leader i'm going black go and back then when a greater clears up it was white that you should have
gone with me you don't need to do that in many cases you can say okalona little bit towards the black case that's what i'm feeling in it all asustarse moving there and you start
saying that now this is going to be white decision ye okay i can recover from that i can love backwards and end repair what decision was made and of as way to do that is they hey
guys here is the situation i thought that black was going to be right to sisennae leading another action i was wrong now i see that white is the right answer and were going it
like this anyone have questions about that is everyone understand why i did that oh he don't eraway let me explain the two years when i thought i hesitated next time do you want
me to win win can come on tatoshes all talking about and by the way when i'm doing that i'm building relationships with my team forces at what i want to do i just wish haricot
other day and i told him a reiteration thing i said over over again let people that did things for me in the teams that were in the army the marine corps in the supines in my
patuone doesn't matter ninety nine point nine per cent of it wasn't because i had some kind of rank or polagon over them it was always because i had good relationship with people
and when you have built a gordoletti would people that's what it's all about and then they do things for you and you know what you do things for them to yet not a one way street
that is a motase you won't know that it relationships if you billton way street right no one to have to be your friend after you just take advantage of them over over again that
those people that call you only when they need something from you right now i should don't have a problem with that because i don't communicate to a lot of people right i i
communicate on social media with a polwithan different people tell it there teasers if something like old want to my buddies called nevinson's favorite in my cool on it i haven't
talked to him for nine months he's only calling me because they need something for me doesn't matter bel do that with me all the time and it's cool now isn't a big loop of people
to like six people in the world and those same six people they don't call the wish me happy birth they don't call me tell me you know ah ah merry christmas they call me a a hey i
need this form you can you do it no migott no factor do you have eberth day negative is a man classroom staring imagine some one calling you to wish you have a meme like your wife
we want awkward when i got in the civilian setorn people be like winter birthday a bet white wine yereabouts why shall he my personal formation i attack you yea i what inerudite
was the other uniting about the birthday deal let it getting presents on a not go with presence measled get me any present right because i don't want what you got me ye if i want
something already lavendered or yes what you've got me isn't going to be appreciated there is a one gift at my wife got me one time and i haven't i've been thinking about why i
have talked about this particular hole situation and that's the a and call the white stripes sir it ran the white is jack wife meg white the white stripes are also there are
awesome band and there so many layers with the white stripes here first of all there's up telautomatics that i love about the white stripes number one all their clothing guitars
drums keyboards everything that they have on stage and everything that they have on their record albums and everything that they have is either red black or white on all the
records in stay one that's no one number two they only have three souls in any other songs at any one time so those three sounds could be drums vocals guitar they could be drums
keyboards vocals they could be keyboard gatava but they only have three sounds at any one in vocal as one of the houses while as analeister ensloe in the bed anyways the white
traces awesome band and my wife bought me take it to go see the white track now i didn't even think about i never paid attention when bands are playing whatever so my how i was i
don't use this term very often but i was over joy in that that she got me take it stood a white stripe i was so stokeman then meg white had some issues and they cancel the whole
torn than ever played on the will i hold couple of weeks away from being in san diego rousing to listen to in ships so the question is it ultimately alternate cranking with that a
good gift he give jactat was an awesome gift to give me silesias it the thought that counts in this yes there was a blood of idioteai was and i could coldness out of it this cause
only cicely got me a sweater from some story that i hate noikino i'm really hard to shop for it i'm really i find worn something i have it and i don't want that much so like oh i
want something i had it i did one to every eighteen months i want something and then i get it yer i'll get you like a nithing ye warelissan fine o'teen there's one works good so
yet the sum yet seems like good rigid in an awful and a tangent as yet i feel like you went off on a tangent you know or like as i was listened to white stripe to the day is
thinking i never give the white stripes to promise they deserve you have an jack white the prophetess as a singer song writer and anty brother and sister there not a legal alleged
that they were ayuba wife they got divorced but they always claimed to be brother sister to and little sister magloire lay and it is my big sister that's right every always said
thank good men cool well the reason point was the crazy savage type people may be normal people other than their crazy job ye and what an but i'm not saying so it's cool an not
say that at all added it is your your your accountable for your actions yet gonsalo are ye an that's something from any leadership position you need to be aware of and when i say
now your hepsie he was a front line trooper cause any was a fontinettes getting told do something that you know is morally as i leroily wrong and use still do it it's on you sure
you can point the finger and blame the higher up in the higher use be burned to if they told you do something that was wrong but you need to be a count before you did and it's all
the rezuites that's a rough tour no one wants to play that game the notes wanted to play that game is some ai was ordered to do this and do that can't say that don't get that
excuse you don't get the eye was a good person and i took care of my kids even oh i was shelling people into into a gas chamber you don't get to play that game no a man too much
whether the small little document tree unblighted these thing but it was about the executioner in the middle east somewhere in a way these countries where the inkoosi sword the
and it is job yenowines trate a executioner a that's it that's just as in a modibinnie yea yea it will be wasn't a school on an out you to ye a glass week ye and there but it's a
it's funny because the whole field of the document was just real like ariovistus a cool job and he's like slicing people's heads off with great percusion and he so good at his job
you know like hers his family and their loving it now and there in he's playing with his kids at schole this stuff just wired man anyway after have not a culture a lot a greyer
isn't that one too a man indeed i of it we or not i feel like we should go into the support darwesh uld go into the support supported one of those good things very dynamic
supporting others supporting yourself supporting others and yourself which is a desecrate category of support for my opinion so there's yourself others and you some annotate when
i talk about on it with an got all three categories support yourself by way of supplementation and we talk about some imitation all the time but no talk of boat supplementation
was if it will the only turn to torment it so actually some of it i took shoomaker you talk the fore preposest reputation she tack them also alpha brain shone i got my shipmen of
alphabets the back in a head run out now i only have the instant and sir now like i said what's nice about the bills or is you got something comin begod the poast yes what
alargrave hills and i might double up on the operating i got really get my garnet it's good to have the the cape yes i did it what's galabat the drink is a taste good and i if you
get the sweet tooth itch going and you want something sweet and you could teach a theatral perenot the spicy the spicy has a difference situation do not peaches just straight up
like castlelike peach appeach you petinka's at an inn that agree oh i did it the pills i dig it and that's actually had was the pills uh i said weaker there afoot when they came
out with instant that was better and it starts to become like this little kind of ritual you know he makes up your own brain you know kind of thing and then step on julie either
way doesn't matter if i have i mentioned it already i think i did these are supplements from on it on it dotcom aimee talk bout supplements but there's like work outside just
about a jumper did your ye see so when i am the alured i calasiao jouffroy and then as they you know as i think can we when i don't know maybe early twenties then stopped so that
sometimes jump rope is awesome yet so i am youknow you had like like riding a bike cuesta good at something on your bit you're rosterus yet fly if you rested can't shred and can
go is long and all like that it up shakes weird as it you know hatsuemon what you rosbach in the day of barring her yearning or for three minutes was like no factor ye o jonglers
five ten minute warm go get your jump right out to etait out three minutes all arose it hereabout one of those and if so the interesting thing about that is jump rope technology
is changed a little better what is it made of steel not well there's insure the steel in the other boys like each had as a swivel the little imitator but dilatator to it than
before last time is like to woodenheads in your oershadowed rule this one is like a cord that survived all this stuff on an inway to jump rope fortyone if you want well the jump
off the i was pretty good too prodome one like when you jump rope then on the youkahainen this is like element she school and if you get tired or you couldn't keep a rhythm they'd
say hey just just waved it from the actual fortiter as a name for a move ye ah what's it called manned to tortue to terror when you boom like a like a a matador is it called
matadore when he is yes go i elizian get into whatever the arogantem go and oh yeah another name i never had to do that because i was expert level lineament to school it that's
why i that's going to be you if in fact you want to step up so you can get out on a hatant just fit on you was if you want kettlewell on there to the good kind well cannibals are
good said out there all good and but i had some artistic quan there even though at another layer but they have the regular condone i think they're called the competition once on
very old who hannah oh yes so you get you get the legends which is like what a cycler wolf but look at him there there don't ye primulas which is i call it you know primitif think
i got the chimp to champ in two werwolves yes i have i have one bebelianae dis evila's obbligato benaiah that's late like designer you keep real keep it in sight to ye that i had
had a headnote one that i keep inside is not to the ones in my garage or fur of the wise long any work dis one is for oh i'm tired of riding right now i'm in a bag out in snatches
raimondo god fell out better now more of a right harder but ye this anyway that the point there is this very cool things on the website on it come that in the supplements not
tientsin the the fact is a supplements or straight up to bessie straight up canfrome the beginning and houses and on inower ady mentioned this but i hear a groan talk about all
the time how name drop e a e listened to jeronimo and he says these things and i believe i am if you get like a onnest the here like a oefel it i got tapped out so you know i
expect more other sottai expect this to man me tap at everybody i don't like it said eva you no you don't even send it back you send them a female saint had all like to stop the
the send your money back you need have to send it back for that their cry alison up but don't be trying to be like you for the home more money back and then next mont after you're
done with it order some more and then do again to imitate he i you gonna get ostracized not less a coil that's the one you don't want to not have cruel the oven if you are like a
young guy in my opinion we shall i should always men in trenton yeh an if you ankoli think you are like a step and joint wise it's the yowch portefoin it lonely for when a lot of
different ways yet you unhonor in out as our not working on the hard a struggling through various activities in every day life and i did i told the story whatever but i do it all
the time you don't need fillup water in the big five gallon jugs the avon and for a do that at night when it's kind o cold to like brighter those to from a into your car you want
to be worried about my knees or whatever i get back a child's visage ran he had put it in a life go you can be my right your own but deed what about it the trap that kind of crazy
trials you've been through carrying was on a cool man self tiatohoa i i esther fresh and pure water but tea she do make it in lighter than i still have to struggle but his the
thing now there are micro they could called their called micro struggles is really what they are you know standing in line you actually the semi lining that's not struggle at
manufactured struggle so it's like an exercise in discipline and in bracing struggle at television at actual struggle bestowed upon your head on your shoulders you know the yester
bear in every day light that's not with the standing in line only i of you never ask about echoes struggle rain you can dockiments various needling for her at whytorseller was
hoisted at a tomato so i went out deserting wide struggle groceries now we got the fillin the water bottles there for apologies to an filiolae is not a struggle because among the
cruel oil oh i make it three spreading to a joint straining to my joint rout take a percentage up take anyway get on the crew all among the shabono too by the way for death for
ten in the tenanting to the bone a strong team sensible does it i feel some really good about actually more pro preventative alice left her none the less a trunk that's in strong
bone that it doesn't it that doesn't hit that i like the lime light is in on that all i am fall on calisthenes your bonthron strong team just as much so get on the strong man a
bone strength also of a brain obviously shriek for have i performed go in the website whatever you need they got it they even got like other tribe bland pen up butter no butter
nut pentapolin all in cash you and annet do now anyway is still there she got on the line eridu flash jack if you want ten per cent off palace or that's a that's up to you really
you insanous recommend it i i don't even know of any widecombe that of all so good way to support if you're interested in the full man search for meaning victor frankie what i
have done is i put on the website a page with all the books all of them the jocoser every one small deacon article that the length may well do that but none the less the books are
all on their all in order too by the way so the most recent is going to be to do this'll be on there it is on there josaphat click on there you can get the book click through
there direct he straight to amazon or the dent other shopping i mean go ahead do the same thing click on it we have a banner on the front page too and then you can quick on there
yet and then you can use shopping yet you want on iagoo plan you can if ye bind take also do you he linked your favourite docton their tank she aoste i say things that are just so
harefoot some wonder you we will have a doctahin length for sure he doesn't case every one needs ducape and they specially need it when they get on with an poncaser there thinking
about the things that they are going to be ducating together ere thou yet that street you don't why i mention ductin the beginning and i ideating really realize is that then i
think about entiende people asked me you nicaise he sutch miguelete actually i still watched and ever i set foreman and on no it's on the channel called clue ill oh oh random
random channel there the it's like a wretched channel kind of preparative and lorelei the new maguey the way a new one was it lane i don't think it's as good old one but it could
be just like but you know how you get attached to your old shows it could be that but look i was not back in the day so you know which i ran out as i think duty he prove people
like to say well paper clip right maive with the paper he inever really had a paper good brig he had dictated that was his thing on noise army last see i lay that's on you and i i
did it but i was busy in a epenthesis army if and the gut deep that was i think everything else he is found men in its vironment is in marmont which he which changed from upset
episode unless subscribed devices on it i too stitcher goolay all these platforms or provide a poast were on all of them boomed subscribed which are one use when if he use to a
guess right and been does to people used to laporotomy there's some reason i i had to go to a different platform so i have a back a platform bonsorite to boat a right this is that
kind of like you too and time you know to go leave time oona lanais i got us lemaitre about tell you what were at an no why but this could be the reason why cause you to kiss be
me always kind of furlike profession he for who fancied themselves as like film makers for as my peace that i've made it i arsacidean you too bisulfide right just throw my vidout
literate two tvo whatever you are demeanin i guess i got think about it but none the less that's what it shook itself out to beating you know so it's funny on pepoli i'm not
uneconomised you do you have to do anything to be on demioeil like you too except for the fact which now that i think it about it makes sense where if you up loaded and you let a
man in one of these titles midwater ugh the veitel it wrong which happens to me sometimes you can go back into your account and replace the video even if it's been up for a week
you tetotailer you to time you to be cannot yes and new video yeh like you got up lit again and is a thing you can't uloth same file got a renews you to book now you got to reach
italy has all these little impis little information in the fun they'll be like hey that's a duplicity each an do that on pollantin to with advertisable subscribed to jaculates on
you too if you like that channel what trying to provide when you call providing value you know how that's done say berlingot's noted it only can i first heard it but it avanother
aaronites or untether one who sings words sounded on the eve one thought like me or i think like your one out whatever and so everyone started using it now it's like deeper
abusing it and movie ages trying to prevent that you and i just you know it starts to some nice shoeologist alienating too anyway she subscribed to you too were trying to provide
some value there with the excerpts and various other clips aside from the video virgin is potest our memorial day one was really good like did no a powerful powerful letter yeah
bunch of the stuff arms like jocasta store who called jocatore if you did already know joltram what we have in darkest we have t shirts you in merrilie a shock all so as a poast
surcoat in otasite to come jonait p e a they had see a trend here yeah they the train is real for sure oh none the less the act of originality and name will know me this he so in
a way a good because here there are lawyers in that too and there is the pesticatin to that even though it seemed simple for who because there i was being fast for you are being
ariodantes more to jaculantur that just happens to be my name this to there's more to that goes beyond this pocasse on the t v on one ever he riotous list to start without fact
with just complex in another self then you're like okay the this is what roughly considered a company technically may be age i guess or you have to if you had to ask me to what i
i do ereditionis like i was like ostistuen goes were what would you how would you when i say said why how would you describe what you do and said stay busy that's what i do i
okefinokee there you go an but technically as paris denotat one and all to jacopo that cast do come that's a in intolerant the utter company business it's a price were we have
forever snoutless okoun what i'm goin to go ahead and out on a limb and call it a brand no it's brandish whatever none the less if you call okay bojador that's the name of the
store ah well let us ysondes it that i called epicasta alpacas when i was on time fairies pagasai said jocundly i at oneven know i do if i just said one all the past or not but he
i think he says o my god you know we got a life not like jocko hungry ran as i got a new upon as recent jackal pangas red that was the initial thought sirs the layer makes sent ye
then that the what even with the naming the odor worries i want to be able to do whatever i wanted to do and not care yes and that man i woke rental about together and fighting
and music and in hard corn war and death and i want not to have any limitations and i only way i could do that because if you give the poastman you know the old edina's pocotaligo
care will then will next you know we're talking about war and or if you call at the war pocassett about business if you don't talk about the leadership pocasset you're talking
about digits ye'll how do you get all the things in the one thing all the jacobean neck and in a form one we ate a you go and if he were looking for you they see you talk about
that size now later oh you know i sharlock on that i should use connection yet and is simple he is like you know he must to a long one yet you know and that's kind of like a thing
so why are we talking about this i'm descend tales called jocosa yet sir so cause it is at your heart to do other things in their life besides listen to our haaneinei an imam are
you care of a athanors that he the day when we had roger had in one and i gave to the silent treatment and when you look to me for affirmation while you were giving the otises i
didn't even be now i do look to you and you've got you actually come on comfortable yet you actually got on comfortable you will like a e you use the look on your face like what
you look at me like i was goin to give you a mile i know not i just look at you like hurry up an then you got on comfortable and i say always estaripel it ye yeou don't reyah
that's like subtle fisher said all no men to good you know to do that again right now you know so i can talk about the store jocatore jocko storico if you like t shirts now i'm
not saying if you like teachers in general just saying if you want to represent to splice freedom what get after it now the darkness no the dark men that's a good un um you make
anyway go on the sirocco can see sure if you like em good get one support that way that's a good one but a rash or on there one new ashkadar ady says get after an on it discipline
on one sleeve freedom on the other sleeve jacopone really good am i i think it's good i feel that the people who have witnessed it the pompous decay witness did my osome kind i
overinnervation the witness my rash guard that i loosed i bestowed upon them by way of visual hollowayville we have a people to sooner was to look rentiere ablano it was cool in
umsteigen story look at em if you think it's cool pennywinks the glory of anacarsis brasher you may go to jonathan all and revel in the glory exactly right and whatever is you up
this good stuff on their ill we had in this little thing too if we're out and i'm turned like a minority you know reardon tom but added this little thing where if like with say i
sized or whatever is how to interest a little but i notify me but be you emil booties you in his back in stock and again trappem back and stock a sad bumbleburg now but you know
came me a day or two or whatever i will notify you be all so psychological warfare you the militaris said album with wassermauer word track sent like spoken word you know so
basically what it's for is you know it's not like poetry to arguably not poetry but stuck on their talking talking us to me jokesome said i actually quite literally was talking to
yet when that was made in a thereto you know you can at talk to you will so basically what is for is he not the talking everyday stuff so when you have hard time waking up in the
morning or you have our time because you are tired and you on a skip the work out for you have hard time because i do good blanch i m in a more hungry and all they have is done
that's here or whatever but i went up for her the cressida also if you processing or a bull what do you call it when if you pretaining the pot cast maybe you could sitooation of
chinanpin this thoroughly sikaso weak and all have it really good understanding of what it is it's and its value that's that's it downloadable talking about moments a weakness so
you can get thrown yet next asant comment yes i guess leitemor thing is actually you can even take it at moments of triumph and strength of an i'll still work you'll just want to
do it more you know that so like drinking coffee when you're not tired you know i've an yet i will do as i let that seem in any way what i glaciers far on i tones momus call these
metrical papalangi think the i think it's on everything corbut yemen do it right on harry also you can at jackit tea all in ammon and when you order jackal white tea make sure you
also order more waits for your bar bells because you're dead lift is going to go up to approximately a thousand pounds so you need to get that much awaits when you order it wait
to worry our kid book did ben outwore a couple of weeks now and thank you for getting it also little warning but someone put on amazon in their review forwart hearing and thinking
about parents be ready i bought this book after listening to jack on the jeroen poncaser jacka was the guest great pocassett book after learning jacco has a book for kids my son
who isn't very motivated yet was excited about the book when he started reading the book a fire lit underneath him he said to me doubt i'm going to get up to morrow five a m will
you get up with me that moment i realized that i was on i was going what was going on and i couldn't let him down i enjoy my sleep like every one else but i was amazed at my son
got excited so plied yes let's do it got up at five a m and is a large park must not have gone off but i turned on his light in his bedroom and he got right up he got his clothes
and shoes on and we went for a jog we've never done this before i had him do some sit up and pushes after and he gladly did couldn't quite do push up so that to kay will get there
long story short this book only being a few chapters in you only few caperin i was kind of surprised i saw that well leaf you chapters in made the book work getting in his day
naole ranis and i pads and tablets kids don't seem to be as motivated to do activities as when i was a kid i'm thirty nine so i edify to him after for making the decision to get
up at five a m on a non school day and i told him that he can apply that mentality to anything in life boom wait a warrior kid get it for your kid to be prepared to get yourself
back in the game also disciplines freedom feel manual the instructional manuel freeing after it if you will freeport that one also three ownership combat leadership come at lieshi
and also combat leadership that's what the book is about how to apply the fundamental principle of combat leadership to your business and your life also for more hands on
experiencing castoon font or leadership and man is tickencote company myself lay fagin j p de nelda berk you can contact does at in infantile front dark com also the master austin
texas july thirteenth and fourteen of the army barterers or no flash there's no fluff just pragmatic information you can act on immediate le you can literally in a break email
your team and give instructions that's going to move them in the right direction in the austin musters only three hundred sets smaller venue it's goin to sell out so get on line
get registered if you can't make that one come to san diego in september september fourteenth and fifteen for musterers are afore will be their life and a will you waiting for the
master if he need to communicate with us you can find us only in webs in twitter or on instigation that face ballacholis at echoed charles and i iman joowiler and to the military
personal out there holding the line in places no one wants to be doing things that no one else wants to do thanks are deep in us free to police landforce ment fire fighters entes
and other first respondes thanks were keeping us safe and for every one else out there remember remember what human beings are capable of suffering through and remember that even
in those situations where every thing seems to be taken away when you seem to have no choice at all in the world remember remember that you can still choose how you react to the
things around you you can still choose your attitude then you can still choose to actualise the best person that you can be in every aspect of your life you can choose to get
after it so until next time missus echo and jocko out
