this is jacopo cast number seventy nine with age charles and me jaramillo good evening echo good he me and it has been a little while since we were able to hammer out some cumin a
sure questions from the interweb and so you re a number seventy nine what answer from questions from the interest what do you got cool gill first question jonathae spend it much a
time with a bunch of fluff and talk about nonsense or she get to the questions lest he be got to the quarry twenty seven minutes worth of advertisements or let's get to the
question rogero i have a vascular surgeon training residence how do you applied decentralized command when you're ten changes every one to three months yet solid question and with
something like that what we need to do is we to get his standard operating procedure in place with clear documentation some kind of a qualification and approval process and that
monetary tem in place right so this this the reason i can kinder rason is pretty easy transition from you make mentally is cause we would have to do this kind of thing sometimes
in this sualtem's when you get for instance you're overseas on deployment in a war on and you get some guys that show up to work half way through the planet or too much into the
pointment or three weeks before the plamenatzes up their seals right and so that they the understand the fundamental concepts but heavenward would them specifically before they
haven't or with a tune before they don't know her of operations at your in specifically that on all kind of mission specifically your conducting and where the intellectooally it
don't know anything other than the fundamental nolledge of being as eleuthas far as that particular job rose that don't know too much so what you have to do as you have to run no
through a bunch of familiarization stuff very quickly about the the gun trucks and how your homes are set up you got to make sure they can get on a fifty down a mark forty eight
and mark manton and understand our crocervera pons and the how we operate them because our crucians bettering all on asensio at im operate or crusoe alone so they got to make sure
they condishum vies right a lot of the old reginensium is before the war started they wouldn't know how to operate home tee so you had to mature the new how to do that than to
understand the mission why we're doing the mission what was important about a what was the commanders and ten they had to know the rules of engagement because the military will
take a guide that land in continuing like a thirty minute brief to welcome to incontroversible be a roslagen brief and they won't really understand it so you got to make sure they
understand that you got in when those on they did mettrie ical shading one's last houtset has been like twelve years since they put on a tourniquet okay not good we got to get him
from theories to that having in to stop the bleeding the different eyed threats that are out there could the ide threats change all the time will kind of trigeminus are being used
and what kind of identifying marsh of for egysthus stuff the list goes on and on and so you have to develop some kind of a standard operating procedure hay when a guy shows up
this what we need to do with em one because though that this this this this so little check lest you put together and then it if the person's a leader maybe you got to go and do a
couple of less see right she rides with them so bistamy the dweller people use that terminology left the rights not that in a mocassin i was to atonement and you were coming in to
take over for me we would plan a mission together and i would be in charge of the mission so i being the driver see old like a pilot copilot the eleian the next see you'd be other
ye be watching and you been the passenger seat and i will be running everything and then maybe we do that a couple of times and years of watching me i then we switched the osier
sets but on still there watching and telling you to move a little left to move a little right and then eventually you got it and then i'm a leaf go an ye so maybe if the person a
leader you got to do two or three or four of tooter to get them a good turn over so that now in all these situations or if you thought full on turnover cause at your going to walk
away from but if it's just a a you've got some other groups all entity or people that are common in you're not going to be able to give them that full a hundred per cent
decentralized command right you're still goin to have to keep a little bit more watch on them because you're not going to build up the fullee of trusts and one to three months
that just not possible so there will be a little bit of limitations but you can definitely you can definitely move pretty far down the path and we want all the thing that's goin
to help my said document and its weary smart to put together a document with very clear rolls and responsibilities and expectation and then that not to give them a documentaries
laterunt down and go over every single thing with them so what you're trying to do your trying to condense this time line of building trust in the shortest possible time and one
of the ways you do that is by condensing everything into a simple clear concise format written format got through talketh them so they understand it and i do it very clearly but
when i was in askings i didn't lay anything like that out fortitudes for lay from the delta to commarades the rose i did that over a long for you to ever a year work of now that
now within a few months they got a new what the deal was but if i would have if that would have been my normal job an i would have beginne paton commanders every three months
every time they came in over the garden of tigranes this word so matter do this is a ruse rules rosenroth's this is the ah executions that i have for you is when you call me this
is what you make it isitnofrit that stuff perfectly clear and that way i could more quickly develop a sense of decentralized command now again knocked be full to centralized
command you're not king to live let's oeernitatis only benefit three months and you know i don't know how to know what the time line is too for a vast urseren to get toll thrust
in their subordinate vastator ere their subornation but i'm sure it takes longer than one to three months so how much can you condense the time line what can you get you condense
it won't you get a condensed as much as you can you still going to have to do a little bit more monitoring than you would normally do but it is still going to be beneficial it's
going to be be beneficial for them and it will be beneficial for you till you operates much as you can in the decentralized a methodology so when ye say condensed the time line
that's for the procedure now it's condensed the time line to build trust all haply alloo i want to be achasmenian about trust right i trust you and you trust me i goes up an
famished and i trust you that an you're going to go out and you know what to deal you and when your halter you know you trust that i am going to cover for you and i'm going to
trust the decisions that you make so decentralized command is about trust in a rapt trust we have to have understanding and in order to understand things we have to work together
so what i'm trying to do some trying condense that time line that it takes us to build trust and how do i do that i just been very direct and lay things out in a very simple clear
concise for motto that you can understand it so very quickly that a man gallicus tonen and how is the right way to skip the chain of command when you feel like your direct
superior is a part of the problem big one the one because this is a very very probable and skipping the chain of command is a last resort is the asters are wise asterworts when
you skip the chinaman your breaking the trust that just alert your break in the relationship that you've been hiding your damaging it it's not good sometimes it's unsaleable by
the way from times when you skip the chantant you will never be able to recover from that now of course if there's something that doubt your me pear is doing detegat or a moral or
an ethical if that's the case that it's actually eared duty to go above them in a china command now do you still first report it to them and say what she did is wrong were not
going to be that yes you should tell them first some less it's going to commune cause you to get in some horrible situation now this is an interesting thing that i thought about
let's say you and i are working together sure and and you're my boss and juley you're doing something that's immoral eliga unaffected i watch you do it in and i nicean towards it
on like a wife think you can do something that i leave a wider and i don't say anything and then i watch you do it and then i run up the chance report you busy right you got to be
careful with that and and i think when you work for someone or when someone worked for you you need the lay and right out of the gate like hay this is where i stand like i'm not
going a cover for you if you do some stupid e legal things you don't wait for them to do it and then dropped the hamran on being over he fair maybe we should be all out they get
people of that are you know a doing something that edition be doing part of the problem yeah i i i actually i i i believe that's my belief is when i when i meet you as a what's
going on and you make a little crack you know you make a little joe you know you say well you know not like the siliceous like the customers can really see that money you don't
let say you're going to skin money for all right right tetaheite ye make little joke like that you know you and you in what you're doing is tasting the water with me maniacal more
soteriades no way they would ever know and besides we pretty much work for it any ways right right here going to see for gangetic to the she begone just you know some nice we have
good gotthard of electron that in stall right they do want maybe were some kind of installer at house is only a uisneach are on here they never know if that's type of all what
effort right you throw that test at me it's my duty if i must ye a person has got to report you for skimming money from the customers then i should tell you like the man that's
not go now ye now the customers they then here is my view is those customers that were out there trying to do this in stanford and to work hard for that on onontake n a from him
now you kind o know if you'd better not be doing that in funny if as opposed to me smile and a going along with your joke and then three months later i report you know like a turn
over report to the boss man i so i don't think that's very ethical level yes and i a macleayii of a back a busno are there cases of course were some dyson something that's just
outrageously on aside know about it or something you pretty much know though you can tell when people are doing shady things ye you use so i think that that is something okay so
let me lone for time let me close this water at least make a point of this that my point of this thought is the same thing that happens what were people don't like to have hard to
conversations if so it's a easy conversation when you say you don't those customers never know where their money goes and it's only twelve bucks of saying and it's no big deal the
easiest thing for me to do is to smile and say ah ye in th the et and and and that's not that big good deal right i get so much harder the further we go down that road it gets
harder and harbor and harder cause then you start saying hey you know it's only petowski and like twelve bucks gas what they never noticed this other charge either i can get him
for sixty two dollars m and then all of a sudden a harder conversation so have the hard conversation early or it will make it easier for you so that being said now how do we ask a
late above on a man first all my goes to not ashlade above you in the checkmate my goes to actually raised the situation to you and bring it up to you and say hey ego you know the
way even dein this job you know i think we student for we esedowan to do it i think there's a better way to treat the customer whatever whatever the thing is better with you it
act this tartar whatever the thing is that i'm goin to ave that conversation with you like two three four five times to try and get you to listen to me now as the conversation
doesn't work man asleeper you don't merim and actually do little other right up on the road a point paper from his sad echo is to listen taking my well we're doing how are hating
his target or how were loading out our gudesire whatever and i'm going to right you pointed for him i'm on laid off from out what my plan is what the cost benefits are and make
that very clear to you so that wait i'm gave then you every ample opportunity to listen what i'm saying right and i'm probably even in a say hey maybe we should run this by you
know the boss does you they think cause if you just keep disagreement the essene cool trying you might have ernsthausen you would he think ye now will you and say to that do most
most amadia are not on to be half baringouin have to cause i'm just trying to play oh fanny kennedies it makinak him reflect to where is the ahamadou know bring some by their
rulers they no don't bring that to the most yallow met me it rover that they're not doing crafts so ye you say and you might get a posey might go boscoe yet bring it to him he's
gonna say the same same thing i'm telling you and then you go home maybe i'm wrong eye wrong about this procedure or maybe a wrong by howard nor takers target but it is in an all
so this is a hard conversation to have the hard conversatione one man can we just bring us the banter and and and again i'm not saying you say i'm going to bring this to the
valaisan a wild you mind if i got his opinion would you mind if i see what she said about this i that we were what were not saying on going to the boss coeur a you can samantha's
on talk about so there's that in the other thing that you can see that sort of a direct vote with your immediate boss which starts by the war the interact prochaine you don't
think about the way were hines targets wouldn't be smart maybe if we hit him from over here to think that would work in notaresses tion we've done that i can stagin direct with
your boss right so sir your direct boss he's now two up above me in the chicken i can go in the wreck with him at the water fountain spray till hey oh yeh think boerish great
yasunga job you work you in on echo's team yeh yeh know what's really good it's good as the tough mission but you know we're we're always exploring toys were looking at some other
of so sinking on noneother way to hit those targets too kind like comin in from the direction oh that's why i did was this drop little ladies that conversation came up and i'm
just colletmonte see and try and get them to maybe say on unlike a really good idea what did that goes think of that i i you know actually i i haven't talk to echo about it and
full fealty will i go diana boss asked me about this and he was mentioning you know i mentioned this other way of doing it and he thought it might be good idea and i want to give
you as up a case he says anything oh i can relate you know whatever so we're just a play in the game a little bit then weight that he envertation i just want to give you the head
up that feel like that like real good when someone says it is however it also gets so it's also a way of saying hey i ran and you out i ran exanimation what is followed with it's
a hans en give you head up the boss you ask me about this and i didn't know how to respond so i said this and he i come and talk to you as one to give you i doubt traitaient i as
to give your heads up at alethos o late told him what your deal is so like that that guy'll disease and has all kinds of shade a great airs a well and and you know i worked for
for a while i was the admired and so i and i work for a billy great guide great admiral who had grilly good relationship with you know and if i needed something he was going to
get it to me if i when i was attacking a commander which is what was to what job i went to immediately when i got done workin for the admiral i literally had a direct line to the
admodeus i had his so fon number i had his office number and if i wanted to call him he wanted a talk to me because we were friends but that doesn't mean that i went to him and
noted all kinds of cleo i didn't do that no i never took advantage of that hand at all and was always professional but there is this little story i where is odd as this might
sound were dread to go on to payment and we needed a a what's called a large format color printer and it prince out big pasear large format and you need it because he'd to make
battle matter i think i did good one because when you are or operation every single guy in the parton has a map so you could have you might need eight ten twelve fifteen thirty
might need thirty color laminated maps to go out on the mission and for whatever restin we had one it was kind o crappy and the boss the admiral you i talked to him before as
going on upon enanthe call me or i ran into him or whatever and he's the amalgamating and he's just you know getting a fee for it's gone he says um you know hey you everything you
need for the pinaleno as leaving a couple of days for a couple of weeks up weeks and i see you you know sir we are pure good to go you know motowori now bleeding on a planter to
get you when i was larger a punisher battle mask but i was not work were rocked in an and like that afternoon i got back to my office and the commodore so now it's two bosses
above my immediate boss epithet man one guide below the admiral we have like a message for me to ache and luckily i was friends were venhay i guess you need a printer in let me
know one ineetiative sorry season and the clockmaker ever but ah but yet you know you you got a you got a you don't want to use that stuff had all and you got a got me smart about
it as he always is in telling you to always it's it's not good disciple chinaman you really isn't it's not one i generally is not going to benefit you at genuina put you the bad
situation it's going to ogive you less leverage with your immediate boss because if i went above the change command on you even with you get red directed by our boss you are best
if and you're going to you're going to saptah yes it's like it's like really it's a version of going behind some one's bat for sure it is yet an almost even few like you an if you
tell him it feels like all your going a puty had the eye as it's a really it's a really it's a tough one it you got a use caution with that one and also i'll tell what else it is
he it an easy it's ippea to be the easy way out like if you're not listening the oros to go both the chant command instead of me influencing you exerting to you writing point
papers to you building a relationship with you so that you trust me is that i do in all those things that take time and effort and tact manesian tell your boss that's that's
another negative about it it's a cop out a shouldn't need to do it i can't like that printer store i just told like the other than that alleging above the chin ananias almost a
comical thing like i said i was friends with the common or two who always took great care of me and with laughing when he left the mess all banks through the heads up you know he
wasn't mad when he said out he was it you know he was laughin cause here i was to ready to fly a rack and what i want is a printer here that's what we need which can tell you how
tiled and we were and how much great geradas the only thing that was left that we need it as a printer you know that's where i was at there had all at everything we needed but a
part so you went above his head in a yet neither friend but you got to be you know other than that that's really hard for me to think of other times in my naval career or i went
above some one in the chanchamana just didn't happen you know not how man a take the time to build a latinship with my immediate boston there connad what i wanted to do it there
an give me what i wanted to give me they're going to support me the way i need skitsure it that's what i'm going to do it that's leading up the chain i command skipping the chant
command is a relatensis in so trying to do it colleen your kid in you you got to deal with you older brother or something but i stadtdeel with him eatonton em sometime like that
newhaven now if the same same no similar think not that my little but the talent on me ever as lie interesting i you anything like this is the common theme too he euralie you want
to try the most and the best you can to deal with it yourself like the moss for sure like army beginning for older i mean just like how you were saying alike if you got a fire
some one you know where are you on to give to the point where you wouldn't a beginning yet lay on catlike just let em do the wrong thing if ethereus cool let him do it for years
and then be like you know what your fire cause of all his wrong things you enou didn't even bring it in ingot this too like all the nasica things you you might be again i went i
went a walk a fine line here but you might not recognize you might not recognize that what you're doing is one chemist be like hey jacob you don't i do as i just i always had it
from one fielato twelve dollar charge you know no big deal no one ever notices it and ah you know an workin hard and any might just any man gives you the food for your kids and
you're working on a bunch of rich people's houses so akin afford twelve bucks and it's not that big of a deal to you and maybe somebody that you started work in ford did the same
thing an that's kind of just a standard opening tiresias hoseman you know what that's not good you know that's actually it might not seem like a big deal but you're taking money
you're to get as you know that puts money on you your table gives feetured i take him one of the table yet you know and whether it there wretch not money's money as i don't think
see i don't feel like we should be you know i can might await an you an get your efficacity might be a good duke because sissasse one was skimming some money as i mean the hard
but person right it means that they went down the wrong path he is because someone had goes down the wrong path doesn't mean they can come back make defeated cannot come back to
the right path man if i was if i was you know executed every time i did something that was stupider or bad or you know i shouldn't a done i would die of thousand deaths by not
right it's queen girl off and we learned these things we become better people but it will become better people we only learn this inglesby teaches them to us yes now we can learn
the hard way which is you know yellon someone looks young goes what was this charge for twelve bucks and then they fell a villefort last five years you've been working here and
then they realize you from stole money from the company and the money for these costumes and they're going to prosecute you because ceiling over ex amount of dollars is a felony
you don't mean to any one in a lesson but that's not the less i want to learn so having those tough conversations like your talking about having them up front and whether it's
eurie right whether it's counseling somebody whether it's dealing with you know my boss who i want to tell like hey i think there's better way to do this the any of those set
earlier you do them the easier that are to have and no longer you wait to do them the horror they get ye so all soto it's just an overall help like i don't know it's hard to not
draw the analogy nothing nebut the caparison between em like your boss and subordinates steps titulation and parenting kids you know like for sure does like are saying sometimes
people don't know necessarily that it's unethical or and they don't know it that on ethics or some o that that's that's it i mean in my situation with kids like they don't know
essentially they don't know better you know like it on only take a permanent pain and you draw over the wall you for five years old and you like yes sure i've been drawing on
paper this whole time sold is a reason for me to think sure i should draw the walls but this really nothing to tell me not i holed it and then then get like beat or something
linnets yell that or something some some punishment straight up on ishmen instead of you know okay you didn't know that you have to know this you know as it's like that kind of
ohio i tolstoy we were how conto after candid at school and there's a man unyoro through oucanasta i can't remember what it's been in all the rules of offices go anything you this
thou uniform so to be this is away you lockrums to be these away you stand in line of coal to every single rule is in this book and a real tosca so you live by the code of the
pockets very specific rules it and there was a kid who was going through usherees us and he was from another country he'd been raised in the country and became an american citizen
but he was from another country and grew up in a really poor you know a billy poor kids so good for him i mean he had achieved the incredible amount finished college going off
carrasco loss but he had some habits from growing up in the third world that were a little bit different for you know for americans say one of the things that he would do is he
would hear in a in a shower and and not to will you take in shower but when you come back from the class or something you know you everyone has to go to the bathroom is same time
and so you know guisado in and his fill if you rosinantes nowhere pisteuon to do all he is or in the shower and its big open shares going there pistrich the drain like rows
nothing toilet shall ask some of it all whatever the and one of the farangis ah adam called kites goral you know actually we had a but the some of them were new kids fresh out of
college the kid the the kid that was orating in the show one was fresh out of college and one of the older guys who was like me was a prior and lifted guy he came to me and he
said he man the kids ouraines ower like all this time and i said i said o k well you know run the water he sat and i got to get these kousma gain charge clean in the showers and
so these are my eyes all their on the ground it's cleaning up his pets in into an i s a i call doctor him so i went asked to a man at eight you know offer canada whatever can i
ceialing you second as yanyos to maroon as day and you know your your your pisonin the shower just wait for a toilet and you looked at me like i was telling him that he shouldn't
breathe her rifled i said as i will know he chose to on your your your pisoners around and and egyptian to drain as is all night in yon i said no it's it's not just just don't do
a esino in the rue book is what he said to me i can weathe was though the a name the man ull peers dozen saying that that you can't petticoated you give pity for one of my bed but
i want you doin that but it was interesting my point is that his if you point was like this was totally normal any any he was in great kidnaped worker but for him he was to
sachalitae about i would i pissaro the all the pesters are taken i hadnt go pison the shower will question living whom an i got work to do and so i had to explain to him hey men
listen it's it's a little different and people that are clean in the shaller don't want to be a orandain year pish i so any said o he listened to me and but i could see that he
listen to me but he didn't a hundred per cent are with me will he was like okay like all latonian did that you know of that it was one of those where you have no trite explain to
him the wife but he just euthanasy saying he really do relieve i understand that that was not acceptable to my hygenic poise hygenic there in feinting from a high genooine for me
you know a moral or a re marapi of the boatman enough to the fellah that was good times i ever seen that m sinforiano ever with that is very i know it is an inactive but they do
it just caught on they goes get the cat thinking a leak in the shower after jim onomies and then it's like you know they catch you and then you hear off resided basically i think
they even took his ma out on but he's like you believe this there whatever the now they're there madame for you know passing in the shares that man ye sichlike wild why are you
confused at their mad at you kind of thing any like it's all pipe so don't run you a gittin a kind kind of see where in a small ten tintwa if you don't think about it yes but why
not it's going down the drain you're not posing on the on the people i was de pored on the ship and i was in ashes and insane or i just moved up from the from the troop bursting
where i used to be with the enlisted spineto proud we call ourselves too with an i was off in the in the officer area in the ah what they called those very officer country save
little fine office country to no enlisted aloud who leaves yet to leave so i'm in there and a living with the a we actually had four other seals roselaers in this room a fortistes
it would the sinkatoo but no bathroom see to that esau brushed to shave whatever but if you want to go out for me to on the hallway with the showers and the picters were an so one
night i am you know i like it stirred awake by some noise and i see one of my fellow officers is passing in the sank right and think and you know i i was like a man powhaton you
that on my walk in a way on the down to the the bound the bathroom oline actually yesterday brushed my sea almissa he was the same way he is kind of surprised like what's wrong
with you yet i passing it the same pipe but i like not to my favorite dis walk on down there what if he you're naething regularly but every single time when he was done he
scrubbed at the sink with like life han stuff broke tostication totenois like a logical but that doesn't even make it worth it now we may well walk down there i i i dig it but
like what if these desisting i mean well how wild you feel about it don't pessimy saint gal rays like a a it's like it's the onward you call it customary almost for reasons of
course yet the reasons don't pensionat in college we played football winelike a nice ility to that you h but the showers were like guardian the time and but the shares are shaped
different where like let's say your facing the shore right or your facing the wall at the bottom o the wall was like a gutter or one ranch yet though went down so if you did and
one dies with him go to it you weren't ever standing in it you know and so if you're standing in it that's like of obvious you know but but guard it and when i first thought of
like danaus openly doing it like one of his gay factually mentions names for a lot aetion cause is in a shower but he's like talking to me while he is passing in the shower almost
like the it was a straight up toilet over there said he's like all talking me out of mine a right that's ow so again it's more like the ethics of the like the the culture almost
is what it seemed like yewtrees like come as don't pessimy soiree or a hole aerating darena yes shower o k onderstood right like you said it goes down to dreaders water flowing
all over it yes you're washtay way off the incoming over it but if you don't what i got a good idea just as a general over all rule he pisintry the toe line do that one year in
the same way in probably not going to brush your teeth in the toilet dalou and dundas what this thing is now if you want to put you in bushido it i won't be mad at you i'll be mad
at you be not an all i reading to hang out with you as milwater but yes i understand it makes sense and will amorous ore from trumence the china command o yates right because the
guides all the kind its gold ye get a new the shower yet he let em not to get to have the hard conversations i went whatever happened him he s a hard word where is he from a
somewhere like the etnam aldingar or low or something um maybe to land it is some asian asian country south ication country are northern smart yea at witley my opinion about
taking only in shower is you shouldn't do it but if like like this guy who sychar's normal that doesn't like totally surprise me deodotta prise me but makes sense that gastonian
though for sure i equasion and and and don't get the chinaman if you can avoid it you myletidae yes that's a g stinting going behind some one's back in just fit just like how you
say it's like sometimes you can repair that he tsarpi ardor repair hello how do you rank your longevity in your priorities longevity as is talking about the staying alive for his
longest possible and of course i mean i want to live all like how to get our yet the out o i personally that's the way of his court the curse it is actually directed have jackwell
in question for the boast how do you reckon longevity in your priorities longevity being how long you're going to live for and for me i mean obviously longevity has some level
than portance i do want to live for a little while longer but in an i think that generally my life style and my focus on health and fitness in a broadway a line with living for a
little longer so you know work on all that stuff is good but there is also an extreme and our now enow this a nomono about this er if you have read about a poison extreme side of
longevity of trying if you if your goal in life was to live as long as possible there is an extreme version of that you know about this i don't know how she will one of the
biggest things is you you do a calory restricted animative cally restriction ah you're talking like massive calories ruction and that's one of em you an an believe it not you do
extremely low levels of physical activity ye right you you basically if your goal was to live as long as possible you would want to live the basically in a bubble ye and do
nothing but but eat very little and and just lay there um no digitate no servan lifting heavy weights none of that stuff now when you are that mode of longevity pure long eve you
are not prepared for anything in the actual torrent right he because your your heart can only beat so many times and i the less you use it the longer it godelin but i'm sure i
have that not quite right but the problem is if you're not in good shape when you get triestono heart can't handle it that's the kind of people at a hard of taxicar and him all
the sub madness when it comes it so i'm not going there it's not worth it for me too for me to live my whole life as a sedentary person half starved and completely unprepared for
anything to happen to me outside of my bubble is not happening at mycale that way um so where does it rank in my parties i think it's it sure it's an important thing but i think
my general life style a line with enough that i now think about her news much and i think over all i living a life is more important to me than just loving me so make got alive if
what if magic like a magical wizard guises i am the you know gatekeeper of your whole life whatever your life in death situation is a grim represented i know when you are going to
die you know you can't help it this i just know the future whatever i will give you twenty extra years right now you're you know forty something years old and won the day you're
going to die whenever that is i can't tell you that may be ninety at eighty whatever but i'll give you twenty more years of fully functional life but you got a stop introduce so
bright now you can never do it ever again i probably choke'em out verlaine questibus otherwise you'd be just as functional you can lift you can serve you can you know you can get
after it in in every other way just no jigitivka arts in any well you know what i would double legend then i would faster and then i would choke it up to ye yet makes sense and i
take his sickle if in a free to worlds as gettee life is not life the fleeting i think the man you start restraining yourself from doing manitou want to do you even wenipak
serious considerations in what you're doing ye i i also think that i prophetical questions like that are completely ridiculous subaltern their mental exercise so my that's why and
i even in that case i i will stay with my first answer yet i greif the grim re pecome to me and may be an offer i would double like him i would take him down and i would joke him
out o how my kill ye ali might kill better there you go see one and i can't do that without you just do so it's far the double aganois some one of so back to your hosay okniont
eating i did know about that actually yes and it enemies sense cause that's a lot of things like if you want to be the safe as you possibly can in life right sam thing you just
goin to live in a boubikir of any disease sterilized bubble no murderers no crackenthorpe er drive never do anything the same thing a you'll be so safe you'll be the safest person
in the world really the but as far as content leaving life you know you know how you go one day out on the into wild all your dad same thing like if you restrict all your calories
no hard piscatio no son you know all this stuff the moment you got every day life which is physical in some is less loriotte son there's dan when you go out there all your other
son riot's like omathaun yes take vitamin deep pills he the a the other things were colarossi think and you know i'm reading about the stuff all the time and but you can get a lot
of those benefits by doing some intermate an fantasy for sure the inoui feel good on the intermitter fasting yell it twenty four forty eight seventy two hours that he nostoceae
i'll do some more in the future in farradiddles an dazed or actually of no known no man ate yeah yet but an see that the initiate almost goes into a hole in an i did seventy two
hours on the last time i did it i sang thing about a couple of times now day everytime i shall find yet i don't feel any of this stuff that people talk about it well yes so not
emits this is almost as i came hungrier a little while yet when i do i want like homoiousion no it you er no hatred like these are one different thing at all and what the people
say what people are going to ask on the interweb to talk more about intermit and fasting no don't ask me there's like actual resorter yes go and goglet look up interest mitarashi
and read about it don't ask me i thomaner ask ye a smart people yet and again he that interminate fat like if you're talking about ice pronounced like ten thousand yes since
alabastros don't ask me doglet and look at these really good research paper there's all kinds of stuff coming out about a right now now it's weird about the internet and science
in general is in you know there's a one article it says it's great you can find two more articles it say it's horrible you can find three more was she on always counter everything
ye mean folded phagon that's not of it necessarily about science in general is more about a specific persons if you point well he started what vast of for sure i've done ehire l
with dietina it so it's so us and so adaptable and some so but though you if you tautain that's that's you all out something different like you a people fast for a specific reason
or even a kind of a general reson but it's like fastening alone isn't going to make you achieve whatever it is known doing you know it's so incomplete just like lifting like with
lifting you need nutrition in need rest you need all the stuff for a specific results and the love all condition lifting you know so you can't just be like oh you and bigger
muscles so just get a lift that's it no nutrition of machado or no rest a boccaneras at all so the point there is when you go tryanite as long as he possibly can it's like you
have to like that has to be the objective just tell if everything else is a ating else is out the window so you get ye that i don't agree with you i don't think that near that's
living necessarily i don't think there's too many people that are just on the full on long longevity gig yet there are some yet i do i know one not to mention his me jack
suderoeer e see he caramanian similar cushion yeah jackal prior dicin execute is it wrong to sacrifice health in short term to accomplish work objectives in how you make up the
time lost so yea absolutely sometimes you have to sacrifice workusser health and how for an objective there's no doubt batelierand work in many respects he is life and that kind
of another topic but try and love what you're doing trying enjoy your job if you don't guess if you enjoy your job then work is life is no cashing if you hate your job than work
is life is not a is not a good shishino be in his oatine into things then do something that you enjoy doing and if you don't enjoy it you know find some kind of an execrated
that's another topic going back to this topic is it o k or is it wrong to sacrifice your health from the short term to complish long turn work of jectis in yateses we did that all
kinds of times a lot e weather was in training or formation where our priority or or mission or training takes priority over work out and over eating healthy and over everything
so there's times were that your doyohn red present focused on some kind of mission and that what you're going to besserer going to do and that's okay that's a we did nisson's
that's what everyone does an it's an when you get done with that how do you make up for lost time you do some arboreous and maybe you go eat super clean or you fast for a little i
whatever it is it gets you back on track you just get yourself back on track what you have to watch out for is a pattern a long term pattern where work takes pressed it over how
four multiple weeks right multiple weeks and months treaties devouement were about the jade like if you go a week two weeks where youse were crazy and work was crazy and you you
know you know your health took a little to went down a couple of notches on the party they cop a week goes by and you afoot on god i got through that and the the the hard season
over or the whatever literally people on the finance world and taxes and they're just busting their as for two three four straight weeks denmead duderstadt upon you know a retail
people around christmas time there were you know this here his got the little sick fangs realisable in the spring time in the summer stars waldron their work it's it's the
sicilian and that's cool you were hard for two three weeks where you just have to get after it but when that starts certain into months in in multiple weeks in a month and then
secular months of your health is taking a back seat we have an issue now that being said there are not too many jobs that consume twenty three a half hours a day of your time
there just not that many jobs that do that now what in what you might be facing here you might be blaming your job for you being lazy that that can be happening at the strong
possibility actually because you can make time for a clamant it warn't out right twenty minute work out right twenty men at work i like that if you get twenty minutes you get in a
shake it a little bit and you do you know a couple of hundred buries go as hard as you can you just got to work out that took to ten fifteen twenty minutes right well t longeetoto
me but yet no eseuta saying though i do yet fully you did and then if you can do that few spread if you do ten sprints right doesn't take you much time did you go go knock out
three four five sets of pups go on out a couple of hundred poops how long does that take it doesn't take that long right take you fifteen minutes you're done so then may be a
night you just set roll up there you grab your cattle boy knock out some swings on kitcheyev in minutes we're not talking about a bunch of time so are we being lazy wonota fifteen
twenty minutes half an hour you know a lot of people ask me about what the work out said do i am on the road a lot of them will i on the road i find to a city i get there eleven a
cock an night the next time i next day i'm working with a company eight o'clock in the morning and so i my schedules tight why man the hotel will know tell from to you my socks
for me for one thing and i'm going to bank something out quickly you know it's not going to be an hour work out no it's going to be like twenty minutes sometimes not sometimes if
i have lucretie maybe he not meet with a company until lunch gomangani long work out of course but if it's i'm due to meet with him see oh for breakfast at seven o'clock on just
going to be a quick hard core twelve minute work out and that's cool so we got a car of that out and i sesoeur that it's the job that's doin the few and not you that do miss to
you ye so if it is your job truly true your job is the thing that's making you an healthy then you got a fix it now what you have going for you is that companies will at you to be
healthy right companies understand the benefit of having healthy employees not just from a productivity stampin but from hikanei bepaint we if we got our you know de weget health
covered for our employees and all reepose are are sick and and lame and lazy and we're having to pay their medical bills and they can't work it's problematic so what you do you
step up and you say hay no what we do now how fenestration on it we need a little jim oh yes yes to the cost money hesitatest money but him misaventure in productivity and matavon
an insurance on one to write a point paper on them on a wind that went all day long were gondamee going to put a gem in the lounge and we're going to put an put some mats in the
denseness torwood it i think linkhead a ditto room you met little landonniere i think i saw a picture of the vagatorum good yea yea you and you have to pay me to work there is yet
to do the room a free man yes so i get so so go you now step up your company i can not guarantee your company wants you beheld so step up maybe take larsolan forming the how open
wellness programme for your company get it funny ma my brother's company you know it right mother there i have a entertainin of one office but to the atelier in one it's a though
he ill like he'll do this the hill encourage people to go to gigia you know they have to the point where the well withey have rathgar the men dear we have a pretty good
representation from froilette jim that you do call every one from pragmata you know what i'd nickname for acompanado desolate there i shall manually leaning on ceremony moral i
know your name is famous the thought but luogo because it becomes his culture that kind of catch his on you know where in this is just agitabant ing cross fit or even so spinner
but you do us kind o good because it's one of those ones a kind kind of come and talk about it and you know or you'll do out are you joke me or in a thing of you joke your boss if
he's a knots like that kind of soft it's real soon your foss and even have like rat tat i go it rascarse like if you work for fred mum it'll say um staff on the back of the
lavalike you know they do like a i and o you know felloes like that so the the staff one will be a what is it out on the sleep i did italianation the er and then i'll be other one
with it we'll say security that's like you know friends of the france of a family or you never boone hardware in the software rash or wait that's what exactly would fill the
thought of the gush actually work for fragolette software or asgard set hedake circuitry on the design in the the the no the hard ware all denotes of ware had his orators and won
homelike me i guess that coastline security gave who works tiamat's kinda that's like a good look cushats not really enough fiscal program in fragment or tea company it's just
it's kind of the influential element of the culture you know where it's like and you know my brother te he he pushed that you know no kind of over at lea a guess but it's more it
was like you guys have to do this a kind of like an you should come down i give you asgard in opacous and it was funny there's a time there's a bunch of agnomen there just going
in the ante that helps little for sure now that the singers if none of that work if you give your company's just dragging you down and and you've checked and double checked and
triple check your own i disappoint or lack of discipline and you realize that its fell work that is bringing down your health in that case you got a fall of the procedure you i
find i execrate created an execrated save up your money line things up get the ducks and romanet cow case your health is going to be more important than everything else you then
everything else all that money you could possibly make if you got a sacrifice that a year and a half to years and you get a grind it out like an investment back of the chows up on
wall street is going to granpere years o helas gonnuf er but they've got a goal the end of that i understood you sometimes you got to do but you got to had the enacteth ree years
he ate no you're not there at your not where you want to be and your started declined an holthouse stuff you won't be to recover from so make you make your decision then you come
often execrate and move on do something else yet health helen even like fitness is is this she is called a stamach versus direct i know this art being beneficial to exercise like
one of the few things in our little pirkheimers or whatever that affects everything else like if you if her unly person verses a healthy first in the healthy person will be better
at everything else it'll be better making money will be better at them all relationships he'll be better ah obviously help live in and of the ella i mean obviously if you've got
some guy that's brilliant and really at a shape verses a guide that's an idiot whose ingrate shape the brilliant person probably going to make more money and you do better in the
long run my i were talking yes ept them on a level in the intellectual you talk about the same poteano sure for she lay algyro is going to win but it so and compare that to the
directly like wool people be like a man making money important so it's more important than not but he is seeing making money does it improve your health make you money doesn't
necessarily improve friendship or or romantic relationships necessarily in fact a lot of times it damages on a lot of the time health doesn't damagin thing at improve their
everything there's not anything that i can think of any way that health makes worse or being more fit makes worse get healthiest healthy yes fante program you don't let em and i
one of those things to men loves like working out well when you're on the road that's a big one rights hard to like it as solid work out on the road because you're busy whatever
but there's is going to sound crazy onything but is not not crazy but some kind of unrealistic where kate soleano recently when i went on to new york for the master and like all
these of some before i go i'll research you did sageman fitness jim's work and work out because i said the hotel game and like you i anything else in your but you still have a
cato but research where are the gym and prepare like okay how long is it going to take men get there work out get back all this stuff and then you fit it in your schedule and i
think if you don't want fitting your schedule and don't work up than if ten health is not for you then let if you're like oh you're as us you know this kind of question where you
know it is it wrong to sacrifice health throng in all the stuff that means your concern about how he be concerned about help you can fit it in the surprise that you can fit in
just like you'll have to get that good of a work out but your feeding it in but you the thing you can find in a good work out you just got in a low for that he got a payoock when
too like i if i'm going to speak somewhere i adam minimum i'll do preponderate were wheat that just give the blood flow in your red rock and on yeah both at the muster i there was
no break in the program i would do twenty four finished a hard one at hendon then we rolled that at the muster which was at harnesser but it would there's a lot o rose in there to
and so man it was there was no break in the program but point is because i knew that he dousman time exactly right it was important and not an all say to pardon like the number
one priority i'm saying it's part of the the whole what i'm doing it is no part of what you're doing and then defyeth did don't make it partly i vote against you on a oni say make
time be healthy yes i think so did i my opinion but i'm saying help hosackia sad like there you lanistae my job is so whatever if you straight up don't have time then you don't
have to help is out for you you chose everything else owerhearing gondolier that most people you can make time that's the point to my way o a half hour earlier yet cause you don't
you know when you really don't have time yeah yeah yeah yeah like one time i wrote two or three months ago we were we came in and we we skip jeudi record the pot as right and i
was like many skipetars we had no choice right there was like we induta we weren't way agatha a flight the afternoon for and we just had to do it and so you occasionally that
those things happen it will consider that right so it's either skip you did so one day and get the potato or don't we cease we could have chosen train you get you don't do the
porches but at that point given all circumstances the paassion day is giving you too wondershoot for that one day because i not like work giving up joutel norty man i met actually
holding the line with a parasol right in that was important that day because we are kind of face with that thing what you give up so what that's the question would you give up do
you give out or watching of you know a move and room service to give that up keep that aestivalis i said he felt have to use what wagonwheel i don't even turn on the t v yet then
i don't even undermine cause i don't have t at home and so i don't know a year or two ago i i went to some hotel when i turned on the t v and next thing i know you know and how
hard to half went by then i got actresses from mainteen eighty six lagoon you've got to be kidding me turned off the yard i always do i hang my chock back on the t v throaty
statured you hang my donibristle r all me thin t went up when you travel when i drop clear bring your chuck yes aproaching sweat band from my rest to a seat i bring chalk back i
bring my little note book in gringalet and balls to do some mobility work and i bring some antidote but er i long that i used to stretch a deceiver who do overhearin ally like
were to muster i brought bringit me we saw that the legatee of merried time in news and after you get some work out tonanti travelled a little bit heavier cause i normally travel
really like but i had an extra bag so the non rings in entotto you are there for a while to ye a couple o weeks we alas in austria and then came back to new york and then from
york to texas so as a road trip yes thank ee and you may it happen in your busy than the normal person in my opinion can of us in some but again man i i think you you know how
that old saying i think it ernough as said mighthavebeen had eaten no where i saw it but it's like thor's no um free time or spare time or you know work that there's just time you
know it's it's one of the oglings are met as wrongs that's a rearoused time so as no spare time is no free time there's just like the time yes so you better get on it so unless
you're like peter ate membranous talking about what pirates talking about like there is no time in your just working the whole time like you can't i only a a what is it medical
yenisei you're in that situation that then that mafilin geomelania good not doing this part of my medmenham you know you alive a side of the road to a park to fall leestening days
yet i still there all except in for sure but again like if you are in the doing rothfuss or you you owashing the game or you stop in at the bar or doing anything i nisaea
destructive things i'm disintegration art can do ieto your compote work that's keeping you so busy or whatever that is that are essential if you're doing these other things than
there is where you can make time how can one ever have time if you don't take time elective eques my wife and kids are quick to anger sometimes it's explosive like a moabiter of
albam other times it's a slow grinding war of attrition being a student of your badges i've learned the worst sutete to directly attack their fortified emotional position seems
like the good opportunity to employ the flanking manoeuvre odo affectively flank their anger without appearing weak oefers wall inkose because it appearing weak saying a tree much
in your head really it is legeny in your head and that's the first thing you need to do it that your ego talkin when you don't want to when you don't want to when they hit you
with something that there angry at the thing that's hitting back is eglett's what sitting back so firstnamed ayarit now cause i'm goin to win the long war in fact you have to be
careful when you stay calm with everyone else's angry you have to actually be careful not becomes as aloof or you know arrogant yeeeeeing matoaka for instance if your wife is
super mad about something and you show now motions and you don't come at it all day ganaderia de you don't even care about this you know so no anitoo gettie a little bit you know
not saying it you you little bit of a i get it right but then which one dose absorb them to they were going back collabor take the screaming give the head nod of understanding in
a only marginally emotional way that tree much communicate that i understand your mad in him unlistening and i hear you you know i get it and let them get it out of their system
this let them get it onesime let them call down and then after you've given them the time to kind of calm down and settle down and i mean if the wonder than you think it's it's
longer than you think let them but let when you think they're calm wait on extra forty five minutes if not two hours comely do our theater not came to be tithes screaming right
here i is in then what you do is and then what you you kind of take it on yourself you can own it right and you say something like hay you know that thing that made you matter on
a mature doesn't happen again i you walk a walk and i do better to make sure that you don't get mad about that right you've taken take ownership of that would i need to adjust and
do what exactly is it that debt i did that frustrate what is it the trestraou walk can i do to stop em maybe it wasn't me maybe your man at the printer but you know how can we fix
that because i don't want you to and and then ye'll see you have the that kind of conversation and you know you can alive something to hackle and their tackle cause again you're
still belong with like you know possible flareup searches you know but you but you say something like that you know we both know that no we benefits when people lose their temper
right i mean we got to be careful you know i no one it's not doesn't do us any good would people lose time everyone knows that right so you spied those things in there you're
givin a colliginer indirectly about what's happening in entente you have other conversation now we're in just a normal dinadan you drop things about temper you know you talk about
temper be well you know it's a weakness and it's no one makes good decisions when they have from him on this or temper and reserved some of the domestics of every doubt was an i
lay now everyone knows that beauteous art sliding those things in her that it's bad for your decision making its bad for relationships it's bad for your outerest for life they can
you not directly saying these things your subbotiny saying room you know it's man i remember one time i asomatous things i ever did when i lost my appetite the wall and i broke my
toe and i had put a hole in the wall and the landlord came at that's what i should be i hate round my temper mum and you start getting them in the agetation about it over time and
is the thing of the long warm and there's going to be relapses along the way but you got a just hold the line keep it steady absorbed and then frank gently to get them to salt
starts out recognizing whether at what the temper duson tempers crazy ye are seepee lose their temperate is a total ascent yes it is all as control and it just doesn't do anybody
any good an we see some one that really loses their temper you like on a run the iman yet when i was a kid nice lose my temper and at some point i just realized i forget what it
was i forget what made me atheisme thing my dad said to me this something about you know something along those lines of like em you whose you temper dialite baby oh loss of
control i key the you you when you realize it that because of an lithanians said to me something along the lines of light you know i think he is referring to an athlete something
some one that just hadn't no emotions and how that was impressive i i was a co that is impressive masses control a one on nothing is going to make me mad he doesn't matter what's
going on around me ye yet is like a baby you know betsiboka like babies they cry and they whatever cause they don't know how to talk so if they knew other talk he and soleing they
do any like hay i'm cold or hay i'm hungry but they're on a talk to whitewater and cry because they're babies because they do not talk if they if they go berylite thing there be
by they don't know how to talk as he actually you know what under umbandeni you've been home much controlling on in all these other little variable but it's like the front party
of brain that a decision making like the conscious lycomedes diuides conscious decision is left for you braintefeld finney and inconscious decision making get a front living lie
from the lootenant an ye happens and it fully develops around a twenty five by the way slow you to any four to entretenue and all and so but simply it's like king my actions now
how do they affect a future you know so in one warner it's going to be kind aaron on that little premise smaller p so otherwise you're just going on straight out o mode however
you however you feel that's goin to influence not them of toyota's the thing that's got a influence your behaveyour so till stressed your front to court texture shut down little
bit hunger shut down little bit up hormonious for guiani troilus temper or that's where henry comes from a hanger lot of orellana it's like all these things lost amphitheater all
this stuff where your decisions just art that doubt eraso and when i said more monoliths why you get roderigo's cause like guisarts that's there hormones pemine that it's like a
real you know green men stroll singers larfter hormones are all a sorrentine my wife started when she was pregnant she started crying during an eighteen he commercial to laleham
that all like on my girl he was wrong with her some one is the kanoatinos sunless why were you stateing alife ooman satanette liciniana make it deep man that show your watchmates
yea molestum it's back to you losing a temper in stuff it is a weak thing so it's padovies pecipitated to see that look visions not cool and a lot of people they think it's cool
because it feels good here a lophiodon you're a little kid you respect it pesanteur ours is a householder yittering into super man riginated but pray you not feared the you look
stupid and you have done yes if that's the message commiddee kiss ye losing your temper stupid yes and a man some people there living you could tell they say that stuff with a
little bit of pride genost me in my temper going to and i embers going to give me in trouble in there all roughed yeah you want to broadbent's the one that should be the it know
you yet wish i didn't that should he if you say i just have a temperate that should be the equivalent of you sing i don't know how to read it should be that he nothing wrong with
it you can get past it and you know what i'm not going to judge you for it but it's no good it's not a good state to be in to you some one can control your temper just like it's
not a good state to be in as a grown adult to not notturno judgment but you saw that problem that's it be if you're having like if your kids have a temper to and there can osenge
it's becas chances are on annoyed of course but chances are they got it from the parents keeping mine your one of those parents i'm not saying i'm not then that you have a temper
nothing you don't but i am seen sure giomate per you wife has a temper godefrey honestly value do i have the temper and understand that cause the kids they're deceased little
seeds of beings were like hay how do i act i don't know how to act all action to fall i amatory this is my default and discern when i am in simperers have a ten fernow that knack
that way to kids will learn it to ingineerin it so there is some tiresome thing like genetic though i well maybe i get a we don't know if it's dead it or not but there are some we
you know the father has a bad temper in an in the kid has a a badtempered but there's no temper g so what it is is this the cadets situation for sure that you're more apt to not
be able to control certain parts of or not not be able to control but with control less you know certain parts of your brain or chemistry is going to make you lean towards certain
types of behavior impulses behaviour something like that there is that for sure but again man when you're a kid you're just looking for how do i act on an ormon up out on even to
how to act so the first thing you're going to look at is the people monteath rity figures in front of you the parents that the parents are there where they look into an anology
next door the giant the guy of the street the guy in the music beleeve it on where is doing better than me that's it so if i you the parent and you're losing your temporal a time
kids can lose temper that that's how what they're going to earn not act so point there is if you lose your temper or if you give a luminous with yourself unkenheim nilikanthe
certain things it's real easy to see when someone else does it or the most fairy put ye out of it in your lonely yet you simply though litenie disguise here that asked us question
he sent his wife loses his temper and that could be where the kid is getting that the modeling from right right and he said he doesn't now is the chance that he does to perhotin
like he's pretty together and he said morganatically right so ye in this situation i taste probably the wife whom you losing her temper and in the kathismata or the online and
then we have the serape yes so what we need to do explained everyone the family that stock god were not lose our tempers more they yet and the reason i say it too is again i i am
not saying he does loses temper but i am saying that it is a possibility of that because if letya your husband and life and you annotators broglio nellie took care me an my wife
again she loves the temper her temper and i'm taking the direct approach radwin in under nagalene unaimingly temper back on the gold fire out my fire with fire huge reservoirs so
the reason i voice the kids over there in the corner how do i act o that's how i actor there that's a possibility and kids will become anti social that's the thing goes on to one
of the thing for if a man thinks said he so shall told you but that book called mine games small little book forget the author like pretty clearly and concisely laid out if you
have angry issues like what up with that dantefying my life leeftenant stonecast to go on now you sure next question willing tactics to flank slash shift a ferocious analyzer from
paralysis to go fleeming what something ortigosa your renanisation a landing and planning and planning and planning while there's a couple of things you're to be iteesan is above
you or below you in the chain a man to do if their below you in the chain of command you you know you explained to me say look we don't eat perfection were not in half a hundred
per cent socially aghthamar ation that's a good enough solution we need to move forward leekee um and you know what i'll take her things going on wrong to or about opticions
ibility for it a okolni is what you're going to do any was as a good leader so that's what you can do for their blow unshackled if there above you in the chain of command yes what
same thing you're going to tell a something like a boss we don't need perfection here look possent going to get all the information we need when accolet a hunded potention we got
a ninety per cent solution and let's go for it and if things do go wrong you can blame me i don't care though on the weather that arove your or our politician you might change
your tact or your virata little bit but the same same over all concept you got to get them to understand that we don't need perfection we need to move forward and the other thing
is you explain the cost of not moving the cost of staying still the cost of being reactive instead a pro active in basically the cost of not being aggressive cause as we were
talking about his lack of aggression and to what is that look like will you explain to them that the long rise sit the better position the enemy gets into the longer will wait
boastin about one is actually happening think about that one the more you sit here and your planning the less we know what's going on out there the things are happening they're
changing their revolving the enemies of maneuvering there's developments on the battle field or in the market place in huellen consorting in the planning space the longer we wait
the less time we have to recover if something does go wrong so if we sit here in plan for forty seven days and on the fortieth day we set boursart to execute something goes wrong
were not going to make fifty day market we will spend all our time planning so the longer that you're sitting around the last time you have to recover it adapting and the longer
that you wait while you're doing planning the last relevant your plan actually becomes so that's what you need to make people understand and es people that are just how big you
all and granic ferocious analyzers and those i poot watch but you got a continually just get through their head that the more we set the more the enemy man ever and if we let them
never ones any more organtin that's a pretty easy on not easy it a simple concept womanheart to get people have been roessle this like everything else each hard for the ferocious
analyzer to recognize themselves as that may think they're doing a good job they think they're a day think they're actually being thorough and our wild man you're a countersign
i'm not great front to my my first appointment rack they said he john is safer i've been there for a while they wanted for some reason he wanted to know the men amoment's for us
to go out on an operation and i said i just need of the sanity of a target and of radio frequency to talk to the local ah comminciai that sir and it will like lonnrot of gas it
all was to think over an old well figure out just send us yea we'll go and there was other things that we would do as we moved to a target we'd alitis up and red but we we be
gibus some mice people wanted to plan out every last detail to that doesn't work that etionontates the same things that you planning on argonata so don't sit there and plan every
last detail this not an help you men that atseatsan there in thought about how you save you spend too metito much time planning you know and then you jump in the game all late
like danae no time to make any adjustment are you in oobee go perfect because you have to atone so got at it and yet what if not in god for forgings of operate things are not run
to perfect docenten they'll sit thing is vallecito dave bertinnati le that was on business in siderius itolasse action doesn't happen the you you he was a top gun senior
instructor for three years he e he knows about flying and i knows how hard they worked to towards fall as execution but i been existed the farseein was was analyzing her mistakes
seeing what they can prove upon that was false execution for them there wasn't the actual act of fall as execution that they had festering wallace analyzation of what they did
wrong he but it wasn't to be perfect often those no such thing doesn't happen oh so if you're sitting planning that trying to make that happen like a work for you it's done do it
jo got the question o jacotot a quest he actually wrote that yet he did if liefly again con questo ahould you do with a team member who tried to take all the responsibility but
cannot do as good a job as others or knots sincere helpfulness or desired power and is our for power who just it on that one yeowoman question a there is to you had a guy that's
one trinita all the responsibility for everything and the hot really as good as he should be doing in apposition but trying to take responsibility and yet the person that's got
the quest he doesn't know he itinere tryin to just help out the team or air for power so is it helpfulness or is it their quest re power were they come in from haveing that out
well for one thing if someone is truly trying to help the team they will have an open mind to support and suggestion and how from other people they'll be open to them because
there is trying to test for the team if they're trying to take or maintain power which as we know is driven fidgeted don't want help then they don't want to just in for people
either they're just go go my way i got this now at mine so that's the difference so there's going to be toteway on my handle this situation so for a person that's actually trying
to help and trying to do a good job hominorum i i love it the fact that they have so sore fall that's okay odeon to give him some support in form people on their team that can
help over some of those short false i'm going to try and set them up to win and learn and be educated will they are winning and if their humble which i must so be that they are
because they have this attitude that they're turn to help out every one then i will on doing this whole process of horse am coaching them and a man ramage him suggestions am
turning to some one that can do a good job in that situation so that's pretty easy that's oatencake one supersensible and they're doing it for the right reasons boom let's help em
out with supportless get him train what's get him algones get him up a speed we got up coming leader i digiti it's an ego driven person in the ermine ring for the power well then
what am i to do as a anadem get humbled by the experience as remember it stated that there not as good as they could be up this job they're not particularly good at what they're
trying to take control over so that's fine coming to let em get humbled by it now i'm no recess the rest some remake sure that no one's going to get her on o's goin to be killed
when i could fail a mission or in the business world nature they're not going to lose millions of dollars are not cristuff or come in some kind of a strict theist back but i
haven't got a let him fail a little bit and let them see that they're not as good as they think they are among let them learn about humility right among leatherbound humility now
he stay learn if they are humbled by that and they realize that they're not as good as they realize that they're not ready to control everything and they realized that they need
help the if they learned from it and they don't just cast blame than noeme a much better leader you will actually help them by letting them get humble if they just get down and
they just cast blame then we see them fail and now we have legitimate reason to say look i can't what you in charge you just failed i can allow the staff and again so that's how i
would basically handle that situation now of course he's all different kind of gradations of of those realities and the answer will be somewhat scaled as well right so you deserto
do you call answer may be give personalite bit of help but meillet them stumble a little bit you you know maybe you're not going to give any help at all you infallibilitate maybe
you're going to bolster up a lot but you still go to talk to and say listen you need to step back and get more in the weeds on some of the lower level stuffs you're not ready to
manage this yet you know so it's cool but that's my basic over all concept of where i would be gone with that do you find that like even with the expression treeworship wore in
this case in properantia there is unability do you find that not people get confused but you don't yet like people who will pay it confusing i say okay take responsibility because
it seems like anyway from what i told think i told in so excommunicated ohitika he from you call me for high you think you sort of you canterlone billie for the mistakes and the
solution yes it that is aurore so and then but then it from what i heard like sometimes when we was question little kind of this one kenniston times people i ask it as a question
in or make a statement comanther in terms of take responsibility or take ownership of like not of the problems of it or the solutions but but like before the mislikes my yeah i
don't in this is why you can overstep you can be even used too much tree moniche you can say at this is my echo this is my mission alternate do it now you don't have any esaron
win for from you not to pall me that ye and by him taking all the credit to hand we get acastus equally wrong i should do i say hey i will echo i'm in charge of this but a man i
watch to come up with a good plan i think you got a great insight i think you know the train better than me can you come up with a good plan and then we get backward if it's a
successful mission i'm like a guy's everyone or what a perdidi sat down looking at ingalls r a l and this great operation and the he's ready to step up and leadership he really
did it to perdoni if fails what am i doing putting the finger tetouan sad havoc here is a mission failure these in the states i made here is right a wrong here's romantic next
time that's real symbol so would you see in the nut shell extreme ownership applies too but problems and the solutions to those problems and that all no it replies to everything
it applies to everything because even when i say hey i can't you come up with the plan for this if you come back and break me with a plan i tell take wondership of the plan is
your plan but i go through as okay this eserengila on i'm looking at this right here on nowheres way execute this overhears the issue so i'm not taking ownership of it that
pulling it away from you but i'm definitely to make sure we win i testating that does me treaty sometimes to leaders is he don't realize it but there making excuses casita oh you
know i let i let me of ambeesa ized commands so i ran canotier thing no actually you are responsible for everything and i got three teams out there and you're one of the team
leaders and i come in you in say hey i cleis the pinta watch to execute i still have to look at the plan i still have to make sure that i agree with what you do have to make her
your not doing something that doesn't make sense very yes i do have ownership of the plant yes absolutely like it's your family members sonyea is electri love it like a son
canopian is man the planet you came up with a plan you created it if my grand kit yeah you right fissures but still going to take responsibility you know nor shipside people we
it's when you're eagle starts flaring up and i saw tanomi plan ain't were lamy way that's well have this ses e buyeth ownership doesn't stop and it did you doesn't stop when you
are older ship pison it doesn't stop in on everything up a amehican and hard to do it's hard on your ego for sure ye could it kind of seems in a way count into i guess if you
understand to the all the little subtle dynamic of it cause you know how like to if the plan fails well that's when mike youahs really going to show its head for i reteporae full
folles plan it doesn't it's more covert because it's more internal toyota give the credit for sure even eevery one a well will sit there and go on jocose on his jesting the credit
to echo for the operation keepin't show up as extreme ownership for sure it'll be harder to see ye and it people will say day people know that i was in charge it to you an me over
all gasoline to get some credit reinforce ver but but it's a way more conradictoire her right that's that's the hard on the life that's what so hard for people to realize the want
so bad to raise their hand and say yes that was me it was my sloperton but as you s'help you it doesn't help you if feels good or like a half a second and then you realise you
just to be flayed yourself is that kind of like when you make a donation to charity but you want like everyone to know that you did it kind like that yeah i guess it's similar to
that similaton et right like an award compound way questacion to next question of saavedra is of your last day she none of one certain level the same thing because you know you
did something good you know or you are something good or whatever but it's like saying i'm i'm the most humble din the world you know indecision in her ear there's the other thing
about this when i give you the credit for success if not only do i want covertly in that you look at me in gomangani me a couple of corrections at were critical bozati he's not
even seeing anything to you have even more respect for me which means your onor harbourfront future ever goin to do even more woronowo even better so i am in otamatea and win i
because my team is going to be kicking so much as all over the glow and people as a low you know of this begotten everywhere they go and and and so it's very very positive aware
as if i took that credit from you in that first operation i took it from you how are you working on the next one not has fared not as art ye'll maybe or i guy maybe you are great
god but in your just i'm a right time but you're still mackinac that extra be and you're not going to do as you're not going to get credit and you're not going to do because you
don't care that much about making me look good as you would if i was taking care of you and nothing better than having gies that you're taken care of they know you're taking care
of them and there in a do anything for you but other going to do anything there in you you know and you'll do anything for them it's a mutual thing it's real yes it's a real thing
a liking gift that keep on gin in rat is in cowfoot's what a book been so popular it's end and it's it's white a book has been so popular because when you when you break it down
and people see what it does they realise how powerful it is ranis and it's also you know another reason that the book is so popular is because we put it in a very leer way ye and
it easier to understand it testae it easier to execute but it makes it easier to understand for sure ye crazy to hand some one said i forenight have been someone at the muster out
ocou could have very well dinanti her on an a but not to so to say how it's so interesting now they started to realize that it applies to their relationship with bearer like
husband or wife or forsitan i was kind o look at all this stuff is primarily that no cause i mean who want a spectin what i work with you alive to like i don't go through these
extreme ownership struggles trewth you ellis more and sit me everything up disciplined to i her relationship with your white my word ever ill so annie all translate all of it does
there when you take orders the stuff you it's when you take ownership of stuff then you could entrance yet crazy will own as you don't get anywhere we ah and that that um you
don't you have a oonder argument any any ripples in the water where the instinct is to to point fingers you know but when you even the other person is really in the unskinning
you're both a plane by not but they do have very huge role in the issue in the arable don't do that don't even pay tention to that all you got to do is to shine the light on your
own things and say don't i mean and i see to be don't like be hard in yourself you know like that kind like the i saw i saw cause not that it's no like you want a lot o this is
what i can do exert so what's interesting is and you said from the beginning but it is interesting to just watch it pat so for it's almost fun but it's more just real interesting
work when you do it and you just keep doing it you always do a thing consistently do it you just watch how the other person just changes and just becomes kind of the same thing
and before you know it like the ripples in the water pretty much sanehat you need some one in the team has got a start doing it that that's one of the hardest things it is
occasionally well work with a company where every one's like oh yatrotski no one is actually doing it it when no one is actually doing it all the same as i can wish that guy out
esometha it i asked that a homoiousian while taking a orohena i have i seen anyone else taking one ship and therefore how can i take on her shiphouse out o walkin a company will
send out survey ah you know preclair and imposed cause well will do a number of sessions so will send out to the leadership tenor with how's it going and won't will send out a
week leader two weeks better three weeks an for weeks sintran sometimes when you get a team where no one is taking eldership and and literally you hear people say well the bosses
and taking ownership so how can i take ownership in a loss is even titorelli that when your boss isn't taking ownership it is an opera to ityou to take ownership and to call and
to gain respect then trust and power and power which is a good thing because you're doing things for the good of the dame so you want to have power i want have power when i'm when
i'm of teneter i absolutely want to have politian the reason i want to have power so i can distribute it properly amongst my team and i can do to lizette be successful or mission
so when you have your so is indioneers also i'm going to take ownership in wind mother rest if the siostra not taking orders and i do everyone else looks at me and he started to i
elevate my position then itsell becomes a rovin because all these doings in er on point fingers i'm taking or ship of things in solving them i actually going to end up in a
superior position now i might not get promoted to see o to day fortior the orators but when this information gets back to the border to the directors or whoever they realized that
there's one person that's mutually respected by everybody in that huge because you took oerspread on hiesos how you solve problems you win but somebody has got a started and it's
hard sometimes in some situations you get the the motor do you sychidion ment frattanto environment where every one's just so so defensive about it a and it's difficult those liii
to tuition to after work with bow and all we takes the transition on human one person in that team to step up and say you know what this stuff that's going wrong is my fault see
oidor about him he's got enough problems he's got a deal with the he's got a deal with the shareholders meeting we don't we need to protect him yet you know what this is my fault
that this happened in hearst's going to do fix it here's what i'm going to do and that just change is the attitude in and of course you are to have to or three people that
defensive parinam that i look at garies your fault newsy to that is your right is i it is my fault and he was one wilovich ears alone to move forward teseide change but it's hard
to be that persia first step and then he had to keep that going no but again man after a little bit ye see the gyneceums yenleet and let any inextensive the book at it it's
pointed out but it's not the supercritical queer that when i was taking blame for the blue on bleathe everyone else was too you know the guys were saying he was my fault i did
this was my fault i did this i and it was cause i was that wasn't the first time these guys said senor ownership you know when we were going through training and some was screwed
up in begaitered had that relegated yeso that happens to compensate your saying it does it ate in his one of the best things about this idea this principle of the tree more as it
spreads throughout the copy and will you get people on the team that will not take ownership of things yes of course you will you will get that person and eventually they will
either leave or you will fire them on one of the two things will happen as we ever a person he that the whole team is going on my folk and eventually everyone's oh you oh you toto
you responsibilty cooleth baacon have about cuittles not your fault oiellet fix it oratry can handle that either it's not your fault out take that and fix in a vesture job be more
ye so you an don't want to take undersea things including problems i will take one up of all in all tenlake your job in your world it ill be mine fate realise you right out like
you weren't even there that's a i happened so yes it's a powerful powerful tool in any overshines you see but i gesse politicians do it all the time they don't take ownership when
they make a mistake and when they go it sort of this lip service of a was my fault it was my fate this happened bought great great bought babalawo borgian it i and all anyone here
is his babalawo babalawo's you say but and then you make a bunch of excuses that's all anybody here if in there's just the so weasel weak to do that any sounds in like you said
when you get used to hearing it when you get used to hearing people take ownership of things when somebody doesn't it onlike sayin the screaming out of the ouananiche at soldau on
like a like a coffeehouse sickness right that is if the stannators you antoine at the masters a i was talking about how when you start taking ownership of things when you start
having this attitude when when you feel yourself about to make a metamorphosie you feel like you're goin to throw in your mouth at head like you for it's like you it's like
volition out your mountaineers get back here cause you don't one o let that pup out on deliriation and see it he that lloseta's alities when you blame everyone else is all is
happens all the time in so it's it's the detestation i talk about with with um stepping back and in how you stepped acolyth visibility you have as soon as you step back of the
firing line is as you just elevators six inches above what's happening it's the same thing when you start to take ownership is like the change it's just this little change but it
just completely changes the dynamic of what is going on in your business and in your life in your life as windesan thing in life when people are blaming everyone else their blame
in the market and their blame in their parents in their blame in the the debt that they built up and their blame in the car that broke their blaming ivverything else it's going on
now and when he owen all you everything we nothing is your fault will you go to extensors you're not going to fixating where are if you go kay thesemac that i made and hears what
unginned to fix him that's the paratime change in that's where you started getting on the right path the the muster your lying at the muster included in it the video favorite
ionathi says sure all take the blame and i don't care a aemilian too to accomplish and i got to get the prompt off there that's what it was here in the pit that's part of my
opinion i will take the boy and i don't care a i don't care bring it in jocatore for one more yes i we do jack on the joe regeneree ever last from husban was on everlasting how he
wasn't in shape and joe played the good video for ever last said it is inspiring but it did noways work and the example he gave was the sick daughter where a long disease that the
doctor's canican i wondered the same thing how's the sick child good year i saw that episodes well in its definitely a hard question and actually to quote a soul a great song by
everlastin i i haven't walked a mile in his shoes and i've been extremely lucky and in blest with the health of my family my wife and my children and i am so so thankful for that
but i have been around disease and i have been around death and of or to say there s something good about deafenesse is it impossible to do to thalwitz to hell with cancer and
alas and heart disease and all a rest of them to hell with them all and deaf to hell with death i have nothing good to say about this ease or death curse them both but but then
what is that where i'm supposed to focus a itolasse in disease and ride with them down to the depths of despair i say no no i will not ride with them i will not go down there evil
path instead because i cannot find good in their vile darkness the vile darkness of disease and of death i will not feed their fire the wonted there e goes instead coming a look
elsewhere i will look on life and light and i will find good in those places i find good in every moment i git a fine good in every breath i'll find good making its memories in
haling them dear i find good in knowing that i will learn from this horrible experience that everything on going through all the pain and suffering and darkness it'll make the
light brighter and stronger and more powerful more powerful than disease and more powerful than death so cry and scream in sheet your fist at the sky and cursed death and cursed
disease and shall to the world that life isn't fair then that this is not deserved not for me not for my child not from my friend my spouse my brother my sister not for any one
then then look up then breathe in all that darkness and all that evil let it all go and when it creeps back again let it go again let it go in look forward toward the light tore
life toward the future and of the past let the memories the sacred memories let those flourish and grow and expand the darkness from you world and replace it all was good and i
think that's all i've got for to night so the rough yes but think a brother king is like that i think that that like that outlook on it is his import positas to do you know
especially men in me it privately let in my daughter had a staff in fiction you know when a limpopo like week we can absolutely at an leland you have the view point you're lucky
that that happy on you go to a children's to ward and you see kids at her just suffering from a horrible disease is it's awful that you feel lucky exactly as you should only
reluct to have this eh and at in that moment when we're in aspilin ellie you scared you're like sad scared for them you know all to its but i think that just even hearing that is
like skin like it does help you know what ye nits one of the things that you know what i want o you know when you talk about the reaction you have and you know the fact that it's
okay to like cream and seek your fist at the sky that's old cave for that and then i'm saying you know that you've got to let it go but at the same time every one's got to realize
that littee it go its common back it's coming back and i'll sneak up on you agin and then you caught a doogan you know you got up you've got a goshoot you've got a scream and an
or the evil that it is and then you got a letitia you're going to go through that cycle over and over again but what you can't do as you can not go through the cycle you can't
just get trapped in the screaming and the suffering and the pain you can't get trafton it's really hard and i noticed that you know when i had when i my friends get killed over
seas i realised you don't want we be home and like everything would be normal like maybe we'd be out aventours with the boys or we be doing something and all of a sudden like i
just get a hat with this wave of sadness he would kinda justas instantly i'd be like breaking out it could like reader or cry and then free minutes later i'm like out of it you
know i just had to get rid of it i decided expaytiate and but what you can't do as you just can't get caught in those cycles and i think that's what happens to people and again i
i even walked a mile in those shoes but what i had seen as i know that it's horrid i know that it's haardraada t let it break everything you have to try and hold it together ye
sick part of the like going dry notice on a olole i gahalatine a little but parted like the feeling that you get is like like what i i do like i do i feel like a cat do anything
and then that provides these feelings you know but if he starts to to understand what it is that he do after do in one of those things as is the sensually like understand it that
gets going on don't tunbrook it or escape to some scars activity or whatever just now and understand that is going on and then on top of that on top of it your job is to be strong
and now you know that that's another thing there of noticed especially in it happens with anybody but with some one my seal friends that of been in these horrible situations is
there all forgittin' used to being in control of everything and you to be able to control the outcome and you need also ye you can't control the outcome and then what do you do
well it's like we learned from charlie plum is like we learned from bill reader you can't untold that thing the only thing you can control is your own attitude your own view of
what's happening and if you if you control your attitude and you make your attitude of best possible attitude to combette best or going to do and again i wish there was so
modenese oh miracol solution to these situations and no one knows if we had a miracle these problems wouldn't happen he's haulings wouldn't happen so what can we actually control
well oh control is all on view of it are on acescent our own attitude and a sense of security but her own attitude of what's happening and make that as good as we can in order to
be point or your attitude turns completely dark in negative of course there are how can you not but don't let it be permanent don't let it be permanent for the sake of the
situation for the sake of a person you care about they don't want you to live like that so don't and again what it is you know it's going to be sick sickle coromantee seen it's
going to be sick clinturn the way it happens the way people deal with these horrible emotions is they go down and in they come up and then they go down and they come up and then
when they go down on your emotions go down an you get dragged into the the the the mind set of loss then i think the best thing to do is just impractability sake i said shake your
fist at the sky and i and then let it out get it out and then back it back up and said herself okay that was horrible that's darkness that evil that i couldn't control what can i
control and how can i have the best possible view and what can i learn from all this that's going to make me a better person with a better life to live the best i can in their
memories no man you in yeatman when you're in the situation especially with working out where your daughters like you don't in ospill or whatever in your like ye i worked out this
whole week now like who cares about word else your daughters in the hospital there not as you did i make it to you did to like you don't care about you did so any more you just
care about this one thing you know but again just like i said it's like so it's like this big bird in and life because really you know you do a lot of time your kids are like all
you have really it feels like so if you'll have them who here is well you will get well working up i don't have anything you know no reason to even do him really but aside from
the fact is verismo like two year life and in fact the more your whole life beside them is for them you know pletend you keep that i think your nodot ye and i i think that's
always an important thing to remember is that if you surrender to all that bad evil darkness that's the leg is he that's the example that what you're showing as opposed to showing
the legacy in showing the example of not giving up of moving forward of driving on and doing the best you can with life and with the things that are good and again having the
attitude to control the things you can control and put them in the best possible light that you can ye an it's a and it's a spectre of you know i mean carpets into perspective in
my opinion why you should do best you can when things are going good now cause i is going to go to her he my pinion anyway speaking of doing the best you can he look working out
we know obvious obvious work out we're going to hard to you know i mean maybe not every single day work in on art the work on when when you do work out argymint some
supplementation i think i wasn't a supplement guy i wasn't before you know this right i might ha mentioned it every one who but now i am a supplement guy have me to say not the
pen supplement guy whose like take this power gainer hey what on approaching power you take but even i'm not against broken paidon take it but lineless you know what i'm talking
about crill i minnesoty father in law's name is ross i sorry for not heeding all of you if heating heating is deserade i can can you heed advice or is it a antigenic no can see
can heed warnings and it by this i should headedest my father in law about the cruel eventually jocatore me back on to it for a further on to it so i'm on it now i think um on a
we have literally on it on it doon intended no fun it is the company you didn't know already i get jackets crill oil from on it on a doom you temper set off all these supplements
which are was some tech kissam take good for oxygen up take his what it is so when you're doing this hard cormet cons gigito your body takes up the oxygen easier more orficial
cortadura silence frore strong bold help me be had this um and i'll canaan to report this before but i wanted take too much time and the dew wet still kind o out on it but so i
had this ten in ediccated in any weird it wasn't in like a normal place like your elbows in my deltoid muscle from word inserts into the humorous bone when his or like one under
your pisenin de night is sensibilite i'm not anger a not out but i warm up more in a robinetta this stuff and i'm liftinnint days off if i not injured so bread this thing wasn't
going to get better that's a thing about ten enit is like if we keep lifting art on a just simply won't go away the whole reason this ten to night is cussin ard on it in a rather
seems out bideawhile with it or wait for you know the time where it one in a haversham but i on the strongbownians stromboli see what up you know do you think i'm not saying it
was because it was stamboul not the lets the tendit is it is not completely gotten beyond sotheby it's pretty much gone i'm worminglore i'm a believer of the strong bone thanks
for turning mount to that check jack in a go in there is a lot of good stuff for a logic good tings from supplements and this work out stuff on their too so already had waits an
jim membership but when you go on that you see the stuff that they have your gettin get some of that hue because it's not like normal like kettle bells you know there's all the
cool um and the impulse on the stuff like i understand dead you know a lot of people a lot of us we want more in point just warrior joe would take to soominitik it some of us
telitha in new benmore in full so there's infante website be carefully he gets stuck on their cause to inhausting and in debt by the way so i just be careful with set fear on it
dotcom slashed joco i recommend the cruel oil being time to me if you're not on the creil you you're behind your like a good one to two steps behind a steps steps not like a half
stuffer behind if i had a twin brother which i do you give us a five year period to your period i uncreeled not uncruel we do the same exact work up programme style i'm way head
of him way out of him we were functional is factual if that's it's this my hypothesis agatated is dated coont ye he's uncruel hath to sam you don't get after it physically as much
as i do so this is heart to have that for a basis comparison for the girl oil unless a good stuff on there in the good thing about i e can say this would pretty with absolute
certainty at this point is that it's the good one it's good stuff because supplements in general on one mention any store names but you know when you go in the meat head by a
bolder store a lodesman are dart their whack they just have like sparkle like labels and stuff and their junk after on it is not like that um get temper sent off if you want em
person off on it dotcom flashed jocolate good way to support this pot guest is well and other good way to support my petiolate esting is get you read you review books on here and
sometimes actually loved times when you have the guess you actually have their book and read their book to them her utilitawian was an sanctorum talked about this but when we had
joined it is the first time i had a joy came on and you know i had this book in i was like okay we she and i have him read this or should i read this or i just wasn't quite sure
it seemed like the common sense answer would be judy read this section of your book rioration penance and then you can talk about it and for some reason my gun told me don't
nogaret i eaight and as soon as we got you know probably odenwald way through it joy said you know something like man here in wreaths is like crazy to hear that any in its true
when you hear some one else read something to you it's it's different the oisivete this so the latter of them every time since you know when we had colonel reader on her and he
said the same as thanet's hard when he akosh said the most unemotional way is that when your reading this to me it's extremely emotional for mether howsobe it's in and same thing
with with ah cap'n tom you know same thing a man on his left ear and yet yes so it's it's really interesting the way that work and if at effie's unbelievable to have the offer
sitting there and to have my spin ill that's what it is right it's my it's the way i hear it i and for them to hear the way i hear it day it it it it then from a differ angle a
right so i feel that i think that's where the the interesting yet how erful part comes from any since very interesting and asinine watch it cause an you know you your little bit
different than a typical person just reading a book you know so you really get the to me is what what i fowlis like that's kind of how the book is supposed to feel you know like
when you read it or whatever so as he opines like all i think a lot of people feel that so you know these all want to go get this book they're like all was a buchanan a refined it
so anyway you don't have to do that just going or website talk about custom that's a section the top books bonner they are all the books by episode whom ye at him and and when you
buy books through there support the bogasses well so be done double it shoveled gravitation liebeslied it's a two pronged desire what if you weren't getting a book agenting like
doc tape anything ye so this thing answer it's a there or en on flicked through situation see even if before he do shopping boonslick through cabaners and on manners all upon
their flicker but most by willy do the books you don't say you if you're doing your shopping is well do you that you will get gonorell whatever you like you came rissole donegal
high ticket high dollar items which is very emaculate in the low take it items low lower cost items you might not think it a big deal but then when a bunch of people do it it is a
big deal in its very very helpful yea to the port cast it good with potentilla a title also big way to support this pot cast is to subscribe seems obvious i know but you know if
he have subscribed and i to school did her what's the other one that i keep missing a heron he met whatever potatoes not for he had a house ominous sound cloud i got a look into
it on all think that that's a subscribed bocasucia in enarea i don't i don't know either i shan't even see anything but on the less i look into it if in fact efore committed to
the si owned cloud situation you may subscribe the already also you do but you want or or interested in the videor of this podcast been on their sense number and seven exceed was
the first video episode we've bin or on ever thoreau with the picture of her head not in your head he asked opposit but ye onchestris all had it from back then i do kind of him so
bunderdown have it yet a close you have is like a picture of me tina lola hollister sat harescare i rather we didn't go ye on perico but we tried no we did we did it at live on
periscope yeah just trying capture that video i know none the less viterbo's the point there if you want to see you know i guess what we look like if you don't know an i feel like
i guess that's where the value comes in with sholto see him linger to get right or hagenmeyer o after it and yes retorts a good un too cause you slike alike his story expense fine
acting on a little bit as he salines room below can anon to lant bat asked way on one good or by a you topolski to our if you like em all so old yet the video version of the
patates but we i will take a little excerpts and will post those as well so you can you if you like if you into sharing little lessons with your friends or co workers whatever you
can do that he don't have to shut the whole patches on amulets other stuff on their interesting stuff i think think up some other stuff just in relation to it manitoulin about
some stuff in erasistratus what that is he gone you too small like ye to cossonerie now it doesn't it's for you to read cumahewa not dealing with you to bread when i'm doing that
not now charge for content to ononwe re not going to do that not in an i was thinking about getting you to brillait yet loving for sure they have you to subscribe no support that
way that's cool ah also jocasta it's called jocatore jocatore out come so this i keep forgetting everybody's name but very clever guiacuni went through ollydayin i'se let ilicano
i cocadetta storia to anteucan it so for high comeaus it might ye yes okay he will go so jocatore it's called the jack cost too jocatore out come boesinge nonetheless tackles
tired out come that's where you can get if you want sure rush kurds hoes some patches velorio size and color someone some woman stuff on their anyway the point there is if you
like t shirts you want to represent get a shirt on good support they're good shirts to they're not a freeman when you put a home can after two shirt yet de do you get a little bit
yet you want to get out he morainal that aenitet actually sounds kind of funny but when you think about it superficially you know how like i mean not here if i antisalt it's a
literary literature sting whytes a literature sang it's called something it's called something like the dressing of the warrior yaaaai they do a movie we the god putting his boots
on in planeteer on and put in his sword and he picking up a shell that stamp the toning his helmet they do every from night movies the gladiator movies the soldier movies in the
modern day you'll see me these scenes will they do it in literature too so there's a little someters little olesale fatahat used to get me was flitting down sir nightingales aram
on your helmet and they they they flip up when the lights are on hand when you're you know you're getting ready to go erinnerte to go a foot down your nods and for any one i like
that was just gained so game on it as old game on when you flip down those nods and so when we eat waraba for my last upon it a bore and training and we go out with still be on
thy vision we go out at night to observe the troops and run the opposing force in all that that i get out of the target area and foot down by nods and i'd let go into full combat
holiest is on oons i face sometimes you put on the gineral's of feel limp yet was in i think he's glad heater that move will tarlike of like the emperor something came up and then
there is like the smack of defiance from the gladiator guy and that all the guards behind them they'll slip on the thing and bulwer ready to go rollick a thing is glad eater
probably but in some ill noteless he had the modern version of that right which these like any did happen to me when toowith a first shirts came in the disedified em oseola sirati
put it on and i wanted to like gold work out in nothink sense when you get a new rash guard as matter where you get a new get or something you know i don't get wakieren my new
geathered little kids getting your shoes he ounainetai wouldn't be slit in paperdoll we'd get the new shoes for the feet i can't wait to let the practice practiser heartiness
deuces little kid but you just want to when you get that said new stuff none the last so like i said chuckles dorm dot com did you selenes you get the one of his get after it
guess what you are going to brelan do after some other one on there precol think and the good the clarity shirts that's you might be me that's even more important than what it
says on poseeeble i can do print like yet jocko's cool saying though a juncture i hear one i relit all right you know may be aware that again but it's not very warblin look that
good in it not the case with these ones heinsio i've had multiple people say it's my favorite sure to work cause i look good in that arnoton with the first round of travel mugs to
them the silver ones oh yes like they were not as high quality as what we went to yetive not they said just pines red an it is over mugs they said discinae freedom they looked you
ontario but we needed ohier quality yet yes so if the sense same thing you get the money like cool hintondean all to animals get old is going to his that's goin to replace her
whole cat cupboard extradited with me and i in him i expect that but yet thirty ounces and if it's in your couple o doin your car too what's the black on black laomedon's freedom
no one can see it at you except for you well the owner now you can see it is a good thing about it it's black at east selika it is black it's not shiny at morasses going to
hilariously and i anythin the logan selfishly so people are to look a lot extra hard to see it yet but there's a subtle teacher the elf is free you should free you the filipino
the coloured out a hard black with black rims on locke and if double insulated doubt was that daintily as a wholesale thee when ye your ice you put ice water in there you leave it
over night and next morning to ye still if ice water even if it's a hot night even a thought day out as i sensed my car you know you go in though where i golf grocery store to you
spent a lot of time in the a morano no i'll coming back from somewhere left it in my car with it i was just ice drinkwater and left it in my car came out later that evening but i
still parasangs a good high quality be parell that stuff in with doctor a come if you didn't know ready also do what is support yourself and this ponciana is psychologic for war a
psychological warfare is what it's called unitatis it enable with tracts of josteling you how to get through our moments of weakness in the event of you have in moment a weakness
getting up early procrastinating even being created its like for everything being creative like how can how can you get talked out of writers black hung a talk other swear right
there you will be talked out of writers bock and rioterra assyrian singing would work out any way for all the little moments of weakness and you might have don't worry jocasta get
it said lodore or for eating even by the individual tracks too that say your life is no atoning of a deal o my will but i mean really nine nine cents yes it is a good deal to
great deal regardless in my opinion cause my whole thing was in the wake up early i was going from not working up to whar you house i can go to work out to day but i'm one
computer i'm doing something a mile late this is important to anzac i used really focus on my craft right ye work in oxcarts or the work out day becomes a rest you know ramtonu's
kind of my thing but so there's a track for that you know so if all anisel that try the dieting i'm not you know that week would it comes to like the ditto you know so maybe i
don't need it but i'm not saying to do that i'm saying for there is that option for thinkers on eipon i to it's on mousi gorilla gulpeth anywhere where they sell music and peace
ran line and pet threes boom is on there called cyclopean alarm clock out bears on an alarm clock a wrington the ardest no no alarmclock if you want to wake up de i some one
telling you to get off the instant some one ready when you come escape warming a do something like that but i like weary did it that's one of the reasons why we did this or
sycamore yes he yet you dale that precipitate your phone and then you yet you'll met minowderin la ye plagiariser jocelyn all you can also get jocolate t an amazon and people ask
if i ever drink energy drinks and the answer is yes i drink cackle white to my energy drinker no need one other energy drinks now that actually sapienter point there once there go
rashau and jackaway has nothing to happen you'll be gostrong way the warrior carried the book i wish i had when i was a kid that shows kids the path you can get that book as well
as for a dolt that we need to get on the path there's another book come out octoroon twenty seventeen dispence freedom field man you will it's the path that's it extreme motors of
course come at leadership from the battle field and translated in distraite and tactics that can be applied in any leadership situation extreme ownership did it and i did also you
can also get as lafont leadership a man to resulting into your company you got late fain you got j p an you got day burk and you got me you can contact us that in fortaelinger dot
com of course the muster leadership conference but not your normal conference not the your normal conference so don't whatever your vision of a confessor spoken at a bunch
confesses that conference not that stiff it's different the normal conference you're waiting for the break and then you're going to disappear to your hotel room for like forty
five minutes late for the happyhour all that other stuff does not that's not work on here at the conference at at the muster the the musters are sadelack in the morning every
one's there at seven o'clock in the morning after we get done with put every one are settlor including all of us were hanging out we when we started eight o'clock we started eight
o'clock boycottin so it's not just your kind of tipical conference thing we get after it knowledge interactions solving problems we go and we go hard i just picked out the
microphone and don't do that only but we go and we go and next one is an august ear sorring austin texas july thirteen and fourteen of the ammy bartendin resort which only has
three hundred people were over were over half way sold our right now ah sir register quickly if you can't make that you can come to sandeago september fourteenth and fifteenth for
master deroro on the four decenther indented see you there if you want to talk to us you can find us drifting about inside the interweb on twitter on instermint at face bullaces
at echota i iaowania as always to the military personnel deplored all over the word thanks for everything that you do for us to the police fire fighters the mts first respondes
tangoing a safe and make sure you stay safe as well to everyone else that listening thank you for listening thank you for supporting a thank you for spring to word thank you for
getting up early and thanks for working a harder than your enemy and as echoes earlier thanks for taking advantage of intimes are good because times will not always be good so
until next time this is echo and jocko al
