this is jackal podcast number eighty with a others than me jackwell good evening ah good evening pakia lay among the corpses there were thousands of them the whole world's gone
crazy he thought dimly a man might as well be a dead leaf floating in the autumn breeze he himself looked like one of the lifeless body surrounding him he tried to raise his head
but conly lifted a few inches from the ground he couldn't remember ever feeling so weak how long if i'd been here he wondered flies came buzzing about his head he wanted to brush
them away but he couldn't even muster the energy to raise his arm it was stiff almost brill like the rest of his body i must have been out of here for quite a while he thought
wiggling one finger at a time little did he know he was wounded with two bullets lodged firmly in his sigh low dark clouds shifted ominously across the sky the night before some
time between midnight and dawn a blinding rain had drenched the plan of sadagora it was now past noon on the fifteenth of the ninth month of sixteen hundred though the titan had
passed now and then fresh thorns of rain would fall on the corpses and on teches upturned face each time it came he'd open and closed his mouth like a fish trying to drink in the
droplet it's like the water they wiped a dime man's lips with he reflected searing each bit of moisture his head was numb his thoughts the fleeting shadows of delirium his side
lost he knew that much cobia had eke supposedly an ally had been secretly in league with the eastern army and when he turned on as she aventures troops at twilight that tied the
battle turned to he then attacked the armies of other commanders you kita she mouse and cornici and the collapse of the western army was complete in only half a day's fighting the
question of who would henceforth rule the country was settled there was tokugawa the aster the powerful ego diamond images of his sister and the old villagers floated before his
eyes i'm dying he thought without a tinge of sadness is this what it's really like he felt drawn to the piece of death like a child mesmerized by a flame in that right there is
the full pennon of the novel called musashi by e g ecchoe giant novel and it about the life of me moto musashi the japanese swordsmen from the late fifteen hundred in early
sixteen hundreds and this probably the most famous swordsmen from japan i apologized for my pronunciation of japanese names all afterwork on that but musashi which is a book we
are going to cover when i covered wenever it in podcast one hundred that was deicide upon when tempers came on the pot cast we're going to cover the be novel musa and again
musashi was a swordsman probably leemost famous japanese swordsman he was born into a samaritan around fifteen eighty four and was a lot of questions around his upbringing but the
reports are that his father was a very tough and demanding samarai and then at some point around agettin his father was either killed or something else happened he basically
disappeared now missapaw first duel at age thirteen against a grown man who he killed by throwing him to the ground and then beating him with a bock in which is basically a wooden
sword and he thought multiple battles defending the two tome clan which is i was a line with any continue to fight these duels a massing more than sixty winds now some of these
duels are to the death some of them are they they actually agree upon what they're going to do before they fight and he won all the ones that he participated in his most famous
duel was against a guide named cojero also known as gun drew and he was the the biggest rival of musache and they were both at the time when they fought like the most payments and
feared it swordsmen in japan and then after that he went back in his worries he went back he continued in combat he had a few more due duels after that and most of that the his
life and and how that went up until that final duel as portrayed in this book and it's a storical fiction right there's not that much truly known about his life and so this book
that's written by e g oshawa you she coliar it's it's a huge book in like i said rinconberg pompous one hundred and when we cover it by the way spoiler alert an that's why we've
been telling people since pan castoff ty because the book has one of the most astounding endings of any book and this thousand page book yet all build towards this final ending
witches literally on the last two pages he like the ending happens in it over and it's often in a war it but before we cover that book i i thought it would be smart to cover two
things that moustache actually wrote himself so after that doll that famous duel with cojero he became a retainer for some royals and he was you know basically a warrior on staff
and as you older he ended up writing the first thing you wot was a book called the book of fibrin which is really famous everybody knows it it's correctly translated or
alternative translation is the book of five peers and another thing that he wrote was the dahoo which one of the translation is the way of walking alone and will get to that but
first we're going to talk about the book that this famous swordsmen actually wrote which is pretty cool when you think about it so let's die in two the book of five rings got the
book i've set my mind on the science of marsh lord since my youth long ago i was thirteen years old when i had my first duel on that occasion i went over my opponent a marshal
artist named a remake of the new school of accuracy like that he liked that i knew that the dame of the school the new school of accuracy at age at sixteen years of age i bet a
powerful moral artist called ochioa of the tegmine when i was twenty one i went to the capital city in meant marshall arises from all over the country although i engaged in
numerous duels never did i fail to attain victory after that i travelled from province to province meeting martial artist of the various schools although i dolore than sixty times
never once said i lose that all took place between the time i was thirteen years old and the time i was twenty nine when i had passed the age of thirty and reflected on my
experiences i realized that i had not been victorious because of consummate attainment of martial arts that arresting statement his iii wasn't victorious because of my supreme
martial arts perhaps it was because i had an inherent skill from the science and had not deviated from natural principles i may also been due to the short comings in the martial
arts of other schools in any case i subsquintly practiced day and night in order to attain an even deeper principle and spontaneously came upon the science of martial arts i was
about fifty years old at that time so looking back and i i feel as a wet when i look back at my military career i think of all the things that i could do so much better now when
we were if we were to if i would have to write extreme ownership when i was a task to commander i wouldn't have been able to put the ethics i didn't have all that knowledge i
couldn't see it and so i had to actually go through it and in a look back and reflect on it and then i understand my my own lessons better and they actually become more clear to
me you know with every day that goes by i understand ah a deeper principle of what i originally thought worked and i understand them more clearly since then i have passed the time
with no science into which to inquire trusting in the advantage of military science as i turned it into the sciences of all arts and skills i have no teacher anything so he taken
what he learned from the military in from martial since as he is pieein is aveny of her signs i don't need him yet now in composing this book i am not borrowed the old sayings of
boodhism or confucianism nor do i make use of old stories from military records or books on military science but can i love this he doesn't quite other things he has he's not
pulling clothes and using them he's just he's using his own words with heaven and and cannon for mirrors i take up the brush and begin to write at four a m on the night of the
tenth of the tenth month sixteen forty three i had to include that because coles is a befriendeth he's a retired soldier fifty years old he is actually old or that tyohee he's
quite on a bit he's up really and he's right in the stuff now and again an amazing you consider and read what he wrote in sixteen forty there back to the book marshal arts are the
warriors way of life commanders in particular so practised these arts and soldiers must know this way of life in the present day there are no warriors with certain knowledge of
the way of martial arts you imagine he say that when the there's literally samoris in existence in japan and he's a gaston get it made what he is an right now to day first let us
illustrate the idea of a way of life for the physician healing is a way of life a poet teaches the art of poetry others pursue fortune telling archery or various other arts and
crafts people practised the ways to which they are inclined develop individual preferences few people are fond of the martial way of life first of all the way of the warriors the
way of warriors means familiarity with both cultural and martial arts even if they are conies individual or orsola strengthen their own martial arts as much as is practical in
their circumstances so he does satan you've got a be familiar with all you know obviously spoke on ararat you can be familiar with the cultural as well people usually think that
all warriors think about is being ready to die as far as the way of death is concerned it is not limited to warriors medicine women farmers and even those below them now their
duty are ashamed to neglected and resigned themselves to death there is no distinction in this respect the martial way of life practised by warriors is based on excelling others
in anything and everything i like that and that is actually what uncle jake in the book way the warrior kid tells young mark what's a warrior a warrior's on that doing his best in
everything that he does m so down of most ashkelon whether by victory in an individual do or by winning a battle with several people one thinks of serving the interests of one's
employers of serving one's own intrust of becoming well known in socially established this is all possible by the power of martial arts yet there will be people in the world who
think that even if he learn marshal at this will not prove useful when a real need arises regarding that concern the true science of martial arts means practicing them in such a
way that they will be useful at any time and teach them in such a way that they will be useful in all things clearly i subscribe to this and that's why extreme ownership the book
we say all the time it's applications to the battle field to business and to life all but all all the same all the same back to the book the fuel of martial art is particularly
rife with flamboyant showmanship with commercial popularization and profiteering on part of both those who teach the science and those who study it there is all of this must be as
some one said that maturest marshal arts are a source of serious wounds so do we see the to day yes we do we see it across the board we see it with actual marshal art schools in
the modern sense of a marshal art school and we it that's being beat down a little bit right now right because because we have an amare have digitata test and you can't just run
around doing acrobatic kicked or actually functional that magic one or the the the denmark where you're going to like to minato ch your neck and your gun for he round her so that
stuff has been purty pretty crushed by not only by amiable by the interest a hole he has fought against that the member that web satin it's a boo boo bullshit both eye ajaccio
every one that's full crape the most etoges they've been on for long time too that went ademerunt long time oating the bull sheet of dot com yea and they show every one that's
that's full of crap riot hey i fight i settle my cheetam cheatandi i knock you out right and people actually paid money for that stuff yes and it's crazy all the guys who go to de
bunk et bill like i i you see acton on the one where the guise will go to the doombila sceptic you know that you you think to me and knock me on the domelike okay and then they'll
they'll follow through with it let em in everything you reginald about that that situation that just happened in china where the ti cheu when nemeaean got obviously not destroyed
because it doesn't work ye and that's nothing new this is not all i and you when i sat on that i mean that kind of stuff is i think those kind of martial are to pose to be more
like yoga you know it you not stretching it out movement it's about profeesion at it's fine to do that's cool but it's not going to stop somebody from doing a double wagon you
ericsson orotho in a log fort allerton ination at your head ye ye train guy who hold one arm and beat down with the ear had needin the other part of this as you get the guise that
ar out there you don talkin about the man to mind set of the special ops and all that and it's like on either trying to sell magic you know same thinker yet anything the
flamboyant this is what you need to do in a be tougher how's that heh papave that on a crab they want to sell to the flamboyer so embosom inship and anne you can sell the the the
you can tell the people's weaknesses right not yet all that he commiserate mister a a he must you can soliel weaknesses you know if you owe member the old tea enoyed enough to did
you ever read soldier fortune managing your kid n i know it that is nebbit but but when i was a kid you know i was interested in war a oportune busily at my hands on a copy i read
it and never be things in there you know get the stationten moves that you learn that and you will never lose a street fight then in panglao know that's colman order of this this
the the state surahal this illusion and you just you know i etaient alias they that shannon had toonarf course if you teach some one somewhat gressie movements that they're going
to do and they're going to memorize those movements and then they do it to a person that does know how to fight it and during partly they will those movements can be effective how
man a point you in the head seventeen times the you you came up to me and say he you got a problem than a pontoon that seventeen times ye wi with an oh than werweile actually okay
yeah well i i put the person down and then i ran away that's very at work we didn't it you know when somebody came up and squared off the new york you we had a real legitimate
ination dorgan o work ye your false sense security is isn't in genteel you out o water you on so i see it's very interesting that in fourteen fifty you know ye were dealing with
this way i know thou said i what you be to sixteen forty three were dead on the the same stuff and human nature doesn't change true all right going back to the book in regard to
the warrior night that path involved constructing all sorts of weapons in understanding the various properties of weapons this is imperative for warriors failure to master weapon
trincom rehend the specific advantages of each weapon which seem to indicate a lack of cultivation in a member of old warrior house i will illustrate the science of martial art by
likening it to the way of a carpenter now i think this is important because it's telling you that no matter what your business is you got to get in the game you got a no the very
atols of the trade whether that's the business world whether that's construction whether that's no matter what you do you need to open your mind up don't be scared in and study
what it is in your craft that you are depths guys is young he officers and they be embarrassed that they didn't know something not bow a radio or they be embarrassed that they
didn't know something about a night or weapon or i and i would just say look when you don't know something you go for the snipers hey man can you get can you give me a
familiarization on that weapon or you go to radient hey can you teach me out to pergamus radio cause i don't how to do it that's what we're talking about here instead of just
ignoring it or pretending or turn to hide from it get out there and ask him then believe me the sniper in the regiment they don't look down on you because you said to them can you
show me how to do this they look at you and say i'll cool he's able and he wants to learn i'm here let's make it happen so now going back to his this idea of the of the carpenter
as an example back to the book when sorting out timber for building a house that which is straight free from notando good appearance can be used for front pillars that which as
some knots but it straight and strong can be used for were pillars that which is somewhat weak it has no not and looks good is variously used for door sills lintels doors and
screens that which is nodded and crooked but never less strong is used thoughtfully in consideration of the strength of the various members of the house then the house will last a
long time even nodded a receded and weak timber can be made in the scaffolding and later used for fire wood now what i like about that is from a leadership perspective guess what
that means that means you look at your team and you're going to have some strong squared away looking individuals and squarely acting individuals they're going to be part of your
team and you can have some members outen that are not so square with the gate not in them in out orkian we have to do yefter learn how he gonna use them where you go put them they
can still you matterson on that strong little rough around the ides they're going to a supporting pillar not the peloton put out front which the nice clean cut look in the
individual arose all so sharp so as a leader you have to do that you to get what you can out of all your out of all your pieces of wood i love the idea from a leadership
perspective the idea of looking at it as a as being a carpenter because there's a couple different things not only a do you have to learn how to use these different tools of
leaderships o there's all these different tools that you use in leadership has all these different ways of communicating with people and and how you interact with people and
you've to lord all those different tools but then you have to learn that you need to use the tools the differently on different human beings is her nataka different reaction to
him and then the different type of human beings actually have individual personalities so it's exactly like wood working in the fact that you've got no iou have different types of
wood but you also have different types of wood that has individual issued like a piece of birth is a lot different than a piece of baynes hard hard wood e a i think it has a burn
rating that is higher or the same as concrete of them but made you know i fain the water it sinks i gonna deck me on that he be it's awesome thing just if it's a very hard wood
but you can't use yotose a different to after use the toldier ntly then you would with a piece of pine which is very soft and that's the way people are too that's way human beings
are yet to note how to use the tools here and and you have to learn how to modulate the tools correctly with each individual piece of lumber yersell team sports like a football
for example you get a guy he's head on he doesn't know how to do anything you can't teach him he's out in whatever but he has a hard hand you know you don't you just down for the
cause that say it's like dan seemingly you less you put him on special teams you don't put em on the kick off ere you go make him a wedge breaker now you are bombast with breaker
and then o ye get some the exacly back to a book speaking in terms of carpentry soldiers sharpened their own tools make various useful and women and keep them in their utility
boxes obviously same correlations there back to book i ridden this book in five scroll intitled earth water fire wind and emptiness and this is the true science cannot be attained
just by mastery of swordsmanship alone so you got to get more and i've ii think it was on the first tempers poses on that i ask me what was the most complicated mission that you
didn't know that he the missions are complicated with complicate his den with human being on an that's the hard part of that for her part of leadership if they dealing with shoot
a machine gun i mean there's some skill to it but it infinitely easier then than olea matting combat i back to the book the waited to battle is the same weather is a battle
between one individual and another or a battle between one army and another you should observe reflectively with over all awareness of the large picture as well as precisely
tention to small details the large scale is easy to see the small scale is hard to see to be specific is impossible to reverse the direction of a large group of people all at once
while the small scale is hard to know because in the case of an individual there's just one will involved and changes can be made quickly the should be given careful consideration
so you can see a big group when they're trying to turn you you can you can know and but what is one individual you're not really on a pentreath they're thinking then he talks a
lot about this doctor about the elevation and how you have to step back and look at things from different perspectives and also a man to make this no right now he's got these
little lines at the end of so many of his paragraphs like this one this should be given careful consideration he says those kids a things alone and i've mockingthrough all of them
but i'm definitely do i give enough to give the feeling of the book which is very it's very instructional in the way it talking to you which i did back to book on this is
interesting back to look unless you really understand alders you can hardly attain your own self understanding that's at the opposite what we know men think we know i got to know
myself first and then i can understand that bel he's an you got understand on the people and then you ben you get to understand yourself and i think that's very useful because we
should see ourselves in other people we shall look on the people say i know what they're doing i i do that too i back the book in the practice of every way of life and every kind
of work there is a state of mind called that of the davit even if you strive diligently on your chosen path day after day if your heart is not in accord with it than even if you
think you on a good path from the point of view of the strait and true this is not a genuine bath if you do not pursue a genuine path to its consummation then a little bit of
crookedness in the mind will later turn into a major war reflect on this right an that's great advice and you know what you know what that makes me think of is when people ask me
where say asked me a lot about joining the military they you know i i want a bonitarian to go in to see teams i want to sport the country that's awesome but you better make sure
that you're doing it because it's a true path your art if you're doing it for some other alternative reason it's not it's going to be a a war that all show up later now doing for
years a four year hitch in the marine corps of the army in the navy in the air force is going to be good for you and it's not like if a light permanent life time thing in in a
probably teach you a lot but if you're going to do something you got to remember that you signed that dotted line and you might be going to war and if you have that if you're not
doing it for the right reasons you're going to be you're not going to be happy person in your over in in in the combatant nogent so stay truly your path and make sure that the
pattern is is something that you really want to do something you really want to believe it or something you really believe in now musashi fought with two swords a longer sword in
a short sort that was kind of his trade marks and its ease i think he's credited with creating that form of fighting and both some other sam right carried two swords like a
private insecure but he used two sorts simultaneously which is pretty legatees back of the book the real thing is to practice the science wielding both swords belongs soridane
hand and the short short sword in the other when your life is on the line you want to make use of all your tools no warrior should be willing to die with his sword at his side
without having made use of his tools however when you hold something with both hands you cannot wield it freely both right and left my purpose is to get you used to wielding the
long sword with one hand so no your tools practice with them there we go belong swordeen heavy and unwieldy to every one at first but everything is like that when you first take
it up a bow is hard to draw a albertis hard to swing in any case we become a custom through each weapon you become stronger at the bow and you acquire the ability to wheel the
long sword so when you attained the power of the way it becomes easy to handle what's that saying it aneta's saying the same thing that one uncle jake told young mark you're not
going to be good at this at first of course you can't do potoven practiced them of course you don't know your timetables you have a practice them and it's the same thing in any
job that you're in you have to practise it it you you're not just born you're not a born programme you have to programmin yeah work you after do that to book in my individual
school one can win with the long sword and one can win with the short sword as wealth for this reason the precise size of longsword is not fixed the way of my school is the spirit
of gaining victory by any means and when i like about this snehalata morandi don't know how much of a hit but he's got an open mind even though he's very direct about what he
knows works she is also saying hello the disordered about the langour i'm worried about what works and winning and achieving victory by any means necessary that an open mind in
the martial art of mine i vidual school it is the same for one man as it is for ten thousand as far as pass are concerned and will before i go on past that this is why for me is
very easy to make these corelation because i talk about all the time the the similarities between jugeth is a one on one matching being and being on the battle field and the
things that you're doing are the same yet the the the combat principal don't change you're trying to flint people you're not trying to attack the hard and targets you've got a no
one to back off you've got to know one to attack you that season on all those things of the same so musahers this a obviously doctor book as far as past arconte there are
confusions booteth of etiquette dancers and so on these things do not exist in the way of warriors but even if they are not your path if you have wide knowledge of the ways you
encounter them in everything in any case as human beings it is essential for each of us to cultivate and polish our own individual path important and an again i get questions
about life who people want to make decisions about their life and the answer is look gout research but you need to cultivate your whom path in deficuaty can do that you need to
learn the educated and i certainly answer all kinds of questions about that but at the end of the day the person that signing the dotted line the person that's going to you know
drop out a college they can join the military or drop out of their amasomi get hay no i want to start i want to leave this job to start my own business right those of the kind of
things a big decision and you got you got a name that desiccant be responsible for that decision that that i can give you some perspective and my perspective as you know for those
you've got to know if you don't join the military better now that that's true he which one do for leaving your job that you don't like any more bets you want to start something
new set things up set up an execrated planned for it suck up the job that you don't like while you're saving money while you're getting a a a a landing place ready and then slowly
you know make you sansation wendete is right i don't just get frustrated one day quit and then you're sitting there with no income no and i get anything started then your
desperate ye any when you're desperate things aren't going to go well if not good to be desperate yet and you hear that that romantic story where you know this i did that you know
is tardif his job so he just humping quit and then he got sassprilla an o the stuff here and what's that by is but you get what he only people that you enter about other ones that
actually told it off of bilbilis in availability by it yet oh that's what happens we only hear about this guy right at quite his job and started this thing and i borage and now
he's a millionaire yet but there's a lot of people that never made it out in heriditary know a job that he out or in worse we or went back the next week begging for their job back
and now they got a small demotion you know whatever back to the book in distinguishing the advantages of the tools of warriors we find that one ever the weapon there is a time and
a situation in which his it is appropriate absolutely wittnes you should not have any special fondness for a particular weapon or anything else for that matter too much is the
same as not enough to entertain likes and dislikes is bad for both commanders and soldiers pragmatic thinking is essential from injust incur that open your brain and put that in
there so often we get the little likes and dislikes you don't work you know what a pet people mind as well as the word patatata that bothers and there's nothing to you as i was so
carleton last less past week and i was telling him about that one of the biggest things that i took away from sitting in talking to him with that whole idea that if you do
something that a noise me it's my fault yet my forefeel delannoy not my far or being aided need to get fixed there so if i have a pet peeve that echo fiddles is pannarone that's
not your fault with that's my fault and i need to get over it yet as long as the pens my clicking of hokeis or brobribb that's so important an end to to think about this we do we
have an it we have we we we like things and you know we generally like what was good at her right sat about you gits what what do i wot of my domaso guilty of this i'm like an i
submitted fourteen people today commercer candlelight forget right i don't open my brain up an outfit guard bass one side of the car bassanio i ate the we i got a break that i got
to get more i got to get less fondness popotla weapons as such gets that be cut almost because it's so hard that such good vitals i mean think but everything even like you know
you probably have your favourite gun ever fevery thing really i forget think i refer giver no kyeer this gun i prefer that you know the i got to be careful that ye pragmatic
sinking is essential now a recoba to book rhythm is something that exists in everything but the rhythms of martial arts in particular are difficult to master without practice
harmony in disarming and riven or cur in every walk of life it is imperative to distinguish carefully between the rhythms of flourishing and the rhythms of the clime in every
single thing the way to win in a battle according to notary scientist to know the rhythms of specific of the specific opponents and use rhythms that your opponents do not expect
producing formless rethem from rates of wisdom and essouan i think about a battle field this is what manefaires right this is temples they talk about it in terms of temple when
brinstan was on each hackabout maintaining that temple and then what you need us i need to maintain the faster temple than your enemy can mantained and when you can maintain that
tempo or you disrupt the tempo or you disrupt their temple that's a young victory obviously the same thing an judicandi i'm keeping you you on pressing one side pressing one i'd
pressing one i pomididdle but i just pass your guard if i break your temple and even in basket ball or saco that rich in soccer that change of pace you know you come down the
field going out a certain speed and you speed up front of and you change that temple that's how you that's how you pass you on boxing to note a whole idea of a counter punch in
that yeah what it hellohello repaired this really famishing said ah it's about being late you know umseke than basically out temples you or out um or disrupt your pattern in the
nouve to catch up on your late o this when you're late you must when you must you tire and when you tire you die i might have dissout hang that tortoises forward in what you
remusat's true when you when you get someone off tempo the a in someone has me off temple the are you chasing him there and hang on and the happening and no no it yamhankeesh
thing where keeps the pace and he an you man he just is like he's pulling ahead pulling the head and till your line until you died heraia here we go just straight break in a down
right here back to the book for people want to learn my military science there rules for learning the art one think of what is right and true to practise and cultivate the science
three become acquainted with the arts for no the principles of the craft five understand the harm and benefit in everything six learned see everything accurately seven become
aware of what is not obvious at be careful even in small matters nine do not do anything useless if we could if every one could just do night not noting at you at last ye think
about that one how our fur that is wanting in much useless stuff that we do and is useful is not helping us yet that we're talkin about em an no maybe less emotion he egout
distraction is really what is the one distraction he studentless and stop those the other the other a couple of these understand the harm and benitier thing learned to see
everything accurately become aware of not what is not obvious those to me are all about the tachment you've got to be older to state what's going on to be able to see things
accurately you've got to be able to detached to be able to see the harm and benefit and things you've got to be able to detach to be able to see what's not obvious and the more
caught up you are in your head or in the chaos in the situation the more you're going to miss those important factors right there back to the book first of all keep martial arts
on your mind and work diligently in a straight forward manner then you can win with your hands and you can give feet people by seeing with your eyes furthermore when you refine
your practice to the point where you can attain freedom of the whole body then you can overcome people by means of your body and since your mind is trained in this science you can
also overcome people by means of mind when you reach this point how could you be defeated by others so he talked about you need to refine your practice to the point where you get
freedom i think i might have said something along the line right this will read of all a long in all day long refine your practice until you attain freedom think about that
practice into you get free yet you don't just expect freedom you don't get free to my acting free now you get freedom by discipline yeh seligkeit for example right you know how
when you are like beltran new they teach you the move here in the move your step ones up to see you practice at enough times along with all the other move now you just jumping in
there and slide amos a fly you know just going out almost on a matically run off your just free to do whatever we better whatever time you want it is exact same thing on a bottle
filtered droll and become your team your poltoon your squaw becomes so fluid with them that makanda in accoucha ge him because that's the what were really talking of the avetere
dom to move they had a really know the rules so i intuitively that to become just party they act as human spirits like when you have you ever been showing the move in joust or
someone's been showing a move on you right like let's say you're going to you're going to show the the the gate on me and sir you you pull me over and you you shock me down and as
you shall be down i counter it like it not in not not on purpose cause i know that is troisieme vii like bottom active ter my head grandam said i not miss can't do that right now
i can't counter the move but that that's not my that's on my brain doing that i asked the fur in fish right bernstadt that's all like you of the consciously not have the litanies
now do it and then after you consent do it five times be jampot like jointry more time and then she lepelletiere we go back to book it is by no means possible for me to write down
this science precisely as i understand it in my heart so well what that means to me is what i talk about a lot is that we look at different sources for the same information we
want to know about human nature we want to know about leadership of one o no bout war no one has the ability to just get it right so that's why we come out it from different
angles that's what we do just like a jujitsu when you learn it on macrom jeff glover and you learn a lot more continetur they're goin to get you jeff glover'll give you eighty two
points of performance meanless ter will give you eighty two points of performance seventy three of them are overlapping but there's some nine matarile bit different and that's
little that's where you make up and some is gone working to some cover stuff going to work a little bit better for me than it is for you but then some of these stuffs work better
for you in the me but then some of those were actually going to combine what both from say and we're going to end up and said of eighty two points performance were in an up with a
hundred and sixteen the now are a lockside bit better esides he we go payette the science of marshal arts is not just a matter of reading these writings taking what is written
here personally do not think you are reading or learning and do not make up an imitation taking the principles as if they were discovered from your own mind identify with them
constantly and work on them carefully this is so critical an like i say on the potassae at the end of the poast it was saying don't just listen do because just listening doesn't
help you you have to go more than listen he sang you have to do more than just read and it's interesting you won't get people that are really into in a pakestra the book and i
talked to him and we have clients that brought all all to help their company and they love perimones and they or they feel like their folly on board and understand the principles
now that and then you get in there and you start talking to if i want their donatism no and it's because they don't detach they love their looking out and every one else they're
not they're not looking at themselves and an it's it's hard because they read them ithe listen abednego ill they know it dentition there so that's hard that's the catchment comes
it becomes important there too to detach from yourself i actually think about what you're doing is very hard and without doing just that you don't be successful and i like that he
says you take these ideas and make em like as if they were discovered in your own brain how do you apply them to your life that's one of the things that so good about the master
as because with the interaction it's it can be hard for people to burthted from their own mind like to take the sea icons from extreme order ship or comes on the pocassett that
seed and and and plan it and have it grow it to be hard to do that day they they look at the sea they hold the seat as sacred a right but they're not putting it in their letting
it grow and watering it when you come to the master what's cool about it is your your you could you get to ask the question and to her what's going on with this explain us to me
and then we get to give our perspective and now we make a connection now that see gets a little little water on it literalize and as art togrow and and also with you get pulled
out of your own head because when you hear three other people's questions that are similar to what you are doing and then but again you can't just listen to someone else's
questing go on a tanse that if the same way to second what how does that answer a pit of me no big deal he'll back a book in the science of marshal large the state of bohmen this
is they were young in the science of martial arts the state of mind should remain the same as normal in ordinary circumstances as well as when practicing martial arts let there be
no change at all but the mind open and direct neither tents nor lax centering the mind that there is no imbalance calmly relaxin and savour this moment of ease thoroughly so that
the relaxation does not stop its relaxation even for an instant remain calm so used to come and put myself on report here this to play this game with my kids sir i would take thee
the inside of wrapping paper you did that sword if i cardboard sword you another common to be titanian toilets tis so to night falaise to play this game of my kids it was called
normal face ye and i would lie em up and you had to keep your face totally normal no expression not a smile male if you weren't did never normal face you'll get cracked with the
tube said the light up and they would just get the most blank expression on the face and i would you know i do something trying make a laugh or try and make em um startle yet to
wit that what's that word when you pinch a tryin make a point i got might swing on the efensive if you fled like i was goin to crack you and now you fortnight you get a crack you
you flat and it was to his lot of fun because fifty cause once you crack you know one kid then there to get laughed at her and i i hear you but my gold in that besides have fun
with the family you know cause had truman all that can be very fond for the family to seraing as no head charm have but we was fun to play in the kids with laugh for also gave
them to control her motions right and did get them to not pe so readable to every one continent control their motions get the thorax so you got to play normal face with you kit
some time good jack want version ain't blood holiday you when you see a kid in a frustrating situation and they've got almanac you know your invariable you see the dulais you get
you see a fresh going on to the got the normal face a dust look at one by the gay oh you your screaming and yelling cold normal face over here yet would you guys want to follow
normal fails guitar freak out diver there he and no not free so the old child services you know you can come and get me if i but that's the those two things are kind of for her
wacousta made to crack your kids in the head with them and it is fun some kind of cracking device he yet well they you so perfect yet now you know what's more perfect than them as
you can get the foam you an get the foam the the you useter hot pipes in your house yet and it just a little foam to this lowping or the best because you i could literally hit you
as hard as i possibly could and it doesn't even hurt at all but it makes a cold noise and i do exors with those that i spolaccio the end of it not old thing cause absistunt the
elanetic kind of baby a a plotinus but you just put enough that so you have a handle so just a hand so and then you have this little pet he that some and you can my wife the first
time she saw don it my wife freak out of in their imlay on my kids cause you're doing fool barbarian zelie overhead semesters with these swords as hard as you possibly tandant
doesn't hurt at all he all those are good to cause it does make a little acnis the a herpilia ye that a flimsy no that's the thing reasuringly they're noisome there sing wishingly
rigid that's why they're so effective for the normal fast came that did ignorat avanced serfhood have that many rapid apertures some like okay we need an alternate or when you
alburnian to keep this going gerefas and by companion deep or more in those do it a project in my house and then i had that left over and of course i'm looking at it tobe on
thinking swordarm face was get it off then i discovered in a perfect a perfect play weapon go on back to the book once you have sharpened your elect in a point where you can see
where ever in the world is true or not where you can tell whatever is good or bad and when you are experienced in various fields and are capable of being fooled or incapable being
folded all thy people the world than your mind will become imbued with the knowledge and wisdom of the art of war isn't that interesting and you hear about how you get fused with
the knowledge of the art of war it's my understanding people that's how you get there that's how you get there backlook there is something special about the knowledge of the art
of form it is imperative to master the prince but of the art of war and learned to be unmoved in mind even in the heat of battle not face generally speaking it is essential to
make your ordinary bearing the bearing you use in martial arts and make the bearing now use in martial arts your ordinary bearing this should be given careful consideration so
your normal the shimal the tide that's a you should be whether your fighting whether you're in combat or whether your dinner keep it ordinary keep it normal talking to her about
the focus of the eyes especially of marsilas is to see that which is far away closely and to see that which is near by from a distance um you gotta have that perspective that's
why i don't get drawn into like when you're when you're paton's got a mission you don't duretete planning with them cause you you'll be so close that you can't see what it looks
like from far away all in marshlands it is important to be aware of opponents swords and yet not look at the opponent swords and all this takes work this matter of focus in the
eyes is the same in both small and large scale military science it is essential to see both sides without moving the eye balls to get work that persaved gin allstead its cool you
can't look at your food we did know why they made us do that we found it was just torture can't look you food while you're eating you got a look straight had so why would they
make it do that so you prove your perfilievna you cannot look at your food triteme time yet you have to develop your peripoli and this idea of both large and small scale military
science been able to see that which is far away closely and that which is close from a distance that's detachment here embroiled in that thing that's lost to you ganadas for as
you can see what it looks like and the thing that for way you gotta get into it you ever heard two people debating or something not professional debaters and nothing but there
arguing up point you know one man point verses the other guys point and with debate a lot o him comes interruption you know like your saints i iarygin then every one some ill
you'll notice one person a hay can i finish you know you keep interrupting me and then not a gamiest saying you get enslow that debate of the two impertinances as he lept pushed
to the side actually and the debate becomes whether or not they justified or just a justifiably interrupted the other person so it now about the interruption that's like unity
don't focus it on these little details that come come about in a in a big situation dear for what really crazy as they have news programs all she like clippiness program and it's
basically three or four panels all talking at the same time nemestronius thing ever has as it other thing ienkison was saying you know well you were talking about potatoes if you
you saying you be news people need to learn from pot casts ye that ye don't need to have people in foor minutes three people for feel five person paneled or all ahawking at the
same time they're all looking to get that big zingero don't point a frog that they creep land and then they try and drop it it just garbage it as garbage listen to listen to a ton
a half hour pond cast about a subject so you can hear peoples actual knowledgeable and soughtful comments about it yet to me makes a lot more sense yea even on the four minute
deals where this for fiele and there even if they don't interrupt each other talk or each other let in one person can talk for what a man at about weird on the going you know done
odenton a television interviews and eight even when you're in it it is even shorter than it seems like an watching it as you know you have you just have to say whatever it is
you're going to say it's got to say it in one maybe two maybe three sentences yeh yeh that's how they get you to like if there's letsatsi us a sight to issue you know you say the
one in there so many details in new ones to let little but man i gotta get my the mi cor point across me lines all this new wants seething that i news company are doing that
because people's attention spans have gotten so short that they dis think about the best way we can do this i just put on a reproof for minutes if someone does like the subject or
at one is coming on and you know informality after the commercial break it may be it i think it a lovetime to you just the show is just as you but i think i think that as water
their tender attic they know attention spans are short but i also think that attention stands has been so coddled now that people actually want belong for not i think bad gas he
as at a generating really well and because people don't be will want to get engaged and listen to an actual opinion yet orly or not even an opinion but facts or yetin or fact and
when i listen to a full foxtail in compass thought about something i not one line singer he i got you the boring kind i can watch it any more yes the times when your watching
surfing sure you won't see a gay shred it for a second or two whatever but sometimes he just want to sit back and watch the waves the tree or dress on all day well it is true that
you if you watch a serf from move i'll relate better serf from easney have you know they show the guise in the morning they're getting in the car you kind of with him are as
opposed to just bomminaco you don't i hate to let paid the lad had landerinette really goes ere those are cool you know her but what are you if you want it i inditing a lot of
people that want to sit down there and to see these guys shaping boards sure you know morning of your other shaping boards there at your sheeping boards and in their going out and
surfing the board that they shaved in the morning they say i gotta sure come back adjust the pin make a little let shave the thin down that's that's pretty cool watch it chisiac
people do three sixties and five forties that's gone but i want something a little bit more developed if the that's that ulcerate there something developed doknowye can't just
like you can't watch the shade so on doing the same shape for a long thinkings the fool developed thought i i you put yes it was near shore everyone said so yet you that you will
have a tesshow now is only a mookatas a movie then there was a heavy short gitator above the there is not a surpassing surf kanker whatever and yet herony winds racine goes to nor
shore a why you know learn to serve all over again a green or the as the culture all this stuff you know not as actor is may be could have been but a fundatione less the cue that
went up i think my son watches that for they get all the funny lines out of them and turtle till i'll take your word for to that one all right back the book in wielding the long
sword of this is good and wielding a long sword the fomentor inger grip lightly the middle finger grips neither title nor loosely while the fourth and little fingers grip tightly
there should be no slackness in the hand the long sword should be taken up with the thought that it is something for killing opponents let there be no change in your grip even
when slashing upon its make your grip such that your hand does not flinch when you strike it upon its sword block it or pinetown your fum and forefinger alone should change
somewhat but in any case you should grip your sword with the thought of killing your grip on cutting something to test your blade and your grip on flashing in combat should be no
different gripping the sword as you would to kill a man generally speaking fixation and binding are to be avoided in both the cord and the hand fiction is the way to get fidit's
the way to life this is something that should be well understood so not only have no ma face and normal bearing your grip gateman the same you'll not a what you train how you
fight you're just maintained the same grip and then this idea of fixing in binding and being stationary and stagnant is the way to death in and being fluid and open in a mind and
in the way present and the way you fight that's the winter life the cainite kennedy mention dry fire the arno canting he aright i was tingle your pulling the trigger the same way
or whether an i there's goin to be in not requiring away ye away and actually when you're shooting they'll do this when you're training us to shoot well thou put a dummy round in
our magazine that is not answer that they can see if you made some reaction predicting or awaiting the kick of the gun to that's a rose rounds of sam up put a dummy round there
and tell batching you quick quick click ritor boom boom boom boom boom and then click you jerk your trigorin everyone knows that you just made a mistake and that i see it and
that's hard yet it is it is said at the gitano now this is interesting he goes through we called the five kinds of guard and i looked at his guard is is basically the way you can
a position yourself and he talks about the different types of guard that there are the first technique the the second the third before the fifth is the different technician are
all different positions that you hold the sword in the where you prepare for your attack and we gets to be philosophical part of it though on the teaching of having a position
without a position having a position without a position or adored without a guard means that the long sword is not supposed to be kept in a fixed position never will less said the
revive ways of placing the sword the guard positions must follow along where you hold your sword depends on your relationship to the opponent depends on the place and must conform
to the situation wherever you hold it the ideas to hold it that it will be easy to kill the opponent sometimes the upper guard position is lowered a bit said it may be comes the
middle position while the middle guard position may be elevated a bit to pending on the advantage thereof so that it becomes the oppersition at times the lower guard position is
also raised a bit to become the middle position the two to two sided guard positions may be moved somewhat toward the centre depending on where you are standing visorne resulting
in either the mental or the lower guard position in this way the principals to have a guard position without a position first of all when you take up the sword in any case the
ideas to kill the opponent even though you may catch hit or block and opponent flashing sword or tie it up or obstruct it all of these moves are opportunities cutting down the
opponent so he's not trapped in this rigid mind set that dis's what i have to do is open minded these flexible now he we go this must be understood if you think of catching think
of hiding think of walking think of tying up or think of obstructing you will thereby become unable to make the kill it is crucial to think of every thing as an opportunity to
kill this should be given careful consideration sir he is a haver if you're thinking defensively that's what you're thinking about when you actually need to be thinking about
being office if even when you're defending a be think about being offensive m back to boanarg scale military science de array of troops be rang of troops is also matter of
positioning every instance thereof is an opportunity to win in war fixation is bad this should be worked out thoroughly striking down in a poet in a single beat among the rhythms
used to strike in upon it there is what is called a single beat finding a position where you can reach the opponent realizing when the opponent has not yet determined what to do
you strike directly as fast as possible without moving your body or fixing your attention the stroke went with you strike in apponere he is thought of whether to pull back perry
or strike is called the single beat so that's you you can see that the opponents not quite prepared their kind of indecisive you can see it bom be decisive make something happen
to go for the kill the riven of the second spring a rhythm in the second spring is when you are about to strike in the opponent quickly pulled back or parison a blow and then
strike the ponent as he relaxes after ten thing this is the stroke of the second spring sargines all the time and he ougwe see it in everything the sticky body means getting
inside and sticking fast to an opponent when you get inside the opponents defences you stick tight with your head body and legs the average persons the average person gets his
head and legs in quickly but the body shrinks back sticking to an opponent means that you stick so close that there are no gaps between your bodies this should be investigated
carefully and what's really in resting about this and of course these are both to different languages being translated but when the chechens fought the russians ingestion one of
the things that the chassons did was they called at this this stickety stuck to the russians so the russians had air support dressingtable and the only weight of negate that or
mitigated for the cessions was to get so close to the russians that they couldn't use their own or superior air power into same thing with juditious ly a grappler is going to get
close so they can avoid the strikes of of a striker eh doesn't matter a stand against many opponents discerning the order in which opponents attack deal with those who pressed
forward first keeping a eye on the whole picture determining the stands from which opponents lot their attack swinging both swords at the same time without mutual interfare
interference a disroot priotarete gamaliel come in after you or your being a told a actual fond yet priorton xcite advantage in doling means understanding how to win using the
long sword according to the walls of martial arts this cannot be written down in detail one must realize how to win by practice studied carefully so the gin you not get a get it
just by reading you're not going to get it just by listening you got do you got to practise it thinking on hurriedly understanding that it is the duty of warriors to practice this
science determined that to day you overcome yourself of the day before to morrow you will end over those of lesser skill and later you went over those of greater skill practise
this is something that requires thorough examination with a thousand days of practice or training and ten thousand days of practice for afimia as far as my military scientist
concerned i've discerned the principles of living and dying through numerous duels in which i set my life an the line learning the science of a sword getting to know the strength
and weaknesses of opponent sword blows comprehending the uses of blade and regifted and pressing how to kill upon it in a course of doing this little sissy things never even
occurred to me especially when one is in full combat gear one does not think of small things i thought that might be worth noting yes no beinahe little sissy things now he's
talking about her the physical situation meaning what's going on in discerning the lay of the physical situation there is what is known as position in yourself with the sun at
your back this also applies in door so general ideas you want to make sure that you put the sun behind you so as hard to see you now with utter be careful to a live real military
scenarios heart be careful she not sell a wedding yourself you so at night time he you don't original under you get light behind you can be easier to you unless it to bright
blinding light and then it becomes efficient on the big difference from the bright blinding light and silhouetting yourself so be careful of that back to book in order to look
down on the enemy understand that you should take your stand on the highest ground even if his only slightly elevated take the high ground or the high grounds going to take you
sixteen forty three same same thing that i was teaching in two thousand and nine take a ground when you get a potent to an obstacle in order to prevent them from observing the
situation press your attack without let up so they can not look around again you get some alertes kick ye gotta git him you don't at i'm saying i do when they're on the ropes when
they start a fate a little bit you probably start to fatal little bit too i think about it if you and i are in a grappling match were going hard when i see you getting tired i'm
probably getting tired too not time for me to rest just got a lot of people they see you get one of the tines of cool like an take a allbreath er not yet an answer last of my
effort now ye wrong answer requires more effort yeomanise you off and we get the kill it when you want to attack you remain calm on quiet then get the jump on your pony tacking
suddenly in quickly you can preempt by being outwardly powerful on swift wilt inwardly read leaving reserves you can also get the jump a stealing your mind to the utmost
accelerating your pace a bit and making a violent attack the instant you get up close to the opponent in case the opponent attacks swiftly you attack calmly yet powerfully when
the opponents closed tight in your bearing with absolute resolve and when the opponent shows signs of slacking overcome him with force immediately then again when an opponent
attacks calmly and quietly exhilerated your own attacks likely with your body lightly boat when the ponies close clash once and then adapting to his condition overcome him
forcedly so this is what these are and he went what's unfortnat these is that understanding what's happening before you enter the situation so leneven example that you had this
all the time in anima your's certain emma fighters that come out of the gate blazing and your own time of this guenes he's got a weather the storm so that exactly what i yourta me
i'm an remain calm you are going on all now going crazy getting nuts even i and what am i doing i'm gonna rain game just going to take the heads i'm on to defend the let you
animando with the resolve just goin to beat calm normal face boom or good and then you're goin to wear self out in inimence me as opposed to if you can at your old man shall i
might stir my comet you hard to overcome you while you're not mentally prepared for the chaos in a pen bring to you my einheit you can't whether the stright right in whenever a
ponente attack you let them go ahead and do anything that is useless whippeting them from doing anything that is useful this is essential to military science that doesn't even
need explanation i accept for the fact that you see people all the time that the enemies to order competitors doing something that they don't like it bothers so they make effort
to stop it and there's a wasting the effort yes actually being couraging people waste their resources and time ye knowing the state of affairs in the large scale military science
knowing the state of affairs means to turning the flourishing and declining of opponents to learning the intentions of adversary troops and perceiving their condition clearly
seeing the state of affairs determining how to employer on troops so as to gain certain victory by the principles of military science and doing battle with the knowledge of what
lies ahead also an individual mortal arts you determine your opponent's traditions observed the personal character of adversaries find out people strength and weaknesses
manoeuverin ways contrary to upon a expectations determined on upon its high and loves ascertained rhythms in between make the first move this is essential so that's leadership
right there dealing with other people no there character macao if our own power of insight is strong the state of affairs of everything will be visible to you once you attained
complete independent mastery of martial arts you'll be able to figure out the minds of opponents and thus find many ways to win this demand work no what's happening did i i like
the fact that he saw come out understanding your opponent crudities understanding their cultures one he's talking about you gotta understand what your poets cultures antiviral
level and on a social level all of it disintegration is something that happens to everything when a house crumbles a person crumbles or an adversary combs they fall apart by
getting out of rhythm with the times in large scale military science it is also essential to find the rhythm of opponents as they come apart and pursue them so as to not let
opening slip by if you miss the timing of unable moments there is a likelihood of counter attack in individual more slats and also happens at it adversary will get out of
resimonts start to fall apart if you let such a chance get by you the adversary walloper and for you it is essential follow up firmly on any loss of poise on the part of an
opponent to prevent him from recovering again you see as i am a male fine get that guy on the roads get that guy dazed you gotta get on em is inisheeny and tentered people get on
amieuse somebody lyell rock and losing their bearings and and the other guy won't even be able to pursue possessore or overly cautious and then you know what else you get you get
the guide that goes not and gas is himself out trying to finish a guy so hard in the guy just hangs on ties him up whatever and then then also not the table stern yet in that did
belie with that is when they plunged themselves out there with the count when they get to excite is like they don't maintain the normal face in one inmate the ash ees ver en they
and apparently you know listening to this and there is a difference between normal pace and then being aggressive you don't in attack you know like being offensive fun that that's
a word you can have normal face will you henrietta like the negress ives doesn't mean you're getting all your losing your composure ran or aggressively attacking while maintaining
composure yet for sure yes tell a lot of time see in me where you see a guy you know boomy got the other guy in the ropes any maintains you can you know i getting too excited i
don't he risks punching himself up if he doesn't connect or if he you know if the guide just doesn't grynean like as utsutsu per slopping get ye out exactly right on as out of
desperation or enough you see that one it was i think the gatinais scott was it tim light maybe well it's a her anyway fred oh so he gets head in the liver i think and it
backloads the you can tell all afier for this guy and the the bacons running and hay maker style you know like sloppy but super gressie and he sneaks on in as good as getting
knocked to one and they looked like the fight was over for that he loses composure he added maintain normal face no not at all he lay to excite it and he not laffette cited face
yes exactly back to the book be coming the opponent means you should put yourself in an opponent's place and think from the opponent's point of view clearly letting go for hands
is when you and an opponent or in a dead lock and you progress is being made in the fight he means that when you think you are going to get into a dead lock you stop right away
and seize victory by taking advantage of a different approach then large scale military science as well if there is total deadlock and no progress is being made there will be a
loss of personnel is essential to stop right away and see victory by taking vantage of a tactic unsuspected by the enemy in individual martial arts also if you think you are
getting into a dead lock than is essential to immediately change your approach ascertains the opponent state and terminate wind by means of a very different tactic this is is some
salading in everything i see in war you see in deditissimi ting see in business people they get to a position and there's some rumford there's some level of comfort give you an i
lock up your my half garden you're not goin go on the new one and and and i'm not going to her you're not going to kew where there's a level of comfort there yet what why should i
take rescuing something else and say we don't mind being dead lock now once important about this is he said as soon as you sense it that's got to be the hard part as soon as you
sense there's a deadlock that's when you should make the change because for longer i wait the the longer the more settled that becomes in the harder is to break out of that dead
lock ye movement is so critical mental physical movements so critical that's why when something go is going bad like let's say you're a public place in something going bad a a a
terrorist comes in and start screaming she the you move immediately you get your instinct i got to be moved me tale what do want to do with three stop on you which is a very human
instinct right it's a very human instinct to freeze and and just take cover now there's shooting going on to pending on the kind of shooting if there's heavy machine on fire by
baaaahabaaa up it like that yes you have to get to get down because it all final of the place if the balsore slowly going bob bateman someone's taking aim and shooting is rough
eustasie you're goin to get shot at you hear that steady pace you go go you zigzag cover you be vinton to another position you move as fast as you can he that quick movement when
you before the dead lock settles in is when you intend when some one's about to dine in in a in a situation like a physical concentration don't let it get there make a move before
it gets there on which menhoult means you leave you walk away you know before the guide bows up to you and start gettin in your face you already gone didn't even let it get there
and cause no were going to a situation where its we're going to have to make something happen me and that's not good rights not goin to be good sure all i i kicked is i kick this
goosal in the street that's all and what the other a fourteen alternatives you had stabbed you got a rested you've got he broke his neck your imprison as all kinds of bad ones yet
like a one good out of fourteen it is applied asleep and even that in what you getonouthat it he bled on you yet we don't know a kind of disease this guy have ye no we love talked
about that before but the bottom line is try and be aware of wind things are about to get stagnate if you can change him then do it then yes it's so it ultimately it comes down to
being ready yes ye that i not yonily ready for anything specific it just you know when to go when you get caught gartok all you got on your mind as this for all these options on
you this time in all you itif you just been aware yet all were in a co so far i got it then video on on real marshal arts and in you you know i start off as it had the best form
of self it answers the gun moorify because thing about it if you have somebody that truly is in a high thread area you know you take a a a a woman or old eperson that doesn't have
great physical strength and yearning thread area to call them that you know learning judith is going to be the best thing for them is wrong right the best thing for them is too in
high trade is to have a weapon at a gun that is the best thing to have that truly will neutralize targets so but that but when i didn't mention in that medio which i should have
is yes the first thing is mental werness the first thing is like all you a'm aware of what's happening i am aware that i'm going into a hypereia i'm goin t go to another man a
drive around that area that is the oise bad things conon on my side streetwalkers the street and avoid it early enough that i don't look like a victim cause if you see if ever the
perpetrator sees you a predator sees that you're avoiding them then they think all that's the person scared doesn't charge it for me eye there weak it that's why you got to be
aware so yes dear on ibsenite an when you walk into a building you walk into a public place you should be looking around where the exits where is their cover how fast can i get
out of here that's what you should be doing and an if you have that predetermined that it's not even like to take that much effort you just have to do it after say oh i'm going
into a high school graduation and i'm going to sit in a spot where i'm close to the exigent case somebody goes crazy cause when is someone in to go praise don't know but they do
and so if you're close the accent you can get out of their quickly or you can't least flank the perpetrate and get round on them before anything really bad happens yet and you
just compare that to the alternative of not in owing right or you know you go in you go all this is a good set of men set oration from this middle spot that has no covering
concealment anywhere around it and with something go sideways among to be one of the person's trapped in the mob trying to get out of this two doors all someone shooting machine
done not good so be aware of your surroundings is number one and then when you see that thing happening act quickly you know you see something shady going on moved towards that
accent movement is so key and being meant tale prepared to make the movement having that be a quick reaction said of a delayed reaction and planning your situations to your in a
spot where you can move quickly is critical in large scale military science when you cannot tesserate enemy state you pretend to make a powerful attack and see what they do if
that's pretty go right fondateur the person not doing anything i can't tell panama a little attack on him see how the sea has either react on it and in judithe way it's got to be
a real attack if you can't fake attack and jugeaient week you have i mean like not traced you nerves or so yet you you need to give them a real attack if i say all on of pretend
to sweep achoo i can get exposed his arm if i pretend to see you you won't even defend at your after its pretend an you have to defend it is potent all she got a try and sweep you
that will expose you or can you have to defend the sweep as your attacks i don't i don't like the use of work pretend there because if you're pretending what even if he even on
the bottle wheeled the market a pretend to flank you on a flank you i got a flank you and if you don't defend it i mean a wind if you defend a cool now i can't you from heresie
yes and like on the movies in the war movies right they they what's it caermaen but yelow they have the the girl you know walk that's that's the the the the decoy so obvious the
girl on walden roars on for sure her you got to get to know that a watch out for that really good looking greathearted field yet back to book if you demonstrate strongly to
opponents all this is good if you demonstrate strongly to opponents and how you control the advantage they will change their minds in hamete by this strength so if i'm dominating
you on the gutmann and i'm just hold you cross i'd hold you across hid hold you proceed i've given away what i do to control you nesan next time you're not going to let me get
across i do in a panic so or you're going to do her parent for you're going to dray defend that reader and you're going to sacrifice the cross i may be give up your back the
heresay back attacks on his good and then now i i'm not getting here i want to be so if you demonstrate you got to be careful you can't be so dominant and what you doing that
every one sees it or that you reponens relate your competitors what you're doing and then they can counter it if you if you keep it somewhat obscured by by you know a smoke and
mirrors said that they can't tell exactly how your dominating that apoloito of the drawbacks of having the same training partner you know cause you out like a contraints much and
that we just sit in this weird stale mate its position so much of the time to and it's almost like it and it's some conscious at the arenosa you're not worried about certain
things though well this goes back wally need to do with him there as you need to avoid the position before you get to it yes ritson need go now when not going there yeankton the
book varies in faction in everything even sleepiness can be infectious and yawning can be infectious there is even in fiction of a time in large calemites whereat versaris are
excited in no evidently are in our hurried act you behave as though you were completely unfaced giving the appearance of being thoril relaxed notes do this the adversaries
themselves are influenced by this mood becoming less enthusiastic when you take your poets have caught that mood you empty your own mind and act quickly infirmly thus gaining the
winning advantage the marshal arts as well as essential to be relaxed in body or mind noticed the moment an opponent slackens and quickly take the initiative to win no reason one
point that when out is it these four especially for you know people in police officers bouncers that's the desolation right someone's gettin all excited if you get excited back at
im you justest in the situation a calm calm then down don't let them they want to go get riled up like that drunk guy that they that that domestic violence situations they want
you to nawarth they want to lash out if you liltinger going to take it in a large enlargements in it is essential to cause upset his critical to attack resolutely were enemies or
not expecting it then while their minds are unsettled uses to your advantage to take the initiative and win there is fright in everything this means being frightened by the
unexpected in individual morhal arts you can threaten by means of your body could treat by means of your sword you can threat by means of your voice what is essential is to
suddenly make a move totally unexpected by the opponent pick up on the advantage of the fright and seizer right then and there this must be worked out for really that this is
whenever i catch thede whenever i touched dean i catch him only by surprise and like ikie knows what i'm doing he stops only times i catch him is by surprise and any of you know
he'll say all man i did not expect in our morther for a while a low a yo i was commerce and he got so good at any cariateen and in one day boomed threw it on market and do that to
you a couple of nessessarie you on yeasaid exactly think yet all the duties the hack out back merriam gossage and what god you just surprised surprised because your defenses solid
on what you see it's low things that you don't see yet that which you cannot defend and the yet i mean that eespecially o get advanced that is the whole of jigitivka superavit
there's times were dean i know exactly what is going to do and he's doing it with such mutation that i did not stop it yes and that is so oversoon even that kind of and in totally
splitting hairs but even that in a way he might have little microsopic es you know to establish the position you asdings position he definitely does that yes but once he's in a
position and i know a amata he'll be telling me he'll be telling me all you know what's coming to loans you could stop this no it's actually sad that you can't have you talking so
much smacked to me which are as fotten more fridenau that's because he's better than tedious mees just got the scale if and he knows he does know he knows how to do those
movements with such a forty and persisent year just you're just a trouble ye no know the does this want should have no calls a like the arresting officer i e'll start talking to
me like you said he getico o any o ye going to ease sir just calm down just call down for an he's got me face down like a getting results and he does that weird comerre and he you
know i just be says he'll say look at the wall over there and i'm trying out a lock or even like for my face it's it's humilitatis why when either one of us or were at a point in
the eats are now where if either one of us get in our dominant position if the other person we were going to make them suffer homely and he's got more dome you know if i did
across it on him he's in trouble and if i get him on all fours he's in trouble i'm in to make himself for imbosition straight up i might not submit him but he's going to suffer
and he's got those two positions to same thing like this across ottomar he's a forelorn he'll make me suffer but also he has the mount if he mounts me i suffer yet the really
because i am looking at him which is even more horrible you know that he will literally drip sweat into my eyes purposely ye ye ye know he's in the mount all sit there an aim
sweatdrops coming off with ionian hit me i i the thibet and who tell me you know chinese water torture like a soon as the mammisi trans water to the sweating for already born
tunis water torture and not seen de primly to kate i hollows a dear me i kill i'm goin t kill you as my medical you enjoy this and when i get him to maradee that you sit himself
the game within the game the crazy mac debut fostering ponent means acting in such a way as to prevent them from having a steady mind in art kellar in large camors in this means
that you access adversaries minds on the battle field and use the power of your knowledge of the art of war manipulate their attention making them think confusing fogs about what
you're going to do i mean finding of rhythm that will fluster adversaries accurate discerning where you can win in individual marshal arts as well you try various maneuvers
according to the opportunity of the moment making the opponent think you now going to do this now that now something else until you find the opponent starting to get flustered and
thus you win at will this is the essence of battle it should be studied carefully so clearly making foster in your ponente on the battle field in business wherever you are in
conversations your trying to get some one prostrators indigence the sareti flustered your doom ye sheetin the context of large scale combat mixing means that when two groups are
facing off and europeans are strong you attack one of the opponents flanks as if to mix with them then when you see the opponent's crumble leave off an attack again were they are
strong flanking always mountain and c means that is bad do the same thing over and over again you may have to repeat something once but it should not be done a third time when you
try something on aponei it does not work a first time you will not get any benefit out of rushing to do again change your tactics abruptly doing something completely different if
that's still does not work then try something else thus the science of martial art involves the presence of mind to act and see where the enemy is like a mountain and act as a
mountain when the enemy is like a sea this requires careful reflection so it's interesting about this is you actually there is a benefit if you induit you and on the ballfield if
you try something and you see the reaction now you don't the reaction and try to gain a few automatically counter reaction that's a great set up dan will do three three times
he'll do something three times he'll go antefa once face if he doesn't do the third time he won't do it which is a great rule to have because now that person is thought oh they're
setting this up but yet so sometimes it's good to try something you see it offenses and now you can attack it with those defenses understood was beneficial as would do it hold it
as it's the complex you can go for a gelatine but the way you went for the kitten can change a lot too you know like me like i won't try it from this very exact position you know
two three times all though one didn't work maybe i'll try to gain obviously didn't work you've good at defending from there nor maybe i'll do something else something on the
appentice back to it you those guys are you were you got it you've got it you not a great point if i try again on you and then i try to gain you already know it like if i try one
on you its tight close but you get out your your defendant like crazy now you're not me let me get it again yes i got to attack fourteen on it a tack up old both things probably
like probably round five or six other things it before i come back to the guitiote a deep orientiren right on a ventilet yet you on to set it up different topically you know you
love guy were really good at triangles and he'll just fly made anywhere yes so all that is is it's the same team where they'll go for a tingle and suranne be like a on this
coating so many descend the triangle though you know how to defend the afoor not as good for your used to defend him tringle from from the largest meanwhile this guy's doing some
half garden to sweep you hear of flavours you going for that tangle you know so he knows it from everywhere so i it these same eventuality but the way he approaches a different
soil like the tack in his mountain for we're not going to out this straight and is a front of the mountain wernerian okay defended were on a car for the sight okay defended we're
going to try from the sight here than go to the front in batheaston yea yea yea athletick to the book when fighting with enemies if you get to if you get to feeling snarling and
are making no progress you toss a wood post your mood away and think in your heart that you are starting everything now as you get the rhythm you discern how to win this is
becoming a new and he time you feel attention in friction building up between yourself and others if you change your mind that very moment you can prevail by the advantage of
radical difference this is becoming now so sometimes you get got put your attitude in check right i ologers i thought about that i found out that in terms of from leadership
perspective dealing with people the minute you know view an iron meeting and almost nice start feeling that friction should need to recognize i'm doing something wrong i'm
creating for action a not making progress need to start a new need to take a different approach you need to realize that early when you're dealing with other human beings the more
i continued down the batter proach at wasn't working lot harder it is to back out of so he starts sending that bad approach go different direction you when you are fighting
advertisin get to feeling stole up in petty manoeuvers remembered this rule no itary science while in the midst of the minutia suddenly you shift to a large perspective changing
to great or small as an intentional part of the science of the art of war it is essential printers to seek this even in the ordinary consciousness of human life this mentality is
critical to military science whether large or small scale this concern should be given careful consideration so this is detachment you have to detach you can't get caught in the
minutia and you also can't get caught in the large scale have to be old to see both of them and when you when you feel like you spent too much time in one tonebat out and see the
other one when you start and when you start feeling bandon step back step back take the large perspective lemme ask you this if you're obviously well first in the you know
littelton for example do you couldn't duck to like your every day life just that just as a fore front of your mind you're just yet i mean i'm nothing your educative but one you
know like you'll be tacit just a split second when you have to anything as it had available now actually i'm more often i am observing myself the whole time i morfinn this is
weird because i'm as people say or used to even enjoy your life and that's not true you come to jugeait me i i i we might our aventurier i'm i'm actually so attached doing to it
your brahmin them like this and mind set right my mind is not even there southat very pleasure for but you know i'm not like ithaca when i'm when i'm playing with my eight year
old daughter on that the tached when i'm you know the hanging out with my family not in this big detach mobat if i'm dealing with one of my kids and want my kids did something
that shouldn't a done or attireth them yes absolutely absolutely when i'm doing with a client and you know there having issues with something i did asked you know a client starts
getting mad at another client and i'm there i'm detached you know that's one of the benefits of a vessel in front is atiltone if we come in to work with a company were but were
the fact ototachibana are always caught up in these crazy situations these compris will not alphabet even a company that doing well they've got things that they don't see it there
in the fight there under there in the tack goatfell they're getting after it and they got sail a gonta do they got numbers they got to reach they got all these things going on
they got gold they got raises that they're doing it in all these things happening and they're in it so when we come in we are to tachitsu in haratin what we're doing and it's very
beneficial because we're detached from a leadership perspective and that's what we're looking at so usome companies might come in and they are detached but they're not vetala the
leadership there there look at the finances spanner look there to look at the process you know a company's need help with their process and nat's cold there's companies that
there's consulting compassionateness there is co consulting cominium in and look at finance were consulting companione in and look at leadership and what we have these we been
doing it for so long now just in a militia man the military in the business world that will we come in to tacher obvious fraters to what's happening because we is lessebo yeah
we've seen it before you and in the baineses you know when fishing when you're cut in quoloty don't houmain it's easy to just emetic but like the what i'm saying is is your every
day life you know you talk about like with your kids or something like that is it is it easy to do bombace at a moment not is or is it the kind of aitone i think i am conditioned
hesitatin that win sing start to escalate i automatically to tache ye ye that like when i see something you know if i see let's say um a life guard situation you ma'am down on the
beach or in down at the ocean and i see a life guard sitchuation something happening i instantly detach them lookin around him seeing where the where positions are in sin walking
to to help i'm instantly tached whereas im a lot of people are not the tacit all now my dog was read instantly the dated completely that's the kind of sister even you know if if
there's an escalation in the household of some kind raised voices or whatever would is not honestly there's not a lot of my eusebio there is it it's an instant detachment for me i
ate an infair my kid yelling you know may be raisin his voice to my wife it's instantly it's not it's not by a a kid to nono boma in detaching one initials going on that's very i
think i've conditioned myself yet i be like that and i think that's why i was talking about you in have those red flags ran identify at it is that you do as a human that made that
maoris your escalating to ye that's what you've got a watch out for ye yea i really seems like that like but golountrine it to have it be to hang a iohanides heathan it
conditioned into your brain that when you when things are as lading around you it's a warning that flash as you discomodated right on that the left no like you know will be
walking on the street and will be so kind of a situation in the street its instant the tache it is in or i was going on where's the cops scores the cars quetoo's if that's all the
time yes i'm cause really the the default that thing for you know our average person is hot it's not like a key what's the scenario who what's the problem to be solved how i saw
the its more how do i feel about fish you know now that we're thinking about i bet so i was when i was training i was i spent time in the training department of seal pon training
calenian of contra fall ye an end there and then obviously i ran the training for the west coast seal when i was at trade dat and in both wotsisname really helped me because in
both bositions i wasn't instructor so therefore while we would throw these hard problems at people i would be once again defacto detached because i'm not in the potentator the
training i am the task and so i always got to see how much more you can see when you are dutched so as i learn that over the years and saw vandover in that i could ease a young
seal in incongruity and we would i'm sinner as an e five sealed you know an enlisted you man chartering but i'm watching the the situation on fold and i can see what the
solutionist in an any end of nepoch ef can't see it and he's more experience than i am he can't see a cassinian so i would always do say on one just all in need do to step back as
he would i used to be able to see what elsinore boyey probably got to train my attachment by actually not being in participating but watching be like if he satronians plate or
like as a bouncer esau you your sober you're seeing it day in day olofena was with the longer that when you first became a boucanes a fight where you do dashall no he probably
weren't your abbylitionzist got and in the more experience you got the more level headed you got you can always tell a good bout or when they yet you know they can come and they
can take a toronaeans there detached as you probably let sheep some of that as well if ill yet he in leguat's almost like you you recognized discover and over again where the
advanthe beneficial position is and its outside not in sight as far as mentally on your outside your own head not inside your own and that's good manutengoli there it is clothed
men ye back to the bomilcar science involves knowledge of the methods of other schools unless you know the ways of other schools you certainly cannot understand the way of mind i
vidual school understand your envigorated other methods gotterideale of the people are doing things there are some other schools nattered of extra long swords from the point of
the martialist them as weak schools at times when you are engaged in an opponent at close quarters the longer store the longer your sword is the harder i descrie with it you
cannot swing the sword back and forth enough and it becomes a burden then you are in a worse situation in someone wheeling a small side arms store in the context of large military
science the extra longsword is the large contingent a shorter one as a small contingent is a battle between a small contingent and a large contingent impossible their many
examples of a small contingent winning over large convenga thus in my individual school there are eaverson there is an aversion to narrow by est attitude this calls for tearful
examination so yes what just like with a longer sword to harder as to maneuver with a smaller sort it's easier to move if you take a big giant element with you on the ballfield
it's harder to manoeuvre he dikemaster in the business world you set up your company this barge business it's goin to be less manouvrier it into smaller teams that are more
maneuverable could be very beneficial so should have an aversion towards biathanatos back the book if you slash with unreasonable force when you are going to kill some one
intended a powerful blow of the sword you will not be successful even when you are making a task cut on a dummy your something it is wrong to try to deliberately slash powerfully
when facing an enemy in mortal combat nobody thinks of striking weakly or powerfully when one thinks of killing each other when one only thinks of killing the other there's no
sense of strength and of course no sense of weakness one only thinks of the desk of the enemy and alecta obviously we see this in the martial art wind somebody's trying to knock
the upon an out with every swing that the dayanand up in their caligraphist doesn't work the way you knockmillydown keeping your tie comes together and thrown him and in the
business world when i see is when people try and lead against so strange but leader supposed to be powerful right in and sometimes people lead with too much power ye in and they
leave with so much force that their that their missing at what's happening their missing the the the new ones of the people that the leading and the taking away the power from the
people that they're trying to lead yet is it like call like they might be tousing too much on being now a full yet they might be focusing too much on being powerfully might be
focusing or too much on being the leader right range now we get all into the specter some people aren't leading enough right dosett's all some people are leading too much which
means their turning into a micro manager or their old forbearing in are not getting feet back from people so with both foes if you're trying to lead so hard another thing that
happens you see people trying to is there their chasing the target which is some essay from shooting where they're basically shooting where their last round went well you see
people that are nearesht their time so to be the leverian did they git feed back in the adjustive again they've just again trying so hard to do a good job that there actually
failing brackley fatling because the they're trying too hard to make people happy to trying too hard to adapt to what people are the feed back that they're getting in like what
are your principles okay the principles of your leadership shouldn't change an a principle to the goal that you're trying to accomplish they shouldn't be changing dat a day so why
would you little tactics bethinking in dat a day now you men all over the place so some one's people lead too hard a god be careful that one careful considering the hallische be
examined tearfully in the course of struggle for victory by military science you in by disrupting others defences by making love upon its denot expect by confusing opponents or
irritating them or scaring them sending the pattern of the rhythm when the ponent get mixed up to seize victory queer distraction but folks of the eyes depends on the school there
are those who fix their eyes on the opponent sorts and there those who fixed their opponents fixed horizon the opponent's hands there a those who fixed their eyes on the
opponent's face and there are those who fix their eyes on the opponent's feet and so on when you try to fix your eyes on some particular point there is a sense of distraction in
this becomes what is known as an affliction in martial larks generally speaking the folk is of the eyes in martial lard is on the hearts and minds of the people involved we need
understand people we need to understand human nature and lead and to fight and to win in my martial argers no change in footwork it is just like walking along a road as usual
fallen the rhythm of the opponent finding the right physical position in conditions of both hurry and calm the stride should be orderly without slack or excess this is what i was
a grand neil and one of my favourite awesome instructors that was putting oleson of the condrien i was going through but he's the first guy that i sneer to running to your death
with he would move he was an extremely probably one of the best shooters in the seal teams as far as pistol rifle combatting he was definitely one of the best and when he would
move through a building he would just be moving at this steady pace atty was just the most awesome thing it's faster than a walk but it's definitely not a run any smooth it and he
would give us a little examples of how effective it was and how you needed to move that way and that's that's that's exactly what the herminde of the good pace solid pace and you
just steady me back to book when you master and ardersier your performance does not appear to be fast the performance of an expert seems relaxed but does not leave any gaps the
action of trained people do not seem rushed the jeff glover when you're watching him the word that always comes to my mind is smooth and eae'onna in it it but it looks so smooth
the ant is fast lightening asked myself scholey way of teaching moralated have beginner's learn and practise those techniques that are easily mastered first teaching them the
principles of they will readily understand as for those things that their minds have a hard time reaching i observed the understanding of the individual subsequently teaching them
deeper principles gradually step by step said star teaching people things that they understand accordingly in transmitting my science i do not care for written pledges or articles
of penalties observing the intellectual power of students teaching them a straight path having them abandoned the bad aspects of the five ways or the six ways of martial arts so
that they naturally enter in to the real science of warriors causing their minds to be free from doubt this is the way i teach martial arts for upraiding and practice necessary
sothis reminds me of all the click bate articles that are out there that say in fact we made a funny video that said the one thing you need to do chase and was if it's good faces
all time i was looking at a a web site the other day or a a a social medereth day from one's onsite and very i coniferae in a row of the ore that were posted were five things that
every so does he does lay seven steps to you know this and for because those are his cooked they people like uncle as coolly broke it down in the fourth things i can easily
understand click i'm goin to lock on that let's do it and now i can be no i can achieve you know in whatever the lady to know and don't have to work in you last wore a just so
oorang a less rolling till so that's some stuff you got a watch out for a calecanthus but you know what has or people do there interested set in ways and nevisthe did that they've
done it was some of mine they took they took the diameters ip and they made it into an article a towell things every leader namihawa things every leader needs to character or
usimare broke it down my gothey done that with actually quite a few things yet we've gone they they have changed it from you know that that conomy of leadership which is a concept
right is a concept and there are some examples of the concept but they betattered into like a cartoon ere they got me notes were different how fit and in that aionios in color
sports an sorry an they got me on one of omisimus like sherlock holmes but serious digist what is the video noelites a cartoon gates with an call it an article of existence
ratmort iclea is got his cartoons of me and it saying the twelfth characteristics every leader needs to follow but they took the dicotomy of leadership which is a calm step of
which i give it example in the book of how this concept applies but they isn't no not a contact it only that it twelve hoaton want a concept that might be you and understand
regina control that ye got a lick on those in yewtrees it is more like what he call it digest the boys a frater no i i told you understand what they do and you know what if it
gets some one which is their goal to get people to read it and if some one reading goes oatta's a cool i understand as a consentaneity good eug they are but but what we see is
people that are doing it and there actually their purpose is to get the click in their not actually turn him introduced people to something or in war deep the nature something
deeper netherest ing to get them to click on that and i feel good for the next thirty seconds they comandante definitely do those force steps three things to do to incinerate
belly fat ye there a giver you go there's another one in cineration like everyplace to the book in my individual school there is no such thing as a distinction between initiatory
and inner law about the long sword so that is awesome and what he say it is there is no difference between what you learn in the beginning and which you learn in the end is the
same i'll talk about that with lace to day the concepts on a conception cepts of the contents and what you learn in the beginning about combat i say true and that's why we're
reading a book from sixteen forty three that telling you take the high ground a that's why cause what you get introduced to the true concepts they remain constant to the tactics
changed curdee radios to we get ignition we get long range weapons yes of course we did all those things but the principles tondamen principals of combateth badone there is
backtothelander thing as the ultimate guard it is only a matter of understanding it's affective qualities in your heart and mind this is what is essential to marshal an so i think
it's so important and i always tried to to main cannes is that there is no perfect thing there is no perfecting enough i i i've said this about gianni always get pig and hold as a
giulia jackassing you just is the best thing in the world yet when i will readily and have always readily admitted the many weaknesses of jujitsu i happen to love digito as a
thing to do as a hobby and i also do think it is the best place to start your self defence journey but then you absolutely have to unhorse you absolutely afterward had a box you
absolutely after learn some more time and by and that you have to start learning weapons you have to enunciate things or important and with judith even in sight of digiti an look
at save there's a one weight to do it the minute you say there's one way in like derogating fink you're getting fontette book it is now more genitals scroll here the scroll of
emptiness all warriors learned lettery science accurately and go on to practise the techniques of martial arts diligently the way that is practiced by warriors is not obscure in
the least without any confusion in mind without slacking off at any time polishing the mind and the tension sharpening the eye that observes and the eye the sea one should know
real emptiness as the state whether is no obscurity in the clouds of confusion of clear away three here like to talk about the empty mind and all that the really good definition
of what that is no obscurity and the clouds of confusion have gone away for the call that the moochin mine uino y a litherary operettas right now i don't monkey mind actually it's
what i've always got it in jest back o the book knowing that mentality taking straight forwardness as base it taking the real mind as the way practising martial arts in the
broadest sense thinking correctly clearly and comprehensively taking emptiness as the way you see the way as emptiness emptiness there is good but no evil wisdom exists logic
exists the wag exists mind is empty twelve may sixteen forty five and that's how he wraps it up and about a month later and about a week before he died porches on the thirteenth
of june sixteen forty five hero to his final peace which is called the doroo which translates to the path of a loneness or the way to go forth alone or the way of walking alone or
the way to be followed alone i felt almost different translations and almost titles one thing that comes tooth clearly as that this is a piece about a sitizens a great word than
your hero lot in canthles philosophy is in nimean severe self discipline and avoidance of all forms of indulgence that that's what i said isis is and so here this he's got these
tonine rules these twenty one rules to walk the path of aloneness then when i got one except everything just the way it is that's pretty simple and it's pretty damn powerful to do
not seek pleasure for its own sake three do not under any circumstances depend on a partial feeling for think lightly of yourself and deeply of the world of cold humility five
bateta from desire your whole life long and that's hard to do and tears one of my if i had to pick a favourite poet besides shakespeare but as nothing william blake who is the
poet and he was a painter and he he prinking as an he was a paisted him colt didn't like a lot of stuff i said in colebroke william blake and one of the things that when i read
that wine i thought about something that william blake said and this is to holly contrary to that listen this those who restrained desire do so because theres is weak enough to be
restrained a mighty gong to take a side on that one amanalco an william blake figure that one out i think i got a bounceing i just osidian i didn't let me right in the initial the
valet i about the balance six do not regret what you have done seven never be jealous boom by the way e never let yourself be saddened by a separation nine resentment and
complaint or appropriate neither for once self or others well like place round here ten do not let yourself be guided by the feeling of lost or love no people could obey that one
especially between the ages of sixteen and twenty five xalasa prompt for self than he life eleven enall things have no preferences thank about that sikattar thing about if every
thing that you deal with on a day to day basis you you you try not to have preferences twelve be indifferent to where you live a tough one for me and like san diego he do not
pursue the taste of good food and of a challenging was yet may be ready gibe wasn't yet he don't round revise monty was her unsuitableness my fee but at ewattas ing thing is i i
been like just getting after some fast lately is so good if you so betasselled do you ever not scratch in it just a work on your estonnement do that but there is something cool
about the fasting the control the disappointest cool yetits it's pretty cold too and it feels rewarding her if feelers every time you saying i don't really need to eat that
whenever that one yet but like i'm not going to die i can make it too you know this evening when i'm going to eat a nice big dinner or something good about their something
rewarding yet yet a couple of legs for sure that each thing of done that before like actually allowed him to just to see not because amanyatelo i can be with not scratch in thee
but just to see like what happened to the itch or in usually get scratched and that's it like what's gonna happen though i just let it go maybe you're arbalist i found this is
seiffert things one thing that happened is tetchily goes the way custote other will ultimately be both go away but the other one is like a gits crazy to it where you get
ellionensis bite or ranselaers still it it itch though to the inch disguise deeper in its crazy but it goes away to discipline disappoint fourteen do not hold on to possessions
you no longer need again the original minelayer uneaten almost with some one like others of carefully for the illinois all desert him like an old gittite hers from nineteen ninety
seven competition i want a proletariat to montmeliant thing eeheetoy know testators this is nierestein one unprofited do not act following customary beliefs there here's a guy you
know wildfremde samarratans steeped in cities i don't act by this customary beliefs i have an open mind ye do not collect weapons or practice weapons beyond what is useful well
some of us like withies do not fear death he recemented do not fear death that's affirmative number eighteen do not seek possess either goods or fife beyond your old age or for
your old age makes sense bright nineteen respect buddha and the gods without counting on their out without counting on their health simpledom number twenty you may abandon your
own body but you must preserve your honour indeed and number twenty one never stray from the way and that's some incredible gride and so what you live is so simple and yet so
powerful and it's from sixteen forty five in what strictly the most about this these tully on rules is that he wrote them on his death bed and the suspicion is he died of some
kind of cancer which had rapidly weakened him and this is what he wrote on his death bed you will about do not they wrote about not letting desire control you book antony desires
you will not about gaining more possessions but reading yourself with them root being the centre of the world but being humble being in the world many rode as a warrior not about
fighting things but excepting them and he bore about controlling his feelings and all those rules what their bound is there about discipline disappoint an in his final days after
this narratable life that he lived he knew it was discipline that would set him free from those clouds of confusion punishing we should probably all pay attention to that and i
think that's all we've got from musashi purtnigh until we get to episode one hundred where will be covering the novel was ashy which i was reading it the other night and there's a
reason why we're going to cover it thinketh first novel or going to cover backed is there's no wim covered any novels the way the warrior kids no handful there is the first novel
of come now everyone fought myself included at the first novel we would cover would be blood mary then which is also as stoically based novel i am still not ready for bloodedest
not ready for bloody i'm reading it over n over again junk of it and it's deep and it's so the first novel will be mooch and i were to leavitt one and i'm going to start with the
same opening we started with to day sure that opening that opening is just and it isn't it it is we were you read that opening the whole world to one crazy a man one might as well
be a dead leaf floating in the autumn breeze is lapels of corpses that are you kick off a novel or we do merlot le canalways learn a lot from the past and now speaking of liners
sure esther anything that you could teach us quickly to a out if anyone wants to learn how to support the ponkas deaf course i only say quickly you and ishak in a fast pace for he
tethered or both a little bit of both were not trigarante know not dig you you want me to rush per se to do what you do rush but i don't want to be here much lonely down from yes
i i do thy will is of but on it i feel a asweat i went to who yet story that's right what do i went to coy forgot my cruel oil o rough deal to warm over there so not too bad and a
lot of the work got folding were pretty like light and so was less on factor but when i came home next day i walked on stiftstrasse causing out of you know walking on the beach or
all this stuff i'm dragging my kids around in this wagon so it's weird your feet get a work out some walking down the stairs to day only my feet relton no crill don't back on the
crill back home all good so point there being don't stop taking our crinal you will feel it lucetta detrimental than will for me it's not an ocanseveroc uld be detrimental if you
stop but you only your joints being stiff all athanasie affect other people only men on our feet apparently raimi case for sure on cuillier your joints i give my net on it
jacklight gets is at on it on it is the most reputable placed the head it may three through joints also what else do we need to get after it if you're going high intense rejoin i
performance free yourself i'm nothing olympic athlete necessarily of not see not illimitable necessarily true tech fort de keeps you and the the yellow and the green in other
doesn't allow you to go at the risk i thought feelessness way to sum it up like if you have another round let's you're in your laugh that set of like i donno creditor something on
or you doing circuit training got to do one moronis one will will get you there without going into the red sculptor do it let you a utilize your oxygen consumption into muscles
better more efficiently abetter also you don't go way to do that is when you breathe with your diagram from what i read you up take ten per cent marocain m a motht next time you
breathing oerthel o you know breeding exei thought breathing exercises were like all these yogis they're just doing freeing our yourselves you know like a notorieties breathing
when e's born on a notary thirty something some at years of breathing experience i do but those agonee rience breathing a very experienced very anila that stone you know for your
from oiata everyone in a while swimming it anyway when you breathe those muscles that i know men that help you breathe in your you know ribs and you die from like if those are
strong you can break that her true just saying that's don't neglect that fothering exercise people respect but chemically if you want you know better oxygenated text sport that's
the one cell aparan for your brain i can't go into the norsine of it right now but you can if you want just going to what it unitarian if you want em percent off of any of this
stuff go on it dot coms lashed jocko no don't think that of fabre shooter in cruel oil or the only thing on there because there's illimited to say literally i don't really eat
over us a word literally doing now he don't ye approved you should yet so minute border line literally there's stuffining on there like if you need to supplementation for
something to be been worked out equipment on there a good stuff too i don't think you'll find like a like dumb bells so no there's no think of that's not really you know seeing
you too aware yes go to amazon for dumb bells and speaking of amnon actually just so in clear though if you intemperately stuff there ameriola of cool stuff and they even have
normal like work out stuff but the cooler version it like coweni the secantes katabolic in and of themselves and be on the coolness there there one of the best exercise equipment
equipments pieces of a queenes of equipment exactly rainforest am i shall clean impressed right criminate barras alemannian it a jerk all right there he split no so bon clean
press and then boom right to bury so six and five six and five met conjugo eight minutes a man as you can i i wasn't foolin any as i can i have i was trying to go fur like seven
set o a f i lost come of the set so the first time is doing it my son he's nine months old by the way crawling around i can be flying the kettle bells in landing on his anything
nomination day waygonain was hector so i let none unless the point is a lost cow when i was done at minutes thirty something that's what it was good work off my cockboat if you do
cattle bells got on it and look at their kettle bells tell me what you think sufflamina he went on i do tom lashed and jock o intemperate off on ther back to mason and was on
click through if you like these books what it is most such of course you recovering rings and miantinomo by e g you she gain be yet and what that has to do them as on is we have
all these books listened honour website in the book section not many books on the podcast clicked her there in order i episode click on their ticket amazon i am was on link boom
you get the book that's a port the pot cast and you know any other shopping you may mentation click through the link good to go for support goes why action huge react i know i am
i said in an a while minestead else is there small action ugrin chemically is clean chemical change teme are you asking me yes ammonites it well i know you know and everyone else
mere me not now but if you don't the answer is sodium metal when you put it in water sussman piece of ilium i learned the same tent great chemistry put it in water seen happens
exploded sametini you quick berthet website for her your amontons or whatever ducal that stuff also a good way to support subscribed to the poncas that's on all of these things i
toneof course stacher gully all the poetasting providing platforms subscribed go is support ever review remove a good ten preciate the views he had very much so it's fine like him
one and i don't ybore but one i'm compelled to read the reviews ainger fun to read a probably read yours if you left one so i filled in any one of lettermore it joe i guess i
thirteen hundred years shall ye forty sounded yet but i really want i read him like one every three four days or if i'm getting ready required the poast all i'll go on there and
see there's a new see what point enetae into count ye the good thing about and these are i to navarino yes the good thing about it i reviews are there like quality and omelike all
the surly good or or whatever thing quality like you can tell some of like okay here's my review is my legitimate if there getting not to the review and you're actually helping to
because when you write a revue you kind of let people know what's up with it what's up with the piasten the neo all the sounds like something i shall listen to you if they listen
to it maybe they'll get some out of it it spread the word so it does help ye and it's face it you get more people following any of these disliking was freedom you know make in a
world letter play on her sharing of that seeing you get a room at ten people you get one did do exhibiting extreme extreme ownership and then you get another entente or another
time people you got ten is exhaling a stream ownership what rooms better the ten extonishin room to say to that could be you when you leave her if you and it affects miles of that
of scribe of all so on subscribing you to if you are interested in the video version of this pot cast on so jollily you nor any and you can see what i would like which you
probably don't know i looked in for the asolare tly anyway that's on you to a also some excursion there right providing small jackal mix nuggets of al so you don't have to share
the whole two to an alf hour thing you know with your friend if you do few like a conception just share the otto minute exert three minute whatever you know sharable so they can
watch it and then go to work rather than be late for work after listening to two hours potentially also jackals a storm is called jack store jocatore out come no hither if you are
interested in what t shirts rash guards were coming out with the hats here pretty soon i carry to the hat the hat that's a good though real good of course yeah the best be yes
some travel mugs on their good travel muggs the you know leadenly the heat apparently that's not like a new thing no nor you remained bissell amazed by even though i know it's not
that now of a thing you don't i can i could easily tell you the story about the ice water i had that last did tilmant day the sustillo tell you that i'm the kind of waste our time
to now the last one you have that vanished there for like eight hours and looks don't black on black whom stuff on there sure it's of course jonas face sing good if you have a
soul the good video let people see that idiom you know to robina's good things about that ideol of watch that bide so essentially that sort is that vital personified in assured is
a little tip i said before but sometimes people miss this part of it but good on the bottom is written backward you know it because it's for you when you look in the mirror that's
not the messages of for every one else looking at your shirt that's what jalapa is for josie's also for you when you look in a mere he's telling you good you know good too come
out of your uation i wear shariyar old daughters class room and answered questions as in author about way the warrior kiite her read the way the warder kit in the class room and i
gave out i had bookmarks we have a the publisher made book or that say what to order at one side you know that mark duteous she other side is the advertisement for distinction
field manual and dat's got my face on it like the codebase sir i panic then so we handed those out and one of the kids came up to me and says you look ceinture course i said thank
you yes yes uh yeah i would say i see what he's getting at i don't think he look creepy be it's a night one beethovenly i may yet are you out to say to my connecticut because you
you toiture a high of i guess technically ye malaga that but that is not why say it or i say it because i leave you i believe it is a conic ah maybe filiform that i think it a
tractate you a new sonnet i ducaine said it let you still for tis count the rest of the universe and world or an maybe we don't quite goethean rainie comic emelye i'm stretching a
term i don't know it's like i went i went to quit is the sort that it wore the most i think that one in the july medic todcaster homesh they're both the same color too by the way
the rope where jocko tored out tom see see what tree you like if you like any of the charming a bishop a shirt or rash for not saying that i'm saying go to jack store dot com take
a look he likes something get something that's the words but as an for yourself you know you get a cool shirt at and or rascar not i also psychological warfare if you don't know
what that is which i know many people do but in the event of union in this case psychologic warfare is it able with trash that is available on ice soon and momus c and these
places where you can buy em pet three in albums and stuff like death dechetai if you will but the visit music it's jacklett is jockteleg you why i magically by the way you should
not lucome to weep this in your journey yesterevening there in your award you're doing journey more servant me yahooing peter's part here yet in your head i iollain yet in your
journey in getting after it in general you waken up early in the morning i know that's not easy to do every single day you're you know speaking to the diets for antwor entente
bring those donuts coriander stand the ham when he get those ones and make weakness that you're goin t start slacking even just for one moment you listen to one of these tracks
the appropriate track and you will and i'll say this a hundred per cent to wit one hundred per cent certainty you will not lack you will wake up and you will continue there is
like a little spot also to young o jock a white tea all on amazon here is a verified purchase review okay there doisters this is verified ye re terrified yet did your arithelli
very verified person on em though of person this is a verified review of a person that actually bought and this is what happened to pay im an employe of newport news ship building
we build aircraft carriers and submarines for the navy since consuming jack white the production has increased substantially we subsequently delivered to nuclear craters and three
nuclear substance navy we won't argue that correlation equals causation i won't say to coincidence there yet that i'm so they know where thousand it takes years you know for five
years to build her craft car now there fairly not a mouth he basine factor in a dim not the verified purchase review waited aware your kid it is also available wherever you buy
bulks and that one got another verified purchase rove there if you're looking for a book for your kid with a solid nest had a pro life this is it the impact is had i my kiss is
immediate they asked me if they could do the same things that the kid does in his wit his uncle in the book the best part of that there asking to be come where active training
hard rogues about healthier choices for meals and picking up a book instead of playing video games it makes a huge difference when they are the ones making the choice instead of
me making that choice for them if your kids readjust one book this year this is the one pretty awesome that is makes me a super stoke when i hear that kids are picking a book
instead of playing video game sotway the warrior kid also were actually getting into the red zone on dispinsed om field manuel umfundisi the final adits you know this is sort of
like my book of ivronia at now i'm not on my death bed yet orfully but this is what i think this is what i do these the fox actions words to my life when i work out this is how i
worked out what food i eat recovery marselet comes out of topertoe the cover is done a new cover the well they finished the cover and people will work if the original covered they
put up the iusula cover with it says this poincare field made by jack awell in that was the original cover sir that i designed and told them to post which they did and then
there's been one little addition to that sir jack ithacus some people may cause they had originally had a stick round in the said convent final meaning the people were thinking
all they're gonna they're going to make it all stop all sail lear whatever but there was a little addition made to that cover you can check it out i concessively to andreeff you
be really bad then stretch that word you might be getting there of course extreme oneship that's the other book of albright now obviously where it started here come aversi applied
to the battle field to business and to life boom get it also if you need support training and transforming your leadership team wherever you are and your business your corporation
wherever you are contact us leadership and management consulting in full at ascalon fun dotcom also the master austin texas july thirteenth and fourteenth omni barton creek resort
now what's got bisbas cally an i closed environment whether in san diego you know you can go out you can get around the oubari case a little bit outside a town so it's going to be
just astern not that huge sosii as good meat wariorum the place with true pers and it'll be great want thing that's not so raises only three hundred cats i think we had about
forty or fifty seats left a forest in master so register a p there is no room for expansion in new york we sold out three fifty we expand the room to four hundred reach banded at
four fifty a range rearranged her there's no room to do that in austin so i apologize if you want to come to austin if you're in austin if you're in texas or wherever your at you
want to come to that one do a quick w w w dot extreme ownership not calm avises out before you get a seat comessatio said gamberottes on fifteenth monster is erasure for at the
amniote right in down town san diego and in the mean time if you are looking to connect with us you can find us straight up using a hard extra heart extra hard on the interweb on
tier on integram and on diaboli ato is at ecutors and i am a jack willing can think to every one for listening for joining us for supporting us for subscribing in for spreading
the word and to the military personal out there going into harm's way modern day samory warriors protecting our modern date kingdom thank you in the police landforce ent fire
fighters giants first respondes thanks for being there when we call you and to the rest of you out there doing what you do but instead of just doing it doing it like musashi like
a warrior excelling in anything and everything you do it there getting after it so until next time this is echo and jocko how
