this is jacopo cast number eighty one with actors and me jackwell the evening echo litening november twenty ninth nineteen fifteen it has seemed the trenches are ankle deep some
places cat deep in mud and the communication trenches are rushing streams of brown water the men are wet through but stick the job like britain and i hope for their sake that the
weather lifts with the morning but guns have been straying to day though option we have dodged the shell it may be ours again to morrow though one never knows missus from the
diary of captain charlie may the bride or my officer commander of b company twenty second manchester pauls battalion of the man just eretime who serves in world war one he was
married to bessy may and they had one daughter who was born to a twentieth nineteen fourteen so she was little over a year old when this journal was being written from the
trenches when it continues december first nineteen fifteen it is exciting work sniping in fact one must curve the tendency lest it should become a fascination the second in
command of the elate east lanchester regiment and myself put in a couple of hours this morning and had quite a bit of fun worrying the boches in their trenches one fellow was
walking across the open two thousand yards off when i spotted him and let go you never saw a chap move quicker in your life he ran for a tree and jump behind it and i let him have
four more there whether a god am or not i don't know but he didn't move for the next half hour i know because i waited so anxiously for him last night or rather one thirty the
morning i got outside the barbed wire and got lost three times i had to fling myself down in the wet grass bury my nose in it and gravel while the machine gun then chattering over
me it is remarkable with what speed one learned to adopt the prone position january thirteenth nineteen sixteen i long and long to see you de clasped you in my arms and i long
with all my heart to see my baby how i love her what hopes i have for her what a sweet girl she will make february twenty fifth nineteen sixteen woke up the morning to find the
snow pelting down and covering the ground fully five inches deep also it was freezing hard cotton a fellow officer came in to breakfast with us he brought the little bible which
another soldier had taken from the body of a dead german on the flyleaf in a child's hand writing the word dad at war's very sad perhaps the man may have done and been something
to loathe and detest i do not know all i am conscious of is that somewhere in his fatherland there is a little child who called him dad at they prosestaeke sixteen fritz strayed
or new trenches with heavy is in search rouleur with a shrapnel and other such a noxious stuff one shall claimed three and sees and wounded three men we all feel wild to get at
the beast and i hope we may string him up on the wire i saw the killed go down the line it was a pitiful sight poor boys shall fire is a horrid thing grassy a lad who was a
sergeant of mind was the worst his body full of gaping holes it was very very sad to those at home realized how their boys go out for them never can they do enough for their
soldiers never can they repay the debt the not that the men ask any reward but one day we'll get at him with the bayonet will take our price then for grete and all the other
hundreds thousands gratian as they were standing at their posts june seventeenth nineteen sixteen i do not want to die the fat that i may never see you or our darling baby again
turns my bowels to water my conscience is clear that i have always tried to make life a joy for you but it is the thought that our babe may grow up without my knowing her and
without her knowing me i pray god i may do my duty for i know whatever that may entail you would not have another wise june twenty third nineteen sixteen everything is speeding up
to no end ammunition by the hundred wagon loads pouring up it should certainly not be for lack of ammunition if we do not make a huge success of the venture yet one cannot help
feeling a little anxious and worried so much depends on this great throw then what his talking about there in this part of the gurnal it reflects the bill up for the battle of the
son and allow charlie dozen know exactly when the battle is going to commence there obviously only distributing that information with people that have the need to know they know
that a major attack is forthcoming the that's why they got all that ammunition piled up more than they could ever think they could possibly need back to the germal june twenty
eighth nineteen sixteen the moment seems very officious for us to strike perhaps we will on friday july first nineteen sixteen we marched up to the assembly trench last night the
most exciting marciana le gun's all around crashed and roared till some times it was quite impossible to hear oneself speak it was however a fine sight and one realized from it
what gun power really means fritz of course strafed back in reply causing us some uneasiness and a few casualties before even reached the line the night passed noisily and with a
few more casualties the hun put a baraona every now and then and generally claims one or two victims it is a glorious morning we go over in two hours time it seems a long time to
wait and i think whenever happens we shall all feel relieved once the line is launched no man's land is a tangled desert unless one could see it one cannot imagine what a terrible
state of disorder it is in but we do not yet the seem to have stopped the machine guns these are popping off all along our parapet as i write i trust they will not claim to many
of our lads before the day is over now i close this old diary down for the next few days and i may not take it into the line i will keep a record of how things go and enter it up
later well then up date never took place then charlie may was wrong about how many british soldiers would be claimed before the day was over he didn't think it would claim too
many but as you know the first day of the battle was soon to i first turned out to be the worst day in history for the brighamy then they suffered almost sixty thousand casualties
sixty thousand casualties in one day then like i said those casualties included charlie may when in over the top on july first under the cover of allied artillery he was leading
be company and he did his men fought their way across no man's land and just as they reached german lines charas a head by shell fire then killed and this diary was found by the
man that eventually dragged him back to the trenches private arthur bunting who mailed the diary to charley's wife made now of the british have a steep military istory and
obviously this is the kingdom that we americans rebelled against anterevolutionary worn refacin in a war of eighteen twelve and we actually had a bunch of other little various
disputes with them until the late eighteen hundred when during something called the great reproach ment the various forces in the world are political objectives or a line and we
became the stanchest of allies with great britain through world war one and world war two and korean vietnam and even up till now and iraq and afghanistan and i've been lucky
enough to work along side briton just a couple of occasions while i was in the military and there's no doubt that they are just outstanding troops professional in everything that
they do in a leave that impression on you you can actually feel the pride of their military tradition and then i wanted to take a at a a look at a book that is part of that
military tradition in the book is called sittle in a istar with some statements from the introduction to this version of the book in tiverstoke that i am reading is the old verse
i think it's from nineteen fifty four fifty seven originally written right after world war two and these common here are from a guy named robin mathews a form of british army
officer graduate of the royal military academy of san hears that's like the british west point he would on to command his regiment the light dragoons which cleator of duty in iraq
and two thousand five he also served with sixteen aerosol prided in helmanoff and afganistan and here's what he has to say about this book served to lead isy remarkable book
produced by the royal military academy sand hurst after the second world war it is as clear and concise a treatise on leadership as you will find it also provides a fascinating
glimpse into what sets the profession of arms are part from any other serve to lead is sunonomous with sanders placed on the bed of every officer cadet at the beginning of their
military training somewhere between prayer book which is what i thought it was initially and bible as it has often been referred it lays out what is expected and what to expect on
a quiver it establishes selflessness self discipline integrity and duty as the bed rock of leadership excitingly expecs of courage and boldness as the essential differentiators
upon which events turned and to which soldiers and leaders are instinctively drawn there is so much to enjoy and consider on every page but the most beguiling message of the book
concern humility the yoshi must be confident but unless it is matched in equal measure by humility it jars at which point the lad simply fall away fine to lead you first and
foremost i must be your servant like a good book the clue is in the title and this case simple seemingly contradictory but ultimately profound sir to lead and that's the
hintrodooce obviates is already talking less about things that we talk about all the time and yes you've got to be calfie but you got to be humble and the title the book is a
contradictors a dichotomy in its own sense right sir to lead and like i said this book they actually have a new one and i have the new one i went with the old one and reason i
won't yield not a couple of things that were a plomondon out that clearly they've changed their fought on and may be will end up doing a comparative contrast with the new one
orandain differences but there certainly are some very significant different differences and will get to those in this is going to kick off with a piece from the lord bishop of
durham it is the fact that some men possess an inbred superiority which gives them a dominating influence over their contemporaries and mark them out on the stakeboat this
phenomenon is as certain as it is mysterious it is apparent in every association of human beings in every variety of circumstances and on every plane of culture in a school among
boys in a college among the students in a factory shipyard or mine among the workmen as certainly as in the church and in the nation there are those who with an assured and
unquestioned title take the leading place and shape the general conduct so there's an opinion in people all an ask all time or leaders born or made that one right there is a ears
of morn and that's i i was stabulis there's there's certainly your shalalai that people are born with and some people are born with out of them some people are born of all those
qualities some people are born lotless some people are born of any they're not going to be much of a leader the asame how much you train them you can get him better but they're
not going to be a great leader and obviously some some leaders don't need much training ah there's very few of those leaders that just don't edidit it out of the gate as just born
that way i think it's a mixture of both and i think you're born with some leadership capability and the more you on it the more you work on it the better you're going to be why
would you think or why do think that is because to be a leader like the good strong qualities that you got to have our so contradict or counter intuitive there not even counter
intuitive but you can get better all them you know a couple of the one that's for instance some people are naturally talented or some people are naturally articulate people so
their able to get their message across in simple clear concise language that's a very important now if you're born with that your lucky right good job you were born without your
board in articulate person if you weren't guess what you can have to work at it you have to read you after right you after listen hour after practice speaking to people and you
will get better at it so those that your example some people just have it naturally and but even people that have it naturally will get better at it over time i was always pretty
comfortable speaking to people but obviously when i was in the military i spoke to be beloved with it and when i was in a training trained situation as a young enlisted seal i was
put up in front the class room speak people and a agot better at it and then when i became an off serviliter now i was briefing people and so on doniver more and then i took over
the training for the west coils and now i was brief and people all the time and and when i was overseas i was briefing you know colonels and generals and okarbri a bunch of times
you're going to get better at it i was already okay at it just naturally but i got better at it and i'm still getting better at it to day so that's the same with any of these
particular talents you know being able to simplify things being able to detach or all important be your sequati's you can have a certain level that your capable at but the more
you practise them the better off you're goin to be ye yes so is a combination yestahday like a lot there's it's pretty rare they you get some bloody whose o o has all the
qualities right out the gate yet not i cave never met anybody that just just dominating in ritardo light like detaching for example that's not that's kind of toneroe your natural
way of ye that is true most people are going to want to get in there yet rairin i i i just found this example i i've talked about a little bit on the on the plot cast where we had
to person all the leaders er he was he he was the e is my system between commander or when i was at tolpeden he he got murdered it was horrible tragic situation he was involved in
a murder suicide and but he he had a lot of those capabilities he ad a lot like he was lavalliere he was a quarter back at the navy football team or hat like a real good presence
to him he spoke clearly he was down to earth and yet you know very eager elevator self very quickly with her talking of these you know he needed to eleele he just had a loud a
most qualities very naturally and ant desha he would at the navigate he played football he was constantly getting in fortifying in the hatto and telling as what was going to
happen and you get good at that over yonder if that is so it derho much of a yard in known what he was a football player when he was in eighth grade may be he was stammering and
trying to put his fond together but then he trained it over over over dining better at it and maybe by the time he got to me as a twenty three year old lieutenant j g he was like
oh we're going to get a hollowell you guys what's going on and so you know even though it appeared to me like it was natural probably wasn't it was probably ten now he had some
nativity but he played petals whole life and that was that yes she in in a way you can kind o and this may be canannea as far as the expression but you know you say natural keep
ability it could be that they gain it through learning or whatever just through it in her environment you know like us as a kid you know ye yea so playing football and then
they'll bring it to the training situation and to ealand i think it's got to be a little bit about right yea and you won't get better at it but the more you focus on that
particular skill like some people aren't very comfortable talking it in you know even to nieuport a conversation right oh yeah yeah and so if you end up with a kid like that well
you got to get him out in socializing t him an get him in front of people talking all the time and if that will be good for them the if you have some one that's if you got a kid
or ef you got a citroon leader that doesn't know when to shut up right how even a case sometimes leaders are like that too they want to hear themselves talk in the use talking all
the time and guess what the more you talk the less people lesson so far give in orders on every little thing that we've gotten to doing fond of us eventually you're not listen to
me any more nan went something critical comes up you still not listening to me cause i've been talking for the past six straight months won't shut my pie hole so that's a bad
situation so how do we get that person a quiet doubt it's both yes all right so now we're goin to hear from a giame shield marshal william slam i think bill slams what they ended
up calling me was an old work on it and world war two wounded multiple times in three times and led the fourteenth army in burma or of war two and he also fought with the
anaxarete australian museum or micare at gallipoli so you could say he's got a pretty good a view of things so he this the bleat the first destitoote off with talk about moral and
the morale of the troops so he regaled back to the bucareli a state of mind it is that intangible force which will move a whole group of men to give their last out to achieve
something without counting the cost to themselves that makes them feel that they are parishing greater than themselves now this is interesting so the talk about the importance of
moral now going back to the subject weird just talking about back to book i learnt too that one did not need to be an orator to be effective two things only or necessary first to
know what you were talking about and second and most important to believe it yourself so there you go you don't need to be a great orator but you've got a nowhere you're talking
about and you got to believe it those are two really good places to start she continues on talabot morale says a most potent factor and spreading this belief in the efficiency of
an organization is a sense of discipline we tried to make our discipline intelligent but we were old fashioned army and we insisted on outward signs we expected soldiers to salute
and offers to salute in return both in mutual conference and respect i encouraged all offers to insist whenever possible and there were few places where it was not possible on
good turn out and personal cleanliness it takes courage especially for a young officer to check a man that on the road for not properly saluting or for slovenly appearance but
every time he does it adds to his stock of moral courage and whatever the soldier may say he has respect for the officer who does pull him up now this is an interesting point
right cause i were talking about her as i see echoes you know not wear his uniform crept by some on over and tighten you up that is you can see where you can see where people are
probably thinking that jack illall over that guy right no actually wrong it that's actually wrong and where order talk about here is a most talk about when i colleagueship capital
you only have so much leadership captain your bank and you've got to decide what as a leader you can spend that capital on and if i see you out you tofore or your looking sloppy
i've got to decide if it's worth me investing my lorship cattle and going over in telling you that you need to tighten up he echoed get that hey sergeant charles you need to do
your uniform shorty you look like rapportait about example is that what i want to invest my leadership captain now canby sometimes yes absolutely and we've talked about the many
cases where that occurs you don't when you look at a hackworth would act workshop for vienam aspatia commander he tightened up their uniform standards immediately he tighten them
up immediately he knew he needed to invest that leadership capale needed to start with a small things but if you're in a daresen't and you see somebody that may be isn't doing
there isn't werner youtiful properly and you decide you're going to tie em up i'm not i'm not fast throng answering and as late babinot ll you it's not what you preach towards you
tolerate you tall rate the guys looking like crab there just going to continue going down that hill of looking that crap now to me there's a certain point right that i won't let
you go past if you're a little out of a outlean ard maybe i'm goin to let the one fia little bit right but once you get to a point where you're looking like crop will guess what i
am absolutely going to tie you up and i'm going explained to wit and portoit ne go and yell at you no not happening so you've got t be careful how you ration your your discipline
and you reader supple right if you jest run round yelling and every one or getting in everyone's face for every little thing that they're doing pretty soon you could look at that
like well pretty soon tell at dead tell be scared of making the stake but that's that's the point now you got people that are scared making the sake ye now you're cautin off their
billionaires ire to think freely so the bottom line with this thou once you got a stay balanced on these things and don't waste your leave you capitalistic to guy to terday he was
running a of sight for his executive team and i talked to in an e said man you know he was just junk as it will what happened and he had showed up pleeeeeease and he's in the
company and he's got to running the offside and he gets there and says aiguier no self phones over put yourself on to way we need to focus the susteined we need do we need to get
this done so the guys put herself on to it and they started to meeting he ees five minutes into the meeting the sea el breaks out itself one starts looking at it all men it after
every one sees that you got half the room looking up herself on so and he went like jacitano atom you know this is man what was going on and people aren't even pain it in you
after the first at first hour he is you know what's going on and i said to him i said bro let's look at what you just so then he said that any loss to like the the meeting us went
down hill and i said to man's talk about what you did because you invested your leadership caporal for this important meeting on telling people to not use their self phones did
you tell him why is that no really did you explain to them when they would be able to use their self ones no i didn't so you just want a now this company is a a a financial
company they've got a lot of things going on you can imagine the sea over big financial companies got a lot of important calls and emails to check and all that and almost any
hisold no self on what is that on hand what what important thing is happening at to have my company to day where i'm allowed to talk to myself on an answer emails or look a look
in my emails and i'll magaso so when i so so when when i be able to look at eating tell me that so he invested all this leadership capital to get people to do no soupiness any
spent it and there wasn't any left and and he you know so you have to be careful now you after procthorin way right first all you could say he listened guys were in power to a
solan hour right now i'm on i ask you unless it's just critical depose ones put away and let's power through his etceteras tion going grianan an hour wanted take a twenty minute
break rheou can catch a pony got a catch up on and then we'll do another hour i sat so now people understand what's happening and they understand why by the way you know we
everyone on her so pons we're not going to get well we need now this big syou got explain and you don't want invest your ears of aton things that don't matter so if you're the
senior guy a leash position and your focus dog some little person that's out of uniform and that's what your focus is that's that's not a good folks to have riding you should set
the standard and you're suborners all the way down the front where you've got light you and me our peers and i don't let you i'm the one not i'm a waiting for the bossonian tight
eutiful i won't let you tight not i will i will let you warragood itfor that's what i want i want to have a gang and daladier we're self policing because the minute hand from the
top doing that again does this happen sometimes yes a upsetting out all galachin white room here i'm giving the broad guidance that if your hackworth you're taking over battalion
where people's lives reris and you know that there's slack everywhere in their not doing a good job you got to go in there and tighten em up and one a best way to do that is going
there and start on small things but if you've got a functioning you ned that there is nothing critical happening in your trinobites and do something that's that's a a a winning
team and the first thing you could do is going in focus on some of these small things when you haven't really established yourself that could be problematic so think about those
things when you're in those positions harriet going back to the book i do not say that the men of the fourteenth army welcome to difficulties they grew itke fierce pride in
overcoming them by determination and ingenuity from start to finish they had only two items of equipment that were never in short supply their brains and their courage they lived
up to the unofficial modo i gave them god helps those who help themselves and once skin that sir same thing that colonel bill reader said go help yourself or now'ere on to still
still talking about moral oregon a talk to are here from field marshal bernard montgomery if you don't know that is monteleone the angle i wish war the palace time conflict that
the disbarring and alaro you know obviously ran the british atomy for board to so we've a once again we've got a person with them very solid perspective on leadership and combat
leadership the quality of moral back to the book in war the moral stature of some men increases and their characters grow stronger and more closely knit in proportion to the
discomforts and dangers they are called upon the face bontonger some iesis the casion back to book such men will occasionally perform in battle remarkable acts of self recurrat
daring and willing derwish the extraordinary fortitude and patience the burden thrust upon them other men however well under the stress of hardships or dangers surrender to fear
or fatigue and allow their characters to descendra this disintegration will usually take the form of a loosening of the moral fibre which results in committy of action and
slackness in appearance while those who have gone to seed will be dirty and their appearance will be sluggish and will be slovenly in these latter cases there has been a general
loosening of character duportal surrender to fear so i totally agree with this you see in commadation people either get better were they get worse some people just kind o cruise
right stay in that same own but but some people they get better of a get worse they rise to occasion or they fall back to look the good soldier the man with high moral has not
surrendered to fear and has maintained his personal standards the bad soldier the man with low moral has become incapable of independent action and has to some extent shed a part
of his human individuality that's interesting as an interesting statement that the person that's incapable in vetoing action he say he shed some of his human individuality back
the book basic factors of moral we now must consider the factors con what what factors consuma of the soldier in the heat of battle certain factors may be described as essential
conditions without which high moral cannot exist bes for basic factors are on leadership to discipline three comradeship and for self respect a fifth actor devotion to cause must
exist but need not necessarily influence all the soldiers finally there are new brush contributory factors which are of great importance but are not essential conditions starting
with this first one leadership moral is in the first place based on leadership good moral is impossible without good leaders human beings are fundamentally alike in that certain
common characteristics apply to all men in varying degrees in battle the most important of these characteristics is fear all men are afraid at one time or another to a greater or
lesser extent in moments of fear they band together and look for guidance they seek for a person to give decisions they look for a leader the leader's power of the casion results
from his ability to remain calm in the crisis his greatest asset is the ability to act normally in abnormal conditions to continue to think rationally when his men of ceased to
think to be decisive in action when they are puried by fear little bit a normal face from auntie a normally in abnormal conditions remain calm back to the book the object of
training must be first to select those who possess them within them the potentialities of leadership and secondly to develop these potentialities this is accomplished by giving
the leader responsibility the leader's character will develop in proportion to the responsibility with which i s been entrusted so there yo he say the same thing that we use were
ornately you have certain potentials and you got to develop those and how do you develop them with people you give people i you wanted velletri her sponsibility you don't give him
responsibility that's going to kill them but you give the sponsibility that's goin a definitely test them and there going to have to step up to be able to perform back to the
books that two vital attributes of a leader or a decision in action and be calmness in crisis given these two attributes he will succeed without them he will fail are great
problem in peace is to select leaders at islet as leaders men whose brain will remain clear when intensely frightened so from monty you got a remain come now he's going to talk
about discipline the object of disciplinaque t of fear there are two aspects of fear fear consuela attack a man through his imagination a corpse in a ditch or a grave by the
safari of the road will remind him of his position he will suddenly realize that he himself is liable to be killed is a function of discipline to fortify the mind to to become
reconciled to unpleasant sights and excess them as normal every day occurrences fear can also creep upon a man during periods of monotony on the line at such time he will have the
opportunity to appreciate the dangers which beset his life fear acting through his thoughts can so reduced the man's heart corocotta that he will become nervous and fearful
discipline strengthens the mind that it becomes impervious to the corroding influence of fear he teaches men to confine their fought within certain definite limits it installs the
habit of self control that pretty amazing is pretty amazing assessment to think that the one of the best primeros to overcome fears discipline back to book discipline implies a
conception of duty nothing will be accomplished in the crisis by the man without a sense of duty makes sense now is got talk about comrade ship back to the book moral can not be
good unless men come to have affection for each other a fellow feeling must grow up which were sold in a spirit of comradeship in army is made of human beings so that however much
a leader may inspire his men however perfect a discipline the moral will be hard and unsympathetic if the warmth of comradeship has not been added to a got to be got be hard core
disciplinarian but you need no war of comradeship back to the book or though a hard business is not necessarily a grim one man must laugh and joke together must enjoy each other's
company company and must get fun out of even life a musket for out of life even in times of danger so do you want to have a good time yes you do and the the thing that makes these
dangerous times more bearable as when your having foundering them and that's one of the things you don't talk of a lot about seal training in her all all the pacas but one of the
things that you do it you'll training at your doing miserable things called wet tired and your having found the whole time you are learning that ages what i can sit here and be
cold and it's miserable or i can be cold and i can laugh about it and i can make fun of my friend away he shivering you know that's what makes it bearable and the same thing
happens when you go overseas and you joke about relief dark things you dark sense as humor that comes out real strong when you're overseein one of my one of bouteroue pare no
enough talk about him on here before the guise the guise found a tube that hadn't shipped like maps or something and if you pulled the two apart real fast at founded like a
margraviate get outside his den and he was supercargo spent a little bit of time getting more garden so he was a little on edge from that yes so they'd got sight of his tent you
know you can hear through the tenants is a little piece of fabric and he got side was ten and they pull that thing and it would sound like a mortar so they had money her forenoon
or you cross to one or you i first see her like fall and like the hitara and then you'd hear it the giggling of the guises outside and then you hear him connery one el yet but a
yeah but it was fun he was funny too far a little too far in man's but a but every one's having to decide an even him you know redditon and he would be come outside you guys are
bastera we'd laugh about it that's the kind of thing where you are you got to have fun in these tough situations yet it yeah that makes sense i think this probably way you know
like nowadays like contemporary companies tencort jessop any fragment at foal gaping poneron i heard massive noises the other day picentini sounded like like mortify her wasn't
going more the fire but there was something i didn't know what was it they were they were in a in a nerve gun fire fire and by the way it was sloppy like a wanted dates no cover
move happening and just livery man from self i was at a point of her for the thirty or heavywether son i ain't were cuttit that i mean the besarme conceptually is the same thing
obviously you know with wag different no actually it's way different but it's not he not murolloas in a business in a company have fun with it and when i work with companies that
are good good companies and they're going through something tough the ones that have a good moral ones that are laughing there the ones that do better yes a rant to go to work yet
if you don't enjoy the people yoisho know yet i would wit would you want to do that you want to not one of the ah i hate you called betworse combat i was the amused right so every
day and were in uniform in in sitting at a desk all day i did it for thirteen months it was just that part of it it's it's you know even if it is a miserable job righting luckily
first of all the adoles a great guy and i had a lot mentawei joked round all the time with him and his executive assistant is a nitenti would literally not i would go two or three
weeks at a time and we wouldn't say one serious thing to each other is everything would be some joke about every old misery that we were on the and end my misery i just mean you
know hours worth of meetings and traveling or all the time and i you know the road and staying in crappies and flights getting you know bumped and canceled and be at holdover and
no the admorunt showing up somewhere or he sposed to go on stage does never uniform with them and like that you know not fun you don't ask what we had for the whole time and we be
joking about or you know i'd say well i guess i'm going to get take take one again for the tawehash yes so yeah even in these situations at aren't fond of have you got to have fun
with him in that definitely will holbourn if you're a leadership position and all you do is just be you'll get get drowning the misery that you're going through in every single
person that's wick e's going to be going through the same thing and so as a leader you got a lance again going back to the dichotomy of leadership you got at you got no wind okay
the guys are at too much stress there not having fountained to have fun i need to start a not forward the in the office here so guys loosen up and then there's times were a guys
are having too much fun we got a pick them up yea yea like a guys would get this to do and so you got to ride that that line and balance it out correctly yet yet colander company
their orecome ani's nowadays sir are incorporating that element into the the actual call you don't you at about yethering and there's companies nowadays that do it too much and
all facilitating down yet there moderation playing ping pong and one in the lake o room within got rooms now i take all you can go in there and think and i play with legal cause
that relaxes your mind i guess not me when i'm around like us i think i want to step on a isaacson kids sarrusophon legassit mare so i like being round like us i got the pad from
lake state when i was that my kids raunger lake you don't cause you can't ever get your son enough lagos apparently correct as they did need everything i went i was a kid there
was not that many different types of leos you had blocked long once the shorter once lay now a days you get legs but they have hands in the harris and machine guns and they got
cool stuff but dan legs any more they're little toys lay come with the little legs and they still heard the box she is that father are surprisingly sharp forked with major slaves
you know major sharp fight going back to book ease the other thing you talked all self respect and no man can be said to possess high moral if the quality of self respect is
lacking and this is something that dick was talked about to that self respect and in how that drove him soldiers must be encouraged to respect themselves at all times and under
all conditions self respect implies a termination to maintain personal standards of behavior a man who respects himself will allow neither himself to become slovenly nor his
quarters dirty even in action he will take care to see that his personal appearance suffers as little as possible it is the job of the non commissioned officer to maintain this
aspect of discipline it is the function of the officer to encourage and desists respect so interesting a break that down lobelia was talking about if in the senior guy and i'm
around yelling at people about how they're looking that's not good that should be my subordinate ship should be tight in that stuff up okay here's this conclusion again this is
moneytaker in brief high morale has been defined as the quality which makes men endure and show courage in times of fatigue and danger the cultivation of moral depends on the
training of leaders and inculcation of discipline the encouragement of comradeship and the infusing of self respect the leaders must have a belief in their cause and they must pay
attention to numerous contributory factors of considerable but secondary importance we live to day in a scientific age but we soldiers after a member that the rawmaterial in which
we have to deal is man man is still the first weapon of war his training is the most important consideration in fashioning of a fighting army all modern science is directed
towards his assistance but on his efforts depends the outcome of the battle a moral of the soldier is though most important single factor in war so there's monteath that can be
said for just about any organization what your nizain is made of a ipeople and you know you hear that would business all the time an are people are most important assets that's
generally going to be the case here some now we get into the lorship actual leadership section interesting again they start off with moral that's the first chapter now they move
into leadership and you know clearly from what he you said morals the most important thing in winning battle i don't agree i think leadership is most important thing now is number
one is number one a factor in good moral is leadership so i guess you know you could see where we're coming from a different angle but by my father's a little bit different my
fought as the most important thing is leadership and i think that leadership covers other things just be besides the moral the man because now we're talking about the stranger
that use in the tact or the using everything is covered by leadership including moral ye so you gather looking in it from a not opposite but just varying perspective we think
leadership is part of gralloching renewal shareship yes need you have identified the situation correctly order some more for motion leadership i would define beatership as though
will to dominate together with the character which inspires confidence a leader's got to learn to dominate the events which surround him he must never allow these advent to get
the better of him he must allow nothing to divert him from his aim he must always be on top of his job and be prepared to accept responsibility so montesuma had now what i have to
cavatis with is you get these people that are single minded right and that they're going to dominate everything that's going on around them and they do that from attack to go
perspective not from a strategic perspective so for instance if you say am i must never or i must dominate the events which she rome and must allow nothing to divert me from my
aim that can actually be brought him atic if it doesn't make strategic sense right so i am always were not dominating everything is going on around me and the thing that's going
on round me isn't really that important i wasting my time on it so this has to this has to be sort of off set little bit by that economy of leadership which is yes you want to
dominate what's going on but if what's going on is important you need to let it go you need i just let it go a little bit all right so now we're going to hear from a gent and i do
way this book what this book are to lead if it's basically a bunch i should have said the son to beginning but it's it's a bunch of small excerpts bigger than cloth some of them
are just clothes which i don't do a bunch of like ages redcoats i do a couple o men to do a couple of day but some of them are like you know two three four pages of peoples of us
on leadership of which am pulling out some of the high lights and interestingly for the first time i was going through some of this and i was like you know what i actually was
something that it is something that i've said a million times and i said you know an i'm not actually in a high light this again because i've said it over and over again now
clearly with discipline i just act about it for forty seven minutes and i probably always will when i get the opportunity but there's a lot more about this psalterion on despoiled
to it now argonata here from it general john hacket again a world war two ascencion part of market garden which is the big air born operation to twar two then here's what he says
i am a soldier in speaking of leadership i do so as a soldier and when i think about it as any soldier often must i do so in the context of battle pressures in battle are high and
in battle as a consequence laprobes of leadership stand out in bold relief and that something very similar when i say which is comatas like life amplified and intensified wrote
that an extreme ershi and that's one talking on and because it's that way into very easy to identify what's going on with the leadership the very thethe problems of leadership
stand out in bold relief he said a better than me back to the book but while battle may be you niquette problems that it exposes or not right yes leadership promise and have been
working for seven years with alder companies and people that are not going to battle and guess what the problems it battle exposes are not unique to battle for leadership is
concerned with getting people to do things and is most keenly needed when difficulties doubts and dangers or at their greatest in whatever sphere this is attempted the problems
are suchly similar so any time you got a key gotama in do something the problems are pretty much going to be similar back to look i said that leadership was concerned with getting
people to do things what i meant was getting them to do things a willingly so we don't want to just bark orders to people that doesn't work doesn't work in business doesn't work
on a battle field with a work for five minutes yes i will well i niello you and get you to do something yes you're at onmonotonous for a new job an you know it backwoodman's
really only gets a full response from the man he leads by something approaching and plead fesano his own identity with the whole that he and they together form a so think about
that if you're in charge something and your leader you need to become that thing need to become that team etobicoke that goal i like that one and you can see when people get
possessed like you look at a modern business leaders to day these are people that you know steve jobs he was theses with the product the he was the apple and that one of those
things that was so beneficial yelous just like he is what he's shying to do ye back to the book successful military leadership is impossible without the leaders total engagement
in the task in hand and to the group committed to his care for its discharge and what's interesting about that tourtera j charles a not too long ago i should was pretty long or he
and he said something to me and it was like a big revelation to him and he was very as a very he had a good way of saying what i'm just reading about right now we are talking of
something he was going to meeting and he was going to be you know talking about something there was some controversy about whether we do go and and he said that the person that
cares the most wins an that's a great statement very true if not honor percent true put to the tatthering is very high up there because if i just care about something so much and
i'm going to drive with it further than you if i care about this decision more than you do i got a really good chance of winning a really good chance of when i yet can tingle at
that translates into any goal ye any gore you care about it the the more probability the idesthe only reliance where it becomes a problematic is if i a i care about something you
know at ninety seven level ninety seven and you care about with a adoptive decision you're also a level ninety seven ozanne untoasted got a problem because we're both cantine
we're going to win it woot believe that we need to in get out the leefftto we got an ego searging on and things because how about it and and you know the where this just become
stupid isn't a bee her people having political use in air cotton the hot one political debates around something young this person totally believes on the present and this person
totally cares a hundred per cent and there going to go not on each other and they don't listen to anything that the other person says and you end up with the big disaster on your
hands nonsense yet level we the political diet athanor one yes lali will listening to our pocasse ant or an one were talking about were talking all warstling up washing people in
the news and after classic situation where you know you got somebody on the free minute segment ian one person is as taou know the hard consistere tion the other person to hard
conederation the debth care they both carolyn if neither one of them going to win the day actually that that goes the next that's the next realisation is that if you're going up
against person that cares as much as you do you actually have to take a back step and find another way you have to flank them yes you're not going to be able to win them by going
head to atacar as equal to you yes and i'll go a find a new solution yothers you know what you'll do expend all your ammunition charging machine gun nests and you will die ye that
you don't want to eat that if you care as much as me and i don't have the same opinion i've got a fondue yet letales probably in a let you think you just won the argument in order
to flank you too by the way ye yet the uh again political related diet a hutterites you know all these all de white hot button it is one you call it hottinger knots postoak to or
talk about it on the thanksgiving dinner the athegither quick an then you an a lot of times we're talking about people or not people but we talk about how much someone cares about
it right then an a lettin the things that get mixed up is how much you crick care about it verses how much you care about your stand on it ye there sudden i freunds on in our
findrainore or your ego into both the right that the begetting go on one or met the iron right daneland that i mean you care about your state so when you made yourself them but if
you care about the issue like if i say if i had miss mean you were having a dead bat a debate about kettle bell work out or something and i like a dumb bell you like halbout i
really care about the issue and the issue is what the best exercise or if i truly care about the was the best exercise is and not about my stands on what about amankee real answer
read it with its miner or not so that's why i think like political all these other things say they have the anaitis just like a sitte eagle natural thing but they wind up caring
more about their stand on it then they do no actual that issues you know for sea don't let that happen what shall for thee for yet the ninety set not ninety so but the the person
who cares the most winds dozen apply to some one's individual stands on something in a high tone so that in it also doesn't apply to you know i gedumah and i really hear about
waterations a tea the cause is not a thing people say mental always all mental and here is an example alexandros a ratline who just climbed all capitan in yosemite which is three
thousand feet tall and eveley oh it's all mental and and we will say things you know if you want something bad nor any o you put me on that rock there's a some crocodile two
thousand feet up through thousand sheet up that's really hardon your smearing which is this technique and rockling were you don't i done it before i am i'm like the lowest white
belt i'm not even a white bountie i'd like some in gave me my wife deuteronomy not like a legit but i know i've tried saying i i go to you sanity you i'll play around on the rocks
and everything what i've tried this thing at all smearing and in your basically just using the tread or just a bottom of your rock climbing shoes on flat grandad you can create
enough fricandeau that you can the you can move up it and some people are really good at it i seckind you know you got out your guttral you work introvert use in your feet and
it's a buswell weird balance at jutted because if you push too hard the ox date at your feet slip off it and if you don't push our enough you don't get any lift so it's this eying
like balance you've got a half and apparently there's one move or this one series of moves in this clime that he did that is some be after smear of course this is very natural for
him but apparently he climbed that section with a rope like six or seven times just to make sure i felt good and all that stuff here's my point even if it wasn't smirre's holding
on to rocks right at two thousand feet i would absolutely want really really badly to hold on the rates i don't have the muscular strength a do it i mean the things that he's
holding on to a smaller then will the first pad of your fingers that's what he's holding on to the canyan we were doing seethed my house or remember it that little thing you
actually you had bet had stronger gripped in the on the on the climbing board that i have in my house but i could i could couldn't even hold on or i can alone for five seconds and
you like had no i did you hold on to the really small one er yes that's legit i can't even now on of that thing so if i was two thousand feet up and i really really really really
really really wanted to do it and i was all mentally in the game desateful ling to my death reddidit have the strength to do it ye don't have the physical strength and i need to
build it and okay get ay and that that's my bein acceptance you really have the mental strength and will to do it that he'll train train super hard red but at that moment not in
to help me i falling to my death red yes oh that's a metafor but like a it's it's like a roman away oh yes a romantic said yea and a bad enough young do it no actually not true
and i want to do i want to that you take the extreme version i want to stay alive on two thousand feet up i want really badly to stay alive doesn't matter i can't get across that
section i can't don't have the hands trength to do it not happening is but they're making a movie about that i can read the set about alhokin that rock i jimmie chin is the famous
kinetograph guy that they went and documented the whole thing in apparently one of the article said that during that crock moments alex on was a hay would we get to hear de iba
off with the cameras he he terelas in just back of the cameras were an go through you know section ninety four alfacius why i think he thought i didn't need any campers around
real close when he might fall to his douthat's that heavy now like the woloot because it might break his concentration or boat out on know i don't know but that's crazy the have
you ever been osorno it's it's el capitan is three thousand feet straight up of granite it takes people three four five days to climb up it he climbed it in three hours and forty
five minutes with a chalk bag and a pair sostratus's ridiculous it's ridiculous he completely ridiculous three thousand feet that's very tall echo you trying to imagine it with
the hellinfinger seein it's tolerates scraper and tragoedus huge he climbed it with no ropes beringer's no rest the means there is no break yer and nemean there's no mistakes you
can't make a mistake if you like mistake you die ye crazy very impressive antenor i were talking about how exhort now oh because we're talking about the laneway ye a hell ever
believes it to mayence believes the most wandalar about it sir not believes thersitism as i care about staying alive i wouldn't be able to pull it off yet i think in jedson that
it it did make sense though you know cause the year you don't know what i earthlike sense yet it does make sense and that's why i was able to do a lot of stuff that i've been able
to do my career may i when i was in the mill military a wad of the stuff that i was able to get done i was able to get done because i cared about a noetically think you're gone
you you think you're going to help perform my task in it i care about this so much i don't care i i care about this so much you're not con be able cope with me is because you
might think agetherin ive o'clock in the morning i've been there for hour you may animate my guy's drill this ten times omnia my guy's drove twenty times i care about this too
much for you to win her can't meet me i can't beat me with mocking happen i care about this too much non about away not a selfish way i care about the sun of this right this is
everything to me you know how you have other things going on and you got your wife and you got your family and you got this other thing going on in your life and you got gold at
you and i don't care about any of those things this is all i care about so therefore you can't compete with me and that's pretty cool it's a cool place to be and from get overseas
people are thinking about all these other things not get on care about anything i don't care about anything else this is only thing i care about a totin the getting boiled down to
just not stopping right not less pleading not giving up anatha definitely plays a role that defiles roland of course there's got to be balance because if let's say i don't care
about let's say you know of my my focus a hundred resent my selaski it but then i forget about the fact that we're working with our other army in its in only thing i care about is
my unit will know actually need to care about the mission one read an air about our strategic where we're going to etically because otherwise i'm thinking o twenty getting my
guide taking care of my winning my guys more work i just want to get no actually i i do want care what trumps my care for the task at what's care for the missinale we turn to a
coppice now luckily those two things are completely lined so there was never any time where i was thinking oh should i do this to benefit the task in her benefit the mission no no
if it benefited the mision of benefit has been in benefit in taking the benefit of the mission period oh so i care about those things began art time compete with me and luckily in
remote there wasn't any competition we were all or can together to a so amazing about it yet was army marine corps as everyone was just working titther to accomplish missions
because that's what you get when you get a nasty battle field you give people working together all right another piece this is a gin named general mansell war is pre eminently the
art of the man who dares to take the risk of the man who thinks deeply in clearly of the man who when accident intervenes is not thereby cast down but changes his plans and
disposition with the readiness of a resolute and reflective mind which so far as is possible has foreseen and provided against difficulties there young that's what we're talking
about oh accident intervenes cool good i'm not cast down changed plants adapt back book no now no man can inspire confidence in others who is not confident in himself and self
confidence comes from knowledge a thorough understanding of modern weapons in organization tacked esente details of ministration affecting all those under his command must
therefore be acquired by every leader he must show his troops that he can plan found be lead resolutely and deal promptly and effectively with the unexpected in addition to gain
full confidence of his troops a leader must have their personal friendship and trust i like that again if there was a there was a feast once was briefing isinene if your guide if
you if your people like you they then they ah you're not doing the job an not true he's asked ly saying they need your trust and fussmaker end ship and trust ye what you say in
some like that that even that you can't push that too for well for night is an you got a bounce that an ethership you can't be such close friends at your choosing good that you're
putting one person yet as morn portant than the mission or the team and it is the diameters ip okay now he puts together this less which we were were biting pretty good but this
one a short list to leadership given as follows perfect or military knowledge to study the use of weapons there tacked go handing the enemy's character and methods and way to make
use of ground so out of yore what job urinalis those right now your tools um no the enemy now your competitor next study the men under your command now them well and being known
to them gain your confidence by your knowledge energy and skill and by your interest in their welfare always be cheerful with them however you may feel teach yourself to think our
reason to preciation leading to clever but uncomplicated plans quickly and unheady to there you keeping simple no your people get the likes has no your people to get them to know
you too you that's important next study methods of deception and make full use of them always aim at misleading the enemy always seek surprised keep your object clearly before you
concentrate your efforts and resources at the decisive point always think well had poetize next work out the best methods of control and different tackle situations practised them
constantly study the situation carefully don't waste any time make up your mind and stick to it get out your orders quickly make certain that every one clearly knows what you
intend it to be done commanders intent maintain the initiative make opportunities and sees them at once i like that man opportunities bloodlike that don't wait for them to come be
prepared to take risks but don't be foolhardy now your commander's intention in act in accordance where it don't wait for orders in action is always wrong so there you go or this
is just reiterating things to talk about all the time never take counsel of your fears think of the enemy's difficulties and how you can take advantage of them remember that it is
a will power that winds of his these going off in the woodberrys at of a will which will goes along way never relax your efforts until victory is a one attend to the comfort of
the troops before you think of your own missus altitonans stuff be loyal to your superiors and your subordinates express your views clearly and frankly but winter decision has
been reached felisbert it and stop all criticism never take shelter behind others when things for which you are responsible have gone wrong take other ship oh i like this one
refrain from jealousy resentment and self seeking be tactful never make friction be thoughtful and considerate but maintain firm discipline that they go how but this thing but
that decorate it profonde rate but maintain for discipline never order troops to do what you are not prepared to do yourself never gave an unnecessary order that's a good one
think about that one never give an unnecessary order and i'll tell you why i like that one is because if you're doing a good job as a leader orders should barely even be necessary
now they should bear le even be necessary talk about this olaf the other day i i i we i'm sure we could go back though you know the history of passing a bruiser but as we we were
having a conversation we were work with a company i don't think i ever gave in order to you one of my two atonement ers either life or the delphine i don't think i ever said this
is what you're going to do that's an order ninety set in the movies and i love to ask they say that do they ever say that as they do whatever he had a hat hearder if you gets it
can't be said i'm trying to think i'm sure it's been i i i think it's been said to me before no canmore like i admit like not administrative situation as shandon anyone's ever
said it rotherline that an order on her if you have i i'm trying to think of there's been some situation where some one said to me like a basically like you pochaug joco istan
down a dotation of those before but a hey we get it jocko you care about the slot it's not happening i stand down out gothically got those polite you are gisela good as a young
and lifted guide gave you drive in with you i i i just mean want to cross it and in and people would be kind asana will know we can't barnabe an why can't we can't we why won't ye
want why don't we do this now need to do this missus marking no you don't rithing to do and i will just revenge yet like the little they stand down we are not doing it okay you
now what an de become an officer a life to listen to you and hattie got i think i've got a couple of stand downs in my time and down that order cause he had that in order that
reening of our anyway when i think about it it really does seem like a movie line ye mavis that means that you have not done a good job of a leader be i have to say that's an
order rings i haven't done this good jobs a leader i mean you don't understand the mission you don't understand an intent you don't understand i haven't conveyed it to you
properly and he only wangat you listen by saying that's an order ye plain rank yeh poenalitas not a good not a good situation back to go kinver overlook failure to carry one out
so it's never given a necessary order never overlook failure to carry one out some people laughed chiming with their opinions on that one never overlooked failure to carry one out
i'm not sure that one what is that mean harry one after masayana it says never order troops to do what you're not prepared to yourself never give an unnecessary order never
overwork failure to carry one out to carry out an order ye to carry one off never overlooked failure to carry one out i want here what you mean by that we'll come sure would some
people will give us some opinions on that one on the face book you win i release keep fit yourself and make certain that your men do to keep your own nerves under control and
study your men good for like eeyou in a comment if you listening and you want to come and you have an opinion on that one put it on the face book post so i can follow the
conversation as opposed to tete which is a hundred forty carters you don't that mean all yet it easily see it on face book when there's a leet question or some one else some
legitimacy if you put it on the thread for podcast number eighty one when i post it that's the place to put in arenales ye when i can like converse back on that subject without
having to go through seventeen thousand tweeds ye ameba and foliage playthin but that he ate so it's all laid out on face books with kreplach those little conversations twitter we
have different kinds of conversations to sir last of all remember that success in war depends more than anything else on the will to win cogan now we got moisan morals most
important we got joco saying leadership is most important and he got brigadier general mound sell saying that the will to win is the most important i'm not goin actuary with
either one of these gay ses caralog all kinds of experience bade much more intense than mine speaking of intense experience more than mine there's a guy a suite meaning a fake
name baseless in the girodot ing called pox on leadership and the guises actual name was alpeen and he was a world war one and world war two federal than he was a military
historian and he's got a little section in here at called a being straight there is one trait in the character of a leader that above all things are really counts and it perhaps
counts in war even more than in peace being straight no amount of ability knowledge or cunning can ever make up for not being straight once those under him find out that a
commanders absolutely straight in all his dealings with them and free from the slightest trade of self and trust other than the self interest of which we are all guilty when
striving for victory of causes we believe to be right they will love him as their leader trust him or for him follow him and should the occasion arise die for him with the
fundamental ability of the british soldier which comes to the surface when things are at their worst so being straight with your people very important very important in fact
perhaps his most important above all now we got another factor that the most important thing now i can hear a little on leadership from field marshal lord hearing once in in a
world war on it and world war two tattered he also thought the second battle the hall amen he was wounded lost fingers recovered got back to the fight sir he says about leadership
were there some people who believe that leadership is something which is inborn or which you acquire automatically at a public school but neither of those things are true there
are certain fundamental qualities which affect beatership and which depend to a very large extent on upbringing and the moral and spiritual values which you can learn which you
learn in your family and in your environment as a young man but there is no special way nor is there any special cast or class which has the prerogative of leadership there are
many forms of leadership political parties have their leaders every big organization in industry or commerce all have their leaders and at the other end of the scale so do dance
bands and so do gangs of thieves and smugglers there many qualities that apply equally to every type of leader but you i are concerned with one particular type of leadership to my
mind the highest type of all and that is leadership on the battle field than i believe it to be the highest type because it has to be exercised on her conditions of great
difficulty and considerable danger i would like to be quite i would like you to be quite clear about the conditions under which you will have to exercise leadership you will
frequently be tired you may also be cold and wet and hungry and thirsty you may be dripping with sweat where you may be freezing with cold you won't know precisely what is going
on you won't know exactly where the enemy is you certainly won't know what he is going to do or what his capabilities are of doing anything you may not know where your own people
are or what they are going to do to put it briefly you've got to be able to exercise leadership in conditions of fatigue and fear uncertainty and ignorance and often in isolation
that is what makes it extremely difficult and that is why leadership on the battle field calls in my view for the highest qualities many qualities are required in leader different
people have different views about which are mormora in my opinion are a five outstanding mental and physical moral and spiritual qualities without which you cannot hope to be
successful and a good leader on the battle field the first of those qualities is a mental and physical one and that is fitness absolute fitness of mind and body so make sure
you're getting your morning physical training in physical fitness mental sinners next then i would say you've got to have complete integrity you've got to be honest not only with
ourselves but with the men you lead in the people with whom you work and honesty and integrity are things that you cannot compromise with you cannot alter if you do you lose
confidence and you will not be able to lead you must have complete integrity so that's the same thing as being straight ye not after that not in any next sornet after that not in
any order of priority but this is how i have put them down deep in my mind there is an enduring courage pretty well every one can be brave for a few minutes most of us can if we
steel ourselves to it take one pledge or make one decision or incur one risk but the sort of courage you must have to lead on the battle field is an enduring courage and one that
you will go that will go on when other people falter well that will nab you to do what you know to be right irrespective of the danger order difficulty contrary often contrary to
the advice of well meaning friends so got le courage next then you must have daring initiative initiative means doing right away what you might if you had time think of doing a
few minutes later i like to if you wait for sayings to happen to you they will happen all right and here i am carting a words of my predecessor also spoken here they will happen
to you but they won't be what you like and they certainly won't bring you success initiative means seeing at once and very quickly one needs to be done making up your mind to do
it and in seeing it through the bittle bitter end so a love that one you wait for things to happen to you they certainly would owe a little bit more on will power here than you
must have undaunted will power the will power is the motive power it is what enables you to make yourself fit in mind and body to produce in you in your heart the courage the
enduring courage that i spoke of to give you the courage to do your duty in to make the sacrifice that may be called from you it is the will power that forces you to take the
initiative to make the plan to do what is required to see it through and that will power must be undaunted it must never allow itself to be overcome or subdued perhaps the finest
example living to day of the power and influence for good of man with undaunted will powers are primisis in one of the critical periods of the last war he spoke certain words i am
going to co unow he said all the great struggles in history have been one by superior will power wresting victory in the teashop odds or upon the narrowest of margins is the will
power that is superior that can wrest victory in the teeth of odds that is the type of will power that has got to be developed in a leader on the battle field mobilising he talks
about some other qualities talks about knowledge she talks about judgment he talks about tessira saying because you cannot get success on the battle field by yourself you've got
to work with the people so obviously as a leader you have to have that spirit of teamwork in closing out he says there's one other thing i would like to say to you as british
officers you will never have all you want all you need you will be sure of this or that or the other sometimes you will be short of men other times your equipments or weapons may
not be as good as you think they ought to be nor will you have as many as you would like you may be sure of ammunition you may also be sure of food and water or other necessary
things when these circumstances arise as they do often throughout your service both in kean war there is only one motto and that is to make certain that you do the very best you
can with what you got don't belate about what you have not got but get on and make certain you do your utmost with what you have got now to some up what i've tried to say this
afternoon i would like to put it like this first keep fit absolutely fit then be honest honest with yourselves and honest with those with whom you work then have courage and make
it an enduring courage next be bold be daring and when there is a choice take the bold and daring course make the very most of what you have got and never never never give in the
do what you can with what you've got till you really like the one i piccolissima all right next to there's a chapter in this book which is called discipline which makes me very
happy sicanian i tried to sender myself from not just doing the entire chapter obviously you can buy this book if you want to see the whole thing there's a great point this first
one is from field marshal a wave who was in the bowers and he was in oloron ended world war two lost his left eye in the battle ebrecourt king a warrior here that was went back
for service hesleyside about discipline dispietati which makes a man do something which he would not unless he had learnt that it was the right the proper and the expedient thing
to do at its best it is in still and maintained by pride in one's self in one unit in one's profession only at its worst by fear of punishment there talking we want self
discipline we don't want in pose discipline that's what he say you don't i don't want you doing this because you're scared of me yet do i tell you i'm going to beat you that's not
what i want i want you say in went do this because i want to do it here's a little something for mother and we're going to get some disagreements going on to disagree with monty
sorry monty or shed here to defend yourself okay on discipline monte the basis of training must be self discipline cool a man must learn to be the master of himself and to keep in
subjection the bad qualities in his make up i love that self discipline can be developed by training in such things as conception of duty self control self respect in durance and
so on we then have collective discipline and there's no doubt that the initial training in this subject is best curiouly drill men must be taught instinctively to obey orders
whatever they are i do not believe men will fight voluntarily for a cause without the iron bonds of discipline the best form of discipline is subordination of self for the benefit
of the community so amixocores on those number one when you say that you should obey orders regardless of what they are not agree i don't do that i want my men to question my
orders i want them to if i'm still in the do something that they don't think it smart i want them to question me i want them to come up with andabates solution that's how we're
going to win it in them the moral thing to right like to obey a word his regardless oleate all hoosier elfie i want my whole team to be hay this is the wrong thing to do we
shouldn't be doing it he next the other one he says here is he says that people won't fight for a cause without the iron bonds of disponent believe that that's true either and i
think if you look at a merican eastry guise we didn't have this strict of course there's there's this one of ours in the military i there is imposed disponibilite but the things
that people and all all soldiers have accomplished without strict imposed displine is they've given the lives over over the thousands and thousands and thousands and hundreds of
thousands of cases where men of given their lives not because not because i said or because the leader said going to charge this machine gun nest that's that's not why they did it
they did it because they believed in the cost so i don't agree with out i think that men will fight voluntarily for a cause without the iron bonds of discipline and you know when
i think they do it i think they do it when that cause is freedom to win the cause is freedom i believe men will fight without the bonds of disappointer them and this idea that the
best form of disposes the subordination of self for the benefit of the community i don't actually agree without when either i think the best form of discipline is when there is a
lineman in the disappoint the disappoint for the team and the individual bring success and survival and freedom in when those things are alive that's what i think you can the
finest form of discipline now he recovers a little bit from my criticism here sir and of course to every one that is wondering why am sort of making fun of myself it's pretty
embarrassing to be sitting here and disagreeing with the guy like monte so please don't take me wrong way am just giving my opinion here and am i no way couldn't hampering my
military knowledge with general montgomery and he does say this the basis of all discipline is self discipline which this is beautiful when i agree that one per cent the this self
discipline may come from within a person or may be imposed upon him from without on agree i don't only last a little while whatever it sir it's source it involves the idea of self
control and self restraint that is true but there is i think it's called situational discipline i think or at is could i could have the expression wrong by the thing he ification
just meaning like if you're in a certain situation you'll have you'll be really self discipline from any get out you're not in a like em i don't know over you ever watched never
watch the betise all the biggest loser now so yet the much oleif you do no better an wait from the going a show that yet said certain things made to work out the nelson of waited
then they went the program and then when they go back home and they're not around that they imposed discipline right they lose it right that's my point yet my point is that that
imposed discipline it works it will you have the imposters aching you that what i would prefer is to have some one that makes a change in their mind set in developed self
disprehension you can get that and from impose despondent you realize like you get shown the freedom that it discipline gives you and then you carry on worthilake a lot of people
that listen to the pot cast and they've done incredible things with their lives because we weren't there to impose this spot on them but they recognize themselves maybe they said
okay nor omegon to get up for next two weeks on a gapely on more work out of an healthy she leaks go by they've lost a little bit of body fat they've gained a little bit a mossle
at me feel good in and no sunderwise the benefits of discipline and so they changed their mind sending become more discipline human beings ye that's what i like ye on i don't like
is it all run a boot camp on you and yellow you and screaming and put his thing people won't be the yelling scream i think that i think wants or twice a day some one will say you
need to make an alarm clock where you yell and tell us tell me to get out of that ye and i'm i think it's like a lot of water but i'm not going to yell in cyclostomas yelling
isn't in the fact if tolome to actually speaking to some one and letting them understand wide and portant yes that's the preferred to occasionally do you a yellow bebel yes you do
occasionally nor often yes preterea but yet the garita we that situation all discipline because even i i think about it what water somebody yelling at you or some one whispering
it you say actually worse is that some oenology to me it's worse sure yelling and screaming didoes not reaney doesn't really matter what they say in either in don't choose with
yelling or whisper cause like you know even if there's telling you an amal thing like he am here this latter want from the store at obligates tomatoes and you know for wine but
what if i whisper it to co acompany filetta hermy yes to identity exaltation you get that that's the point doesn't really matter what they're saying whispering verses now eely has
a different psychological tafsir see it be that want me free for you be in sagacitie a bottle of wine he can no actually i can i'm leaving it he had the wine kenney citera awkward
for fer all right so now we get into another part of disport here and this is sir john for to ski and when you pay tention of this one is in we circle inside was i haven't my mind
rather those excellent but generally on the shaking persons who shrink with horror from the idea of a man to abdicating his civil rights what they say a man must obey even an
unjust command under pain it may be of death it is monstrous for purposes of civil life it might be monstrous but not for the purposes in of implicit obedience which is the thing
that matters in the army let there be justice as far as possible by all means but as a general principle it is better for an army that an injustice should be done than that an
order should be disobeyed this however is an argument that cannot appeal to our to our imaginary objector because he has read no military history so that's just very disturbing
the whole thing in its really dozen comply with any thing that i say which is a want you question orders if they're not good orders you shouldn't obey him many say on a me it's
better to us something on just as long as you're obeying orders and i get a little bit of research about john for a skean yeovil i don't agree with this and axle in the new
version of the book he the the guide that writes the forward to the new version of this specifically calls out john ford skew and says we removed him the him tentando the book and
what i found out about him was yes he was in the army he was a major new army um but i won't think he was in any combat and what i do know is that he was the rooirand for nineteen
o five until nineteen twenty six and he died in ninety ninety so he didn't go to world war one where that always other guys were world a one for her two laterans he was the light
the royal librarian and its interesting bowne says because he has read no military in said giddier been in combat before it as it redecoration that would have jacko this is never
read military history well destiny if the theory he he's going with a theory yes and and if you want to take this and stretch it out more broadly this attitude you know i hate
world warm one i hate world war one because it was so based on obedience and you are going to charge were in a charge a trench all seven thousand of us are going to charge to
morrow morning azerolier where he govert top when i get more down by machine guns and then the people are on fallstones thing and it would they they've guides were so obedient and
brave and just selfless said do that but this attitude is what made that war so devastating because no one said he wait a second this doesn't seem smart to me i i just watched you
know a two three four battalions or two three four regiments get mow down and now you're telling me i'm going to do the same thing to morrow with my men no i want you question my
orders i want you to say no if i make any do something that doesn't make sense i want you to say no and if i can't explain it you in a logical way then i should re think what i'm
saying to you so mister john fortescue we're goin to have to say that we've kinahane our opinion on on obedience and there are more important things than oleine in a team in a
military team and in the business world here's another piece from the scomber williams slim any army without disapintin more than a mob alternating between frightened sheep and
beasts of prey disappointest soldiers demonstrated in peace and war is the old christian virtue of unselfishness of standing by your neighbour your comrade it is the sacrifice of
a man's comfort inclination safety even life for others for something greater than himself it is the refusal to be the weak lean in the chain that snaps under under strain and the
great little story her one baragraph back the book once from the safety of a well dug command post i looked down on a battery of votaries in action in the african bush it was
firing at five round the pereuntem anent and idly i timed the nearest gun in that area the enemy unfortunately had complete local air supremacy and guns unless engaged in some
vital task were ordered to remain silent whenever hostile air craft appeared graduly dominating all other sounds came the dull drone of bombers flying low but the guns went on
firing five rounds per gun permitted for they were supporting an infantry attack overmore by the way the first stick of bombs fell around the gun i was watching some of its crew
were hit the dry brush roared into flame which spread instantly to the camelones over the gun at vanished from my sight in smoke and flame yet from the very midst of that inferno
at the exact intervals came the flash and thud of the firing gun five rounds perminent pergunna a falter never a second out no weakling there the discipline el that's pretty
awesome sections here talking about duty and service were a first start with colonel george henderson a british officer who fought in egypt and at the battle of cassan and he
fought the boiards well and he talked about waterloo arregebah the book now insident more familiar or military history than the stubborn resistance of the british line at waterloo
through the long hours of the midsummer day silent and immovable squares and squadrons stood in the trampled corn harassed by an ovaltine sent fire of cannon and musketry to which
they were forbidden to make reply not a moment but hear some cry of agony not a moment but some comrade fell head long into the furrows yet as bullets of the skirmishers hailed
around them and the great shot tore through the tight packed ranks the word was past quietly closed in on the centre and as the sun near its setting the regiments still shoulder
to shoulder stood fast upon the ground they had held at noon the spectacle is characteristic in good fortune and in ill it is rare indeed that a british regiment does not hold
together and this indestructible cohesion best of all qualities that an armed body can possess is based not merely on hereditary resolution but on mutual confidence and mutual
respect the man in the ranks has in placid faith in his officer the officer an almost unbounded belief in the valor and discipline of his men in that atargatis people want to know
what makes the seal teams do well the thing that makes the seal teams do well is the bond that holds em together and that bond is so strong that its unbreakable plantat's why
shells do well in combat cause we have a bond that is unbreakable stronger than anything that's going to get thrown out as the brotherhood the s goin to stay in emulos this book
out with two more coats and speaking of water lodestone is from wellington in this is a very simple quote he said my rule was always to do the business of the day in the day and i
i was reading the spoke other day and actually posted something about it but i i i was i didn't realize i was thinking about this but we have a a a saying in the selpa plan your
dive in dive your plan is the sanction your when you're doing a combat swimmer attack which is when you're on a re breedin your diving under water and what an if you ever dove
before he don't understand this it's very hard to comprehend what combats womersley but i'll give you a real quick brief when you're doing a combat die on a rebreathe you
basically can't see anything it's night time you're down at ten twelve fifteen feet under water it's black you can't see anything there's no like fish swimming around there's no
sea life to look at there's no carrets black you can't see anything the only thing you can actually see is something called in a tack aboard which i attack bored sounds really
cool belemites you what it is it's a piece of plastic used to be wood that has on it a depth gauge a compass and the watch detinens you put little tiny tim light glowing came with
you actually take them up so that their barely admitting any light at all and you put one by the stop watch one by the compass and one by the depth dathan when you're under water
so you have those things they're basically strapped on to this board that you hold a i don't know like like the butsire of paper right of eight naliele hispanae how bagebord isn't
on it you've got your depth gage your compass and your stop watch and you can barely see them there glowing very faintly and when you're under water that's all you can see um is
is is that you can't see anything else occasionally you'll get like some weird abstract light from the moon or something but he venatoriae your dalmont and if you are here
benintendi lovisa sometimes that sometimes it's actually hard to see the attack board betto feet in funny face so then what you're doing is your looking at that compass your
looking at that depth dayand your looking at the stop watch and you have pre planned legs bat you're going on you're going to go this long this this bearing this long this depth
for this time a massador kicking looking at this board for an hour and seventeen minutes then you're going to make a ninety degree turn and you're going to go for another forty
eight minutes and then you're going to make a right turn for twelve minutes and you're going to get your target than your turn round and do some other route back out as long as
you can stand on waterstone that eventually run out of oxygen outoo the tsure and you swim the rest of the way to our extract any visions of the glory and tomtoolan a seal this is
isnot it's work and the it's hard work and yesternoon and you got t make sure don't go to shallow or two deep is to you shall you'll be seen if you go to geep your room go off the
the dive tables that you are allowed to be on oxygen for so you got a focus all time and by the way he aristander buddy that's with you he's even more miserable than you are
because he has no idea what's going on he's just trying to keep up with you because sopose reason a way you dived for the way you put your body when you have the tackard you can
swim a little bit fashion the guide that's looking around and make insure that you're not going to hit me thing and make sure not felianine tack board put her there's a want of
tact board for pure purpose times we would make to a nekomata tact or just because it was so much more efficient to fly with him but you can't fly you if you're the buddy you you
can't be just looking at the tackers'll around i take for the attack boardotrade the attack board so with all that the reason of tellingyou all this is that when you're under
water it's really easy to get confused and turned around and sometimes you go over big pieces of metal that here in the water in your compass starts to like a wander around and
you you can't communicate with your buddy noonoonites on sound lietenant to we know we have squeezed signals and sometimes we carry a glistens to write but it never was no real
effective way to communicate under water so you're just in this dark just cold blind situation four three two three four hours at a time and the saying is that we have his plan
your divan diver pan because if you and i go in awater and then we start trying to adjust things while orneatae we'd just if we think we're in de something different once well for
all you nitetis two different things and he is going to be a disaster so we we plant hordiens diver plan and that's reminded me of this statement do the business of the day in the
day no right get down what you say you're going to get done do it oh and how simple as that and it's like die your plan and what i said the hothead plan what you're going to do
and then do what you plant that's real simple and anna is think how far you're goin to think of where you will be in two weeks he every day you plan what you're going to do it
then you do it you plan it it's the amazing yet seem so that that the lower talking but a few weeks ago where it's like distraction that's the thing you know i felisius ries of
distraction yefter wake up i was explaining my eight year old daughter the other day that they design because he is a plain a game on a pad oh yeah iowa do you learning from that
and she said o would you be nectar you learning anything from that is it will i i you have to get these rings is it all so you are not learning anything from that yes and she said
i don't animalisation what they do they make that game to make you want to play at home an there's not there's no man to the gig no headiest want you play that king keep clicking
on that patsie you know of of course i'm just being a toll jerkily the atchway or how well it works i could see it ovenful at you holding a hunt of this thing and just falsity
more when she sounder a housedog up and and press her head as if her head was getting soft or said look at her at home and how long have you been on this for intonation know and
it said i think if you stopped now in your brain might harden back out with entally afridiwise thing with her of her muscles linglelingle celaire's like why you must e giving like
all saffron solfeggio so it worked nettlewort but they do they pull they plan these things to the addicted yet the kilsyte eye atones they have there is no end will everything is
designed her i write a gemissant the face book at that she the little thing that shows all yenimahale he insists might be the message that i've been waiting for it very bleriot it
might not be so that's the thing that's if you know guaranteed it was as gonnes tenty its less addictive calvary will rear yet that's what i'm saying but you the everyone in their
mind just thinking this might be this light might be that it one exactement contacted by by tatouage there dinning back at me to go to come on the pocassett this jack back and
clasp no ray moistenin okay from a movie they have been in a movie now and they all you ganiga wanted other now that alighted on it and the musician i'll kick gotha school of rock
that sonora a great shallow hell that's not a move he sat back to know he is an after i i said in a decent be montemor when ogotay do we just talk about oh we had because that
make in all this might be the week that i was waiting for me from the nats de sure i go check my titter forty seven times a minute ye no not having nocano you don't have a wet
from tenacious de that's not there you know he didn't treat you yes said don't check your twitter go and do something productive yes but so and that's when you're already
distracted so they make it be villeponte as you know do your poor plan your day her tostado the plan right the cause no one platina and you what you plan yet that that's it so you
know plans said what reeeeeally jacked up he's if you actually took what you did in a day and you wrote it down and planned it i bet you could get it done in so much less i'm a
great now i've got a lot of stuff going on right now she i'm doing things that normally take me two hours i'm doing in forty six minahasa quality but i the way to a gitator and i
but you got to put a little suspense date on something and say us do here you gotta get a done you had to sit down and make it happen yes that's what you need to do it it's it
it's one of those simple with uneasy easy things but this is why so you wouldn't you put it in a way you put these kind of parameters on what you are going to do and if like i am
okay i mean a plan and i'm sticking to the plan right that's what i'm doing so i find to do excelso know all these things you and if it so basically right when you say okay here's
the fine you outline it if it's not in the plan you just don't do it it's so her to distraction none pins tike hay to morrow i'm an jessie like craft to march that the land that's
never the plan you know but if you don't have any plan or nothing sure you allow those things to come in so as surlier and you don't get a play in the whole day you know come bind
every meal you don't set if you did hear i'd be real effective idea is you de minyou stay on locked right is so much in them your prep the night before i got there and you go
nostras where your cooking seven chicken breast and you're just read you got everything laid on and if he's the earl that there you go a really aniseed that our wise etherees
tirectly right so and isn't realistic in relenting about it kind o is if you're committed to it well what's crazy is is it takes more work up front how long is to take to prepare
all your meals for the week and by the way i don't do this is but how long i've done it before how long to take repartee pitaty two hours two hours and twenty minutes let's say
they may mottin by the way of a dumb preparing those and you save time in the week right cause now you're not sitting around picoteed a paying your pots and pans read a point your
stove settin out hold out other stuff and you actually organise time you if you plan your day ye in then you do your plan yet and think about to the oatmeal prep example where
kate you don't tip it why we don't plantarey meal for a week to it we just don't do that but when you do the meal pretending situations at we meaning humanly as an earner by i am
a atypical persist so that's a good eats when you do that now boom that your meals a a an element of your life that typically isn't quonian is now planned so now there's those
premiers of set so anything outside those for amideo just don't really think you about is monhegan on the kind of inter you it's real obvious like hey that's not part of this plan
what they owe you know it's like it's more verilie but if you pin it they come in it's kind like whatever there is no primitive there any way my head so tackles for everything you
do for just like a your saint avelot of stuff so you playing of it some of the duties here do this now the hat this time finite time all the stuff those promoters are set for the
distractions have way hearted tending in it so in every day life you can make some ambush when i eat better no plan by the way just it's an ambiguous go this is the parameters on
there you take the one misstep neminea the stottit for longer than you expect it now your late for this now in press for time this mc donald's it and it i'll just sneak right in
but if you got those fronesia macdonald's no no part of my fine i know you have a plan i got edukashin ye ain't all noticing it if you're going to plan your day you should
actually plan to have a time in there that has nothing in it right so you should you should plan to have a half an hour where you're where you're going to address problems right
okay so that way a promise cohere on come up as you you got to have your you free time and i free i mean free to go hankerin and just and make in you but what you shouldn't do his
say goes a tether something that i am a really hard talk like with the poast i'll keep preparing the poast i'll discolouring it out i feel home aivino i go beyond that because i
there's another story that titans something else and i'm going to pay out another book and by the waggon on the ittin to get it from amazon amantibus that you don't have been you
go down where i could prepare for a pot cast forever and not be ready for it and so i have to put my own self in check and say okay draw the line on this delavel of debt on the
thing now i might make a foot note in a kind of cool category now on my computer that's you know tangent where i i opened a tangent and i didn't close it on the poast so now were
on to be able to enter them at a different time half win when time allows clagget focused on that one subject so that's pretty cool yes but it takes discipline to do that because
otherwise i would just go down every rabbiting and you heretic a book like this in her so many rabbits and there is almost impossible to stay out of him eh gets kind of ridiculous
yeah in a way he so my point is when your day and then excuse you pan if you do that coinage a huge difference in your life and it's clock up you look up in a month two months for
months the amount of stuff that you've got one as ridiculous and he one of the ways that i do do that myself as i just potassae with di i say in a do things and then have to do ye
aren't been great at pine if let's say with this parasol example we do this podcast one a week we've held the line really well on that if we didn't if we said you know what let's
just put the poast out when we put it out he itha was the mind set we had from the beginning we would probably i'm going to guess that we would have less than half of the poncas
ontinu out that's my guess a cause we are do said you know what hey i got a train this week and i on to at that and i haven't read the book that i was going to read so cause right
now he broke the oh i've got fifteen minutes that little half hour of my schedule we have nothing destined that half an hour i'm going twenty two minutes worth a reading of a book
that's coming up eh that's what i'm doing if we didn't have the discipline structure that probably wouldn't be athen yeh the problem we wouldn't be able to i you know what though
time with i broyle lips let cisive this week obesities er yea you know what i was going to oh going out to day and only want to do this to day no we're doing it ye me we signed up
for it he'll totally now could it get you a point where said you know what every two weeks we've mentioned that before people didn't like that idea yet you'll well tethele that
idea i didn't like none don't like as i like that disappointeth wouldn't you know why because i'm basically i'm basically confining myself to doing something productive as opposed
to watching you to videos ye right about cats because there's a iemenos right physio you to vitiosity can lotofun good and you're not getting anything out of him if a man the ones
that they rack up for you when you've just got done watching one eh phil wanted they rack up for you all every single one of them when they race think they rack of four on top and
four on bottom on your little screen aheader one of em is as like a click bat brig every one of them as a click then it's wacht's they do the obvious fear brilliant he had because
it it has a lot to do with everything that you've you've waltour said reed's going to be it's the the next idea was always just like it's a monistrol event to what useless if you
want it and that is why that is why you got to get angry at the you know you know if you have that a poohoo have that that waited you overcame your antragues right i like but you
read that it was like you you had low self as leaventritt amat well when you get that when you get that next rack of you to videoing it so yes you should be getting passed the
eyes you know what they're trying to do entertaineth you cliternia her time away from you yes and i the way they're making money from when you otiate thing you never make in their
making money from what you're doing this and so they be set this system of to make you click defyes you're a mark is what you are are you a man you're latorak at you falling
cortereali quitrin to be the way that is legitime am falling for a trick that my brain is playing on me i ponoitlan that chick that i like i said it's hard too because if mixin
with positive stuff on you to biliary good quality stuff on you to beesome great knowledge you can gain from you to forget and if you good a justifying things ye have that's sure
too it so really seriouthly point is i don't want to see her bag on you too because it's no readable source of information if if you keep it information but it's real easy to get
sideways on that year and they somehow know they can attach like watching the street fight to cause our watch street fights or i watch a you know you have he firth a clan watch a
submission it i'll danauna drag you in no who like those click bat titles in of the guy fighting the kangaroo ye man verses kangaroo unbelievable aright and of course it is
ingersoll do i the fighter caryatidian america i had it a fightingest click on the video to see what up all such gorbitsa good job you too well and i'm not going to be a sucker
over here no not ill me alan give yourself a limit ye then that goes back to wait yourself like a click limit on those things ye or to set your plan reggie you some londoners we
you won't it's it even me thinking about it right now rielly after you peneplain it there it really puts it into perspective and all the things he ever i mean your different than
i think i think a lot of people were sometimes people i make plans it like they have important stuff something that impregnate or i got it i got this to do list here's like
rentings on the list which are creasings like a pretty big to do this if you maintenon one day having once don't want many things you do in a day that you can get distracted from
a watery more than ten it's like a lie and that godavery thing everything from like mislested he wake up or not to day but that the time you wake up what you eat everything will
time by the way oh oh that watcher don't watch i gets every every second of these if it had a perimeter on it and you'd be just lay er focus on me all your gold instead of these
ambiguous will lose witren i need to onod excelsior now not ten no singers though the plan doesn't take that much time to put together yes man how you say it it'll end up seeing
you time oh for sure will end up in ten were another will had minute that you spend planning the next day will save you for hours yet you in usually get down everything you have
to get done in lachalotais to their the end it's weird to be can i had no i'm not a limeport on an to make it sound like there's some samson people at a really busy he no i had i
the single mom she's got two three kids she got two three jobs she doesn't you know what she's listengese ion going yet no kited okipation edones he's in the game twenty four
seven aello chesing a game twenty cause she's worse she safely on or twenty she keeping together he and when you say the tishbite did two things to that yet there are busy people
to you not well those anythinged those like the single man's ordering le dads they get calicat i just said they are in a situation they have no choice in the right after it yet
that they're on notoirement after a three like amory get this done they got better fame they are looking at their kid they're looking at their three year old kid that of debt
three rold kid has nothing without that mom getting all the grind and going to the the the restaurant yenarkon as a waitress or whatever or she is working her job whatever it is
doing ever the wouldn't it together no they exactly to day three weeks from now in at four forty six she miles where she is going to be a feelanthrofist common you know compared
to the average first we don't know and then competition even like a hundred percenter which i nominators hanno cruising creature any fine ethelyn feintise ambiguous to activity
that but then go the other side of the spectrum of busy people i mean they're busy because they don't pionniers busy all the time meanwhile no no productivity no we are orrery
little mamie he emitted interplan your day excite plan all right last little cloak from this this is frederick degrade the battle of collin in seventeen fifty seven and there were
some troops that were read a couple of different versions against speaking of rabbit holes start going down this rather holes i read two different versions of this there was
either troops that were hesitating to attack or there were troops that were actually retreating and to these troops freniers sad dogs would you live for ever and another way that
was translated was you cursed rascals would you live for ever and with itinerates not to his own true playright are leaving either either hesitating to attack it or their order
retreating and essaying dogs aindeoin tale not well on them will would you live for ever now that what you looking for to live for ever i no you shouldn't and you know i i think
that's what you wait to retire up that book because like we said both to quote always do the business of the day in the day to plan ere you do in duet you plan and dogs you cursed
rascals wood you live for ever let me answer that for you know you won't and we're bertoldo a book with ocote book toting with talk about leadership and that's awesome but you got
a start by aiding in the year self by doing what you say you will do that integrity personal integrity when you say that you're going to do something that big talk about being
straight say are to a personal integrity that start with yourself by doing what you actually say you are going to do by not hesitating and waiting canaled yourself so get moving
don't wait do what you can and do it to day because you don't get to live for ever and the clock is ticking and i think that's all i've got for to night in echo since we are not
hesitating right now if you could without hesitation please explain to people how they might be able to support this part est if they will do sure of course cause we don't want to
live for ever he said a man acalycine barbarian didn't say that what he would go to the dinah doesn't say much in connemara in a lifetime but not a much he is girl friend girl the
insipiens then she died later but whatever a sheer that somethin they had the date when there boded something nuts she says do you want to live for ever then they just charge
caracalla go cup she she can't exile additament you sit anyway speaking of not hesitating so kettlewell talk about on it but this kind of relevant reminded me i kind of mention it
earthier before started recording so i hear good things right kettlewell and i'm little familiar incorporate em here and there but you know i'm here more and more so mihimana dis
be part of the you know the ocean thuporamo yes you do cataballitive gouch dumb bell stuffed dedelighted i actually don't use a wanrearah dumb bell gay yer like epilichnions how
ellusive like people will say how much can you bench theodora and not enough for fianoula to interact calls starting kettle bells but i got an you know he learned the tepee
careful with kettlewell is he doing the cattle bells ye yon how they see us start off light this i'd say with cattle bells more so they need cause when you throw a cat that thing
it's not in it a dumb bell like you grab a dumb bilitas a perfect handle each side of the dumoley balanced there fame exactly for a kettle belly as a handle in its one saying
it'll fit for round it'll break your ayre you can break your ante or when you're swinging a unite one that you go in all the terms marry but the one you grab it with the two hands
all sanekenh basic or obsolete your legs if bridelike swing it and my browett this what if my balance was off or out onowenever and the kettle bill hit my chin you being a lot of
pain broken break your chin if you ever sure not even if you had like a sixty two pound gettler chin be careful o that you know it so to make things actually technically they're
not much to it at the the hon et ones that is the war wolf i know and the champin all that and you'd think when you compare them to the regular centevilles oh there the kettleson
right the regular ones in looting oh you know that the design of one with a werwolf they might be in outward because they're not like perfectly uniform but guesseth ballots on
they make em desate re just the safe but so we go to her as i am i i am claiming the re a emergence of katabira and you like him i like him a lot and the point is don't hesitate
right because you know how you know ayude more kettlebelly and belus go that's what it is no parameters but i was like you at adasa day i'm going to do a invasion to be the work
out of it some y work out was you you are numbers i'll keep you numbers so we didn't mecontente bells the were wolf still those sixty two pounds each and to the dull bump so he
did it's like a d an off this is actual kettle bill official move in i think it you go it's like a katabasis two of them upside hierro sand sir up to clean okay kenitra and then
the randies it ran in the back down rassam okres yes so i do five raps and then five berbice walk in a circle thirty five seconds ere five raps again so i do that six times too
quick in eight minutes eight half minutenesses same as mother macabaw the cataballa annis ten of the squat proeeded i used to do that with a bar it's there is a lot of little
mussels in there a tatoo excelence is satanstoe there less stable than a bar bell ye and day move awkwardly yes or you have to use more energy and more strength to keep them under
control that was working some asses that you're not used to most likely get your it's it's interesting because you use in like you can get into this kind of salt weird but it is
slow of like you don't like one it swings down is not like all it doesn't jerk you down i will if you're not ready for it but if you cut in now after you get you to it it just
flows is like this almost knowing that ye catalogo yes so do that anyway where were you in your tetoro i set my cantabiles from on it i only get the corn so actually afterwards
and i had a picture of an a posted on line two but elsie you are for it was less about that at that point you know oh but lanigan the were wolf one so and gorulga's on one of the
videos on there to he kind of mentions as he like i like this went because it's like i think it's like the gorilla or something like that yes like it looks at you and it's like it
wants to do he says to he says that the grill looked like he wants to bite your dick offuscat something of his life but he has a good point like those cattle but the bells when
you like man i really don't want to do this and then they're just looking at you you know and you're a tank you walk leave come back and you look at it and it still looking at you
with the same expression because it's you know cannabalistic arcangeli helped yeah you know put you get into the work out you know there you know especially i hoouiti i do that i
on it for port right don't guess on a doom slashed jacko temper chitoned cattle bells alpha brain strong bone at ye crillon sheik yet so with the crill mind didn't come in yet i
slacked in with the willing come in yet and i'm kind it's weird amonition best up or not but i'm collidentes think so or actually want to go you noetically system and pletely
that's not good eh then got a intorno it yea they lisait i could take so six days yes in my etiquette a confident i start to be like all the anointing something to day nameless
call the best quill straight up it is from one laundalet jocko temperance want that temperance off go slash jocando way to support yourself forces and get after it more
efficiently also if you want to check out this book sir to lead a we have a postobit i take it to amazon gables books from there he clicked to the website that port but castlewood
with her by news books any book we didn't sawale no we did roofings last were you removed saison novel will be covered in paason undered ye if you i were goin to talk about the
whole book it's a novel so scale spoilers sir if you want to listen that portas you got read that book and now it's a thousand pages long it's freak in wall if so get the book now
so that you can get the satisfaction of the book because it has the most applicating it's one of the most epicaene of any book here in it on t dobada dacca website bullocks duck
makes books are all on there also the one you mean to do to day one called mind games the book that i reoutfit on her i did it yet the the author is michael powel near the thing
is not like it's not like a typical book where it's like talk about anger management's not that it's it's literally like there's little games like mine brain exercises in there
you know it's just everything in the really short chapters are just little things in that one chapter have been to be above stealing with anger anyway michael powl is the author
on the often appotioned legs yet the alainville basically quick through the bone exams on it loseille support thing in all smalcald be reaction or if he do other shopping on the
doctor got taitsan showing really but you know these books as a good that's a rule relevant when i think that people um you know they do gonadotropin pompton their armour also
subscribed to the porcari he have an already i too satchel golly which are the one you prefer at the itous popular but i seegnified references to bogilly in general society you
know also a lot of time ature stitch or enter you know how like a loud hem people they don't want to go man stream you know oh yeah inside like the meuse keeper old school or a
war on your ground ye you know whom it makes sense you know what's the old saying don't go with the herd or back less traveled on one of the small note in sandal same deal so i
get it golaud good news is wrong all of them on the woolscourer avenue also you to subscribe to or you to channels we do have you do you do channel dockwater weak but it not only
do that have the video version of this poet has excerpts and de luckers ramos exerted you have in hand to will just say in hand step excerp also uneaten it i have this other idea
you know what i'm a do on a make little we'll just set other little videos to astonied and value so to speak like that it well the video is a very compelling form of interaction
with people yet that's why that's why you too i think you to be like the most searched to website bigger than its more searched than gobaea long but it's up there evison the one
is number two we now if you want to learn something people immediately yes search you do yes that's the ingas what you remember the other day we talked about you to read yet i got
you too readily because they had but he adds was one thing but also cause you can listen to music without it being on the screen it plays in the background like a tunes that is
that the man rothenwald that i've a lot of music and want me to that i listen to is an old high tones cause it's old school it's hard core its underground like the literary not on
there yes but the you to videos at the phraseology i be on there from some more and m hard core band you from new york state new york and the terterta album that they made though
antidepressants long that came out in nineteen eighty seven it'll be on you to is not anywhere near i do you it's on it and you can play it with ye awesome yet makes sense um i
guess they you too bread sometimes fell put or not something all at a nulato no cease the main selling point romist the all without tracks of any wish eroine alban's with track's
or one without fanwell typically i don't listen to you too for the music situation that i got where i go to a fevered you will change that ye may be i mean red they push it with
hay no adds and then i'm like cool now at but man am not that quick to jump on the no ed thing i there been plain in fallentis but he adds that play i all like it'll be for me
directories adding i want me to i you know way sometime and ultimate to personate an maybe christianity of your enjoy the advertisement i get the tiles adds a lot in a hat is very
titotalleurs smart die he's actually one of the reasons why i like at this started reading a lot like one of the reasons and so i smart i plan his ads or all over you to it but i
know it's my fault because it's relevant to what i watch apparently that all they do that so it is my fault but that those lads i get i say should you go to college you know what
an anyway oh yes so yes it's reader you too you know that's him subscribe is on this one good feed back you know have keep posting videos it does help that people will say a
betides he in addition to just usurpation peer for a silage um so yes i tried the good and are also joculator called jocatore jocatore out come on there we have the shirts if you
were a tea shirt you know checkmate em if you're interested in eating on their get some amasai so i'm not saying he cries good jock wolterton and by a tshernigov tintagel to come
some sure so there soho's on their rash guards patches from women stuff from tanktops and what not travel monks hats coming soon anyway check him up if you like on have come and
soon before ye awareness by your return times on the hinges you've hands on what you think soon well well you say soon to me i that man treemendious i drop on coat for hatter when
you for not a heinemann nothing that it is but that's not on a plain or in new kitoui in omar in coy in a way so on the end of omerod is a don't know what it is the church or
religious centre or something manias on the top it says jesus coming soon and that went up when i was i think the years old so soon his relative surgere rerelative yes it's a
sliding scale for sure wilayat hats i hope get here before the return of jesus ye set together sir we can make that half of it at a cahoot it summer time ye now right now it
summer time when you have to wear in the sun all right to block the sun yes that's what has to yet doth fill yet there it is jocosely be see something on there that you like you
recognized the layers grab something support her as a little thing jocound to shirt do sin specifically one under per cent too by the way by jocko ivan tried to put my little
pinky and there in a imputation denied in my broth do you know who manage is at her lore let shoot up it's been printed but you know we went with it and hunted per cent jocka's
design hanebeen not really approved by me i mean it's a proved but like i tried to like make my little considerations melite altered ations and godforsaken how was watching out
for them alterations toward about her my creative amoeniorum them be totally overcame him he ran me look i like on making this shirt and that a direct order and a wit happen yes
now you you at you finessed for sure but at the end of the day i looked up an i was like dingy import on you know the store that you know i think i feel like i'm the manager of
the store apparently in wrong but that's cool so eerie shirt as the result the someone durlestone comissatio psychological warfare if you know what that is it's an able with
tracks of jocose voice saying in telling helping so doing is helping to people myself included by the way through moments of weakness if they arrived a rise a riverine so yeah if
you're having trouble poor from one day if you want to know an clock of me which people ask me for this gets like locrensis it is your arm yet debts it that's why we need it
because every one was asking for that so there you have it do you have need to you don't need it we're not going to make a ring tone i don't think ye we'll tak ye technically you
jest said it as he to set as a ring on and your ten yeah it's yea and he works really good special that well it depends on your weak this right or we'll kind of person you are so
you know me if you say echauffaut thirty for one year every morning one year there is going to be a day or two where it's going to be harder than you know than another day so put
on the track which i'm do you wake up fatha's classified so geslaapt herring were like a noon come now on sad overshootin iowa the noon o you indited in too i i he was it's a long
story but yet wi wife was the casilda to join us or life to my sugeon at you no not wishes ragionati new and procedit to her house just like a interest take care of the sprawled
out or it up lilienstein getty at a little gilded not donnacha nge no less tact to salonica if you have you know it if you're on a deal yet you eating his clean boom you get that
temptation one day at work the doutelle bring the door won't talk about ovaltine people just do that too ceedon grace e heron are a parent he talks about em like how the eye go to
a restaurant and they're like also cut the kids here some you know here's a cup cake for the gercourt and people like overlook how rude in but it's like a distant home of a
violation tersely wrath poison you can feed them are your own hey look at look up cut your kids are kids let me give them something super on healthy filey cept what happens when
people bring don up for work and think oroetes for the office not that i frown upon them to sam put it into perspective none the less if some one does that while you're at work we
megara for that too put it on requickened you know so it's for you sokarahita lies decelent your anyway scaldai orfer look at it on or look for it on i too cockalorum goolay and
auscultate stuff the sowerer temptress are being distributed coals all amalon ongeoise p and e ears a little verifier has review again this means at the person is verified yeah is
a hundred per cent so here's the review as a tea guy i am somewhat picky so ordered some jackal white tea i'm pretty sure the box was growling when i opened it that's a verified
review because i bred up some tea and poured it over eyes after which i went on my bike for training ride i was pulled over twice i explained that i had consumed some jackie deep
efore i left me off ter just nodded and said get after it the next offer was not so forgiving and gave me a ticket for speed limit um so in summary this ten get pretty price if he
don't wind speeding tickets were heroding like so as is another thing to be careful of it drink jacobite tea and then you get on a like you got a watch out that you don't get
speeding tickets because you renegotiate than the speed limit that's he jock await thee all so all an amazon you can get a way a war your kit and this this review here way the
warrior kid also verified percuota amazan this is the book i wish i'd read when i was a kid and if the same thing i say old time i work in schools in a already bought a perecop of
land out to my students i've also read it twice myself though i am thirty nine year old man side note my poets have also improved so i'm telling you it's a kid's book sure that's
what every one says that you know what is set up kind o look like true is less intonation le jake an we all need a tell where the warrior kid you can pick that one up also
dispence freedom field manuel you know this book is about about getting after it mentally and physically simple straight forward so if you want to get after it get the dispinsed
om the yield manuel not a lot of fluffing there i'm in a tellwright now not a lot of bluff straightforward of course we got the book extremer ship is the book we refer back to a
bunch on her combat leadership on for your life for your business for your school for your family for you on it and for your business or your team you can get us ashlan front we
your ship managed a consulting to help bring leadership at your team to the next level that is lay baton who wrote extreme oneship with me that is j p to nell that is dave burge
boo's guys are bent on the poast awork and both would those both o guys extents of we in the battle or a mode and myself also at alan front so that all we do we on accompanies eel
you with your leadership in full at ashlan not calm if you're interested also the master in austin texas to a thirteenth and fourteenth on my bare creeks or i think this might be
sold out by the time this airs it's ah then you that's only three hundred seats we sold most of em if you don't get a ticket in time tatchick mister monogram seeing stagnatic it
for that one and if he don't get a ticket in time for that one that's okay come the and iego said temper fourteen and fifteen for master zero's girl for that one is also at the
army hotel but the one in san diego lots of folks are coming back to that one not people that went to the first master in san diego or coming back for another go goober awesome we
will see you there and in the mean time if you want to talk to us we are actually upon the interweb contador on in stagra and we colisee that one on the face bore echo is at
echter in i m at jackall and sankey one from listening to the pot cast but don't just listen go out wake up earlier work our harder read more make yourself better a better soldier
a better sailor better air man or a better marine a better police officer a better fire fighter a better pair of medic make yourself a better engineer or janitor or waitress or
water or lawyer or doctor or cornacchini or builder make yourself a better person a better leader every day and as charlie may said on july first nineteen sixteen before he went
over the top into the raging hell that was the battle of the sum he said it is a glorious morning and it certainly is all of the arm every morning is curious so get out there and
get after it and until next time this is echo and jocko out
