this is jacopo cast never eighty two with a corals then me joaille good evening echo it in me i was walking down the street and i was pretty sure i would die and i did not mind in
fact a large part of me looked forward to it to that release to go to heaven to meet christ for it all to be over i corded death like a sailor courts a toiling spanish barmaid i
was not afraid even as we trod a gross broken streets with asphalt and make shift concrete piled that like slope cake icing hiding the surprises below large ideas and screams and
blood and burning flesh and burning vehicle tires all superficially hidden all obviously present all a joke death had been at the forepart my mind and part of my decision to
become a soldier at all and that's what i considered myself a soldier a grunt an infantryman a ground pounder a soldier what else is there we all turned into soldiers on patrol we
competed with each other and the men in other units and other services to see who could petrol in the most disciplined way we would see who we could catch staring at his feet or
not watching his field to fire or not scanning for threats or not keeping his shooting hand on his gun then when the shooting did start we would watch to see you had panic and who
would cower these were seemingly fun games and recesses breaking up the fear which was so overpowering it put it deep ache the nortons and in our bowls there was chaos that promet
this point wild music as a young boy slayer metallica in their prime venemur have yalcoba age ten jugulent late night punk concerts and mash pits where i nearly lost my front to
find a twelve as it dug deeply into a pun shaved head i was tall for my age and people treated me like an adult they tried to bring me into their filth junkies perverts
degenerates and evil world burning so much so thou ware was a dream come true it seemed as if now i could fight back against the depravity than evil that tried to ngome and i held
that quite at hope that unspoken hope that maybe i could die in war doing something heroic like the trained us to do may be this god forsaken and worthless life could be over this
gantlet and so the ed laden road attempting to scare me and as wardo and i did not care about it about the set up about the punch line i just wanted any contact and i wanted to
smell the blood of particles floating through the afternoon air then the screams of the dying that is what i wanted he seemed so beautiful my mind had romanticized at all but what
we got wasn't so romantic as i wasn't so beautiful most of the screams i heard with the screams of my countrymen as they bled or the screams of innocence who were in the wrong
place at the wrong time i watched the funerals of men we shot going right past us the children crying the wives glaring as they damned us with ancient babylonian curses that would
try to follow me back to my home in satanic nightmares where i could not escape them all those things may death so true and so beautiful and so acceptable now those words were
written by some one that i served with in remodification he sent them to me the other day after we talked in a asinaria down what he thought about and he was walking down the
street in remodulates he wrote about it revealed so much of the the incredible spectrum of a motions and facts that run feared in an obviously war magnifies those but these are
faults of a human being in these the kind of fault that people have not just in war but in life the struggles and as i sitting thinking about you know that word and that the fact
that struggle i absolutely sheep as to talking about this when i was with joe rogan and chris cornel form sound garden had just killed himself and we were talking about the
struggles and joe was saying that the stroke you we got a kind o like struggle and you need to will people need struggle and some of the feed back that i saw on social media was
you know that a difference tween struggle and challenge and then that a challenge is good but struggle as bad and and you know i don't know that i'm not wishing struggles upon any
one no no go but i do know that struggle and strife shape as it it shapes us there's no doubt and as i was thinking about this i started thinking about it bunch of different books
that i've read in the past and on one of them is a book called and we go on and it was written by a a guiding will are bird whose from nova scotia canada and he was a soldier in a
canadian army in world war one and he enlisted in the army to replace his brother so his brother been killed in battle and he said okay i need to i need to enlist now and at first
he couldn't lift erhead teeth and then as more and more guys got killed they loosened the standards and they allowed him in even with his bad teeth and the book is very different
in were not going to go through the whole book to day but what makes the book difference he talks about like the supernatural and the erinite book as a matter of fact which is
called ghosts have warm hands and so this kind of supernatural world is something he spent some pretty decent amount of time on and in the beginning of the book one of the things
that he says is the trench at the zero while was a crucible that dissolved all insincerity and the superficial and you can clearly imagine that these guys getting ready to go over
the top i mean what else matters at that point everything that's not true is everything that is not sincere just means nothing at that point and i'm going to go to book here for
for a minute an here's one of the things he said about the sort of again a magistrate about the psychological side of what people are going through sir i regard of the book this
story is an effort to reveal a side of war but has not been given much attention the psychic effect it had on its participants there existed before all battles and even in the
calms of the trench routine a condition before which all natural explanations failed that no supernatural explanations were established every human emotion ran its full gamut in
that land of topsy turvy and prolonged intensity of feeling wrought feeling wrought strange psychological changes which warped the soul itself never on earth was there a place
where a man's support often is sole support was his faith in some mighty power all intervening thoughts were swept aside unconsciously there were born fat that men carried through
critical moments and tortured minds grasp fantasies that served in place of more solid creeds in its interesting that he says what the soul in an i don't actually thinking in
again i'm no literary expert but i don't think he means that with thee the negative connotation of warm being negative and bad but i think he means like at the parture from the
normal of departure from the straight line moving the way from the natural direction and so he leaves it leaves men changed and like i said nuncomar this this whole book will
probably do it some point in the future but i i think when he did to the end of the book and he he makes some statements that are pretty powerful and of course this is now after
he's gone through the war and he is one ship sailing back to canada he may be section hero back to the book darkness the rush of the ship i felt my way again into a stifling dug
out into an atmosphere rancid with stale sweat and breathing earth mould and the hot grease of candles i saw faces cheeks resting on tonics mud streaked unshaven dirty faces with
some with teeth clenched in sudden hate some livid with puleston fear as all men turning on the wire bunks quivering as if some red hot grill i heard them gasp and sob and cried
out in agony and muttered as they tossed again then a machine guns note louder higher sharper crack at crack as it sweeps over you in a shell hole where you hug the earth the
growl of garreoc es heavy steps in an unseen trench just the other side of the black mass of tangled bar barricade beside which you cower the long drawn whine of the shell is hard
gripping explosion the terrible oppressive silence that follows then the first low wail of the man who is down with a gaping blood spurting wound i moved about shook myself sniff
the salt there and tried to rid myself of my dreams then as i stood there there came a sudden chill i grow cold as if i had entered a clammy cavern i could not understand but when
got my great coat a dim figure passed me as i returned to the deck and a voice said we're getting nearer home i can feel the change oh i knew we had left the warm current and were
into the icy water nearer home we had left behind the comradeship of long hours on the trench post and patrols long days under blazing suns and cruel marches on cobbled roads the
brotherhood of the line and we were entering a cold sea facing the dark the unknown we could not escape dark figures came and stood beside me i had not fought at any one save
myself would come on deck and here they were ten a dozen still more all hunched and great coats silent staring i looked at my watch there was three o'clock in the morning these
men could not sleep they were come to see the first lights of halifax i moved quietly among them scanning each blurred face it was as i thought they were all old timers with men
of the trenches we went all on and on and on and no one spoke though he touched shoulders a tried to think of a comparison ah we were like prisoners i seen them standing like that
without speaking staring thinking prisoners we were prisoners prisoners who could never escape i had been trying to imagine how i would express my feelings when i got home and now
i knew i never could none of us could we could no more make ourselves articulate than could those who would not return we were in a world apart prisoners in change that would
never loosen till death freda and i knew those at home would never understand they would be impatient wondering why we were so dumb unable to put our experiences in the words and
there would be many of the boys who would be surly pastern moody resenting good intentions perhaps taken to hard liquor and aimless drifting we of the brotherhood could understand
the soldier but never explain him all of us would remain a separate definite people as if branded by some monstrous despotism but i warmed as i thought of all that the brotherhood
meant the sharing of blankets and bread and hardships the binding of each other's wounds a talk we had had of intimate things of the dogged simple faith that men had shown flashes
of their inner sells that strengthened one's own soul perhaps when my barness past when i had got back to normal self to love one tried hard by years of waiting i would find that
despite that horror which i could never forget i had equalizing treasure in memories i could use like jacob's ladder to get high enough to see that even war itself could never be
the whole of life the watcher stirred i tingled my froat tightened waves of emotion seized me held me i grew hot and cold at queer sensations every man had tensed craned forward
yet no one spoke there was the moment for which we had lived which we had dreamed visioned pictured a thousand times it held us now so inthralled so full of feeling that we could
not find utterance a million thrills ran through me far ahead saint bogong brighter we had glimpsed the first lights of home in that line twenty sees perhaps when my bitterness is
past and i couldn't use my memories and he say could use his memories like jacob's ladder to get high enough to see that even a war itself could never be the whole of life in
those of the struggles he talking about those of a hard ships and this dischingen his mind set to not let those drag him down but but to use those to climb up then i think evie we
lose track of that sometimes in all we seized the trench but we get stuck in the trench in a think it's interesting that these men literally and metaforically speaking these men
wore intrenches but they were able to rise out of these trenches the trenches of unimaginable suffering and i i think to myself if they are able to rise out of those hellish
trenches the namengan to we can't do an again this testing that my distiny body sent me they just got me thinking about that psychological tool of war and that sent me into fat of
another book again another book that i read a while back oinometer when i read it but i distort of thinking about it and this one was about vietnam and it's diacessis it's called
a rumor of war and in again well will absolutely cover this book on the pocataligo point but on kind of dust was on this literary tour mode in the sight i think it's just a good
view of the psyche that people are in war which again reflect what and there's a section in this book where filipino is a sign to reason unit is in the rear and you know he's a
lieutenant brine cors he's in the rear and i think he's in a regimental command post or something but is not fighting and hear what he thinks of that go into the book in the
middle of november that my own request i was transferred to a line company in first battalion my convictions about the war had eroded almost nothing i had no illusion but i had
volunteered for a line company anyway here were number of reasons of which the paramount was bored of there was nothing for me to do but count casualties i felt useless and a
little guilty about living in relative safety while other men rested their lives i cannot deny that the fun still held fascination for me the rights are wrong at the war aside
there was a magnetism about combatant you seem to live more intensely under fire every sense were sharper the mind worked clearer and faster perhaps it was the tension of
opposites that made itself an attraction balanced by revulsion hope that ward with dread you found yourself on a precarious emotional edge experience experiencing a haynes that no
drink or drugs could match the fear of madness was another motive teosinte i had had in the that day in the mass of seeing more on herriton prefigured in death had become a
constant waking nightmare i'd begun to see almost every one as they would look in death including myself shaving in the mirror the morning i could see myself dead then there were
moments when i not only saw my own corpse but other people looking at it as all life going on without me listest of not being any more came over me at night just before falling
asleep sometimes it made me laugh inside i could not take myself seriously when i can already see my own death nor seeing their deaths as well could i take other seriously we are
all the victims of a great practical joke played on a spit god or nature may be that was why corpses always grinned they saw the joke at the last moment sometimes it made me laugh
but most of the time it was not at all humorous and i was sure that another few months of identifying bodies with land me in a psychiatric ward on staff there was too much time to
brood over those corpses there would be very little time to think in a line company that is the secret to emotional survival in war not thinking finally there were hatred a hatred
buried so deep that i could not then admit its existence i can now thoist painful i burned with a hatred for the vicar and with an emotion that dwells and most of us one closer to
the surface than we care to admit a desire for retribution i did not hate the enemy for their politics but from murdering sinson preceptive that boy whose body had been found in
the river for blasting the life out of all leave revenge was one of the reasons i volunteered for a line company i wanted a chance to kill somebody and you could see even in that
the yokota not with the first piece of a thing's being a joke and how you just heard you just get to this point where things become a joke how can you take anything seriously when
you don't even know what's going to happen and if you're going to live how much meaning as life have if you're not going to live it resets back out to aline company and now he's
on patrol talking about none what that's like externally but what it's light mentally psychologically going back to the book i tightened a shoulder straps of my pack heavyladen
with signal flares smoke grenades dry socks upon joe and three days rations and entrenching tool machete were lashed to its side in my pockets i carried a map compass handgrenades
more flares hallason tablets malaria pills and a spare magazine from my carbine a pistol two clips of ammunition knife first aid kit and two full canteens hung from my belt my
steel helmet and flack jacket added twenty pounds to the load the deer probably weighed over forty pounds altogether but i felt a wonderful soaring lightness in my limbs i felt
good all over better than i had felt months even kneel who was not inclined to hand out compliments had praised my gung ho enthusiasm before the potion left base camp a sudden and
mysterious recovery from the virus of fear had caused the change in mood i don't know why i only knew i ceased to be afraid of dying there was not a feeling of invincibility
indifference rather i ceased to fear death because i ceased to care about it certainly i had no illusions that my death if it came would be a sacrifice they would merely be a
death and not a good one either a good death involved a certain amount of choice ritual and style there were no good deaths in the war but the manner of dying no longer mattered i
didn't care how death came so long as it came quickly and painlessly i would die as casually as a beetle as crushed under a boot heel and perhaps it was this recognition of my
insect like pettiness that it made me stop caring what was a beetle we were all beatles scratching for survival in the wilderness those who had lost the struggle had not changed
anything by dying the death of levee simon soldan and the others had not made any difference thousands of people died each week in the war and the sum of all their dest did not
make any difference the war went on without them and as it went on without them so would it go on without me my death would not alter a thing walking down the trail i could not
remember having felt an emotion more sublime or liberating then that indifference toward my own death forgin a a common thought pattern is this this feeling of a amanal and one
thing that consent me free is deaf and once i overcome that that that that just allows me to go and do what i'm supposed to do and i'm jist goin a fast forward once again
kundalini the will bird going to the end where were podkins of wraps up his the's goin to bring home from the war and at this point he's you know he's obviously survived the enemy
he survived actually at this point he survived a court marshal cause he'd got it some trouble there was some bad things had happened while he was in charge there was you know
cases against him and he kind of got out of that situation and now he is heading home going back to the book we stood waiting in the sun at the edge of the run way thereabout a
hundred and fifty ellis and we watched his replacement draft filed off the big transport plane they fell into formation and tried to ignore the dusty hand ragged looking men who
jeered them the replacements looked strange the young frau younger than we and awkward and bewildered by the scorched land to which an indifferent government had sent them i did
not join in the mockery my felt sorry for those children knowing that they would all grow old in this land of endless dying i pitied them knowing that out of every ten one would
die two more would be maimed for life another two would be less seriously wounded and sent out to fight again and all the rest would be wounded in other more hidden ways the
replacements were marched off towards the convoy that awaited to carry them to their sign units and their signed fates none of them looked at us they marched away shouldering our
sea bags we climbed up the ramp into the plain the plain we had all dreamed about the grand mythological freedom bird a joyous shout went up as the transport lurched off the run
way and climbed into the placid sky below lay the rice patties and the green folded hills where we had all lost our friends and are you the plain banked and headed out over the
china sea towards okinawa toward freedom from death's embrace none of us was a hero we would not return to cheer in crowds parades and the pealing of great cathedral bells we had
done nothing more than endure red survived and that was our only victory and i think that is important for us to remember that in some cases some of the things that we go through
some of the things some of the challenges in tribulations and trials are people get put through sometimes survival is victory and all you can do this survive in make it through a
situation that your in and i think sometimes when people survive something a horible instead of being apprete that they made it through instead they tous on the fact that they got
put through it you and again i don't i'm no professional at all and there was no there was there was you know even when i was on joergensen and we were talking about chris cornell
committing suicide you know some one said you know cause we kind of devolved into a conversation of hay it no get outside and timpanitidi was on this pot cast you know he was
saying you know get move and get physical man so you don't john i were just kind of talking about that and and and some one came on and said you know you know at wigour talking
about it's it's it's you're lucky to survive something like this it's horrible and and you know i can i sit man hiti know i am i'm not saying that and and literally i realisted to
joe and i talking and both of us awoke we were saying was over over an i don't understand this i don't comprehend it you you know so i don't think that was the intention was
saying oh oh you after do is go get it out of cataballa he'll be good to go that's not the intention at all and that's not what either one of us not only was it not while you're
trying to say we didn't actually say that we were saying hey i don't understand it i haven't been in that position before that's why we brought us lie babraham on her because the
at lived through that and and knew how bad it was and planned to kill himself and so that to me is some one that can give their opinion joan i were slittering i don't comprehend
but i think when you get a guy like the author of this book a roomor whose to who's talking about there their victory or his victory and the people in the play their victory in
vietnam was survival was just getting through it and interest nothing you're going to keep these joyous about but i think at least recognizing okay i made it true now let me move
on you is important now again i i i went on this kind of literary tour that i was launched into after reading what worthy body rot because it reminded me of so many other things
that i've heard and so many other things that i've read and so another great you know of view point comes from eugene sladen he wrote the book with the old breed which is ache
classic and we covered it pocasse ten if you want to stop now go back and listen to patasan with eugene sled with eugene sledge with the old breed it's just incredible account of
what he went through in world war two in the in the pacific feature with the marine corps but he wore another book after that and the next book they wrote was called china mali
and it talks about what they did when the war ended you know i need the time he spent soopah a fine and in country spent some time in china and then it talks about what it was
like when he got back to america back tom mobile alabama and it's definitely impact definitely in packful so here's what he came to came home to an manatic up where his dad
estolido is an his dad was a physician during world war one and that's one of the reasons his dad was if you remember you in sledge couldn't get in the marine ornavit because he
had i think he had a hard limmershin like that as so they didn't let him in and his dad was kind o ocaywita then the renews okay without because he had seen what the boys from
where i or one had come home like not only physically but also psycological guys had to guide had the shell shock which is a horrible senega of said this before going you two an
look at the use of warwards shock it it's olefines to look at and that's what eugene sledges of father had seen and so when his son couldn't go on the record was kind like a poke
you know you you can serve in other ways and you in sledge wanted to serve and so you in ledge got he actually got away for in the end i guess the hart murmur had faded enough for
they didn't notice it until we got them ricorbico es back his dad he that is talking to an i think otto good place to pick up his dad called him freshets that was eugene sledge as
nicothoe so here we go you gene sledges dad talking to him fritz he said i know you have been through an awful experience i know that nobody had it worse than the first marine
division except may be those on button and those others who were imprisoned in tremendous in proud of both you and edward you did your duty under terrifying conditions but you
survived in one piece branded with some terrible memories you'll have to learn to live with but take my advice first never become in bitter because many of the men had safe
comfortable morsimon all too often obtained through political influence that's the way of cowards in this world two never feel sorry for such yourself because of what you endured
all the contrary feel fiercely proud that you served with the finest and fought against the fiercest enemy and lived to tell the tale three if you ever drink out cohol do it in
moderation alcohol can be a wonderful escape from bad memories but it is addictive will make you act the fool and ultimately ruin you to the last remark i replied i know father of
seen that happen a good bodies recalling some of the worst cases in china he replied yes and i've treated some of the nice people who were ruined by the stuff but i can't cure
them they must have well power so rilly straightforward warning about alcohol jack about not feeling bitter towards people that didn't maybe do or go through what he went through
and be proud o what you did now it this is again just another piece that that day actually in inactmint pacific that they kind of portrayed this part of eugene sledge coming home
but it's worth reading his account of it back to the book as my life settled down somewhat i began to think of my future rather hastily i decided to go to all burn then called
alabamaian institute and made your business i'll never forget my first day at auburn i was in the registrar's office in sandford the big room was crowded with long lines of
entering students standing in front of table behind which clerks were noticing or noting each students college credits from service schools determining which might transfer to
auburn there was a loud hubbub of voices with about a hundred people in the room some men mostly air care veterans had been to various senica schools and auberge them two years
credit all veterans were excused from or out and physical education when i stepped up to the table at the head of the line a pretty brunette about my age probably a student's wife
asked pleasantly what schools i attached attended in the marine court i recited all the weapons in tact escolles we had in training she became more and more disconcerted and as
she looked in vain on her checkless for anything remote we resembling what i was saying finally in desperation she slammed her pencil the table and said in a loud exasperated
voice in the marine court teach you anything a gasper an through the crowd and you could have heard a pin drop i didn't lose my temper but i realized that like most cibilians warn
this lady meant john wane or the sweet musical south pacific slowly placing my hands on the table aware that i all eyes were upon us i said in a loud calm voice lady there was a
killing warn the marine court taught me how to kill japs and try to survive now if that don't fit into any academic course i'm sorry but some of us had to do the killing and most
of my buddies got killed or wounded she was speechless there were many red faces among the obvious non combatants present i doubt if there were half a dozen intercom or tankers
present she recovered her composure looked me in the eye and said i'm so sorry i'll eye apologized i did understand i told her she was very kind and i did not mean to upset her
you didn't she said you made me think so i got credit for our utican pe and the room returned to normal the young lady wished me a long and happy life i thanked her and left i
felt like some sort of an alien and i realized that this sort of thing would confront me the rest of my days but war had been so momentous to me i couldn't imagine anyone not
sharing that view or pudor appreciating the hell i had suffered in fact i was totally unprepared for how rapidly most americans who did not experience combat would forget about
the war the evils we faced and how incredibly tough at a been for us to defeat the japanese and the notes i didn't realize all swiftly most americans would once again take their
freedom for granted clearly that applies to veterans in and people that have been overseas fighting and you come back and the like no one even knows that you were gone it's like
another thing you need you get the passage of time when you go away for two or three months and you go back to where you're from aniseed like oil on you been on for all three
months oh it seems a people think you're gone for a couple of days or a couple of weeks ye you happens at the gym like all go into the gym and in some one of our where you been
you know i think i haven't seen him in a week i said i i i tarmillan gone for eight months you know it's one of those moments and that happens with war to guys go away they come
back every you know time just went by and that can be frustrating cause in those eight months or six months or fourteen months of someone's support over seas fighting for their
lives they come home and and not of the person didn't even know if they were going to yes i mean i feel bad when somebody out of a southern i didn't know it i feel kind of back
and i haven't seen you for eight months you ye feel like i'd feel bad about it and i'm sure that person say you know jockies we used to train all the time and you didn't even in
realize it i was going i thought of going for a week triannon of adages ay well imagine how that feels to a veteran that's come back from war and that is this isn't this isn't
like some odd case this is the north that's actually the nor you know i mean it's different for the direct family that's waiting for the individuals come home then those six month
appointment or fourteen months to poments em like an eternity but for that casual person or that acquaintance that you don't know that well they are thinking oh oh did you were
you bent eye was overseas fighting ye then he's got the way he kind o wrap up this book in his apologie again you know this is another book that will probably explore it some
point in detail but go into the way that the topics that he brings up as a close out and reflections on how the war impacted him psychologically her regal back to book looking
back over the momentous events of fifty years ago when i was a marine evoked strong emotions the years immediately after the war were the hardest as paul fossil remarked but
combat veteran not only as to survive his experience yes to learn to live with it the rest of his life he was so right for the first twenty odd years after my return nightmares
occurred frequently waking me either king or yelling always sweating and with a pounding heart some nights i delayed going to bed dreading the inevitable nightmares old comrades
wrote me to similar troubles drove many of them to drink and to the ensuing misery of alcoholism which they beat with sheer self discipline eventually the war left me with a deep
appreciation for the simple things in life putting on a clean pair of dry socks is one of the greatest luxuries i know a shave a warm shower and sleeping in a sheeted bed or two
when it is raining especially on an autumn day i look out the window at the falling drops and my faults sometimes drift back to those awful days on oaken our staff o and i bailing
out a muddy fox hole with an old helmet shivering in a torrential cold grain and both of us cringing as each japanese shell came screaming into the corpse strewn to explode with a
deafening crash erectly bring my mind the focus of my mind back to the present and thank god is not to suffer hardship and misery again and oh what a blessing to be relieved of
constant terror my love of the outdoors were strange the effected by the war though i looked at my surroundings was altered my view of the outdoors had taken a more and a litical
perspective of its features as military train likely areas for the placement of various foxholes the company sixty millimeter mortars to cover defiles the light machine guns so as
to achieve cross fires along the company front fields of fire and possible avenues of enemy attack or ambush the change in outlook was intense the early years home when i cleared
my mind of it by concentrating on plant and animal species present or probable but the old combat view of things still creeps in sometimes after more than fifty years and that's
something that definitely stick every guy i know that's been overseas every guy everything we look at we see to some kind of military terentii for me especially in the city could
i did most my combat was urbane combat and that so alookin at all the time not only on the high way all the buildings when you're sitting around with you sit in a hotel room
looking out the street everything that you look at you look at from a combat perspective now he he he as a outdoorsman and he goes back he gets back from the war and he's going
hunting and this is the first time that he's going deer hunting after the war and he's out hunting with the group a people but he gets dropped off and one spot by himself to have
a boat by river they take a boat they drop him off alone and here we go back to the book you beautiful doze appeared walking briskly through the water as they exited the woods and
stopped at the far edge of the pond about thirty yards away he kept looking toward the area of the drive and moving their ears to catcher every sound possible more loud sloshing
of water and two does in a large buck came up to the first dose and stopped they finally looked in my direction i remained still and since the wind was blowing toward me the deer
could not pick up my sent the stood motion motionless staring at me and standing up in the clump of cane they seemed more concerned with the baying of the hounds than with me thou
because the way i held my rifle i could see my wrist watch so i time to the action or inaction of the deer one of the dose picked up an acorn at the edge of the pond and aid the
buck was large and had a fine set of antlers the eight points gleaming in the light slowly i raised my rifle and sighted in on his chest no he was too fine a creature to kill i
had murdered one of his kind at morning sordid not need the venison slowly i lowered my rifle the buck remained motionless motionless his instinct probably told him no shape such
as he saw in the cane was natural dear like most mammals have very poor sight except for detecting motion and are primarily colour blind for fifteen minutes we stared at each
other a shot the air would send him springing away into the woods but a shot would frighten them which i had not his ire to do the deer seemed more curious than afraid they kept
sniffing the air which apparently bore no scent of danger i had on waterproof boots but was beginning to get cold finally i needed to move a little i knew that as soon as i did
they would bolt so i whistled softly every big ear turned quickly in my direction i whistled softly again all the dear slowly lowered the ears turned went slashing on the higher
gregon and ambled into the woods looking back at me once or twice the whole episode is one of my most cherished memories when jim picked me up in the boat he asked if i had seen a
deer i said no not wanting to tell em i seen five when we returned to camp several people asked me what i had seen and i report a few squirrels and some wood ducks if i had told
those eager to hunters what had really happened they would have elected to throw me in the river gust did allow any drinking during hunting hours so after the guns were all loaded
and put in their cases but bottled spirits were brought forth and the parties all had a ball each of the weary hounds went to the fenced yard jumped up on the raised platforms and
when into the barrel for a nap the platform was raised as protection against high water as well as alligators which have a special appetite for dog flesh we recrossed the river
after a while and scattered to our own so ended my last dear one but the memory of that beautiful buck and his harem down the river i have wondered how long he survived i am not
anti hunting as long as it is managed by wild life experts most game animals out produce their food supply and sinivali ation has destroyed most of the natural predators
starvation results on this populations are controlled by gay management overseeing proper hunting practices but the terrified eyes of that spike buck i shot or something i'd like
to forget i have felt the same terror when being shot at so hunting is not for me world war two gave me a convenient measuring stick for duty courage terror friendship patience
horror endurance compassion discomfort grief and pain that is remained with me daily the english poet robert graves said worldworn affected him in much the same way any one who
has not suffered the prolonged fear and limitless fatigue that was combat that was the combat infantryman lot might find this difficult to comprehend over fifty years later i
looked back on the war as though it were some giant killing machine into which we were thrown to endure fear to the brink of insanity some fell over the brink and physical fatigue
to near collapse those who survived unheard will never forget and cannot forget the many friends lost in their prime and the many articles of civilization they rothwell destroyed
as i look back some factor quite clear to pans sneaking of pearl harbor destroyed many american lives ships and plains we had no choice but to destroy imperial japan the a bamenda
doubt warm it saved millions of american lives by preventing a murderous invasion of japan and the probable destruction of a suicidal japanese population the japanese soldier was
a blood thirsty foe imbued with the code of bushido if we had not defeated an army that fought it was unbeatable who knows how many american cities might have shared the horrid
rape of man king in looking back onstead i escaped the killing machine why i never fell killed or wounded in that storm of steel thrown at a countless times still astonishes me
i'm proud of the number of the enemy i fired on and hit with my mordere or tommy gun and regret the ones i missed there is no mellowing for me that would be to forgive all the
atrocities the japanese committed against millions of asians and thousands of americans to mellow is to forget each man who survived i ancer was plucked from the mire of death by
the almighty and in this i feel humble and grateful socrates said no thyself i do the war taught me the war taught me is how he close his out that book and the war taught me as a
well and the war still teaches me and that's why i read about war and why i talk about war and that's why so much of this podcast is about war because war can teach us but if not
only war that teaches us life life teaches us but that's that only if we are humble and open minded enough in a tentative enough to watch then listen and blown from it not only
for our own paths and the things we go through but from what we see other people do it's a teacher life is a teacher and yet and you see this all the time there are people that do
not learn from life and they make the same mistake over and over and over again just completely unaware of the lessons that are thus smacking them in the face smacking them in the
face acting that where you have to flip the switch in your brain that that hardship that your facing that trial that tribulation in bed in that misery is a lesson the teacher and
is only a lesson if you are willing to learn from it but hand life is a horror teacher but do your best to listen in tolaro and now speaking of warning i last face book life got
some sad questions he and it oloa rough transition name bludgeon he has just cinacoatl those different different people's books and you can see what war did you in and you can see
the similarities with all of them that he in being put really stressful situations human beings puddin life they have similar out come right i mean her theirs commonalties in it
and i think the more relucts commonalties in the more individual e me the more i look for these commonalities and in different people's experiences we better off hugon to be and
right the the more aminte to understand what's happening to the world around me order the people around me no that's the one thing that he i think it's really important as is seen
you know when you start talking about the the life lessons hit you in the face it's always a if you're the person it's getting hit that's the year of the even though you are the
person that stands the game the most from from understanding what's going on round you you also about the person has the hardest time recognizing it it's just like when you're
sitting outside on emmenich or an animation and a may fight and you as the coach as the corner man you can see what's happening and the guide that's getting pushing the face a lot
of times they don't see what tatinghem and they don't think of it as a lesson they don't they're not taking anything bosio it they're getting punched in the face yet and it's not
until some one has hay the guys hitting you with the left took your you know your or your dropping your hands or whatever so that the percotere tion there at learning from it
they're getting hit and that's what happens to a lot of us in life is weregin pusson to face punching the face punching the face and we don't recognize we we can't step back we
can't detach for being in that situation where we can actually assesses going on and say oh okay as he was going on here yeh i i see it is you what changes i gotta make that's why
then then what happens is this what happens to what happens as you say oh choir going through some hard times so i go to say an echo this is what you're doing this what you should
change and what happens big ego flare up preachy leon the steel you know how i feel your what's going on you goin to wait for it betrayels like getting punchin the face brown just
turn to help you you don't get it so what we do or in our instinct is to put up the fences even when somebody turn help it out so that means you got to get good a tryin help
people out too because we already know that everyone gets defensive and that every one's ego flares up and that when you talk to your friend that's either of that common home and
his face and problems or someone out having a hard time or on her someone who happen hard time relationship or someone has happen hard time with whatever addictions got a hold of
him fallothe things you got to learn how to how to talk to those people in a way that you're not being offensive to him would his hard ne'as we all take offence whenever somebody
tells us that we're doing something wrong were all offended by it all offended by it even the most positive help paperson your own yerman bet your man comes i tell you something
you get offended your right you are your best print comes in says he you know you you you do it you're going down the wrong path here you don't know nothing about my path you so
having that detachment so you can see yourself and then having an open mind when somebody tries to help you and then when you are trying to help some one of trying to do it in a
way that you don't attack their ego to are some good things to think about as you're going through life turn to take lessons away from it in so crazy hut applied again applied say
everything i theodora's he one who ever hear people say if i knew then what i know now that of course right adoreing love at the the jack up thing is there's all kinds of people
that no now that gin detail you then is so much the somebody places to get this information you saying if i knew then what i knew now well then get what all kinds of people were
trying to help you i were tingle were trying to tell me what to do i was unless anany of ye i eagles too big i know what i'm doing in the smartest person in the world you don't
understand the situation it's going to be different for me my life is special my life is different you know all those things all those things that we say so if he just had an old
pin mind to listen to what people were trying to tell us i or or adamina have an open mind to listen to what life or trying to tell us pard it's fuyait so true tioumen you when
you say if i knew then what i know now in you say of old back then there was people but yelling at you agree metapontine you right there giving you that knowledge so you could
have known then what you know now pentatoma you got to go one step deeper and go dan why shouldn't known men to listen to you go you don't mind and tell this in you go now kind of
thing and it's like to like its border light impossible sierasowsie there's some things in life and this is so unfortunate that you have to learn only from life all the
innovations that detector and you just you just you watch them go through it yet and in again i i talk about the story where you you you you get you get some one that's going down
a downward spiral you pick the down and spiral but the on whether it's their relationship that there in is a disaster whether they're gitting addicted to whatever you want to get
a dicto ye you know whether that's a work whether that's alcohol whether that's drugs whether that's gambling whatever thing you want to be addicted to you pick the downward
spiral that you want to jump on the person that's on that down admiral it i don't see it in everybody that's outside of the spiral can absolutely identify it and tell them and
they don't want it on for me i know he addictions are horrible right and that's why they call the diction and that's why people write that down or spiral until it destroys them
like you gene sledges at doctor about sidney i'll ruin you the only way out is will power only way out and then you die sesso got a defeated with persedition ye ye ye can't you
can have fun little games with your mind and and win it's that their little like chess matches which would you mind with alcohol i know that from experience and am a low in at all
and we first started on the poast i didn't realize that you drink as much as you drink at that time ye how was like a cause we we were according if and you hear any poor one at
all like what ye doin it grown on my can hear to bring you know get after it a year your inari during this eye well in my slight defence but one during woodey effect nor anything
and i know this because of the people tell me this and i feel this where even if i'll get hammered this is back then you couldn't really tell the people would be like all oneven
seem at all mean on the inside of my fun but ye be can here's another thing and this can apply to a lot of people i think on everybody but me be some people wear you know how i
was a kind where i would only drink at home when i did work it is a thing not worbury when i know i took a text book definition of alcohol a drinking at home alone while you're
working me i'm sure it's one of the sin puntal symptoms but straight i don't potential holland i want to like the bar or so like hang out i didn't really go to the claim and no
after stooking the clear it but you know they go henaut and stuff i drink way less i wouldn't even really want a jinemon but at home work he not when i would drink but in the but
lakeside i work every single night and for a long time too so he is like every night for like you in years and years but the only problem that it would kind of create were these
kind of covert problems like the next day wasn't is durieu i'd work out a good train i do all the stuff that you know i've been doing for whatever years but you don't like hayland
something new to bring you know ex wise element of your life tennesee kind of name it would really get in the way of that so for your constant that level like curriehill here's
the thing on in certainly a learning a lot because he learn a lot when it when i work and suffer i do you know all these programs and and divide stuff you learn a lot while you do
it so man i was i learning getting better my stuff so on a way the problems ike i said weren't real of the r and then after a while like after timbooke what it was what really
brought the problem so it was looking hanging with you because you'd be like okay were here now were going here to this week we are on like a whole different thing and not my man
i can hardly keep up with jacotot night a likely i'm keeping up with josette next dam thinking we neared doing stuff early in the morning you don't do insulting the day you're
letting me know can now we got this one i'm like dan i just face it greener a cover at all day are you goes i'll feel that very hot awakes we used to record the poast that niester
night i and sir we'd get done at one o'clock in the morning and yet have get after in the morning and you not after ye exactly right so it's weird i can you do that routine you
get this weird second i think your body had just gets ready to do work in sun you know you do something over and over your bit don't just kind of disaccommodated the schedule so
i'll like at night i'd do find but during the day when i want to do nothing mean while you're you know doing all this stuff and i'll like men not a mention all the things that we
talk about that i all i got trick but my brain meanwhile at the expense of my whole life aside from those you know for the oroatis that because you were kind of costooms were
cover there wasn't any assuming that it was an external people trying to help you be like hagour dean drink at night cause you are so maintaining on acceptable standard of
humanity so and you you were taken care of your wife your takin care o you young daughter and so you are doing what your responsible to do you want your sponsibilities art were
being handled they're just in handle a level free in lovelee with o k maybe batalha was where you were at you know actually in this man so better but this is worse there will be
held it level essentially level in everything like i kin everything i cared about was being handled everything like to the really delavel like from hanging with the kids talk with
me so my wife would go to better earlier than me so bedslat working working drinking i could still wake up i'd be missed now not not that like happy m tube awake but i would do
what i never that would never show dealing with other people and then there be time to worth if i was just too and really did to sell tired that's what it was it if you'll hung
over you know this is actually brings up a good point is that i think a lot of times people spend the war because there because they're achieving a minimum standard or maybe even
a medium standard a arionelli standard in your case from your perspective meluisin yet you're working your dining your job on the at making making lientenant doing work out fly
hard head work of storing the day but everything else else that only pussycats always so basically if you're not looking at your self with a critical lie you can get by with a lot
as i hirsau being youedlin if you're not looking at yourself with a grete you argan to get you you're not in a recheate beginsel as hard as you possibly can which is you know the
enemy fighters but i was trained a lot o emir may fighters i would tell the lesson you can train without a coach and you can train to let let's say your super disciplined you can
get to like eighty four per cent isn't in her interesting decorem you can get the eighty four per cent of your max out put of your pushing yourself i'll coach is then going to
take you to the next level and he's going to get you to ninety eight per cent but this is what interesting the last two per cent a goes back on the individual so let's say i'm
training you for judicature if you strained yourself for the desierto on to aid lady two per cent of your potential and of hideous avanese your ear you know you get the last round
and you look at your god you know what i'm probably i might get hurt this round pataki off on might be a year to make all these excuses you're not going to old hole a line right
now if i'm training you now eat ear you got to be here yet acherontian ay you don't you once could do some purpose you know how i am i make you do that stuff so that's what a
coach does but then you take this last that's going to get you to nine yet percent but the last two per cent is back you because i can't make you do you tiberias as hard as you
can i can make you do em i can't make you do miss hart as you gain and i can't i can make you do another round on the mat but i can't make you do it as hard you can't i can't make
you try moves the that i that you don't feel like trying if so it takes a little teamwork in those situations no and that's jumping i definitely saw with with enemies is yet when
out a coach they're not going to push emselves hard with a coat that put themselves harder but if you're going to be a champion you got at that last two per cent yourself yea and
what's crazy hein you can kind o make some one your coach even if they don't know it you all like gum where i mean i think you'd kind o know that you're kind of the coach now as
far as good your couch probably any one who interacts with you an i an a regular basis they're going to cut it at the very least look at you and know that you wake up early in and
get a lot done for for reason by the way so they know that so it's kind of like okay i can follow suit you now i can take cue from jocelin this way and i can approve it doesn't
have to be in the exacting that you're doing but just as in your endoted do so i think of you actively do that where i am in a striking from a place of supreme luxury by the way
in regard to this where you know i'm like your talking about it directly to me everything weak and i'm like yes sir and i go back and try you know tunbellies to my stuff so of
course but you can do that even if you watch someone on on an now on line or something or you read you know how people do like blogs and stuff like that you know if you are like a
subscriber to a specific blabbing you really like you know to the way they they do things or whatever you can you can get that same affect in a smaller way i think um but you
cavatina and definitely but you just as you got to be like conscious of it though and now you say like you have to have your own self like it's self discipline for sure but ah
what he do say you just say so laroka self for the critical age that you get you got to do that in her is the opposite of that to my opinion in from what i seen that enemy of
looking at yourself with a critical it is being good at justifying to doff yesca ly in a they say smart people are dangerous in that way began a really good at grass yet
rationalizing something it is in justifying something is exactly what it is it is exactly what that says it's justifying it to are you justified in the excise and if you are you
are so if you can justify some miser self and your good at it eh in your mind i really o kis not at her situation to be very dangerous yes your very name and creepily gayathri a
the good finical yourself out yes if you want to reach your maximum potential and move from level three all sides level of ye an so when i was saying is that got some pretty good
little little rapid fire questions you know i didn't want to take a bunch of time on it but i done of at least to dress some of questions i came to fan the face bookie sure i've
got a stack of cousins that have been coming in on face book and tarteran nose to primarily sure is where the big questions come into an i got a sack of those that will get around
to an acute some point and also a lot of questions that get asked right now herebefore seemed so if you have a question if you haven't listened to the poncas at this point you my
one o just go back myosote other agasias the question that you have about how many hours of suitanies and what time of gotobed and you know those kind of things there they're in
the pot cast and you don't knock in a tolbooth any more you could have like cotton you like suggested there would have been something cool about stopping the pot cast at number
twenty five and said that's it target and just careres ed up bunch of stuff and in just let it marinate fray il like told be season one you know they do that the isongo idea so i
should tell now we should unceasing one and then paused and let people really av marinated that first season and then season two comes and both say i like that may would you
within you would never let that happen that's what i think well it depends cause it strategically it's a good idea it's a strict heilly good idea yet i think it is because also
you're going to let that stuff marinanne going to get good feed back on a bulk of work and that people can then say hey this was a good area of topics that you discuss please
readdress and kit the following concerns roans we could attack those those concerns in such a manner i guess it's one way he limp i think this is imseng selfishly here but i think
this is a big deal where even if you repeat yourself even if you an answer the same question literally the same question here over and over again it's like you do when you go to
school or college or whatever yet and you get review are we i think at a it is and thistedal for me as an i o i i ever i never absorbed a moving the first try yet you got to give
you catafterme twelve to fantine i learn one twelve of it each time he added in twelve fonder i know the whole move for flaolli he if you jack's telling ashley he don't complain
like don't complain promise of don't care why how you feel care about the jective kind of thing to intime that one time even to times amelie cool that some to one man as i need to
do that and then next week next month six months later de think that sticking with me mannerist me maybe not but no coriolani the tifour sayin it every week to the point where
it's like ureene your words i just know it as innocence is just in there it that's one like when i hear people complaining that's a big red flight violate just stick at like a
sort though more ale someone blaming some one that's the reason it sticks out because they so back to the idea of having different seasons if it was seizing one people would
deireteen or go back and listen to em all again she'd get reiterated on the air are not good in for you even to the more that i i i think i do now that's a oenanthe and then we do
that season on season weans to stray ears of sacate yet i could work good you know how cause this is the concept aanyone off and we start season to the other who eaton anyway it i
like the way you've been doing it to be honest with my impatience is my imperiled you do have fifty per cent of the hot here the herly oh it will it get to these questions the
like i said the arcuation ye you like yet mat i like him though he oh bisques i am going read these just how they are listed in an will go the innes and or running for begontina
cushion mark yes swimming and running argued for conditioning i would recommend that you use sprint slash interval training the forbearing that's goin to get you where you want to
be ill so it's good to have that good base cardioptera good too ah but yeah they're both good the best conditioning for duetto the fit the short fall of that is that you can
sometimes pushing you give never mind sometimes you can push yourself harder in with bursar with them kind of mat can or for swimming a running you know said spence you should be
breathing you mildmay yourself breathe harder doing spring than you can doing the rounds of judicio conditioning ye now the rounds of conditioning ingreditur more important but if
you imprisons extraor you got to do something else yes when they in running for did you to intestine yester good yes you spent year in it agree of see um as far as you just learn
this and i watch it with an a marsellaise randomly on an ooh where he was like okay i don't do any other extra makeing follower conditioning what virgie's i used you to sitsinit
ning but i don't just do reglazing any demonstrated it and he was going against the he's ofith high digestively felt so he got the die i um and the guy i do do i think and he's
like okay this how you do it for condition is the gulwing fight were on a bow for what a prudent how remandment they go and he's like pompons got one move next me he's just going
up all he's not even finishing moseyin the next one an he'll finish the nestor again and he's going you could tell you going hard he's a naturally going it's hard as he would if
he had only thirty seconds were as inlet with on a high level competitor in fasting to an um he's like a kanelese you just you're just your focus is going from love to move as
fast in his hard as you can and your breathing all this stuff in case dating with you to and i'll like dementat that's good because think about it just like cain when you at last
say you have a six rounds to go and terela juistinian six it's so each year is focusing on doing your giton with jogies energico oration and like all things that are anti
conditioning rather are so you no get into this put us and let me shake out on one step even more granary if you take six rounds the last thirty seconds of each round if it's an i
i talk to taylor and to andy about this and i will i say eyes when we get to the last thirty seconds there should be no cruising aloud at all you should be going for the finish on
you should be orotans like dis you got thirty seconds left go for a finish if you got thirty seconds after you to bottom go for the escape as hard as you can and burn yourself out
that's a huge difference between how you can just go into i'm i'm guilty as charged because like you said poor of digitis energy conservation so for me i'm really good at
conserving energy i you can be cross i mounted on me and your your not going to make an i know i know betail be arrogant right now ef you mounted me or you've got across his side
on me and and we had one minute left you cannot submit the he you know what i mean like it cannot to mit me i'm really good i've had deemest you know now did in one side control
for the last twenty two years ye right so i can defend myself well so if you have one minute now if i give you five minutes that that sort my bewley one that's a mistimed is left
me i can completely go into cruise masanath the wrong answer either gontry and get nefer if you're trying to survive for some reason okayondonghsera goes but if your trying to get
some conditioning work and prepare yourself for for aggressive turnament style situations he best put out yet and that's why i wouldn't it kind of in a way going back to what you
said about having a coach is where the coach will be like he sharkan yellow something like oh yes they kind of of void your capability they yet they avoid your capability to treat
you so as just regular do dito and energy conservation of esential this stuff he that that's on a lot of people ask you for which i do for admist tournament is in free days what
should i do watch what should i look out for em i went i tell people is that okay the person that you go against an judicature is going to go harder against you than any one has
gone against you in the gym puritan the story you know it is a whole nother level of competition that you know white bell verses white bell the first time you on attornment as a
white feline person you're going on against is going harder than any one has gone against a guiney period if you can't even when we would have mimirs sofi ting in the u f s it's
near impossible to get get to get the training partners to go as hard against that guy as as there opponent is going to go ye it just it just not there he's no legitimate fire now
casionally you know you get guys that are really good training partners and now push you but that's why we do sharp tank yes because it's hard for me to get you know for eyes
lined up to row with you and everybody's got to go it hattersley's going to match what you match a little at they're going to eat they have to use and that's so comandante
villatic out for i there's a bunch of those elements in there when when you're in a training scenario cause you don't have this you don't have that background hum of fismark like
a competition you know so soreisha know who does go supertales that have never tragediarum in the jail a like opposition by that is benevolence it who hesitate to me i've been on
ten when you would how crazy it is that you just take a guy that completely believes that they can kick everyone's as if you bring them to judicatures destroyed the assinara y it
if the verestschagen checker that's kind of what else thinking and the incanting with one mamahin to do to the mayor you know kind of the same deal worth cinereal you know oh
where you now you're talking about you know veterans come home and they come to every day life and you people have no idea really what extreme stuff being you know an before it
there walking around just not knowing meanwhile what they be at what they've been through his is just so extreme an they come back and they know they have that basis for
comparison and you know you get the stearlet royou know mounting to the guy member and yes diddent or teach you anything ortherings and they don't know they don't know nothing you
know give them one day give that teacher one day with you know it's just a big elpenor so that's kind of how i feel with like jujitsu and in my man stuff and when you go out and
when you hear people talking you know i just do i kick that it lasted kindelon my glass yet give you go to the gione day watutu round i know nor mortare rounds case worn round
people think you got lucky but i know that's the crownding all that might have been liebt and then after you suntime one free times there like okay that there's something i don't
understand her no one to learn it and give them one ten minute round oh god a watch him just be like disdain do this i can't like the it's to the bespice early on you get a ten
mironofs when you're going again some one there sat you're locked into a ionailtair person isn't going to the avidity after because they're going to be in a competition wanamee
going is heard as they can against some one that's not using any shaker energy at all who destroying them and submitting them and are thirty seconds though men i but yet the red
at what had i did like about running like you know three four miles uh it what i found that that provided was um you know when you and will do take take down battles and no one's
getting each other i felt that it really kept me going like the feet on your feet doing like low intensity pushing and as i really had i felt that that it helped a ogre jack next
quest shakes flesh what advice can you give on push up and benches for shoulder and peck injuries flashed recovering okay real quick for for all for all injures what i say is do
what you can and do togather in yourself so for instance if you can't do a full push up because it hurts your shoulder guess what the whole do a accorder push up and you a bunch
of em and just get that range motioning to get for work out but get that range motion get it working and then may be in a week you can do a half persuaded you have first upsettin
another three weeks you can do a three quarter push up and that eventually you can do a full push up and then you start doing your deep perhaps in between rings or whatever new
you get it back that's what i do i do that with every body part that i have that might be injured for whatever reason i do what i can you know i do i can and specifically i'll
tell what bench press i would use dumbells and not barbel because a barbel blocks your arm in deposition and this is very similar to an american or a comer eat both of those
submission moves in jude are based on the same kind of general range of motion as a bench press their there's definitely something different about it and obviously it's you can do
ventres people bent for us you know hundreds and hundreds of pounds on a bar belsaria be done but essentially it is is a similar motion if your art like within american which is a
submission hold in judici you can move where your wrist is you can it doesn't hurt at all you know if you put your restoration or godliness all do in america do you all day one
you bring it down it now it semitonata well teilo at her baronet's why i haven't done bardolatrous adenen know how long especially like a going for max i haven't done that i don't
even remember last time i did it but yet for any of these injuries that you might have do what you can use a minimum you you the use a range of motions you can don't reenter
yourself you know don't be don't be stupid but if it hurts your knee when you get to a half a squaw do you accordest little you know do aaaah eighth squats that's what i'd
recommend to get through those yet and it it's umtas kind of that thing and another from an i nicerer and i have quick recovery quick recovery and the reason that was was because
a you got be smart just like our same god of smart about you don't have to i had mister you're not going to go back squat you know her for a lislete and i kinda think so yeah you
take it slow but at the same time you go you treat it like a work on to serliarutsit so pa some people with i forget when i sat on offside but oh where people would get a shoulder
injury for example and part of the re have is like the stabilization retour poor and thin the bee like on not kananaskis that day because i don't feel anything that's a mussels
why would i do that i have a shoulder into some the skip that and all you know the next all do my little shoulder exercises i'll go through the motions in that it but if you treat
it like a fire work out like were you stretch you kind of push yourself not in wait but you know you'd drowned a edonian motion all that stuff every element of your re head has to
be real important to you including the consistency than if you do it that way that i that'll be out don't to me an i don't know i don't know that the history of b this question or
nothing but um bench press for shoulder injuries and recovery no rather not yet they don't that's not a hand in hand thing like so if you if you're concerned about em whether do
you know whether not to get your bench back up after you have a shoulder inyoka but they do still the man has nothing to do with recovery from such children injury what she he is
all the little stay bestialization muscles in there like these weird motions and stuff like that a lot of havener you now at a door another good of compliment to this is why to
shoulder and dry and it eight or really bad to do regular pushes but i could do ring push ups cause it allows you to move away from those ragmerchant i hurt you so that's good but
yet bench press we older not verdi had a guy on a new guy officer and remote who had showed up during the polimina he had a bad shoulder for something he's ice he sir i was i was
wondering if you can meaning you know exercise is i could do for a for my shoulder which i have oneale was like thaddeus upside can of looked at me a little strange and then later
realized that if you know i was having fun oneyatsa joke he left on didlige heed my advice at the time yet he did thought while this giscon said so leandro taters any rotherhithe
throwing balloon just controlled in that that spinage you back sorry hank i'm you can recommend that's the thing and again you had discreates rehab cause the nothing glamorous
about noise that throwing motion adeline a rotator cuff exercise the ouistitis now for a exactly right she is beyond be life of pollination i got the jump benching as the intoning
some it'll mercatores you yes but if you do restore like demonstrating that had a kind of a interior like from the deformans art as i tainter demonstrate in haynded and you rich
my shoulder in it i felt that papa so now i can't lift anything above my head so i all i did was that rotter cuff but like a program is like this way run back and then down here
this with iron did that and it was only for a two weeks and it was just bad yet unfortunately sermonettes one my favorite turning towards her yet you yet he gives you an accurate
or after a year in a well he gets a when he is black his go to because he wrestled his got a sick alone would just get in the tule lake moaned get up or something like we'd be
scramble and he get up and i see the look on his face he homestead he black that fell reverso hard want me i remember when i i rolled at him and and umi think he may have like
seen part of him something in your like all how is erotion you can explain how the rowan or whatever and to the cabman and then he he so he turned on this mode you like oh yeah he
surged out on the fungus every retire him do that a sling shot so he's to have this defence from a from getting trying out at he were just i i care relaxin it but he would
basilwood be one human being alcaics the masannasa somevere in tasmania a and eating carried like bonyparty on him and he just he'd go into he deviling shot you just laugh at it
if he knowes get ready a launch somebody so she is tionontati cut by the way here in connecticut you can go train there what is it that looks all attentat it's called with deities
or the t'satisfy very et des you want my old tea mate and on my long time training partners to get some with next next west do you prepon food daily or eat on the hoof in grant
what you can i do both if i if you know i generally don't pick up something and make a little meal because i might my travels all were and ran dumb but yet so well when i can in
andaholo so i make something up the after it but i eat out a decent amount i got my goat to and i go eat there sometimes they make good food for me yet if you are on the program
like back in the trees he out i was in urns i bring watch for sure but it was never lunch cause i never ate lunch never eat lunch never member like look at gustavo coming leave me
alone for a next o hour coming he launched no never a lunch never you never see me saying hey a asoka let's call it for now and we'll go eat lunch along me you back here in an
hour if no not him you no don't eat lowther through lunch and stay late and then so windeatt is eat all right i mean that grow yet a light night and be on the phone and i can eat
and be at the computer i can eat and you know unless we're doing something physical and even then eat all your doing something physical from us not through nine come met henley
slip you miss this one of what would you recommend for striking training is an effective reapplication practice boxing mortia that's real easy start with boxing cuisten you don't
to throw big kicks but is very effective martial art boxing and then on you get these at that he downing a moi then learn how to use your legs your elbows you need your head so
there ye are the buckling to and this is strange but it's absolutely true is it's you if you don't have experience throwing pungens and landing punches it's it's surprisingly hard
the actor to punch some one's face and landed effectively you know like common the movies you know you see i thought my girella now garioch people and then he always shake his
hand like a noise like i hurt my an every thousand one of the funeral he point melanoxylon i'm sure i'm a guartering to make like a man ever such a softy in that way levitation
he's hard core like his brain like a mars martano he doesn't carry a gun you know he's not tandanap per clothes a brain as a fly right pepe cliff we sarimonie none the less that's
kind o what thou as indicating but i thought it taught kind of a good lesson where if you you know you watch on t v guys just punching dies in the fast a head but you can if
specially if you don't have a expanding you can probably will break your hands here or hurt your hand in her lyser so if you if you go train boxing even just so weak little some
boxing or whatever you really get to learn like o k if i start throwing these plunges at different alkermes like you gieeson ths of juditious someone with no dugento des pretty
damn good against some one with no boxing flush your we yet they'll thing would boxiana striking you kin kind that i not really emme be ringing a german it even saying this but
i'll mean this like straight up literally but in the street you can have kind of some training you know like if you get in a bunch of street fights all gayyahnai falworth you lay
i exactly right you learn what it was showing watnall mostly and from being a legit street fighter as you learn the mining set i know esperoit sounds but here's what you are i
have i pointeurs as they can before he's expecting it on the sockeroo you'll become a good red fighter that is that's what's treating his street playing a lot as down on the grass
and i own if if you get in my face my puttin the face you know if you look at me as the wet your pomp oman i hit you yet that that's what i'll religion experience street fighter
that kicks a lot of people's asses of that's what they do they are over aggressive they don't care about getting fight enough thinking about the fighting and so when you say hey
what your crack or the guy says he what are you look crack that's a that's what a that's what a street faded as they're going to take action very quickly you have so you can learn
a lot from that so when you take that into one you know in some one shows up at the mamajam an this is we no got lost street fights yeh an if there that's most the time that's
bullshit what if it's not and there actually goes been a lot of fights and it's only so helpful because now they got some one that they're goin to shake hands or with and then
they aegina so they've lost leg one in mosaics a not a real thing you know some of my friends growing up a really good street fighters and this is how i'm saying this with kind of
a little bit of knowledge is my friends that were really good tree piers what was made them good three paters wasn't that they studied boxing wasn't that they started to do it was
because they had a very aggressive mind set and so some one would say hey what's your crack and they were going blustier you know or some one some one is where are you look a
prachanda it and it wasn't actually wasn't crackerlike back round a rickrack rack ricrea e or f you know that's so yes that's what i streetite a mind set of the day have been in
fights before but they know that the gressional tickling way yes it's kinelike in the san basketball who you know he has a home court or something in the dishonest you know the
like he knows he knows how to make those shot for the tea you put em on the bathers he has no tautering derailer ironies yes that is true that is here you you can learn the
mechanics yea and down yarrow by when your own or can expect the mechanics and then you could and a cantare going to be almost less helpful yet this aehitini understanding the
mind set of what's going to happen in a fight now then i can all be more helpful and basketball but it's not once you get the real game the first basketball game i ever played i i
knew the mechanics and i got destroyed every pass i threw from first ten passes i fear but picked off and so smooth there in the decorticated i am not even getting that happened
to a sunday dad was like a hoosier's kind o guide your son movie who's your isaiah or in a work the machanics feet were ballindine or passing on not shooting no no sob sparring or
what is it called scrimmaging right he's gonna learn me cakes and then that would have been coifi would a had a coach that had a different mind set at the coach at the same the
hoosier mind said is my dad we is mechanics mechanics mechanics so i worked all his mechanics i really good maranhao passing and then i got it it was the first game i played in
basketball i had never actually be a maybe i done a couple wife games but i'd never played agin any one kill dribbled down the court may appoint or dribbled down the court held up
my fingers about the red of run plan number fryin over the side through the ball and the deistic it off and the kid that i was playing it was a really good player than the other a
gutagaia just destroyed me and and the reason was didn't have the experience of life games now i actually brought that mentality when i was running training i was yoko can sit
there and lenitent kill house you can sit there and lean mechanics of doing mediacion does on the field the mechanics are good to have to know him but you have to also be live and
that's why i love to when they win the seal teams when we went from just having live rounds and paper targets which every one was that was like the highest form in a week than we
trained with life fire that's the best thing and that's what i would raise to believe as it was i saw we had simulation and in one i realized i was fact of somersaulted to
insnared round literally saying bang bang at each other but it got people moving in its going help you so that that mind set came from trying to not be just be us yours you know
who's yours that the movie whosers the basketball movie it's also move but the beginning is all just drilling and and my dad cause i didn't play basket ball is a denial is it okay
so he's teaching out by basketball that he was like a house guidotto be good beef answered to be good at all handling and and in unfortunates same way my first coach was the same
way seventh grade at grade velike at hoosiers it would have good defense and i have dielectric real hot but someone at platesful some one at pietra just yet and and and didn't no
one ever taught him all handling no one ever taught him with his fury behind a zone defense that guy would have done infinitely better than i did my first basketball game i dad
must have been hanging his hoe shame alike to homestead a lurid i raise this girl but yes i yes to sing same kind of thing yet those sheep at the they know how it feels till like
land upon even they have this kuno intuitive gage on you know kindest ance in a way you know just fifteen there yea and so on we train people for anything even in the business
world by don't distrain the people for mechanics of of a conversation at the shotover their leader just don't train em on the cancher what you say red this script to put a live
fire men there who live fire in a lapayi a atsito are you going through something haven't going there and talk to somebody that you told him how to hack and act all crazy to do
that do that with a scesa creating i do not take her in i have taken her thing i believe it is it is an effective supplement when remember fostoria massage were not came out it
was the first greeting selamen i was drinking so much that it was benoit was disgusting and i was on the iwashi at the time with a seaton and we were all trying to get his biggest
possible we were all taking grenadine ing so much past for gain that i had to hold my nose and do it you know hold my name is do it like a shot maybe one throw up pellets like a
wet gather the eye was again in the south game the again her yet what would you ever want i was on top for gain and he has only had no elation an then like villanette there is a
thick no they know only alfred at the time when i first came out at who we were all endeavured as it is effective i never really had any the big ushigafuchi people to you could
dehydrate literally had that blowed on the really felt much of that but i don't take reinert now i haven't taken for a long time we need her and i don't actually never did maybe
no i took this thing called tredegar think there's creatinin and at of like long time ago to the osato think manitou but you outknow much about it miss for as what's true and
what's not at her great beings in a jump things it worthy interestines do you ever it's a you ever surf in europe i have not served in europe i would like to surfer i know that
you boys up and ireland godson big slabs so maybe it's import on get up anansira there looks also to very inconsistent to in very crazy with that title differences so
nebutodontori would be cool ereria i have i have yes you were been the citerne december inaboat it next quest shark i look bad back and i need to lose a hundred pounds any advice
on what exercises to start with to kick start things you know you have a bad back on you need to take care of that and i've no idea what that means that could mean so many
different things elwha you need to do is you need to probably it yeou know star forgot what you can do you probably want us to go to your doctor and say hey what can i can not
what can i do and what can i not do and then doctor sometimes are overly cautious so maybe get a second opinion sergeant but the bottom line is you got a hundred pound to lose
here which i need to do startling some way somehow whether that starts off is walking where that sarosdy calisthenics whether i starts off his writing an exercise bike genee the
start moving that ahenea then you need to fix the diet there that's where most that we lost a gun to come from and that's the best ways to kick art things agree it and you know
how katadin willich that you know how like certain things you go into certain situations and your hit with feelings or certain things that you were expecting your inamorata you
don't then you'll vallence pitfall because you like dan ident really expect it to be like this you know and we medio went in there expecting certain things or understanding a
certain things are going to come about you you have more will so the diet thing when you change your diet if you're dightly you are tipical diet is poor mean typically that's
going to mean it tastes good in some way jenison what it be you know fast food or roderer is conkrite let senniers yes exactly right so it takes good and food that has good
aposentador actually in brain and they play oh they go hand in hand pleasure plisure you ah when you refine your diet to pile that means it's going to be less sugar you know
sometimes less that it depends on what kind of diet you know you go on but if it's if it's a better diet compared to your junk food diet based on taste and pleasure as a less
hasty exactly right so it's one thing to be like okay it doesn't taste is good and i can handle that that's cool but the chemical reaction in your brain is basically good to be
telling you like you need pleasure so you are being deprived tinier and iraine telling that your brain is all yours not just pleasure it's sustenance it's yonville as not just you
want you need fear that donna yet that was to you nationalisation a little riante call it cravings that your craving but it's one thing to be like okay craving an i can overcome
that for a lot of people but it's it's a weird feeling goes beyond just that i may one know a good way to kick this off gooast man going as i pass when four fast cause i'll tell
you what the best thing about going on the fast in my opinion is how it recalibrate your you're it recalibrated two things your actual feeling of hunger and it recoleto taste buds
to yes because when you're eating it lutfullah allinites on latiaris and you just it just need more of it whereas once you go on a fast when you have a glass of water at tasted
actaeon are you and then when you break the fast and you have whatever you're going to have lover your first meal is it takes really good and it's very satisfying because you
haven't eaten seated of yaour need so that when the less thing to i found about fasting is it recalibrate those those two things hunger and taste and things start to taste better
it's like have you ever do drink cokecart sir you're used to that sweet sweet sweet nangery one she for me because i don't drink it if i casetas alapai all over the top and that
because i fasted from having cocacola for so long that it just is a taste that i don't even like any more yes but there's a middle ground where hay you can have any awhiles
incredibly good but i don't need a ton of it because i got this satisfaction of the taste it so yes that's another good way to kick things off a young a fast on a twenty four hour
fast you don't need food like a ton my one my daughter is going through the last resting season she was tell me she says you know dot i was i was thinking of because he's fasting
or not fasting she's cutting way and i in fasting you'd gotten weight if the water and her thing was it you know if i get in for person can live for thirty days out food i can
make it till post away and so you know yes you are not starving she can as tacony beatson used to say like you're not going to go for you in a giorno solo as otokodate there was a
fire up pelerinage i really aretaei was telling it i was telling a story and he he was laughing so hysterically that it was hard to understand a thing so yes i have key yet
fellows has saint we are not gottunui divinae anything right now ye stop he man that so that says a islabona will you feel like eating dust picture tony yet to set your bettoni
sitting there going you're not going to die you have a son the olmuetzer ye wrong with you many that's achango for i mean it's real funny when he says it you know it makes you
feel like rothera post but as iskenderi you'll like you like i cashmere you know how what are you now baring is that a mountain this imagine you had to and now in your stupid
petetin craving raising a need in any god wants to the world yet you know imaginative to a walk into a room and you a group of people and say i cannot live another second longer
without a douthitt would be so embarrassing as a human to say that and yet we think that way and we act that way to ariosto her action is basically act that way we know that the
donohoes not needed her we know that the donatis not needed ye if you were if you were starving for for thirty eight days yet dikon if you were on davideen off you might find a
state a hit so bad an sent you mention manethi that it's so bad that this is an official effective way to like improve your die then this writer don't keep junk footin your
athalie that's continooed junot your house you can't control your jayante to you you know what is no big deal on the one star that monast in three weeks anyway so i'm a steatite
right now that's how bad we are we can't control yourself i like that idea just out of of just having to announce your weak thoughts to the whole world and how stupid they would
lay you you're going to carry out in action that week you should have to verbalize it first yes i am about to eat this dietelint surmise of what out it now is your rationalization
to the world we i'm going to skip this work out because my left pinky is sore from judithe weeks ago ye no well nettete letter a restless then a loten's up i don't feel like it
expeditionaries p d p d or each g h question mark with that means do you take these or are in which one is better yet well ped is the general term performance in a hending and
luscious human in rooms i i think is at the asking or this person's asking if you take em i do not moorehouse atom the only performance in handing drug that i take is chackering
run through the olympic committee to see it looks like it's going to get band in the olympic jackalent yeeeeeing record yet telling you to herefords are being on pelf no i don't
take anything ever have ye the each denoted perform what's the performance performance or territory but so i let say technically is caffeine a performance you an the aitin it
actually i don't know i don't know if i do that i don't know it well it is no i do know that it is in india performance in hand on drag it is yet people talk it in when they
scientifically measure it it is a perforated but i think were some rainhill yes i'd like to live in it olympics or whatever one you gesticulate a maximum that you could take i
don't be an eusebus fill your blood with caffeine and and go do you know your wrestling match that but but lethean off ye interesting yet my am have this friend called kackiack
coin is his name in college you like so on a hillside line back or maybe i said anolidae shops it's like over real good work out and you know when you worked out yet a lifting
you'd have yet have a pump rignot you walk round a take off his shirt sometimes and he like a guy skies i think i'm on starostine none less ah yes no no starigrad jump off next
clinebell in aliens i'm a family man extra terrestrial inasamet if my opinion on aliens is that i'm sure in this vast unknown no quarrel and universe that there is likely to be
other life forms that have some level of intelligence hothouse from one de tant how sure you are obviously he can't be town very um over five but well i actually do when you take
the entire universe which is so massive we can barely even comprehend it the chances are decent that there's some other some how intelligent life form out there yet and you almost
lyman you kind of have to ask weight like at this very time but then when you think about it there is really no time in a way to like that kind of relative to so in the whole
existence would you say what nine are you level nine sire is it itimate opinion donothing like nine point procureur a believer yea a believer i would be vast like if so some
wizard guy was like okay you get to make a bet do you think there is or is it i know the answer you do you think there is or is it you know pineaster be proof of concept right
there in low akerat are you the guy from the future oh can somehow figured it out out on a red talematongue for sadenwater i would bet did all deposits your life too by the way
like you got to make a bed of to make a choice and you if you get a right you live yet wrong you die i would i would bet yet i would have you e'er i ween yes i read us yea the the
thing is is you would also be interesting to have a scientist or talk to a scientist about the probability of human life like how i read a belief in didimani minute we like all
the little things that had to happen for us to end up here yet and it's caperhagen oh yet happened then again you you you compare that to the anowara universe that is so large as
encomprehens'ble yes andishan somewhere yet else and even amusin that in a way different point where it's like you know what would it take to to make humans and wind up being
human the if you look at it backwards it seems really like on my gosh this is this crazy like you know almost impossible i offer one yet miracle kind of thing but you i can i can
say that with every day thing if you look at it backward so like it say i had a farm like that you lagos right can't we have this big docket of legs it was more more than we in
front of losing plastic tubs or was just full of years and years and years of lago sets and there's all in there if i were take that to fool legs and looking pour it out on the
ground on a marble surface so they scatter everywhere in and then it all you know when they all settle it'll be a little patter it or of legal various collar shaped sides all
kinds different places spaces are and to take that big xact pattern down to the manometer that exact pattern and be like this is the most special pattern in the entire world ever
any of this dance this what is there is no way you any one ever ever ever could retreat the exact paterentur is impossible that's why this pattern is so special but it's just one
of many potential eventualities delimit it it sure an when you end up at something in the say okay that but be haveand up as his special it that's looking at it a precious said so
it's like the lottery winner you know the guy who insalutary he's like oh my gosh i'm so special one that no firing if i took a ping pong ball and i saw in a head of a mash pit of
one million people is one thing one who to it in the marsh pit and then somebody catches in all my ashes special breath some one in to get it some one's got to get the ring pombal
that's affirmative yet so does it make you necessarily freshness you look at it backward you know if that guys like a onnago into another lithuanian life form could be something
that we eat could barely even imagine to what it yet and that that that probability was is what it is yet or is going to be something like so small in but it if it's like more
superior intelligence is going to be something we don't recognize the same way like if you have a a catepillar on the leaf and i see it from ten yards two see that little cat
katabira right there he got a villarel that it you know vibration from my voice are hiding it i get a capote count that i had no idea that you even exist and even though a human
is doesn't nobody your problems is a nobody your podcast so melolo out your potawattomie say with a fair amount of eangitoto maybe it does not now he has big butter flight plans
plashter joel next westacre how can i incur progetto more but no only in a tone had to war about aliens or lego santelli you leggo pattern so could you want beale for you at full
they go straight to that to daily and even though it's like unidentified can't do that remembers telling you with that kid's book idea to ease some about that you don't tell me
again either fell steep rough hewing of attiniata is more above he was of a people consider or regarding potentially jocko how can i encourage a sense of urgency he is a hard one
and in others the while a thing i'm omarites means with others but sure either yourself or on his which after elise that time's going by very fast i am wily have projects that are
due you mean it you look at them you got to say this is going to take longer than we think it's going to take lest an move on it now and then set yourself or really tight time
lines to make things happen and that will that'll do so make you realize how far behind the power curve you are that was one of my rules when i was in the salteadores always
saying let's be as far ahead of the power per as power as possible as we pass be can't so is that an almost for them power to like that's the thing that you're trying to stay had
of because it's going to smash you so i would always see in just a week in sadonger turf if we got we fower ahead go ahead further but i i always had a really good sense that that
power to was coming across us huh so that's what you have to do get as far ahead as of it as you can tell him you want wait is set some small go say oh you don't think he's going
to be project on take along okay cool let's just finish this first six per cent which means this this in this and left have that done by to morrownin tom or after in comes there i
inclose a gay guess what we need do aline we need to get a sense of our just go and second get this done that's it i know that pitticoate a sense of urgency in yourself what you
can do and do work sometimes is you think about the feeling you're going to have after it's done and i consider things that you already did get done you have those that won't your
different but sometimes we with people of have seeing that man we need to do and it's just a small thing you know and i call do it i'll do it later i'm doing something right now
to nyono to why i sure that's pretty intuited to you but you know sometimes you do you just feel like doing it later more just really to later as m thinking about something right
now for him doing something right now and then donoratico during its sidono yes i want to yesterdaies all the time at heydes bob a baaaaaattle begun i had now that's the thing
that's the whole point it there so when you do it when you do the thing but so you got to an whatever he had a respond to an email on anointer you do it that distain right when
tis done in the dangtha ay that would didn't take much a nothingness every time but didn't take much and i'm done oh my dad he said of this saying is what ysaye do it and it'll be
done to god sirani i'll likoer that's like you is what it is ye know it isn't it is you said that you don't have to say that you know but what your dad's first name technically
william charles junior repaired wilinesse we have a new cove from beccaficas till cartier's in the house now do it and it is done like that on to it and then it'll be done to it
and it will be done yet i change is a little bit doitit done i santenay dolebat his thing was always the exact the same thing ortega words these s who it and it'll be done heah at
me as a groan adult arguably you parenthood sobaron donnow and seeing the genius of it and i i do it it'll be done like you don't have to she let wash if you get is that locally
available what would be the net next best martial arts choice or the next best thing or is the one way seventy mile drive worth it thank you meaning it's not locally a vinesto an
so ye there's a lot of auger of able martial arts aireseon wrestling and those exist in a lot of places that you go you doesn't exist so wrestling dodo some bone those are all
good offense great options you could find a catch wrestling school there is so there's definitely to morimond a good grappling but a real grappling school what you want to watch
out for is a place that says it has caradine you on to watch out for that place because that means the guide just put that up ever cause you just as getting popular yes so it out
for that guy and now loosed like across the board it there i mean i can't really imagine many exceptions where it's like pruini all the other ones and you did so and it's a
legitimate jedelevo ten nautae a place it says boxing he had as fling or unjustifiable we leeches you gotten my diet boxing will legit wrestling legit jude and legitimation
probably what you but when it's non legit things i may throw you git on the end of it watch out and whenever i'm talking about jogie i'm talking about presiding gurgitation to
make that clear talking but present just though not other forms of jujitsu so he careful of that note and in the spirit of fairness there there very well could be like you know
because he had a escuellee have this vast background in like temperate not injure for a thereand then they you know if you isolation now for sure i will the other tradition is but
there jessie that's why i said just be careful o ye es and legal in my body and most people if fifteen years ago they started taking resign to jethro and they got their black belt
there there tied the can at whatever to whatever marshal art is not at the on the list of what they teach their school it's gone actually the if there are buttonstein presume to
itand they don't say presume it plus became conor whatever they don't say that that is i earned that you and if they do do it i actually am in question there are some questions
yet or questions again can it be can it be legit person yes there can be are simple egit dudes that are you know blackana there a black belt in some other traditional morar that
they took before that that is that does happen most of the time when they realized that the white belt or blue belt in present destroyed them and their marlotte told if it ten
years they don't put that on a list any more that's why i that's what it does to most people so that's why there's questions yet questioned his cousins so yeah i wrestling
wrestling what will i know a missing in a epoie got folks out there for missing but wrestling dodo sambo cathrein those not now if there's no kind of grappling then you boxing
moti that's your next beckon said that you still learning on the fight you just dorkyard work and you definitely wanted it the ground work at some point so and then the question
the seventy mile drive i get this a lot to some people they have no marshal or in their area and they have a marshal they have judicant miles away what should i do my vote in that
situation is it gets a mass at your house get two or three your friends at one lenoist sir watching you two videos and once a week on the saturday go down to that's duitsche when
we are training back in foispans there was ceresole like that they lived in a lived somewhere and in the desert of the southern california there was no tegitur they worked nine to
five and then on saturday they come out and trained and that's what they got and they they go home at work on their drills what their three guys that they were driving eight miles
to come and train in the weekend so ye that's that's a method of doing it to you you you can train on your own with your bodies on the massasoit and watching you to and or
whatever all mine mechanism you want to use and then once a week you come and you make the track and you learn and you get to train with other people and you see where you're at
ye thank letgood yea very good yet the inex fishing is a hard i guess it is some total manner of the pinion but a few like wrestling like if you want em like a wrestling is like a
really good tool i depends on what you don't like while your handing it to her like for self in yeares ling is awesome yes i know that that is the initiating is gives you such a
mass of advantage not only in getter but in life he given an advantage so wrestling it also that being said dodo is awesome too and if you traduttore is a more of a variation in
judo school right and a high and dudish as people awesome and that's a great martial art and you learned ground work you learn take down ye it's a great marshaler don't they i
would no question about it there are some weak judo schools though duos a little bit of a tendency to sometimes duddope ple can adapt some of the traditional marks tradition
marshal arts attitude including the attitude of of were not at training in so that has appetites less that doesn't happen very often so yet you can find a good jemteland good
juice go and put on a gate and and said let's fight or let let me train with you and there on to put you to stir ondertake it down and be able to work you over that's what you do
is you know very similar to judith very similar gito so jundraghat thing to have wrestling is a great thing to have for sure sambo's awesome sambo is actually like judo and
wrestling together so sambo's great sane with caressing again there's catch resting as a little less we've catches in europe you your little bit more apt to find some of the dozen
actually know what they're doing and sir after be careful that there's some phenomenal catcher sling schools though forster so think i got time for likoer these yes jocko how do i
get the desire to have discipline how do i get the desire to have disappointed rii keep getting me as this type of question how do i get discipline or how do i want discipline or
how do i mean tain discipline in the answer it's it's simple answer but i'll be sly it's not easy and is all all kinds of little tricks and meted afee talk about and you know they
have some merit you know maybe they do work does these things you know do the little things people say in and wake up early i say that and write things down and take cold showers
and to tell everyone what you're going to do so broad cast it and make promises or or make bets with with your friends of something that you don't want to lose and in those things
those ideas there their cool i'm sure they're going to have some impact any they were for you that that as but but the fact of the matter is that the reason discipline is hard to
maintain as because it is hard to maintain that's what makes discipline heard it's hard and if you hear me claim that disciplined easy for me then straight up that's just my eagle
talking that's what that is because i'm unfortunately just as human as every one else any is a work to maintain the discipline that's what it is work holding a line metenin the
standard giving no lack none that's the discipline that's the discipline and it is hard and if there's one thing i would say that does make it easier it's cue in vision what i
feels like when you're done what it feels like after you worked out or you've held the line on your food in take or you've pushed through some monotonous project that you have to
do it all those things when they're done they feel good and contrite in vision what you will feel like later when you let the disappoint slack you know the feeling being weak and
tended and you know that your following behind so dionethus the different types of feelings and ask yourself which one you want to feel in ten minutes or in a half an hour when
when the thing is done when the discipline has blind implemented remember what that feels like and then remember that those minute and those hours they turn into weeks and months
and years and hating the line in those critical minutes will put you in an infinitely better place physically and mentally if you maintain the discipline so work through the
weakness fight through the temptation a blind old the line maintain the discipline it is not easy but it is worth it because yes because disappoint equals freedom and i think
that's no of god for tonight so echo it beotian perhaps in a disciplined manner you could explain to us how we could support this poast if we want to yet you wanted persuadee like
we should like will he do in the disciplined way toppleton tis by this one it he concise by the wahahbees antananarivo to limber half hours or something like that on the leisure
of that doesn't control that doesn't you not in that of the play nor eat does it you're in the game you're here do your job but you care longer takes cure none the less last some
evenin that i ran out a creel oil you even said you should go the storm by so ye did you no the good thing is one i went home from r saisonie in oh alloway in a forth a rangatang
oh you go on at about easie to him on or just want one went away fifty four pounds seignor one the ass i i want i want the namby onesicrates the ringing on cool but the same one
was really cool so there out of him i think there the same weight therefore some one to fifty four there out of em sees a gal just get one of these just you know as the one off
and then when the somewhat come in jack i'll get the two someone shall wear as this i may what is this store that a printing is that on it dot com but i make plain what it is just
casemet one or they don't understand the importance i think it's important noteless cuille came in this is what he do and i mention this before this was i i'm goin to do a
unchided i should just do it in it'll be done stay on it you know that is it they on it oh the automatic and had the rare oh ye cleaving call it three automatic autumn made ship
automatic yes shipman ah you just pay remontant automatic recusancy yes i think you might even get it the olio in another but that's what i'm doin me scascale stay on it if you
don't want me that's in allowed people or companies do that you know like to you know likewise down elegantula i'm a land like two twin tracery you just use all the aviator's a
good deal i mean that's a good um thing to do with basically everything well one time when alice drinking barkerly oh who has it is ready he asked me to do something of dedicating
in know an he was like he can i pay you in vodka and how a good of a savant says he had no routine and he can not be you i lodge i didn't tell him to get out of here i was in i
was consider elsie quaint second it's kind o is like corentin you drink every day you is gilliam gonna spend that money anyway so i have you don't want to could do him just
bringing in but it lasted like pierot maybe ten maybe to but i thought to myself hum think of how much money i would have charged them like double literature polite and get that
much worth the vodka bully just saved seventy five now sixty six per cent you know what i'm saying the move on none elatensis stand if it if you don't have to think about ages
come now and you are to run into this thing like me where i ought a crull for one week aches a little as a week does matter i won't be out of it at all so they have to stay on it
that's the one creole strong bone didn't run on it out o the way and that's good and that stuff is good it's weird how i told you right how much older was jack like the dear i
didn't party now how you are now about to be healthy and i didn't even stop lifteth you get ten and eight if you like i got to stop lifting or lift lighter you know i orright er
is a sucker trombone stay strong gaiete de night is an any bone issues i think if i'm not mistaken i'm not sure i go back on the website i get addicted to that website it's like
inciting stuff oh i think i can delay or stopped an said of osteoporosis on an to make that cloud not may hirano altomare comedian that's what strontium does none the less a good
cat above on their work out stuff speculate like the youth if you go and bench i don't bench but if you do around just repetitious shoulder press on and now he can get boring but
if you're intellect interesting type work out you know how like the dead youmaeale aeternali yes i on a clubhouses it that's what you were out so much in orlando cut your looking
forward to it is all interesting and don if you into those interesting work once and school cultivate a bunch o work out just for one kettle bell you know so he may is and of
course they got the you know traditional stuff jump rope when not but am like they have these men all in a unowhat they are but it's like you know these are for working out so
it's like man you can't even get board working on any more were you when you go on there you know website siddington at this dope to supplement are outstanding they do have em ye
mysel tis not butter blend also got some my tea oil near you and mc to where mc t stands for yes i do medium chain trilithes good for you you cooked with no one and i put it in
what didn't you make like a desert way that basilea kinds of strawfoot santisimooo whipping cream is sinking it goin there yet temperet off if you want temperance flashed jocis
good one support yourself support you joints spryer hell i don't think you should be in a situation any more anymore given the times wherein to not support your health is really
no room for not supporting your health right now all your needs are met you're not going out in like you're not hanafites ones do the uneducated coal so good way to support your
brain is to read these books you gene sledge another one from him china marine also around the four and a rumour of war and we go on reading it up laid down so and we go on oh
those are powerful book on the website jackpot as do come there's a page at called books from the episode to man click on it bone all the books from all the episodes with the
length directly to amazon you get those books though there that's good way to support im some quick through or if you doing any other kind of shop and just click through or
website and get whatever you goin to get including wethalie to these books doc tapes on tapes marimara sustinebit even if there is multiple rule i think it still ducat got
different types of ductile notice or paper glipse sink dolerite er mo diver stuff that you're in egedi a bad in getting more nice numbering them in foot prooemion and be like a
this is cold then you how they show you the little suggestions and then you buy of us suggestions to your own ear biologist on the cause have disappointed i may be oh so i went on
there and i got a flash light you know how not he's flash like technologists otis specious back in the dear remember the ones that he had a head like a lecluse who roundly but
they're big soodered as the keys like if you had done in a youribean execrates so kind of relieving it so i let me get a flashlight and you look at all the new ottilia my god
these are so i'm like okay i'm going by this tommy man light a latookas he hit people with it in the inn the event of having to use it for a weapon so i get one and then i click
on it and there's a very options on the length of it my cool on so i get the regular an camelflage from my daughter she's for like latch lights like all kids do i get two for me
one for cartooning one said scott like a six cell meaning it takes six batteries even imagine a long netting and like a straight of batan hum with a flashlight on it so i got the
wind up getting nine flashlight i don't need line clash lace dissington of a total lack disappointed on amazon yes i hope you do to click for he yes he did and i got a book too by
the way so yes sure i lacked amazon flashlight shopping discipline but i got some cool ashley there is the technique here i'll show you you might even know this but i learned this
infantility training and this was a technique that you're this elegant use you can't use it as security or because its offensive is not in security is minimum force necessary to
affect a whatever to to esitation whatever so that what it is let's say this was the flashlight in the say this is the light part rank and like so usually as it lay person you
hold the flash light like this right and you like you landforce man and stuff like that they hold it like that kind of above like that so do sae you hold it so you shay grip it
right there by the the head of it with the night you shine it in the guy's face crashed and be like come down come down come down they can't really see you they're just lighted by
the light kind of and they're like a hand they hear your voice in comedown come in man you can get and you flipout in it and with it and you get those long mag lights that in this
thick sell full batteries tom they don't see coming they don't flinch they don't flankney don't anything is just a complete you see light one moment for a split second the light
kind of goes down then her flash then you see yet you wake up justinian as idea how i doing it to somebody else i dang the guides it's like you oleary you know like you see a
person die whether be un video whatever he gets like shot and his body to schoolin he doesn't know it's come in not hesitated like that he had hit with it so square and so hard
and he didn't even flinch and if the real effect if things don't do it to people unless they're in your house or something like that and i decores also good way to support is
subscribing to focus i don schorge play goldite all these proud casting providing platforms also you too technically as a pacaris platform so subscribed to allen his thing by
eaton even on a already it gives you the added benefit of being able to see the video version cockles talking about these things to subscribe to that word sam other exerts on
there some inhanced excerpts that will recall in him ter the enhanced one putemus ic on that than some browton burl anything that's not the actual thing and i am and all so what
has ensenore noise is in upon for in you to ye somewhere videotape had overheated it's just it's the soteriades point but not less subscribed and boomin you know support that way
also joculator it's called chocolate door once the website sodomite jocatore doom so what this has a fodor eady is t shirts whut's i think i'm not with some light hoodies on there
summer time you don't like that idea no heavier nothing eyes heavy wet heavy lidy or no sir this door tanktops not really now you do yes my wife threw a bunch of mine away about
the five verserent years ago because she doesn't like him on a taken there esalan ratty and she's through a grand only yes which was awesome in controllable note my answers one of
those to aconitin that i still bring up to her don't keatings be alcapar at his taiohaie come for fight a tank to be avenged the awe i say will last he yet they were not she
lightly like the way you look in those tanks out it's a pensive there's sensibility as obscoena to say you know startop pointing the finger start playing in a tomb right does he
expression yeah yeah you got to watch out for that strangely i do like and for your tank top than my you play der is some one did say actually not many people saying tanked up
will be cool i don't wear tantos you do hardly the that's obviously a sore subject ye last make some tank out of i do my whole wardrobe i thank god i rimac is a gate up ready or
not tankodrome on the land of pre radiation you know those thing put im on the on the sanderson the last a church a cool if you think they're cool takabout doctor at componere the
shirts this rash guards on there i think i i'm saying used smiting in the resorts a cool that's like to me actually this lavigatin on there might be indian but on the less seron
the other cool oh if you once the port do it that way good what site see if you like something yet something at her coming to whatever that means but they'll be her son also
psychologic orthority know what that is i know you do but let's say seitan what that was he montell you it is an album with tracks jocko tracks cousin what he has these are the
pragmatic logical reasons why you shouldn't slip on your diet or your waking up early or this is what you should not skip through the work out this latin slack on the work of like
all these little things that you the probability of you slacking on certain things in life or or the fluctuat really but in the event of slacking on something and you need a spot
erable verbal and psychological get this check this out sir psychological war for julia on a ton for an anmic or wherever they sell him be three get that and get a little spot get
little out for your points of weakness in your ye journey i said it and that helps also you get jack a white tea or amazon by the way we talked about a little bit sad day the
person said that they drink a cup of jack a white j this morning before i left from musterers to and ended up at muster zerzow that i proven jocasta's you travel through time and
space but here we are so getting his is a verified purchase revealed little person had actually experienced this and keep that in mind jackaway get one and was on the dot came
also way the warrior did book for kids and possibly adult athirst arting to see that a tree here is a review i wish i had read this book before i give you an excellent path to a
successful fulfilled life it is very easy but don't be foliaged deep too i think it is great for a ten year old or for aid here all is your never too old or too young to learn the
basic when audible life wore filleting fantastic and red stars so that's pretty cool pick up the book it's about how to be better how to overcome the obscure that we all face and
it told to the voice of a tenderly named mark and his uncle uncle jake he comes into his life to help him overcome solesme of these oracles so there is young that's where the
warrior kid also disponibles freedom you'll manuel and it in his complete at this time so many these questions again asked all about all the time or laid out this book food work
out martial arts and my my operating system what you that i've talked about one on this pot cast is in the book in a written form this book is like the pot cast that you can read
and absorb and refer back to so the book is like the pot cast but you're going to see it's not a normal book it's not normal my polishers says we've never posed anything like this
i don't think that anything else polish like this ever so if a little difference not a regular book just like this is no regular poast distangle freedom field manual you can
prearrange now and of course the tree mongership leadership book it based on what i learned during twenty years in the eleans about leadership and especially from the battle of
remote and how to take those lessons and apply them to the battle field to business and to life wrote that with my brother lay patino was on the battle field with me and remade
also we have leshi and management consulting company me lay fading done dave burke leadership and management a line meant for your team if you want that he mail in full at ascalon
front not calm and finally the master often texas july thirteenth and fourteenth two at so out were done without one not done with it still it happened but you can't come because
it's sold out no more sea we were able to bump it up a little bit i think we got to like three twenty or three thirty but that's in em we were supposed only have three hundred and
then we rearranged some seats or whatever so we got it to three twenty i think but that's it we can't we cannot put in an else in there sold out so the next shot is back in san
diego september fourteenth and fifteenth back the only hotel all in the bay in indego lot of people from the first muster in san diego are coming back and facing out will be
awesome to here from people okay you went you went the first master you are you are some things that you brought a back to apply him real world you had some obstacles what are the
obscurest you hit let's figure out how to get around em that's musters ererer santiago california after that were not going to go again with a master for a while you know
haletante sometime in two thousand eighteen probably once again in the spring time but later in the spring so beware of that if you don't come to september it's cannot be while
and until the master if you do want to communicate and hang out a little bit you can find us getting at will you not really getting after them the but you can find us hiding
letters into a keyboard on the interets that's right on ter on in stagra and ineffable bhola echo is that echo charles and i am at joaille and thanks for listening in subscribing
in supporting and spring the word but more important thanks for grabbing a hold of the challenges and the struggles in our life and learning from them and then climbing up
toscanes like a jacob flatter and using them to elevate yourself instead of letting them drag you down and when you get to the top look round and give some one else a hand pulled
him up to help them what you learned try to do it an attack be way train teach them and look round and see who can help you and teach you and what you can learn from other people
and teach people to overcome challenges the same way that you did the same way we all did by learning from our problems and our challenges and are heroes and after we learn from
them we grabbed them by the throat get after it so until next time this is echo and jack o
