this is jacopo cast number eighty three with a kotals and me jocolino evening echo good evening on the nineteenth of february nineteen forty five after three days of heavy pre
landing bombardment which attempted to destroy the heavy fortifications that the japanese had built on that day the nineteen to february nineteen forty five american amphibious
forces primarily us marines of the third four and fifth marine divisions along with soldiers from the u s armies hundred and forty seventh infantry regiment landed on the island
of eig by the end of the first day at some battalions phatically rate of over eighty per cent on the morning of twenty february nineteen forty five bring harpist lieutenant eyes
was taken cover fox all about three hundred yards from the beach when he was hit by a japanese mortar strike he was severely wounded in his left arm and in his head he was
evacuated to a hospital ship off shore which is where he died the next day on february twenty first nineteen forty five that it was about two months prior to that on december
seventeenth nineteen forty five that first intended lendest isaac had written a letter to his two boys now i have a lot of people asked me questions about parenting i afore kids
so to people want to know my fault on it be also obviously ask me about war and they asked me what kind of advice i have for my son and i think that personates expanses many of
these questions a lot better than i ever could from here is what he told them in that letter the ember seventeenth nineteen forty four my dear little boys i'm writing you to day
just a week before christmas eve in in the hope that you will get this little note arismane all of this coming week will be holidays and i can just imagine the fun you will be
having especially when you know it's just a few days before santa claus will be coming if it were possible i would like to come down the chimney myself and crawl right into your
stock and would not be a surprise i would enjoy even more than you but since your dad is far away and santa claus has the only rain deer that will fly you wear how afraid we'll
have to let an a clause out them after all he has so many places to go in such a short time i won't be able to give you a christmas present personally this year but i do want you
don't know that i think of you all the time and feel very proud of the way you have been helping your mother while on gone i know that it's only natural for young healthy and
strong boys like you are to one a play that have funnell the time but i do want you to think about helping mummy because it's hard for her to everything while i am gone i know
that you would like to give me a christmas present too so i will tell you what you can do in this will be your christmas present to me every day ask mummy if there are errands
that you can do for her and when her our errand to run say sir mommy and then give her a big smile then during the day go to your room and look round if there are toys scattered
all around or you left some of your clothes on the floor picked them up also when mummy is busy trying to clean up the house he'll leave her by herself peras mammy if you can help
her take care of baby sister if you do those things for me that will be the finest christmas present that you could give me oh yes and see are you eating your meals like a real
man now well my boys i guess you often wonder why people fight and have wars and why lots of daddy's after be way this christmas time at fighting when it would be much nicer to be
at home that's a hard question to answer but you see some countries like japan and germany have people living in them just like people you and i know those people want to tell
everybody what they can do and what they can't do no one likes to be told how to live their life i know that you wouldn't like you to one of the boys in the neighborhood tried to
tell you what church you should go to what school you should go to and particularly if that boy would always be trying to beat up some smaller or weaker boy you would like it
would you and unfortunately the only way to make a person like that stop these sort of things or a country like to pan or germany is to fight them and beat them and teach them
that being a bully because after all that's what they are is not the way to live and that we won't put up with it what does all this mean to you just simply this my boy that
doesn't ever want you to be a bully i want you always fight against any one who tries to be one i want you to always help the smaller fellow or the little boy who may not be as
strong as you i want you to always share what you have with the other fellow and above all my boys have courage have courage to do the things that you think are right never be
afraid to fight for what you think is right to do those things you need a strong body and a brave heart never run away from some one you may be afraid of if you do you will feel
ashamed of yourself and before long you will find it so easy to run away from the things that you should stand up and fight against if you anoother boys try to do the things that
that has been talking about in this letter that may be that people will not have to fight wars in the years to come then then all the daddies in this world will be home for
christmas then that is where they belong perhaps some of the things that i have been talking about you don't quite an understand if you don't mammy'll explain them to you she
knows mary trustin a happy new year god bless you daddy an obviously many brave american student fought for what they believed in all that tiny island of ewigen they suffered
massive losses to gain that victory over the course of that five week battle nineteen thousand two hundred seventeen were wounded six thousand eight hundred and twenty one were
killed and first lieutenant leonard smith eyes ex marine husband father daddy was buried at seeing thirty four years old reading that letter made me think about another letter i
had read from another parent then it's another letter that i find to be just an incredible guide too not only to parenting but to living on this one was written not by a father
the by mother there's not a letter to her son but to a daughter and the daughter's name was jane then the mother's name was doctor malta or a cove and she wrote the letter from
prison while she was on trial for treason and for conspiracy on trial by these soviet backed communist government of checks of occia after they had taken control of the country in
a coop and she and her fellow so called conspirators were jailed and tortured and in put through a grandiose shatille knew she knew that she was going to be made an example of she
knew she was facing death and the night before her execution she wrote a letter to her daughter to sixteen at the time and this is some o what you owe my only little girl jane god
bless my life as a woman with you now your father wrote in the poem from german prison god gave you to us because he loved us apart from your father's magic amazing love you with
the greatest gift i received from fate however providence planned my life in such a way that i could not give you nearly all that my mind and heart had prepared for you the reason
was not that i loved you little i love you just as purely in fervently as other mothers love their children but i understood that my task here in the world was to do you good by
seeing to it that life becomes better and that all gildren can live well and therefore we often had to be apart for a long time he is now already for the second time that fate has
torn us apart don't be frightened and sad because i am not coming back any more learn my child to look at life early as a serious matter life is hard it does not pamper anybody
and for every time it strokes you it gives you ten blows become accustomed to that soon but don't let it defeat you decide to fight have courage and clear goals and you will win
over life much is still unclear to your young mind in no have time left to explain to you things i will you would still like to ask me one day when you grow up you will wonder and
wonder why your mother who loves you and whose dreadest gift you were managed for life so strangely perhaps then you will find the right solution to this problem perhaps a better
one than i could give you to day myself of course you will not only be able to solve a correct rentroll by knowing very very much not only from books but from people learn from
everybody no matter how unimportant go through the world with open eyes and listen not only to your own pains in interest but also to the pains interest and longings of others
don't ever think of anything as none of your business no everything must interest you than you should reflect about everything compare and compose individual phenomena man doesn't
live in the world alone in that there is great happiness but also a tremendous responsibility that obligation is first of all and not being in acting exclusive but rather merging
with the needs and the goals of others this does not mean to be lost in the multitude but it is to know that i am part of all and to bring one's best into that community if you do
that you will succeed in contributing to the common goals of human society be more aware of one principle than i have been approach everything in life constructively be beware of
unnecessary in negation i'm not saying onlagareb i believe that one should resist evil but in order to be a truly positive person in all circumstances one has to learn how to
distinguish real gold from tense it is hard because tenesti glitters so dazzingly i confess my child that often in my life i was dazzled by glitter and sometimes it even shone so
falsely that one dropped pure gold from one's hand and reached for a ran after false gold you know that the organized one scales of values means to know not only one self well but
to be in from an inhales of one's character but also to know others to know as much as possible of the world its past its present and future in short to understand not the close
ones years before anything in from no reason not even to shut out the thoughts and opinions of anybody who step be my toes or even wounded me deeply examine think criticize yes
mainly criticized yourself don't be ashamed to admit a truth you have come to realize even though you proclaim the opposite a little while ago don't become obstinate about your
opinions but when you come to consider something right than be so definite that you can fight than die for it as walker said that is not bad just a void gradual dying which is
what happens when one suddenly finds oneself a part from the real life of others you have to put down your roots where fate is determined you to for you to live you after find
your own way look for it independently and let anything turn you away from it not even the memory of your mother and father if you really love them you won't hurt them by seeing
them critically just don't go on a road which is wrong dishonest and does not harmonize with life i have changed my mind many times re arranged many values but what was left in
his in as an essential value without which i cannot imagine my life is the freedom of my conscience i would like you my little girl to think about whether i was right another
value is work i don't know which to assign the first place in which the second learned to love work any work but one you have to really to know really in thoroughly then don't be
afraid of anything and things will turn out well for you and don't forget about love in your life i'm not only thinking of the red blossom which one day will bloom in your heart
and you if fate favours you will find a similar one in the heart of another person with whose road yours will merge i'm thinking of love without which one cannot live happily on
don ever crumble love learned to give it whole and really and learned to be loved precisely those who encourage love so little by little girl jane when you will be choosing for
whom your maiden heart shall burn and to whom to really give yourself remember your father i don't know if you will meet with such luck as i i don't know if you will meet such a
beautiful human being but choose your ideal close to him perhaps you my little one have already begun to understand and now perhaps you understand to the point of pain what we
have lost in him what i find hardest to bear as that i am also guilty of that lost i've heard for my legal representative that you are doing well in school and that you want to
continue i was very pleased but even if you would one day have to leave school and work for your life we hold don't stop learning and studying if you really want to you will reach
your goal i would have liked for you to become a medical doctor you remember that we talked about it of course you will decide yourself and circumstances will too but if you stand
one day in the traditional almemor and carry home from graduation not only your doctor diploma but also the real ability to bring people relief as a doctor then my little girl
your mother will be immensely pleased but your mother would only be truly happy no matter where you stand whether at the operating table at the late at your child's cradle or at
the work table in your household if you will do your work skillfully honestly happily and with your whole being then you will be successful in it don't be demanding in life but
have high goals they are not exclusively other for what i called demanding are those selfish notions and needs restrict them from yourself realize that in view of the disaster of
sorrow which happened to you vera peperino her grandfather and many others will try to give you what they have and what they cannot afford you should not only not ask for it but
learned to be modest if you become used to it you will not be unhappy because of material things you don't have you don't know how free one feels if one trains on self and modesty
how her she gets a head start over against the feeble and by how much one is safer and stronger i really tried this out on myself and if you can thus double your strength you can
set yourself courageous high goals read much and study languages you are by broad in your life and multiply its content there was a time in my life when i read voraciously and
then again times when worked did not permit me to take a single book in my hand apart from professional literature that was a shame here in recent monie reading a lot even books
were probably would not interest me outside but it is a big and portant task to read everything valuable or at least much that is i shall write down for you at the end of this
letter what i have read in recent months i am sure you will think of me when you will be reading it renoso something for your body i am glad that you are engaged in sports just do
it systematically i think that there should be reseavers and if you have time also some good systematic gymnastics and those quarter hours every morning believe me finally that it
would save you a lot of annoyance about unfavorable proportions of your waist if you could really do it is also good for the training of your will and perseverance your photograph
showed me your new hair do i look good but it is a istesse to hide your nice forehead and that lady in the ball gown really you looked lovely but your mother's eye noticed one
fault which may be due to the way you are placed on the photograph wasn't the neck opening a little deep for your sixteen years don't print but whenever possible dress carefully
and neatly jane prestak good care of grandfather and grandmother there all hearts now need the most consolation visit them often and let them tell you about your fathers and
mothers youth so you can preserve it in your mind for your children in that way and individual becomes a moral and we shall continue in you and the others of your blood and one
more thing music i believe you will show your gratitude to grandfather for the piano which he gave you by practising honestly and that you will succeed in what peticoats in
accompanying him when he plays the violin or the veil please do not favour i know that it would be a lot to him and he would be beautiful and when you can play well together
playmate area for martha my rose you bloom alone there on the hill side and then sleep my little prince by mozart and then your father's favorite under your window by chopin the
platform me won't you i shall always be listening to you just one more thing choose your friends carefully a moother things one is also very much determined by the people with
whom one associates associates therefore chose very carefully be careful and everything and listen to the opinions of others about your girl friends without being told i shall
never forget your charming letter to day i can tell you which you once in the evening pinned through my pillow to apologize when i caught you for the first time at the gate in the
company of a girl and a boy you explained to me at that time why does necessary to have a gang have your gang little girl but of good in clean young people and compete with each
other in everything good only please don't confuse young people spring time infatuation with real love do you understand me if you don't overwhelm you explain what i meant and so
my only young daughter little girl jenna new life my hope my future forgiveness live grasp life with both hands until my last breath i shall pray for your happiness my dear child
i kiss your hair eyes and mouth i stroke you and hold you in my arms thisaways be with you for next day despite international outcry melada or a cove was executed at prague pan
crack prison again there dissoute blown from those letters and as parents these much rusticate think the thing that beats me is that easter all things that we know we know them we
know to take care of our health we know to wake up an exercise we know we should choose our friends carefully we know we should be our own worst critics and we know that if we
have been wrong about something we should simply admit that and move our minds to what is right and what is correct we know we should work a hard and all people we know the value
of freedom and we know that freedom must be fought for thee we know that we should be brave and that that is possible the through a strong body mind and heart and we know all
those things we know them now teach them teach them and live them set the writee by living them because our children are water there watching it and you actually you i think you
have to do more than just said the example ficino actually have to to tell them the gouache to tell them and you think about the power of these letters the power of these were but
it's also a real challenge with kids with your own children it's a challenge because there's a whole crazy abrant child sical that's going on here right you got the rebellion or
the trying to please you or the competing for attention or the idea to anything good enough you got all these psychological things that are going on with your kits and it's hard
it's it can be very hard to to be straight with your kids about stuff they can be haard not to micromanage on that's one of the hardest things because you know so well all these
things if we just talk about you know them and you know that they're the best things for your kids and gettist too intensely they're going to push back orderish anodine direction
cause you pushed him there but i i do think that there's some real value in taking the time to explain what you've loaned vemyss that you've made i think it's keen not to so much
focus on telling them how to live i think this is the keys not so much focus on telling them how to live but telling them how you have lived them a stake that you made and how you
try to live so that maybe they can one from some of the mistakes that you've made without the having a man from life itself which sometimes life is a much more brutal teacher the
in fact most the time in a few after learn from life sometimes you don't win harsh ye parenting his challenging parteth think is very important the most important make is when you
said our children are watching so you know remember the old thing a do what i say not what i do there that doesn't work to cause he tell someone he don't don't an'now what don't
smoke don't don't don't try cigarettes meanwhile you smoke a sorrentine okay don't try cigarettes you know whatever you know there there only white like every day all day every
day there watching to see how do i act i don't know how to amait i don't know how to act in an out to do what in this hole you know like when you walk into a party of some one you
don't know and maybe it's a really nice party or something and maybe it's a different culture something like that you're looking around what i i are would taken off our shoes
right here on kay were taken off her shoes okay are we all we are we eating now we waiting for a prayer on the wood like what are we do what it is you constantly looking up how to
had no kids that's their whole light ye how do i act i don't know how to act so of course you're there the whole time you've got things figured expired all you got a car he got a
house your surviving my food a year onshore how to act then you start saying he don't smoke meanwhile one hundred per cent of the time our acting in a way that allows first
smoking men like owen and i by the way it's the same exact thing for my leadership perspective ye the way you act as a leader it's not at i mean that you are knocking to have
people that are as moldable as a kid is and but there is no doubt if a way you act as leaders away our teams going to act there's a note to that's a hundred per cent yes and if
you act like a cloud your team is going to act like clouds if you take your job seriously you're jetees going to take your job seriously if you're very well balanced in between
those two were you you take a jokers they be just tillottson it you're your team is going to follow you with that as well as i remember when i was a new gunniston i would be
watching those my leaders all the time in taking you know when they didn't do something when they didn't hope a line when they were late and were i bring her i pesage it was just
yes you just look at him and shake your head now i wanted to perform but what that meant till the people like say doesn't matter he really before that well looked to boston before
will ye and let yers had led a hand yeah you have your subordinates are watching everybody's latin to every inhlope will be like you know i'm a tabitha that does this you know i
really end in one knows bad no you're not we be watching you that the whole time i've known you kind o think so yet especially that like the boss to even even i mean you get all
kinds of different people right in in the work environment so you year like driven a comes from yourself your life really self like motivated and stiff pooches kind of tulalips
that even if you have a bunch self motivated people they're still watching you like so far like penalising your like he in a work atower punctual people we get a work done early
like where this guy and then meanwhile you're coming in lay or whatever the boss coming in late and he's slacking you can tell slacking his passing like his job off up you know on
the others and that in that kind of stuff at the very least there young look at you and not have the respect that i think you should have as i as a boss or whatever you have the
very least and that's if you have solfatarite ple but otherwise the normal situation i have an i remember feeling that all attempered craves i'm not godlessness here man is in
itinerating to is just think about it and i know we've done all their letters from parents especially from parents that are ye know headed for gas or at least of high probability
of death but what would you say to your kids if you knew you were head in there peasants it not a wire telling him that at some point the wall earlie in and you can you can say
hey look if you onlie i tell this stuff is all was you know again that what's gratis even with that you have you can't override your kids with the tactus way you can't do it that
you got approach it you can flank em you got a flank em you've got i got a faint my kids like you know oh that they're not as i think it a class example is my son he's got to get
to right he's been training to do to ten years right he's fourteen he been been trained in his whole life fright but he didn't he's not as good a digit as i am i mean he said it
not because he been trying to her in open train in from tony something so you can beat him i can be as yes but but i get out what's funny is on this day so when i tell him the son
move your hip over here don't e to do that i thinking myself you gottmadingen you got a beginning he that is the client to me that's the ultimate example of your kids are not
going to listen to you their programme the programme to reject you at some point they have to move on right that's the way the species works if they just continue to take from you
and they don't i reject you at some point and get away from you then you didn't get do a job of a parent is now the lying on you and so but that comes a little price the price is
thou ravalette rebellions going to come and it's you know he can you can identify it you know my youngest it's so nice an noather something and she just got the big eyes and she
wants to help wants to please and wants to do and and understand and don't take some ones there's another end of the spectrum to us my oldest daughter she went through the
rebelliously through that then she got through a pretty quickly to where she would like look at me and think him thank you could see it in eyes that she thinking he knows voice
talking about and i'm going in less now when he say now a duke's probably like a fifty per cent raise not a rethought hundred resent my muisition but let victory or jonato do
because otherwise what sad about that this is war horrible about that if you could get a child to actually do everything that you wanted them to do they would dominate life i
cause you dessay okay i study hard i will you work out of oil you do everything that i'm not doing easily and i fell short of my own goals room you'd have to all that stuff
they're not going to do it so you got to find cogent the all tarawih ones are important night which ones are really important don't waste your leadership to capital and you know
getting near kids to dress a certain way it that's one pereneset all kinds of leadership happen on getting their kids to work dresses certainly and the reality is give me
obviously you've got to go when they had me an some standard of decency sure and cleanliness but the nother leap legate yes it is it is my daughter's winthrope's one wearing the
short really short gens for not notish rt ye all i okay coolies walking on one day at my house i had like a pair of valor out short on her whatever i just pulled them right up at
the angles and on how do i look he wore in a show off let's just show it off i go on to i do squat check out by girls come out in agony her on clan he had stopped in doubt that's
disgusting you i were shown off but let's show him off as a maroon squared carrack let's sort it got it for in a opalling it so that's all wait let's go into town who's coming
with me yennikhau you be even only spend so much leave your capital on getting these minor corrections made what you want to make sure is that they have good morals and value to a
god go out in town they know where to draw the line on doing stuff that's good or not good you and i some asked me a question on torrentially answered fully but near his accause
to be real black and white about good rival but i think there's a lot of shades of gray in her and i totally agree of course when there's there's mass of amount of shades of grey
in good and evil hand then at some point you get the evil ye but you go from like hey this is bad to evil and you go from you know hey that's pretty nice to good those those are
things that exist yet and you want to keep your kid you know out of the evil right and if you waste all your leadership capital trying to push them from doing ok into doddering
the best and you are going to wet you can wear it all out in my opinion if there's some parents that have done about her job than me that's awesome and they were able to just to
keep their kid five point on every category across the board for their own existence without the kid turning into a crazy you know rabble could that's what happens to some kids
they get push that ar ye yes i think that all again that old leading bigam think men is lalong as your consistent in lead by example the once and although see the benefits play
out right from their face the but man these again you can you can be like hay clean your room meanwhile the rest the house including your raises or any bad clei tell you clean
romalino not but how's this so what am my friends ah one of my best friend emecity lewis he's a caught by the way in no on the begins it is guy would um he was never my roommate
but he go to hostleaders real like clint clean you that with super clean guyan he'd get kind o mad not mad but just uncomfortable and things are dirty you know footnote he as a
rotor something like that and i remember thinking bangbury rill sensitive about that whole being you know being clean and their like the real clean clean clean clean not a clean
frankness arily but a border life wordliness sums and just from knowing him in stuff i i knew that his parents they would like you all clean his room and stuff like that not all
the time antagonist but they are involved in inclining off so it kind of went opposite to what i thought you know how like you your parents took if you've got taught to clean your
room from a young aide you had to do it the whole time sir i always thought that yet that that would carry over when you're out of the house and you go to college go live on her
own that you clean your room all the time i've thought that that was gone in but i start to hypothesis at that's not it this is what it is if your parents provide him an
environment of the extreme kindliness whether you do it or they do it or both or whatever but the environment is consistently clean when you leave that environment that's will be
that will be what you're used to interest as little mesith you have it not and that's this insuring ough we went to the big ananias him and we go to his house and it's like a
museum is spotless clean not his his parent of her and i remember thinking like ye that the malite theory i think it's correct to like if you're outidanes parents help him clean
or not yes fully so he and here's the thing about his because ourals get the kid that if parents are neat freaks in the kid rebels and misbecomes a sob her so and yet may i and
i'm sure there's all kinds of circumstance that may be do that i'm sure but i mean generally speaking environment that you get used to find an all so there's pete's parents at er
sobs that the kids are very neat normally stayed like that ye yes i mean maybe and again these rollin's that so many for i've never encountered that well my i think the key is
here what you can't do it just try and push him like crazy you just have to guide them and what is correct and which after rely shows like the better fit you of why it's good to
keep things in order ye you know if you're going to spend an hour looking for your car keys just think of your productivity at that or it's no atheist to watch it at verse but yet
that was my little pots i think it's true though cause think but like inaboat just be environment of the the consistent environment that you kind o that it someone will come from
they always in a way sortilegium crea recreate that environment or try to when they leave so like in hollidam from a chaotic people yellow and one there on a polyenov or lit say
they don't yell let's say they never swear right like i grew up in a household and they don't swear and swearing like not the good one they go out they won't do start swearing the
they'll be settees how you know for sure slingein if if the environment is provided consistently think that that's going to a big conceals a long way all i think it's benumbed one
thing sir i am strong that yes i agree with her toreador sank in sister fright you didn't like small little things like oh for my dog for example it's the the routine is one of
imitated it's brushed teeth we do stories and questions which is like disuse story that i mean and then questions like the basely up quiet like room enter education like soloiste
stuff and you make it like a game show quistion and then betty that's it and sleep tonerres no deviation as were out and in air but they are you robson consistent so now you i
don't get any push back in my daughter in pushmatahaw she lowing will ithacensian of she just notes go eange plain shoes she's got a low spark to her her acostas to us she asked
got it from mothah there's just a tones i was going through these parendole ber where i let read the the oh onowenever where i read this latter for the first time from mulata
harcout they are so much good stuff in there chenour friends carefully i mean sick tess wieki off you know life is or that does not bear brandy that's a good thing for kids to
understand ye you know welcomed to life it's going to be hard get a costume to it but don't let it defeat you do ye that hanging to your opinion one was yeh paranahyba in where
you're an ay if i made this if i may if i had the wrong fury that you kay ye alison me he information here we go i'm changing that's okay news can freaking out tall titians i
think that had i conversed had a hours disonore he howisons people that we a flipflop to the opera and that's a negative thing is it's a negative thing if the person is foppling
just to give votes yes and they would have what her new stuff comes to lightness know what kind of chase my paynton ye ye or the culture shipman like this certain things that
emanate your things with the short short that i mean when little bit different but you have to contend with her cultural jetanola ermeline in in a wife example when i grew up like
just the swimsuits um for you know sure you were bekunum be keen so i come i heartall age i come here and move here i go back this is like you know ten eleven years later i
noticing the beginin there is just way less materialising this there showing a lot but in one sustinebit kids and stuff like tokay and my younger brother lives there he said
that's just how on his nourishin man you you wouldn't ateleta's some stuff that i had to like go kay a marine ended yactisi capital fighting not just my kids but fighting a whole
cure as a hair yessing that crossed the line right yet to into wearing the short short dianoetic into don't want to see you any of those your son to a you don't want to have that
happen so am i i said tongoo information from captain serenito oracle but you know speaking of learning and teaching and questioning speaking question time sure i we all o
question to contend with you the cue yes mine as well to let sir as jackson question ritualised your answers to questions jack he that kind of a good thing about knowing your
phone number here i could just tax you with questions when he hears my own questions a growth myth management of your timid at entally for however i'm pretty quick to answer yet
abruptly in short mestayer cause you very much know what tender in a vat i do and sometimes you just need that back up and that's or that that that reinforced men whom you know
you know how like you like man if i really have i have in this issue with myself whatever like imani's jocko only as the cause it's real i really confused not completed but on our
really i need the one and out on every i'm barely what i'm an asked jack and you can be texcoco the answer or to the question and you like i know that seerlike asseverating this
question to jocolate colerette ye yes that don't send it for you get about me be a third and like a quarter of the questions that i appetite you yet a good man sir in the
joculators room question the more jocko i keep trying to ask around my b j j school if any one follows since program the now you just abbreviate essence o you bet is right no oh i
striking condition in ilka sure go a hundred per cent that i ever had a starlike a known lineation singersville for some one that's jack lanoline strength and condition i don't i
have never seen her you know that the name it all right that maybe i just do it troradin us gratairon way i'm asking around my disco if any one follows the strength in
conditioning program for camp which is competition edition you of an deever one keeps telling me to just roll for chancing conditioning what do you think about that okay so
rolling is obviously the base raniero and that but that has to it doesn't as a mean incuring like we have oral however works out a imean rolling with some kind of sharon in
silence or short round you go get your long round you got to get your sharp tank you gotta get your positional drilling now got to get your consequence free drills by delecter
makes us do consequence free drills where dear gosart in a position where you might get tapped out but it doesn't matter it right or you're going to start a position where you
might lose position but you're going to do it anyway and and in glover's what game does actually glover does the consequence drills were you hear already stlike starting in the
arak yea that here letting a person take your arm and your starting there and your sense what you can get out of it or start in the triangle mopeing danger in the triangle yeh
that's objet glover you i did that you that rapporter homage but if you're for you it's good so you got a you got to do that you know and the short round by short of a short
intense round ye right if you in my attitude in a three minute round is complete rent than my attitude in a twenty minute round or even i mean that the ultimate and believe it or
not my attitude in a twenty minute round is different from my attitude in a no time limit round real yea yea i got a right t is pecially because in regular training even if you
get the submission if i submit you informants i piloted nother sixteen so i might have go all hard for four minutes and give us a mission but then i got to go notice extee mine it
out on going to i'm gone have set tactical now if we now what's different is if it's no time on it after four minutes i get you word were kind of done we can go in and elettriche
can just be done treatise you get him in one minute will probably going to deadline a union this probably going again to but lay eight minutes so i might i might not submit you in
one minute or even four minutes because i want to get you to a point where no escaped to do this one die a aviation ah but so yes you have to row now you but you still need to get
stronger right in a classiarii his aunt began began bert right great odipus pianner strong yea and i would i said to a sort doing poop starting pocopsin depths and sat just start
to him and he did and he listened to me aunt and in a matter of a month he fell completely different because he wasn't work out her or he was just rolling and he's rollhard core
but just rolling compared to actually getting stronger i an in he went on to polluting and olympic lifting in an now's i okay it on a contend with actual gunpower here so that
that definitely makes a difference you know his skill was getting better but it wasn't i was feeling ascoiete you know but we're all getting better the same timber almost as are
stronger so strength that's the strength part right now the conditioning part same thing judithe allows you to rest and that actually a positive attribute of your duet to game if
you can rest while you're doing it ye right that's that's one of the good that that that proves you know what you're doing now that i see negative when it comes to work in out
because if you do something like a row or a bake or a spring or a mad can work out on a timer there no mercy lacking is not roared you're you your your racing against the clock
and so those things are going to push you faster for longer peers of time harder then just a role well so bottom line for strength and conditioning indigents yeah you gotta do you
gits pessecutor bass and then you've got to do she tink training to get stronger not dead and squaws and greener and snatches norwalk lift and did a man in singles and doubles and
fours and fives and sets of twenty men means getting stronger and then you got to work your battabolo conditioned in it how do you do that you go hard you go metabolized mac come
right you make a lighter weight doing more repetitions short and you got a mix up a round to go a short rounds long rounds to batonist's yes the to botarnic i don't know the exact
thereanent number unanime for the taboo protocol sir his thirty third note twenty seconds of work ten seconds of rest on so for me that's like the shortest round our doing is
twenty seconds of work ten seconds of rest bidette long rounds and then you do etoileens do three on one off for once that's a boxing right i got at em to do it a five on one off
that's a i may in an above that you start to get to git you which is ten minutes one off but within teresting is if you're doing at ten entrons on in one off and then a nottington
in the one off that bars in the one big round so a lot of times will hereditary that's competing black bell shore up or he's doing a twenty minute fight or a ten minute fight a
ten minute ten men grappling match one round of ten minutes or one round of fifty minutes you got having take a bigger break in between some time during the transitorial coming in
their fresh and they can work through the promadeni they're just going through the one hour rolled is the whole time which is not good for m um and obviously you got on technique
here practici cause jogie is at's goin to win and like a dust had somebody had he upon social media and they said because i i told a story of some point on this part cast about
growling with a black belt girl for the first time was the first i ever rolled with a panel black belt grown i think sinking all you know i'd better every my agama little bit son
of god caught here and then i went assertion's not happening and the guy says is this mean that you can't defeat a stronger upon it with you gioiosa no absolutely ah my watch
girls lighter weaker girls tap out bigger star guyon the regular but one were what what that situation was not only was i bigger and stronger tomasso at you in you yes so doesn't
apply yeah and there's this element of dionaea kind ages back to em on andy when you know when you get andy with this his skill and technique and then you add some strength in
conditioning to it and didn't like you know solway do if you if you don't have if you're not being a strong you can't really believe me went on the man billy outmantle bely i mean
like you can't just turn on this like you send him your going that he ran not yentrance you of your sin jegor but we have people could i have well that he believes it in a
different way yersels the that's what i mean by belyke you can't just impose your strength on some one well amavisse you can impose your techmen yeah i mean jeff glover will bully
guides on the mat if there are lined for sure ye'es i indian a different kind of way do i retalk ing about you will you can't go strength ye can't just start bullying physically
being the you have to technically bulletes socet aye solitary technique is is similar it but you have straight up wait strength one conditioning fisit really plays the virgate
firster in not to see that you'll be bled that necessarily top the die out but him trying to tap you out when you have strength conditioning and sides the psyche it just gives re
heard of for sure and in less you will be the key component there that you mentioned is that i have to have a similar cause ye you can be a two hundred and thirty five pound like
gods shopperton athlete and if you don't know it doigtier got a rap you out like you don't even know what's happening he's a hundred and fifty pounds yet foheman he not seen him
lie obviously with what roughly one hundred percent certainty when he well with ye i you know even beyond roughly one hundred per cent eats really replicas to one hundred
presentation gogetter in forty five pound muscled going against jeff clever your getting tapped obinion did you there you yet ariarathes the video i think is crapers class i think
it's still on night ran out there of clodion this huge gates you do i think he he was maybe that i do so in so level of you is an you get vider yet it was a yeoman know and how
man it's yet it's just crazy to win was in jeff's like thirteen or so have you crazy necessity but ye ah yes so the girl you know the girl thinking i remember that questions on to
winter there was a cat doesn't go get allow you there so they get you perfect exact i mean that that's the answer there tease you have all the experience but you know how like how
always talk about like when you lock up with someone a no no you can get a greely good idea of what there about to bring to you now but on james nelson in you walk up in your life
one is about vicoletti easy all dating swap yet you hung back to them and persistere exceptions for a share but generally speaking you know even just not even beyond just strength
strengthened in their grant in their rigidity and the aydelotte the either that like their terraced to me that's an indicator yes i will not just like one of them yet they feel
relax so like okay this is this kapinos what he's doing yes cause personal doesn't know what her doing the gongolys doing making like little microbe moves that in her at me no
yeast even putting her foot right there said prolific should not be right there in a kind of thing i shall be for her so but it does go into the strength part is well so like you
don't want you grab someone rest or they grab your wrist in the anatolie all kay because it is justice a lot if you get to is knowing what important in what's not imports you know
these at mogadore her my head as i like or about that with raids and with me the ariangopang leadership capital trying to get your turn to get your team to do something that's not
really truly necessary that's makin help took as ye it'll gemeinheit you if you focus on something that's on port and demeanor tant and what's not is a very important as a leader
as a parent and as on the jugular mates of justness in vastok at sutton very hard by the way takes like a lot ixperience you consider these guys who are of like if you do in light
roll with a really really high level guy eat that's when you can start to see okay this carey thinks that this arm position is really important because tiller will fight till the
death he maintain it in no case iltebu what the bag as back to the girl rouquin wi the girl situation who when you lock up with some one's strength wise you know he feel the like
i said you what they're about to bring so again and when you have the more maney have the more you're going to know with like more actian they it that's what you and actually is
this point of taking that point of transferring into worship is so critical and i tell you i am really good at knowing what important what not and just by and and you can see
people that can all spin up about things and you know just okay there spongato something to the same thing with family life now you're your wife gets all spun up about something
like a when we got to do we'll get keep them over doing no get me a ayoway want to focus all your time and energy in that that's fine go ahead you know that's could support you
and you can make it happen but you do think about how importance something really is when you're getting spon up about something just think about how important it really as
there's a good chance they not that important there's a really good chance not that important there there's usually four five things that are really important as a leader that you
need to focus on many an that lest the further on down that last to less important things are and i see leaders get spongin things that are the less all in the list number forty
seven and their afterlife is the most important thing in goorerwon and it's like no doesn't do not that big of you yea so learned that is that way you are the thing close every
day you know i wear the same unfashion is not important to not important to me not for exact those short rounds a good when you do short round and you get to an they kind of trick
you too the like jeff do that will be like a three minous so you have this thing in your head like outsoide minutes just be heard but meanwhile you ll up thirty seconds ruhberg to
go again and see you doing the sensely of net conjugia to good mates good for that kind unto a man good we agree i like to say some atesorase you you don't need stringing initiate
can he you the more that any time you spend doing its flectit should be on your judicious i would like to greet that e sounds good but i would do if i'm going to do gets hours of
day had still distinguish one is as an hour for him on said forego things about you i see you can have different philosophies and still be successful because i there that as you
think like that i tell him dan aster some in my morsel marcel garcia only to an indian star was trying to convince me that he undergarmenting will been tall crazy strong of eaches
at first i had a real sailor a seduction my helen i want you in gradation to good striking and even hold insolently paotingfu sex or her stock right i next questi jocko i
requestin about leadership a fire fighter and some on the guys on my department have been pushing me to step up and put in for an opposite position and i'm honored but one word
one who when we were going to a call i was presented with an opportunity to lead and passed it up at an what else sinking i can't believe i did that did i just lose credibility if
i did is there a was teeth that back away right that's what he meant yes if i did is their way to get that back six or go so first of all this is just a general if you want to
lead always be ready to leave right beretta up mariston people's toes as always but be ready to lead and the way i do that as you think about you while you do in certain
situations do you always be thinking about that you'd sold be thinking even if you were a a trooper a follower in a certain situation you should think okay oh how would i lead
what what i do right now what moves where i make at what would i do if i continence happened right now and what are the possible contenances that i could be looking at when i day
and if your thinking that as a as a front line guy when he opportunity propped up just jump on it boom there you go then when it does happen of course you got a state attached but
you want to make sure that you don't ride too far you don't overstep your bounds and step on to you got to be careful that so you need to live with that mind set and that will
make you such a a better leader when the moment does come if you're always thinking about if you're all watching like you dorabelle i'm watching a dansing what the good i'm seeing
what i do differently i'm so supporting them supporting you if you're in charge him supporting you somethink in it i i might do this and then you watch what would my what would
the results of my decision a been compared to what they did see you you can be thinking like leader even though you might not necessarily be in a leadership position so live with
that mist that's what she needs to do now as far as you passing up the opportunity to lead which guess your meaning wasn't air for so all sides it probably it's probably not quite
as obvious to every one else as it is to you in your mind a eenal man i blew it this new a chance in broughton i bet the guy's going back from the call and didn't even think about
it didn't even think about it again most likely unless it was just some player in either on the lead i rared if you did that of an eater but if you do said i if he just kind o
backed away from a moment in people people might have realized it but any ways regardless of that you probably guess what was said and what you are do as on it right he got on it
so when the opportunity presents itself to explain what happened and what went wrong in what you did wrong right now make any excuses but explain where you were weak you know so
you say hang eyes you know day remember the last call i should have stepped up and i had to have the wrong line set i wasn't ready to lead and i let it not a ole you guys down i
let myself down and i'm not going to let that happen again from now on but a leadership in the fantom mind that's when i do i'm gonna be thinking about what needs to get done in
red thinking about contingencies and how amended and i promised the next time this opportunity comes up on the bed ready lead some story for lettin you guys down will happen again
okay that's that's it eh boy get the mind set live and think as a leader regardless of what position you're actually in an then when they call you in the opera tuitioned self step
up and lead obviously that here default mind set now yes i seems obvious to me it is truly was it always like that and einber fat story that of told over n over agin about being
an oil rag and cut up and goes not now or here to go arising and and me going okay locuste back an look around to make a call and i did that that was it and so i i when it clicked
it clicked a i would say i guess i was thinking about it beforehand because i was you know serving my meters and thinking about what they were doing what i would do differently in
a certain situation they yet it's good because even in every day life which is what i represent every day i bet you now your life were goldwater is the hay we you know what's the
dinner situation or what you want on don't there what a ye want of you know that's a time where i i always feel this what this guy just asked you know but i mean obviously it's
nothing compared to his situation but i like the way you all what do you think i for dinner kind of thing and i'm like an don't i don't care in this really all feel i don't care
i'm not kind of down for whatever a thing but that's not why the that's not why she's asking me she wants me she wants me to make that decision i was not in one is not going lead
step up and be like this lower having for dinner i'm not to get her a man make your whatever that's what you want senility is built and the triton comes up all that is good pillie
you know the old bed may actually that's kind o like a joke you know when you ask a girl in one a girl says or would you have your hand when he want to eat and she sat in it care
whatever and then you say okay we're going to go you hear in command or really like your atossa it it is you got a yea the feel like this guy on when i do that said this the point
there's a for order or stop up and read to minadoi yet that i want it to be my default is why you know in years is like your de fallen tool dovedale what i isaias true with her
when it did come to dinner actually at a lot i kind of his true cause i only go to like three places to eat yes i and a i got a one eighty per cent of the time yes sangnette
twenty per cent of the time so she says where you want to go in there said that my restaurant yet on a rag lines and obey that makes it hard at the relates she like ragman's does
all yer it make me make easier yes but and if she doesn't feel like it insolent i don't we want to go there okachon it's on you i give you my vote right down an don't want to do
that but i think you still got to do it you still get to make a decision you got a like cause in a way i'm in the same boat as your second snare there like if she's not a hero so
i let it is god i just get a name my secondary restaurant right there you go smashall i asked maybe she'll say no no that can open my default now though step of a mitten what i
need what i got to do it on a par par i go to prepare myself will yea i got to have like five obtineat go on deck that's what i have threefoldness ordering really boring me ain't
you fountainpregnant then what whenever my wife says ah you know we'll tell you emanatin thing do i i said no yet and i don't i don't yet speaking wish dorlan hear my girl
amoenitat my avaritiae there you have the yes that's he actually that leetle but what do you do on the team wants to try something new and was rocklike do that no good tips in the
question jack i'm a sergeant in my co countries army the reason i'm sending you this message is because of a tragic incident in our unit this week a young enlisted soldier
committed suicide he shot himself with his issue rifle dis came as a shock to all of us he was a bright smart and happy guy am on seeking your advisor do you have any advice on
how i as the leader can talk to the guide about it how does a group of soldier soldiers coat with a loss when the reason is so tragic thank you at an inobviously condoned to the
to the team to an thesame of the soldier and i think what you have to do in the situation as you got up as a leader you got to bring something open i think one of the worst things
you can do is pretend that they didn't happen pretended the problems going to go away and i think we you have to do as you have to explain it which is weird because in this case
explaining it means a meeting that you can't explain it could you can't explain it or you're not in the able to rein to be making up something that you're guessing at right you're
not going to know what individual at what what individual situations caused this to happen you know cause who can make sense of that i mean a bright smart happy guy it doesn't
make sense and and an while you can't explain why you i think you have to address it as a reality and i think you got to destituetion that your pulton needs to fight against just
like they would fight against the enemy or what is the threat the thread is depression the thread is loneliness the thread is helplessness the thread is feeling like there's no
way out and being aware of those threats is an lous recognition of the enemy is so that you can fight him so i think you've got to talk about this with a guise i think that they
will become aware of what they need to look out for in others and in themselves so they can alert the bolton that you know give you guys ocean even he sees you know john ishing
all offering now we should check it on a we should talk to him all self recognition manimen like depressed about something i'm feeling dark of distant i know what i'm going to do
right in a mat last pot cast that we did i read a couple excerpts in words from some various combat veterans and i touched on the fact that several of them from different times
from different wars had written the same thing and they rode basically that death would be liberated then that it would be an escape from the hell of war from the memories of war
and in a shootin that holger because i i think that what that means to me what that tells me is that is that having voscoe necessarily mean that there's something wrong with you
right it doesn't necessarily mean that your losing it these you know the the writings of himselve book in the writing from a gay that i knew doesn't mean that your losing it and i
think that people think of himself all i'm on in thinking about how death would be an easier way right now and i and they think that by thinking that there they are totally
screwed up when i think the realities that is an i an think the reality of the situation is that that's obviously a fairly normal thing to think about and you know i i when i was
in remind i i definitely i wasn't thinking or coast definitely saw that dying in combat was would be a release of the stress that i was under no doubt and and i didn't want to die
but i'll say what we joked about it i joked about i don't outreachin like a we got a fire fighting firing but news crack a green camley chest or the enemy knows exactly where i am
like where you can i because we're in a lot of stress but i i think my portraits is that these feelings are those thoughts don't mean that dear dan they just need that year human
they just mean that your human an think if you keep him bottled up then they might explode sitations to do a faster and needier man that these thoughts happened and that your
poltoon your team nesera them and the best way to be on guardest be vigilant to look for the signs to look for behavior and talk about and then be able to ask for help swooneth
big problems guests for help gas will mac joe he uttered help anything where are egos are too big we or ask for help and so we have to put or eagles in check we gotta pay
attention to each other and there's going to be some people that you're going to have to prize this out of em right they're not going to willingly talk about it so i think that's
what you have to do to that you can get somebody some profession or a maleficiatis to obviously an and in normal in fatipoor no psychiater but you need to recognize cause you're
the first one in defence and how he got that somebody to a professional that can help him and be honest with his dozen only apply to soldiers right in a place to every one don't
let these thoughts festered in your brain you got to get him out you've got a polonnaise right go put him out the light so they so they dry the like a vampire they dry up and they
wither and have they turned it dust you know that's yeunder exposes you can get the professional help and get things on a control so that the leadership be straight forward with
your troop tell them the truth explained he and imitat that's what we're talking about and how you as a poltoon or going to look out for it and an obviously you got a grieve
blosset a morn your fallen comrade and then you also have to get back to work it back to soldiering get back to preparing for the enemy that you will face on the battle field with
with a new awareness that there is a nother enemy that can learn inside the baton and inside denvil and a new hat to protect each other just like he protected other for a real
enemy so that drily be the the routed i would go good luck brother with that said sir therle forsure mijok my leader is not in extreme ownership disciple among other things he is
fostering division within our ten ooahl lead those who no longer trust in the commander but are awesome guise one to stay involved how do i bring them back into the fold without
threatening or lead or our dear leader all right well first of all you got to become a buffer between your boss on your team that's what you need to do a trying absorb as much
negatively as you can and make sure you don't spread that negativity right this and also lisita delicate situation that we've talked to paul before if you completely support the
boss and and and act like the boss of the greatest person in the world the team is going to reject your dislike a high likelihood that they're gonna reject you at the same time if
you completely reject the boss then you've actually aided in dividing the team because now the team is not lined with the boss said yasala esteban is a one of us was to do this he
is to put listened as you can the importance of the mission and the team above the eagles and attitudes so here's a minuetting like look i look as i know we have our differences
with mechanical somthing but we have a job to do all right we have a mission to accomplish and even though we might not agree with the boss on everything it our team it's artem
and the performance of the team siriel the boss but it reflects as to so what i say we do is win let's let's win let's be abest regardless of what the boss does or what the boss
says let's win said proof to prove it even with a situation where the leadership might be lacking in it were so good that we're going to win anyway coasted some of that great vere
you go what's wind despite parlors that's what we're goin to do any hill they went it might younger and may be a little less politically savvy day i would i said something like
let's win not just despite our leadership the let's win to spite or terefore would just perform so well in the face of a horrible leader or a shore of him when what was up the
under dog cinderella story were going to rock so that's cool you know sometimes you're you're winning not just despite your leadership but to spite them in tonnancour times and
left her not not the bed of not the best one is better to win despite them so despite we may at the rough leadership tokay and the other thing is you know you even when you're
doing that with a bad leader you still got to be careful not step on a leader's toes and wage that is real as you give him all the credit you give him all the credit and that's
good in that little nagging voice that you got in the back your head that want credit you know that one i'm talkin about that we go back there don't worry about that i'm telling
you right now and you will get the credit in the long run you will get the credit don't worry about you might work at the credo this wonder even this week this month may be not
even this year but a venture you will get the credit and recognition that you deserve that you want because your bosses boss you knows what up he knows what's up in your topknot
with up in so we to everybody knows what's up do you have a truly bad leader the truly bad leadered cousin they are not there not just walking around fooling every one in order to
zation is not a happening it's not happen and if it does happen it doesn't happen for long it only happens it is a limited time that i can happen for because every every idiotic
move that that leader make down the china command at least one out of every five e does stupid up the china command to and so how is that daguerrean so well we know not the leader
he is a new any oh they must have some good junior leadership in their whose those guys all that's echo charles in charge of that squat and their crushing it so do i my that just
lead and win and give that credit away an it's goin to come back to you tenfold that's what she do and in a way goes back to him like people are watching her watching for her
leader lesherton pick up on us yea and the oration that doesn't mean that the bosses bassoon a advertise that red or in the bastioned leader yet the boss absence and undermine
them yes no but when the time comes for emotion when the time comes for a reorganization that soon as going to be have you know that's where the that's willy just in oregon to be
made ye good but we could so wrapped up wi you feegee are you go get you ye can watch out for that thing yet to truly let it go when you don't get the credit you are think that
you deserve the credit to truly let it go there's the challenge ye to challenging one relish in that challenge lauati yes you know good live boss you did all some good job ye as i
was he like anyway when that does happen you know when some and it's not even a surly someone else gets the credit for what you did in an just that i like something being happen
and it just went completely unnoticed that that it was straight up because he right that's a badenser but let's say you you don't say anything i think that there is a small
feeling of satisfaction that you are like you know you took the highroad in a vain eyes it don't preteyman that's my eager yea and will look at me over it on my desait anything
i've been given away so much cried on the man it's like the perfect a money you go or or perfectly directed eagle but because usually it's a clipped by the fact that you don't get
your credit there usually hear yelpers sardian the credit otowaka check nextest i equestrian about the war your mentality i recently was dumped on a deployment and it's difficult
now that i'm home state side out of the warrior handled this is it like any other emotional loss i'm trying to use this loss an get after it and improve myself mentally and
physically not sure how to properly submit questions to a potest all right so the dear jo mutter the old class o dear john letter he insolency can keep it at bay when you're
deployed but then when you get home and you get back to the place is the familiar places where you have the bespeck memories that's that's where the pains start to come in and a
fine you know that's at hertha's the we get that um but in my opinion i've said this before the person that you built in your mind the person that you had a letsima that you built
in your mind that person doesn't actually exist they are not real they are not real she wasn't woshepee to be and she isn't who she peared to be she isn't the sweet understanding
fun person that you care so much about that not her that's your memory that's what you you built in your head she is actually the selfists centred person that casanatense first
and doesn't care about you that three out and as fine but a lot of times the pain that we feel isn't based of the reality it's based on the fantasy to your feeling pain of losing
something that wasn't real so let the fantasy go remembered that she is not the perfect person that you built in your mind period she's not although i do or be in the situation
right now and then an brother get after it work out train hard goat high run of plague tark just get after it and those things not only to distract you from the pain which is good
they're going to improve you as a human being which is good and there rebuild your confidence which is good they're goin to make you feel good they're goin to make you stronger
and smarter and better and put you into a place where you need to have little made up fantasy any more and her going to put you to pasingan something better than the fantasy now
i'm gonna say right up the fantasies don't exist a perfect girl or guy for you dozens exist they don't exist so you goin to be out looking for some one that's good to but you're
not going to find perfect don't get obsessed with finding perfect if you find some of the perfect itsoots everyone's got their fore so that's what you have to do and and you will
and of finding some one that's real and i ceded man i know if you're going to have some moment down in the hole as alison chains put it or trapped danaher shaped box has no
vanitie or so lonesome you could cry as hank williams senior put it that you notice of them here this is what people go through but those feelings of their temporary so let him
say high let him hang around for a minute or for alan hour or hour or whatever an engine out take those feelings out get them out of their god something else but did take your
mind away from those memories all fantasies and put build and good memories that all real then yet you know when you can use your anger and your frustration to feel positivity
first sure i spent much of my youth doing that very thing for sir athos breakups idea i turn those things into in the fuel and the other thing is on us if if you take asher your
body or mind can follow and pretty soon you'll be on to the next chapter and you can move beyond this bad faesch pter that you can a got roped in to me she kingerle an i etierine
in you let em it's so hard to him with her so many times you know cause when i was a well the system to manner but to commander tasking to garonmana was doing right but more in
the earlier faces ragstone i was you know i ask you to command her i was then in a wanless those those problems that would come to me onreasonin level would be something big you
know divorce ah ah considahed yet hated domestic violence senario recreating but when i was younger and i was in a sea platoon that's when you're dealing with guys go through the
brink up with a growl and then you know the method mistimes messiahed man the of course every guy goes to that me ye ever that's the way it is you get that wee thing kicking
around in there and you start getting crazy and with so fun is what's so funny as when you're on the outside of it it's so like when you're in the harsh shaped box yourself an you
just can't see anything else in histatai ingineer one is looking at you as i breathest go to the bargain it you for meat seventeen you girls to night yes but i've like a bag i
left that i loosening i remember i kinda had an is kindelon i had a kind of a standard response to gusinje you know he onimproved up with jenifer last night i made of sweet man
let's let's rag would always and i even carry that honestly this is mike not something i will think i would do any more but even with guys or would be like came in meganite
getting divorced a big all right all broke to what's offroient and in partition spin it like gusman nothing to be the opined to gang don't do wallon it right you're getting
divorced okay here's a cato do here is a man over but i let you know what are you gonna do you goin to get dragged down by that into that yer or you can be conossade what you can
of your life and less move on less rock and roll ye so that's again it might be a little harsh out of no loud still have that react melittae fastened siaon i lost and the ninety
nine i had on guy that it that then i i probably said that to weave a hideous rate missile parseley five ninety percent divorce rate so i said this to quite a few giving i i only
had one that ever kind of you know was was like no man you don't get it and it is said are said to get it you don't get it yes and it always is in a rougher when it is involved in
all that missile that would put another little horrible spin on it but the bottom line is that is a good attitude to have hanging and broke up with my girl right on i'm glad i got
out of this relationship before it developed in the something where i did have hooks in me no financial hooks and she old dan ye all those things i made it out scotfree you know
on gingeralia kids no okay rock and roll yet you got kids okay well how's it going to go we know what he put in mine you know so yes definitely or his quest have you ever got near
heart broke in a negative and you have a straight up a oinamoral the boy boys get their heart broken land went time sonoyta eleven yet they will he a'talking let you open one is
time cause you don't in your tanaduke okay fifteen fourteen seventeen thirteen i mean i think once i was a seed one o was monsieur pens i kind of had that coping mechanism with
yehudi i'll get to be heard yea and the girls are at mine got a got a jist kind of a bus the other you that's yelaya er days for sure every guy goes through that and that's what
that's what's what any waim saying guy specifically but the girls the same way both eyes and girls i elletorale break up it when he and and and this is the other thing that we got
to realize as parrots when you're sixteen years old we you know i look at my fifteen sixteen seventeen year old daughters right as they were grown up and and i think oh they got a
boyfriend whatever he'll be it's disguises meaningless in their lives i factually know that these guys are meaningless in terms of a broad spectrum of their life is but yes what
when you fifteen years old and you got a boyfriend that he is your home life and some one something goes sideways i had to say oh i do remember that myself when i saw my
daughter's distrait over something i'd say okay here's a going on but this is her whole life and i tried to explain to him this guy i understand that you like him and then used
good and bababalouk you know let's remember your only fifteen and there you know you're going to be another nice guy and other there other opportunities and balaou the of course
it barely belly gets through her head her ily they can't even imagine a nonuser airy height i know because he's the bat no it and so he negatron at question restriction from now
on now both failed now i think we don't want it next question jocko what's your take on false motivation verses authentic leadership age falloit verses often take leadership knows
too can of too kind of ways of understanding this question the first is from lake out hebe heavy leadership perspective and that is of trying to lead without actually believing in
what you're doing and that's leading without understanding why and not believing in what she doing that wrong right and this is an extreme eldership of course and we talk about on
the portas you can't do it if you don't believe it in what you're doing your teams going to see that maentel eve in a either or which means they're not going to go above and
beyond to accomplishings period so you've got to believe what you're doing any few don't believe it then you gonna have the question up to chinacos find how why understand why so
you believe in what you're doing and events you're going to get the answer ritien you're going understand why you're doing something doing a believe in it or you're going to
you're going to convince the chain a command that that's not a good method and you need to go different direction and there might be some rare in extremes where you actually don't
kneel for a being to dusante in it and i say no i'm not in to do it in like napoleon said no poleon's maxims if you you you actually have to refuse to do it if you don't believe
it's the right thing to do these on do it that should be a very inextrica or as a leader he will being asked to do something or told the de something or led in a certain way there
there leading us towards victory right there leading us towards him a line victory if it's on the battle field to an in the war of its in business it's creating profit in greeting
he product in and growing the business right those things are that that's what you're trying to do so if echoin the boss you come to me with a wife something is a hair want to do
this if it's going to make us more profitable on i say no right so we're going to move in that direction i so from a high level falsetto doesn't work you don't believe in
something it's a go work out for you now from a micro left from like a front line level and the buds and structure used to joke about this that be false meat of motivation is
better than no motivation there hear that is a common expression of all motivation is better than no more evasion and we don't want that to be true right because we want
motivation to pieces pure golden thing that feels performance but a fact we matter is and of course in talk about all this overtime motivation doesn't hold up right motivation
does not how many motivated people monote people didn't make up the selrain potanou the all more of alio many of them make uranian how many motivated people des the doomster goes
of the half right the world is full full of those people there is a tone of those people and at because motivation doesn't hold jumball know this its discipline that hole go up
its discipline that gets things going in its dispendia you throw things but this is interesting little span if you have the discipline to press on when i have a little fun with it
right and had right thing false motivation canino in any co make sent something fun for instance it's cold wet and miserable and we have to go swim over the beach down operation
left get some before easier it's a hundred and eighteen degrees with massa humidity and we have a fourteen comet patrol to get to target lassiter the waters forty one degrees and
we are about the watch and a four hour divert holmesley right that that false motivation but it's backed up by discipline and it might not be real but absolutely beat the hell out
of visiscope to the one odit man right at lyof you and i are going to go to some thousands would you rather have me say ah corulean do this put on discipline to him in to do it oh
you have rather have me say echo this is going to sack lest god be it so right you not have a false motivation is sir strappan the pack and put on the mask and sins and fire up
the false motivations rafter that now i will tell you this i wouldn't even be sarcastic with altmann blink an i actualitate difference my my fault moeragenes in please i false i
actually believe my own faults motivations yet if it tolerable time stuff came out of my mouth i meant it i lose i meant it so i don't know at some point in my childhood false
motivation turned into like an actual fuel and just just regular motivation maybe it because i realized that i was in counting on it to get me to things ileana with it for olindro
oh do you think also ah you know you like you always say that you are can interest be in hard cornerites an almost dineumata so you don't when you think back in your like
okayannie hard route or whatever after you finish it you kind a few more proud of it feroke do think that that played into it like aftertaste hero for sure be more heart for
healyville a meeting of the meaning of the music hard core when i was a kid i was being hard cordite actual meaning of the word in answer yet realized to go from that to like hay
omond something that socks and i'm on to have a good time with him a laugh about it ye and that did it is conveyed to siokoon you macully no like that now and if wheresoe're gonna
like now i am actually like that now ohonoo you know hundred per cent but in a lot of things men like my arm my daughter she's for she weighs forty five forty seven pounds on so
i'll be sitting or allelon the cup not painites climb up on the couch behind and jump in land like you do at need drop israelitic me drop yes for allowing disoun for a while in my
house there was no rule to my house now actually he was not there was only two rules in my house when my kids were like where my older kids were like you know seven six whenever
that those types of ages that your daughter's aranea little bit older there was two olesome house number one don't touch me when i'm eating her number two no atomic medrawd it to
each other a yeah i did my hanoom but they were a tominie drop each other yet so i had have two rules and plus i would have a lot of time to eat an almost sudden it's like they
want up hold on my arm nonentitarians like a big of rabid dog i itself him the reason that's fresh my mind because we are just on trip and and you know my kids work explaining to
a youngest auto that well you know when we would little dad was meaner and he wouldn't let us touch him when we were in ousting like you just as he then of course i said well
let's shettin yer all of you i i don't mind the time it me drop any more because of you because of the very respite you got to be a coecilia you go for your kid yer isonna is for
her a tam dropper which is another reason why i'm like this enough so she'll climb on the couch a tone dropped wallered by the way on a maribo she in bring my ribs she intendere
me to to any lasting degree but if the normal mind said is like why did you jump what you do that did hurt her i faced it for five forty seven pounds top of a cochonnet drop both
knees by the way all away you know for the last city in all that stuff hurt by the normal standard of things so the typical mind said i think would be like don't do that
especially the shock and not serve but be faulted just like whatever your mind ye howden the essays the cathelineau she will and does and flight she thinks it's all fine and all
the stuff but yet that's that mine to it that came directly from you like bears like dacencies let that have eyes really embarrass if you complain to you for your own yeoman thing
you hurt no doubt anything ye right about it i agreed ateleta's the set aexa ple your daeater yes you complain about anything and you're wrong a green dodonaeus it up ye said
bringing on ye false motivation which becomes real motivation which he for feard code only of the lagasite only sort of reason for motivation for me as to funny just funny
fanatically git you to do anything but just as that fun i'm going to do it anyway i'm goin to let the atomic neropa in over over in i'm going to and so why when i could go through
life just experiencing them and excepting them on i have some fun williamite drops a little uncle dies in those hot weather and the you know didrachmon funeral o things ye in a i
mean you probably know but it's unbelievable how much that helped you my idol you do what i think may be because my view of motivation is so low that to me it's just funny ye like
falsenians like you a funnier and anybody is fun yeah that's a fun thing ye that's to the end that's kind of part of what i mean case though that you know the the mats had enough
you noticed brought the mats in yourselves so leominster i think it's like sixteen of them i've forget how many but the cover it to full to cardross covered the perfect it's a lot
logomachist two inch they won so to me whom you know up the you know the the the topography is that even so you had sir you had like some sheet challenge a lantern enough here
here this would have to operationist the mats at their boom one to an whenever the other day and then you know i walked to janovic my brother and he like all e what's what you
doing here i look illust put the mats in nor is like you but the atoner what do you you do you both what did someone help you with that it looked at a nisi i don't need help her
but it was a joke cause i fell in here this thing so ambition there is this just that that attitude you know like no i don't need help no i don't you know because i'm trying to be
like joculator i don't think you help litigant hurt me any nicolasita mind set but on it said i she your certain to a complete savage stroke willitts can't hurt you you can carry
them out by your own seat and i your own that's another thing that's another little expression as because my son when he was before he could talk well he would elude one do
something eletti do it by my own reasonable slow or only on the make middy my ill matricaria became a thing here's a legitimate one that that i just changed it changed of the
specific thing where you know how i like i'd be the kind of i didn't get enough sleep by just i let it run me menoo it by an as on this specific in my arm or important to do so
just throw the daintied you know whatever so now i i never admit that i'm tired leeves good great starting place the ave you been doin in l of explain it to my son is is eggulant
ameretat don't let those words come out of your mouth a hired on this worm whatever it is destoyed in the team to you detegat just a putting of a red flag of being complete pain
to a don't do it oerongodt otter fact i know what jack up as an i won't even let see you and i would to go out lest there was wonder t im an you an old to go out and i had a sweat
shirt with me because i knew it might get cold but what how it already and i have this westerhaven put it on i won't go on you did it can put it all to cause then he then you
might say one will you call for gold as you foresee yes stangate good ones i am an i do that too or so the same not do that yet rowantree that tormented his thirty for here i were
joined from la islant night eh and you're like yeah i know i'm the big bed team dyer whatever but i'm kind of tired right now and then almost like you would just it was painful to
let the words all your mount you like you let him slip in it really her erosite maybe like three seconds later you said before all just drag the montana if i had a right to
education you goorall the bloody i was tired yes salarian and i and my wife says like untrounced much or you catedral you ah i actually distese thing is come like well i'm super
tired i can drive indefinitely i don't know the title mean you are now may be differently be not but no i arendon encourage people doing that ye don't encourage it that's a that's
not horrible thing or do is driving your sneered yet ye don't do that but uncle it's oh it's open he infortune qui it's really boring to drive the atherstones like you don't so
when you get like tired of sleep or whatever it's really easy to just fall asleep super easy and that's hard we could you can't control it is like a thing you can just i can go to
insure there is little tactics lay on in it her do little things that you know i put paint on yourself whatever but man it's really hard to control once you fell a the i know
don't tell you that don't exact you wake up an a bridge and boatmen just yet he had more we up there ye that miss marget i was reading the thing on motivation in its sad in this
book i am not saying that this true or not true but it said it may set where motivation people misuse the word motivation and they confuse with inspiration so inspiration is like
one from gicaras do something right that we shanonwe studies or you see a man she now here is by your to work hard for stuff for whatever listen to some speech some conical
motivation al speech it in spite doesn't it you motivation is your duroba a motive the motive for you do it so let's say i feel like i said this for but the lie i want to get in
shape you all girls will get in shape for their wedding you know that's the motive is to be in shape for the wedding recitation so she not messery inspired meaning she's like a
she got infused with some filtering dear you know i eustatio where it wouldn't go away but a word well it's a olesomer is disrepair the oration is she wakes up the five cockie
morning i get to work out in recorees to work for the did you really as to just be like you know what a notion at to day rigorous get to get the wedding dress you know let out a
little bit yesedees meant that the motive motive nation the motive isn't strong enough to overcome her feeling the lack of the roi don't y on it yes knocked a motivation to strong
enough to make it do the things that have to do all the time you don't you can't essex kind of way depends it just depends so considerate miesto consider a fighter the fight he as
make weight throw yet you're a guest don't make it arangodde that's what i'm saying though the motive and you know you don't want that you know what that motivation failed that
motivation failed you know of five weeks yet when they sheetthe want guys burgers yet they had a five guys burghersh so that i winatarees totally now you can have fun with it and
you can be motivated to have discipline and you can say oh like god he robin from foraging geese i was up with him a man and he is like gotabite weight and he hit me with some
falsehood because we were out we were out and you know we are order i was ordinatis as is just getting after the grub sir and i said like how any more ponyback about asides a kind
of sucker said here is a no i actually enjoy watching you a delicious food to you go all motivation commination way yes and instead alattin an all like that instead of being just
miserable one in jesamond with it yes yes the mind lie yet fully but then the difference the like i say i i agree you your ainion is up may be making was a well just the technical
difference between motivation and inspiration one horiston ogeeohee anonimous words just all yenyontatenoutshine yeah there weak words and their weak and it and the actual
subjects are weak inspiration aleema like it's not gonna get you there on intimit get you through like the first three minutes of you know you and our just alkinoos there was
moment's in your work out to day when you go to eswar yester you could have easily called it by a man am so it got to git work out but get didn't ye you held the wine is
dispensing it was actually i created false lettuce be told your right but i've created false motivation for myself as a oleanders actually it the way for me to specilty discipline
for enough is i want to do this because i've got a feel better afterwards althaea whole dear okamisan ven you couldn't trust it with how junkman well if it don't weak embarrassed
for another feather way and when i said that um you know how work out has been opportunity to to stop the hot on the first of tunis in the parking not in this case if i went to a
gym so for a few waterway when your interparietal i done that of non that let one were times a man admit that on the pockets just little oaks this current story or are more seyton
so but that's the first opportunity second opportunity be for you or a which is pretty close to the first of pocono before you want the ineequity then yes o my god wife gone i'm
an felt real good cause i just fight it the very negatively in the second time as like i just got to get after it to morrow whatever noteless then then it's after the first body
part de board the first to sort of unified do you know me on first in the do squat firs you know it's after the first exercise now i depart really i yes i do i want one i like to
me the biggest erle's getting there we out which is when you have your gimios sitterson i agree that it gets easier am to to hold the line for sure after you start but there's a
part at the end you know like how you just said you like to do our maggaroni afterwards no lately have been doing in that can before and lifting heavy afright s when i measure but
you're right i could say you know what that man come was a little bit heavy oeillette or any part yearning when i'm so illusioned up ah yes so same deal with me and they you know
every opportunity to quit what passed as we well done agathar and to basque tonnage turned for one more yes jocko i am a chronic excuse maker how do i stop making excuses and get
things done by chronic excuse me ker and you stop making excuses this is actually priciple and i said at the teda and you have to realize you have to know you have to accept that
all your excuse is are is they are lies overthink about the things that you tell yourself the lives you used to rationalize taking easy road they can the easier road in leaving
disappoint behind think about them you don't have time that's a lie you don't have support that's a lie you don't have the equipment or the dear why you don't you don't know the
best way who cares that the lie or you're too old or your two young of course you too old or too young lie in there's your two busy sure you are that i in you're too tired for
your two sore or your just plane not feeling it lies lies lies they alisos all in and on and on then it doesn't stop if you don't make it stop so recognise recognize the excuses
are not valid they are there trumped up their conjured up their fabricated their lies and how he stop the lie just up alive with the truth the truth the truth will set you free
the truth wulstan and the truth will deliver you from procrastination and laziness and the downward spiral that comes with a lack of discipline so don't believe the lies believed
that your thentheth is you have time you have the skill you have the knowledge and the support and the will power and the discipline to get done so cast out the lies burn them
down and listen to the truth then lived the truth and go out and get it done i think that's how often god fortunit so agostin of the truth sir could you perhaps explained to us
how to support she this poteste want to if we want to derishion do is support yourself mum i think i made this analogy before you know and the aircraft i pre take off we go
through the safety instructions in event of cabin brushes if offending mask comes down put on yourself before you infant all that eminate good kind of thing where you sport
yourself then you can help superos so supprise is a with supplementation like it and again i'll say this again i'll say it every day if i if i am compelled if i motivated to
inspire you the way i am now in to supplement not a bunch but before us inasamet toes get good nutrition in a way so crill and i think this is a daily thing by the way and i think
you can maybe relate i think daily on how happy i am that i take out and his adeline pain my lucky stars nothing like that i'm just saying there is daily things that it's on my
mind that i'm like vispering would be different if i didn't not take curio straight up that is sure so i got a a so back my car into the garage loading mats the ah ye an that i
was another time but this was more recently so skating filling an i philip the five gallon things a watery and a talkation flitting like you got a manoeuvre cause i send the
grassdale out the whatever it ariacoa be attempts on the lives that i take it out and out of one eye you know so you it's already calling but you don't want your tintometer in
true it's abates applicable every day life the creole isn't just for deep squats heavy it's participe gallons fowter in a jug out of tight spaces where you got a kind of twist you
know there cause you want the car door to hit like the other card dorante it sir as a crow in the man and and really that's well that's part of the pay off is what big part in the
aretins true purser i there be times where i would abe setting down a long time an i stand up and i'm surprised on how little pain a feel not pain you know what i'm saying if ever
been like that where you think like yes i'm in a like all this is going to be stiffer the imbear o what an it's just simply not the ayah yeah yeah that said forestrial so get your
cruel oil in the event of even one in cruel ill use or my experiences obviously dorislaus you dick rollonde i'm get em from on it on it do come flashed dock if you on the ten per
cent off also that altering so the rule let's like out of think i'll ever go away now the alphorn i amusing a lot more marining more too coincidence may be may be not one lay the
cause in the other correlation may not be colation but i'm just saying that is happening and i will admit this far as work out school i'm getting real into the colville you always
been into the ehenot always but no fifteen in noteing again into his like maybe ten years or something twelve years i have may be it has been fifteen years ye cause i just
remember that picture joe rogation we talked about the picture of fate on fate e looked that outrage you can yenimahale could picture so it would him little and as a calcagna to
get a magazine yes well yes i think it was your ruin sayin how like somebody introduced them to american that's that's where sommering the youantee there really good um again
being careful every single moment but i'm to the point right now where like you know get kind o good an i gets even fonder like anything and that my cameniata you one now on get
to have you one but i will say this about the cattle bells but my experience i started off the kettle bells getting these designing ones you know prioleau it zamiel's pride
actually didn't get desmideae and then the legend where wolf once anyway they're cool right cool to look at so you know or i'm kind o like o alannah be proud of this ashamed of
this but i like the kid you now the teenager gets their drivers license and the tutored there is the one key who the dead like ha you got a learn to walk before you can fly so you
got it like it an knows all my to dunham you make the payments of from aedor you make a domain or whatever you know like you got a work for this first car and it might not be the
you know the poont but of whatever then there's the other kids who rolls right into the dim dounarioy fifty no big pot big big time of your life time in your life whatever her
here is a dole car congratulations love you son you know then there's that guy that's kind of why i am with the cattle bells you know fightin like pay my dear little fool when he
can wells were new and i'll just rake to it yea i was to you he asiatically of where of ye anyway a lot of colstaff on there on the way on it dat come bout a coston there be all i
get stuff that's i think to the real compelling thing for me anyway his cosino he's suppleant man in wax i've heard of people getting this up omens and the thing into the
supplement was like contaminated with something and then they say aleethees makes all the supplements in the same thing in the fat is like i can be really lack none the less on it
that's the good one quality so i had juntamente off on it doom flashed occle strambotto freetent in my experience also mason so where do we get these books sir if we didn't do
books to day but we do what what sixty six per cent of time would you send provisions may be more sometimes more than one elaeocarpus tree books pom all in the website by the way
to you so he if he is this is another support yourself situation lettenhove ask anyone where which book was at again you know and they got to go tasogare a reading lest he yeoman
of reading mister my designed in less insoorance dark command every book that i and and by the way are their books that other good books that you've read that that you have put on
the boast not really when i read a book on it's good is going on the paratimer a book in its lane it's not all on the poast now there's some books that are information but they
don't cut it for the podcast you know i wouldn't recommend them i'll tell you a little bit a little i just realized this i had a book selected for the pot cast like three weeks
ago and i got a hundred pages into it they didn't come the muster for the poast yes and i'll take of m one of the major reasons filostrato me books a lot on the major reasons that
it didn't come the master for the poncas is not only was it not a first person account but i didn't even have like a lone excerpts of first person accounts i was just factually
this is what happened is what happened this would happen is very well detailed as a good book but i wasn't poast haslani you wanted do that if we're just going to read facts dates
facts elements maneuvering that's that's you could just listen to the audio book write or or just to look on wikipedia and it's goin to tell you the days and times and were to
unseen on the battle and how an if you've got to as they were right all that stuff don't we don't want just that i want to hear what the people were thinking and when here they
from the human beings he so even to this people send me books if you're going to set me above look for the first person countenancest pertotion like moschetoes that's not a first
per toccano it it interviews the killer yes you're hearing the first person accounts amen yes and that reading less so that redletter is pretty pretty well bedded then like
straight up yet if he doesn't pass the jackal approval of recommendation right on goin on there is not but on the five cast nor on a hand in and there for in a vilquin no i'd
rather not do upon cast and put a lame buck on the poncas and i happen but and that's the standard right there so doc put gassed up com top man you little thing as books from the
putasti all of them there in these or he up and what i'm kind of starting to do is like lustilie mention employees called mine gameing small little book i think you even jolted on
their yet theodose many treated i've now you put it on the yes so on with that caitiff we mention a coolness will for well let's say does it fit for we didn't get to it a whatever
but there's some sort of a lucretia buzz going around it all put it on there nonetheless pointer is get the books from their quick to there that's a good way to support watching
figure action eight faint had a way out is to a shop for ducking other you know stuff that you need do that too i think to the website out double support double were yes tang
still on action one big rex and understand were also subscribed to the pot gas on i do stateroad other papas profiting platforms oh that's a good way to support of course and also
you too but the expan there in yesterday today and say ye yesterday so those are even and i knew this before but those are gittin more and more in my opinion significantly
valuable because even i you know i don't memorize every word of every pages but when i go through and i kind of look at it and you know and then you you know listen to it listen
to the three minutes or whatever it's like a good little reminder like a refresher and has not the mention let say if i totally forgot it you know they haven't saint to mention if
you the here it you go that reminds me of bill he's havin that issue goosedriver the vile no problem sharable help and he's going to leona probably watch it as a pose to hey bill
here is here is he the pocassett king about with your issue it's hariers and twenty seven minutes long gets all me you right bill might not listen to that quite yet he might get
round to it my not not if he's in er not if he has a busy life still my pitea anyway but if they are shareable and their quicker so you can when you click on enlist in to him
their air including those and also other views of the put on their but you know for working on those seotsgi get some as they say also joculator i called jocatore jackastral come
that's the website an online stock titonti a little revamping of it little bit luminer use your friendly not that it wasn't you for elber but he'll you can other not so i think
it's a little cleaner whatever um but you know men the less tide shirts are still available there he liked to shirtsleeves in to get some i'm not saying just pay gus support by
being shirts not saying that nothing that at all i'm seeing god to the web say jocko store dot come checkout if you like him get a nsport that way that's a also in trieraules on
there some bumper stickers this rides but should we be wearing hooty's right now well we shouldn't hear yet we live in california the other in california some people live in cold
places like where a laschet that's true of my away me that's true also rash guards on there though so is it too soon deventer resort studio is i don't really necessarily think so
yet i actually think more rash guards is better is better than we the better if walthew got two out philopenas cards on theirs well some women stuff and a yet you want to support
that way cut yourself a garment there's a sick rash bard the seashore for a like i said i've been hanging out a little bit with a guy name be robert's from origin geese up in
maine my home of record for the military by the way the wing lend fiend he made a he made a rash card like a special fourth o july day rash guard on it only to go ahead and say
affirmative it out of control you got a check it out its george washington wearing age riding a snake a giant stake the don't tread on me snake lie so it's i on know he's going to
make a lot of em but if you don't have one i think we all should face italy have an origin may not come you can get one of those where gin morgan made m a i n e forename in what
you know where reno where they made what you guess where there may well you figure men no you figure oh well he's if he if he's getting a rash garderay made in china maybe or
maybe their maid and pakistan maybe or maybe the maid in tyannaeus hold much place that make him like shreelane and venom and time and maybe the mad there ye be wrong on every
singalese cause you know what the man america made it made ye so any man when odeon but do the source like the mater every rank its from maids from america pegrani petioled
specially woven he's moenades he weaves his own material for geese to make desuete that straight a man that's real that is it this made maracota controlleth caroline as something
aship up to main loom you know what levendale is the fruit of the loom so it's like her himis holiour it together ultimately so loom it makes a you know we stuff for a little to a
bastly be weaving machine i mean this one into that of course so now remember the brand fruit of the little dear oh i hear like a astir for of the loom out well as organically has
there own ms once again here in maine in your home town lay morosely and of lars anyway as checks out yet in you you will be um do say you'll be fired up i'm i'm a goin said you
will be in spine and it's funny too because the ah the rash card designed the american report of ely rash car design it's no things can get so over the top that they actually
become cool yet a letter that a like me i'm all about the subtle designs right yell a balia we will not you do i make a black and in delpeuch on it that's me he's took the other
direction a man have a giant snake amantha george washington with a black belt on in an origin he amandines you know that's what i'm tossing about yet makahiki of like inquiren
you go the north shore and you can go north lord north or you can go west west west and you go too far as quisical before you know it your essentially at the same place well yeah
but yes he only age yea first i wasn't following you yes you do get the same place yes so you and he went too crazy you went to grabut went so far in the world in the realm of
crazy that it became due you know cause ye have like we we considered tipis like the perfect mick ofoeden understated and aurator or rebellion against the rebut he went in that
one direction that you don't really go for you know mass eccet in and then i took but took it too far and not right into rigidness to be on an a because of doneness go
psychological warfare hey here's a question tough question psychological warfare is this false motivation meelies mangasarian ears an album with tracks of jocose basically you
know in moments of weakness on your germany whatever waking up early sticking to the diet you know trying to get stuff done you know anti procrastination stuff you can play these
tracks and jackwell you how to get open that weakness for that moment so the question is is that false motivation cause you did mention that you can use the false motivation
derobe you are at that point right it is possible you just can't depend on it can't be like hey this this is my oath's a good point heskinage you fair but you if you're not his
underself distraction and do anything for you right ye be lively so wished they are for good every parfaits like the house and i know we got to make psychological warfare to ah i
i've a got a continued gather a couple more tracks in them to think it about and what people been asking for so that they can you know have a little will spot if they need it
spots i glasscloth yet so is now ousting ing of naming spike psychological warfare too what silage garford tootingians riven but yet that is what it is it's a spot so just like
false motivation that can be just like a spot like you can't roll into the gym with your work out partner be like a man agitando this bench four or five on there i want you to do
the whole thing on you to upright reilhane at all yet you don't let's not what a spot for not what any of this thing is for it's i'm going to do this in the unlikely event that i
run into something that may cause me to fail you got me that rest of the way but then fatelo warfare is too by the way but in my experience an opinion you can lean on that pretty
heavily i'll kiss you to my piano also jackaway tea an amazon even get that there and i guess i got asked on twitter if i ever used any performance in handsome drugs so and i said
ebutius let's just go ahead and face it um white tea is tainting of performance in handmen as far as is seen so obviously it's the only substance on the market that is gearing
teed to add a seven thousand five hundred and fifty four pounds to your dead lift so does that before its narhil luckily it's not being tested for right now you i that you s d s a
s h he saw ye them three to do right now you can get it ye get it you can just get that motivates in everything that you do that's cool also wait the warrior kid and then so many
people have been posting pictures of kids doing polus and kids pulling tires and kid studying flash cards and kids making their own warrior kid codes and memorizing the present
and its antisalts kids in their first to tingles it so good to see so thank every one that has posted that in and shone what's going on and spread in the word thank you for doing
that and if you really actually want to support this podcast don't want about the pack as don't support the poast don't worry about go by this book first and kiss that you know
decisive back is just this offer it's awesome to see and i can see that is absolutely impacting kids and i just couldn't be happier about that and if you want to help don't worry
about me not antagonises get get this book for some kids it's a book we should had when we were kids greet kids on the right path i guess he really wanted sport you could you
could get it through him aonian be good you'd double gravitation a little also dispetals freedom feel manual so many questions that i had asked her answered in the book beyond
what i yet work out food sleep plus it's also contained the core of my belief system what keeps me going how i overcome sat back everything it's all in there and they not a normal
book does not normal is not a normal book in any stretch my publisher says i never seem to look anything close to this it's outside the box of anything in nursing like it delaware
got out on a little lem here an it's sort of like the pot cast cause there's not too many part of there's no part cases doing what we're doing is there's your an a no why deering
out to day no i even heard one menin so it's sort of like that i were entering the same zone in my opinion perswades there there's pages there yes like normal books the their
patterns there the layers there and it comes out october seventeen so ordered up and get that first batch you want the one that says first a dish and right sure he won't you want
on the inside cover on otis first printing but thorncot also you know get un your friend that's off the bath you know yes your friends volage up with his friend or off the path i
won't for them it's not normal not in amaboon the one that needs disappoint give him a bockas of course to tremontes combat leadership lessons from the battle field to use in your
business and your life wherever you leading whoever your leading extreme ownership he compacta one up also asolando leadership a manager in olding me late babin j donel dave berk
you want to get your leadership team unified email in votis on front dot com will come and make it happen and finally the muster the first muster that we didn't sandgoist the one
we didn't new york and sold out but ongere doing it austin sold out so if you want to come to those and you didn't make it sorry you know but we are back in sandie september
fourteen ten fifteenth back at the army hotel down town muster zezere for numitoria by the way he material but say attitude same passion were going to bring it were going to burn
it down we will see you there and until we do see you there will see you on the interest on twitter in stagra and dashasha at alcaldes and i am a jackall in can't thanks once
again for listening to those in uniform especially those overseas thank you for being strong and brave and standing up for what you and we believe in and also thanks to police
landforce ent fire fighters paramedics and other first respondes santete as safe here at home and to every one elout there like first lieutenant leonard eyes it as she you can
help people ask how you can help them and going up what's around you i never run away from something your afraid of and as doctor horace told us whether your at an operating table
or a wave or a sewing machine or on a construction side or your child's cradle wherever you working do you work skilfully honestly and happily and with your whole being do you
best in everything you do and as they both taught us remember our time here a short so get out there and let that atilt time missus echo and jacko at
